23737160|In polygynous species, male reproductive effort has been measured both directly in the form of somatic costs and indirectly using behavioral data. We used 12 years of data collected from a semi-domesticated reindeer population in northern Finland to investigate age- and time-specific patterns of dominant males' reproductive effort. Overall, we found that activity levels differed both between young and old dominant reindeer males, and among the early, peak, and late rut, the pattern being age-specific. Reproductive effort was generally higher for old than young dominant males; however, old males reduced their effort in the late-rut period, while young males maintained the same level of activity. There was a positive relationship between somatic costs and activity level only during the early rut for young dominant males, and only during the peak rut for old dominant males. Thus, old males incur the highest energetic costs from rut-related activities when most of the females in the herd are in oestrus. Conversely, young males appear to time their rut-related energetic cost to coincide with the early rutting period, before most females have reached oestrus. Old males are more efficient in timing their reproductive effort so as to maximize their reproductive success. This can be attributed to young males being less experienced than old males or to using an alternative mating tactic by young males who try to avoid competition with old males during the peak rut.
23736841|A fast, inexpensive, and reliable method for sex determination of giant panda was developed using amplification of giant panda zinc finger alleles (ZFX/ZFY). Two sets of primers targeted a conserved region in the exon of the ZFX/ZFY genes worked in a single PCR process, and provided positive results for both males and females. Sexes of individuals were revealed by sex-specific banding patterns (females: 447 bp, 146 bp; males: 447 bp, 350 bp, 146 bp). This method was successfully tested on blood sample from pandas of known sex. Non-invasive tests revealed that this method can also be applied to non-invasive samples such as hair or feces.
23736796|We studied the relationship between landscape composition and capercaillie density in 50 km  50 km grids in Finland, where modern forestry started in the 1950s and most of the forests are in commercial use. Capercaillie density was positively associated with the young thinning stand proportion throughout the country, but unlike in numerous older studies, it wasn't positively associated with the mature stand proportion in any part of the country. In central Finland this relationship was even negative. In central and southern Finland capercaillie density was associated positively with the forest land proportion, and negatively with the open area proportion. Results suggest that the overall amount of the forest cover is important for the capercaillie, and that clear-cut areas in the 1950s and 1960s, known as 'large age classes', have developed as suitable for them. A new aspect based on results is the potential reduction in the mature forest quality as capercaillie habitats.
23735528|We livetrapped enclosed field vole populations with either familiar or unfamiliar founder females in a twofold replicated experiment. The familiar females were kept together in small arenas for two months before the experiment. The unfamiliar ones had no former experience of each other. Home range size, nearest neighbour distance and the behaviour towards other breeding females was similar between the treatments. The same was true for the number of recruits produced, maturation rate and persistence probabilities. Our results suggest that familiarity between breeding females has no important effects in Microtus agrestis.
23735586|Variation in animal numbers is an interesting ecological problem in both theoretical and applied research. Recent research has shown that there is a myriad of problems involved in measuring variability in animal populations, which have not been addressed in most empirical studies on fluctuations of animal densities. Therefore, we actually know less about variability in animal populations and communities than we think. It is rarely possible to accurately sample entire populations and our estimates of variability usually come from spatially restricted samples of counts drawn from local populations. The observed variability not only reflects variability in population density or size but also involves a sampling variance component. Sampling variance occurs principally due to inexactness of the counts (i.e. all individuals present in the sampling unit do not enter into samples) and spatial variance (the size of the sampling unit is inadequate to capture the dispersion pattern of individuals in the field). Many samples are affected by both of these sources of error and in most cases we are unable to separate their effects. Sampling variance usually affects the variability estimates and particularly besets small samples. When comparisons are to be made in temporal variability between communities, species, populations or sites, great care must be taken to mitigate the effects of sampling variance. If the counts are replicated in space or time then sampling error can fairly simply be estimated and removed. Even in the absence of replication, statistical methods exist allowing estimation of the sampling variance. These methods are only applicable if we are prepared to make assumptions about the distributions of the counts. We exemplify one of these methods by considering a classical case of latitudinal gradients in density variability in animal communities. We finally discuss recent studies, the results of which might be artefacts arising from sampling variance.
23735755|Sexual selection in black grouse was studied through multivariate analyses of possible correlates of mating success using data from an eight year study of 10 different leks. Body size was weakly correlated with mating status (0 or  1 mating) and tail length was significantly correlated with mating success (total number of copulations) even after controlling for the effects of age and body size. Among several behavioural variables, having a high attendance, being more active and having the tail feathers lyre-erected more often were significantly related to high mating success also when age and the other factors were controlled for. In addition, there were strong relationship between a combined measure of territorial centrality and territory size and their interaction such that males that held relatively large central territories had higher mating success. Males that spent more time rookooing (display) had lower mating success. This last somewhat counter-intuitive result could be explained by a significant interaction between rookoo and centrality; central and successful males were engaged in more interactions with neighbours, and therefore were not allowed to display as often as peripheral unsuccessful males. Display activity indeed turned out to be a significant factor of mating success when we controlled for territory position. All of the significant variables are likely to reflect male motivation and/or competence. The results thus indicate that successful males are signified by being healthy, active and capable to defend relatively large central territories on the leks. We conclude that sexual selection in black grouse is most likely mediated both by male-male competition and female preference.
23736114|The distribution and migration patterns of overwintering perch were studied by hydroacoustics and gill netting in Lake Constance, central Europe. In autumn, perch left the littoral and moved to deeper waters for overwintering. They lived at temperatures below 6C for about six months. In January, perch were present between the 42 and 69 m depth contours. Their distribution then shifted to increasingly shallower depths by 0.25 m per day, and they returned to the littoral in early May where adults spawned in late May. During winter, perch performed diel vertical migrations, resting on the bottom during day and swimming up to 25 m off the bottom during night. Light was the proximate cause of this regular vertical migration. Perch did not gain an energetic advantage by migrating in a homothermal water column, but they may have gained access to copepods in addition to their main diet of benthic invertebrates. It is hypothesized that predator avoidance is the ultimate cause of diel migration in overwintering perch which avoid piscivorous birds by resting on the bottom during day and avoid burbot by swimming off the bottom during night.
23736187|Remains of Coregonus sp. were obtained from the collection of archeological materials found in 1991 at the site Wola Grzymalina, Poland. DNA has been extracted from vertebrae that were dated about 500 000 years old. Polymerase chain reactions on extracts from the vertebral remains were succesful only using primers that targeted nucleotide sequences that were not longer than about 100bp. The ancient nucleotide sequence of a 102bp fragment of mitochondrial DNA ND1 gene matched the contemporary sequence of European whitefish (Coregonus lavaretus) and differed from that of vendace (C. albula) by four substitutions. Ambiguous nucleotides were observed at nine positions throughout the 87bp fragment of mtDNA control region (CR), nonetheless the sequence was different from that of vendace by eight additional changes. Phylogenetic analysis utilizing Bayesian inference placed the archival sequence into a clade with European whitefish. The support for this reconstruction was f(|X) = 0.65 after analysis of the ND1 fragment and f(|X) = 0.52 after analysis of the CR fragment. Excellent preservation of the specimen analysed in this study proves the potential for analysing genetic characteristics of species and specimens that are thousands of years old.
23735686|Nutritional components of individual plant species such as protein, nonstructural carbohydrates, neutral detergent fibers and total phenolics are commonly used to assess the quality of vole habitats and food selection. Although voles act individually on each plant species of their habitat, I question the use of such variables for following habitat manipulation by this small herbivore after a summer of grazing. I tested the reliability of using chemical analyses of green biomass from quadrat samples, and fecal matter of meadow voles (Microtus pennsylvanicus) for determining changes in habitat quality and food quality by confined animals. Voles were introduced into fenced plots during early summer and reached peak numbers of 350 animals/ha. Green biomass did not vary among the grazed plots, nor between grazed and ungrazed (control) plots after a summer of grazing activity. Chemical components of green biomass did not differ significantly between grazed and ungrazed plots. As a whole, green biomass samples were unreliable for detecting habitat quality changes after vole grazing. Food habit determinations from fecal remains showed that five herbaceous species were selected by confined voles. Moreover, fecal matter contained significantly more carbohydrates, total phenolics, and neutral detergent fibers in the heavily grazed plot compared with samples collected in lightly grazed areas, indicating that consequences of heavy grazing could be detected from such analyses. I conclude that chemical analyses of fecal matter rather than green biomass represent a better way of measuring out changes in food quality of vole habitats. Further studies are needed to know which categories of animals make up the fecal dropping samples in the field, and how much information is lost when samples are collected directly from animals or on bi-weekly or monthly schedules from dropping boards.
23732269|The respiration rhythm of hibernating hedgehogs (Erinaceus europaeus L.) was studied during experiments in which the composition of the inspired gas was varied in respect of CO2 and O2 concentrations. Body temperature was recorded in an ambient temperature of 4.2 ( 0.5 C). The apnoeic periods became shorter when the CO2 concentration in the inspired gas reached about 1 %, and disappeared completely when it exceeded 5 %. A decrease in O2 concentration affected the respiration rhythm by shortening the apnoeic periods when the O2 concentration was less than 16 %. Respiration became continuous at O2 concentrations of 2  3 %.
23736033|The article summarizes observations of relict malacostracan species made mainly in the lake region of Finland. In addition to geographical location, maximum depth, lake area and altitude, human activity also has an effect on the occurrence of given species. Pontoporeia affinis seems to be the most sensitive to human interference, and this and Pallasea quadrispinosa, which is not as sensitive, have returned to areas in Lake Pijnne that were earlier more polluted. Mysis relicta has the widest environmental amplitude in different lakes, while Gammaracanthus lacustris occurs only in largest, deepest and cleanest lakes. Pallasea should be included in the fauna of the Baltic. The question is raised of whether the concept of relict species should be broadened to include also some other cold-stenotherm species, in particular certain calanoids, harpacticoids and rotifers, and also meiobenthic species. It seems that at least Pallasea might be able to immigrate to areas situated higher up. The reason for the absence of Saduria entomon in the large lakes of Finland has not been ascertained, and the advantages and disadvantages attached to transferring it and comparable relict or other species are not generally known in sufficient detail.
23735690|Chromosomes of two populations of the common shrew, Sorex araneus L. (Mammalia, Insectivora, Soricidae), from the northern Ural Mts. were investigated. In both sites, homozygous, all-metacentric autosomal complements were revealed, with the autosomal arm combinations af, bc, go, hn, ip, jl, km, qr, tu. This karyotype is identical to that predicted by Halkka et al. (1994) as the hypothetical "Old-Northern" race connecting the northern and eastern ratial groups of Sorex araneus in Eurasia.
23736967|Distribution data on beaver populations thriving in central Poland are common. We modelled beaver population viability to assess the current status and threats to the beaver in the 135-km-long section of the Vistula valley. We simulated different densities of expanding beaver populations and evaluated the three most significant scenarios of potential developments in the valley with the LARCH habitat model. The model output indicated higher vulnerability of low density populations to the same environmental changes. At present, suitable habitats sustain a large minimum viable population as part of one sustainable network. Hypothetical construction of two dams and removal of riparian forests within dykes would lead toa 25% reduction in population size. In contrast, river renaturalisation would increase beaver numbers by 42%. Based on the population trends we conclude that scenario analysis is beneficial in helping to evaluate future management decisions.
23734130|The study represented an attempt to clarify whether goldfish, after rearing in monochromatic light, show deviations from normal in their colour discrimination ability. Goldfish were made to spawn, the spawn then being distributed to three rearing basins which were illuminated with red (687 nm), blue (434 nm), or white, light. After 14-19 months, fish of all groups were tested for their colour discrimination ability by means of blue-green and red-green discrimination training. No significant differences between the rearing groups were found. Further, for fish of all rearing groups, blue-green discrimination was significantly more difficult than red-green discrimination. Spontaneous colour preferences were not observed. Neither did lightmicroscopic investigation of the retinae reveal differences  the shape and pattern of distribution of the discernible cone types were the same in all groups and corresponded to the descriptions given by other authors.
23731375|Numerous specimens of Polydora redeki Horst are recorded from the SW coast of Finland, from an area where the salinity is about 6 %. This is the northernmost locality known for this polychaete in the Baltic. Some features of the morphology, distribution and habitats of the species are discussed.
23731714|In the winters of 1968/69 - 1972/73, the ecology of the red squirrel (Sciurus vulgaris L.) was studied in the Vrritunturi fell terrain, northeastern Finnish Lapland. A transect survey indicated that the density of the population fluctuated irregularly. No evidence of irregular migrations of squirrels was obtained. Most of the squirrel tracks were recorded in mixed or pure spruce forests. Of the 74 squirrels' nests studied, 42 % were on Scots pines and 58 % on spruces. On pines 87 % of the nests were between 6 and 18 m, and on spruces 84 % between 3.5 and 8 m above the ground. 97 % of the nests were against the main trunk. 77 % of them were on the southeastern, southern and southwestern sides of the trunks. Beard moss and small pieces of branches and shoots of conifers were the main building material. After a warming phase of 10 - 30 minutes squirrels could maintain a nest temperature which was 20 - 30 C higher than the ambient air temperature. In winter 1972, spruce seeds were the main food of the squirrels, and in winter 1972/73, pine seeds. In the latter winter, the nutritive value of the pine seeds was much higher than that of the local spruce seeds and also higher than that of other spruce seed samples studied. The mobility of the squirrel was at its minimum during the shortest days and the coldest months of the year. The activity pattern differed very clearly from that of the pine marten (Martes martes L.).
23734630|The material consists of 11 otters found dead in Central Finland in the 1980s. The concentrations of many hazardous chemicals were low in the fresh weight of liver: alfa- and oxychlordane, HCB, lindane, DDT, DDD, DDE, PCB and dieldrin. The maximum value was 2.5 ppm of PCB. However, the lipid contents were higher, being on an average 2914 ppm (maximum 150) of PCB. Mirex and toxaphene were not detected using a minimum detection level of one ng/g (=0.001 ppm). The effect of the Chernobyl power plant explosion in spring 1986, 1300 km SSE of the study area, can be clearly seen in increased cesium contents. The residues of chemicals were not higher in the older animals.
23733737|The daily food consumption of the three-spined stickleback at different temperatures was calculated from determinations of the rate of digestion. The rate of digestion in fish which had taken food in the sea before being caught was compared with that of fish fed in the laboratory either with Daphnia or with plankton collected from the sea. Owing to seasonal differences in the food available in nature, determination of the digestion rate in fish that had taken food under natural conditions was found to give a better estimate of the actual food consumption of the three-spined stickleback than feeding experiments. In fish averaging 1.0 g fr.wt. the daily food consumption so calculated was 24.27.8 mg (2.4 % of the body fr.wt.) at 10 C, 48,316.3 mg (4.8 %) at 14 C, and 132.828.8 mg (13.3 %) at 18 C. In fish averaging 1.6 g the respective rates were 100.239.7 mg (6.2 %), 186.250.4 mg (11.6 %) and 271.250.4 mg (16.9 %).
23734566|The anterior and posterior pileus in 367 specimens of the common lizard Lacerta vivipara, collected mainly in southern Finland, show different types of variation: geographical in the anterior and largely stochastic in the posterior. This variation was studied in terms of phenodeviants indicatory of disturbances caused by environmental or genetic stresses during ontogeny, with the following results: 1) the differences in the anterior pileus pattern are probably hereditary, 2) the viabilities of the pileus types vary in different environmental conditions, 3) the postfrontal anomalies are much more common among individuals with a particular pattern called "rectangular" than among the other types, the former thus possibly being connected with some specific system of disturbance particularly susceptible to anomalies, and 4) it seems evident that there are genetically determined interrelations between the anterior and posterior part of the pileus through the mediatory role of the rectangular pattern. The problem is treated in terms of phenodeviants indicating disturbances caused by environmental or genetic stresses during ontogeny.
23734571|The antipredatory behaviour of bank voles Clethrionomys glareolus and prey choice of weasels Mustela nivalis were investigated in a seminatural enclosure. Bank voles were observed for three consecutive days. During the second day a weasel was present in the enclosure. The daily activity rhythm of voles without predation risk was characterized by inactivity at nights with pronounced peaks at dawn. When the weasel was present in the pen, vole activity occurred throughout the day. When endangered by a predator, bank voles dramatically increased their above-ground mobility. At the same time, intraspecific aggressiveness decreased. Adult voles were less vulnerable than young ones to weasel predation. In three hunting sessions with different enclosed populations of bank voles, weasels primarily killed young voles.
23736896|Plant responses to mammalian herbivores can be manifold. Browsing by large mammals such as moose may change plant growth and morphology, which, in turn, will change the food quality and availability for e.g. invertebrate herbivores sharing the same forage plant. Furthermore, the intensity and timing of herbivory may affect plant responses and future herbivore attack. In a field experiment, we tested whether simulated summer browsing and natural winter browsing by moose affects growth and morphology of birch Betula pendula, and whether possible changes had effects on abundance and defoliation by herbivorous invertebrates. The simulated summer browsing treatment was applied in two intensities (50% and 100% defoliation of long shoots) during two different periods of the growth season (mid-June and mid-July). Simulated summer browsing delayed the timing of budburst, reduced height and diameter growth and resulted in reduced defoliation by invertebrate herbivores indicating an induced defence. Winter browsing by moose reduced diameter growth, leaf biomass of short shoots but increased height growth, the abundance of aphids and defoliation by insect herbivores. The effects of herbivory on the timing of budburst, leaf biomass of long and short shoots and the abundance of aphids were more pronounced when the birches were both browsed in winter and artificially stripped. The timing of the artificial leaf stripping treatment was important for nearly all tested variables. Concluding, summer and winter browsing by moose can have opposing or additive effects on plant morphology and growth. Therefore, also indirect effects of mammalian herbivory on invertebrate communities feeding on the same plant may differ, depending on the browsing intensity, the season of browsing and even the timing of browsing within the same season.
23736200|About 6 million one-summer-old, fluorescent pigment marked whitefish were released in the northern and central parts of the Gulf of Bothnia in 19951998. Growth and dispersal of the stocked fish were followed by detecting and recording marked whitefish in samples from the professional fisheries catch during 19992002. The yield produced by stocked fish was estimated by assuming that the proportion of the marked fish in the total catch was the same as in the samples. The total yield from the stockings in 1995 was estimated to be 5590 kg/1000 released fingerlings. A better result from the stockings could be achieved by increasing the recruitment size in the fishery. Even for the 1995 stockings, a few of the released fish were probably still migrating in the sea at the end of the study period, although the main part had already been caught. For fish released in 1996 or later, no exact estimates of total yield can be given, as a considerable part of the catch was still to come. The estimates from the preliminary re-catches, however, suggest that the stockings in northern parts produce lower catches than stockings in central parts of the Gulf of Bothnia.
23731763|Marks made by a wolverine to establish its territory were recorded in 26 places along a track 7.5 km long in the Vrritunturi fell terrain, NE Finnish Lapland. One urination and 26 markings with secretion from anal glands had been made on coniferous bushes and trees, stones, a tussock and a dry stick.
23736008|The behaviour of smooth newt adult females foraging on Daphnia was analysed. Newts were given different-sized Daphnia (1.5, 2.3 and 3.8 mm), either as one-sized or two-sized prey in different densities and size ratios. The frequency distribution of angles of turns mede by newts between discrete moves during foraging bouts is a normal function peaking at approx. 0. Increasing prey abundance or size of prey made newts turn more widely during their foraging bouts. The movements of newts during foraging bouts are directional (i.e., moving straight ahead dominates) with the exception that the first turn made after ingestion of a prey tends to be a wider arc than subsequent turns. In other words, newts move straight ahead before capturing a prey, but make random turns just after capturing the prey. A computer simulation with aggregated prey suggests that a "directional-random' turning rule (observed newt behaviour) gives the highest prey capture rate when compared to "directional-directional' (second best) or "random-random' turning rules.
23734485|Diel feeding activity in an enclosed cyclic population of the bank vole Clethrionomys glareolus was studied during an increase and peak year in 198385. An automatic camera at a feeding station was used. The population was also live trapped monthly to follow its demography. The individual voles visited the feeding station most often during spring and autumn, which was obviously due to nutritive reasons. On the population level a polyphasic and irregular activity rhythm was the main pattern observed. However, when all observations during both years were pooled a rather uniform activity pattern could be recognized over the whole 24-hour period during summer, a diurnal activity pattern during autumn and winter and a nocturnal pattern during spring. During the breeding season the activity of the juveniles and subadults was much higher than that of the adult individuals. The juveniles often moved in groups of two to four individuals  these groups obviously consisted of siblings. During spring, after the onset of reproduction, the feeding activity patterns of adult individuals seemed to differ from the patterns of juveniles and subadults. The feeding activity rhythm of young individuals may be more flexible than that of old ones and constitute one reason for the rather uniform activity pattern during summer. The results do not exclude the possibility that different social groups may have different diel feeding activity rhythms.
23736177|Rejection of parasitic eggs is one of the most important adaptations of avian hosts against brood parasites. Multiple brood parasitism is relatively rare in hosts of the common cuckoo (Cuculus canorus), but naturally occurs when the rate of parasitism is high. We experimentally parasitised great reed warbler (Acrocephalus arundinaceus) clutches with non-mimetic and moderately mimetic model cuckoo eggs. In the case of single parasitism, each egg type was rejected at the same rate (68%75%), but in the case of multiple parasitism, the rejection rate significantly increased to 96%. So multiple parasitism is in some way facilitating anti-parasite behaviour in the host. We suggest that when parasitism rate reaches high levels, e.g. at the beginning of the coevolutionary arms race, multiple parasitism may be an important component of the host's adaptation to brood parasitism in general.
23734418|The suitability of four asymptotic growth equations for describing growth of length in populations of Anodonta piscinalis was studied. The Krger function showed the best fit with the observed values, but the other three equations (von Bertanlanffy, Gompertz, logistic) were not much worse. The Krger function was also the best when lengths of very old and young individuals were extrapolated from truncated data. Although the equations closely simulated the sets of material, we could find little evidence that their parameters (growth constant, asymptotic length) were suitable for comparisons between populations. Different cohorts and sexes within a population produced very variable numerical values for these parameters. The correlation between the mean length of the third annulus in a population and the growth constant produced by different equations for the same set of data ranged from 0.539 to 0.640. The von Bertanlanffy equation was the least unsuitable for producing parameters for comparisons between populations.
23735721|Biodiversity conservation in Finland has developed from old hunting and forest-use regulations towards habitat conservation based on ecological research and international agreements on protection of wildlife. Hunting of game animals and persecution of species considered as pests have been legally regulated in Finland since the Middle Ages. The first attempts to control forest destruction date back to the 1600s. Banning of spring hunting of waterfowl was suggested already in 1769. The rise of "modern" nature conservation in the late 1800s was apparently influenced by the European bird conservation movement (introduced to Finland in 1870 by Z. Topelius), the widespread criticism towards the 1898 Hunting Decree, and the growing interest towards conservation issues among biology and forestry professionals, inspired by an article published by A. E. Nordenskild. Already in the 1800s both hunting/persecution and habitat changes were perceived as threats to wildlife. The Nature Conservation Act, which became the cornerstone for Finnish conservation policy, was enacted in 1923. In the 20th century the numbers of protected species and conservation areas have increased. For more than a century Finnish conservationists have participated in international conservation efforts, in which Finland now participates as a member of the European Community.
23736807|Altering environmental conditions affects the genetic composition of populations via demographic and selective responses by creating of variety of population substructuring types. Classical genetic approaches can predict the genetic composition of populations under long-term or structurally stable conditions, but exclude factors such as animal behaviour, environmental structure, and breeding biology, all of which influence genetic diversity. Most populations are unique in some of these characteristics, and therefore may be unsuitable for the classical approach. Here, an alternative approach using a genetically explicit individual-based model (IBM) coupled to a dynamic landscape model was used to obtain measures for the genetic status of simulated vole populations. The rate of loss of expected heterozygosity (He) was calculated for simulated populations using two levels of spatial and temporal heterogeneity. Results showed that both spatial and temporal heterogeneity exerted an influence on the rate of loss of genetic diversity, but the precise effect was a balance between the effects of population sub-structuring, the frequency of founder effects and population size. These were in turn related to habitat availability and their influence on vole behaviour. Interaction between spatial and temporal dynamics altered the ratio of effective population size to census size. This indicates an altered reproductive potential, crucial in conservation biology applications. However, when the loss of heterozygosity was corrected for the harmonic mean of the population size, the rate of loss was almost identical in the four scenarios. Unlike classical genetic models, IBMs are flexible enough to mimic real population processes under a range of environmental and behavioural conditions. We conclude that IBMs incorporating explicit genetics provide a promising new approach to the evaluation of the effect of animal behaviour, and random and man-induced events on the genetic composition of populations. They also provide a new platform from which to investigate the implication of real world deviations from assumptions of traditional genetic models.
23736049|In shallow, northern Baltic archipelago waters, predatory epibenthic invertebrates are rare in relation to fully marine environments. One such predator is the relict isopod Saduria entomon L., which is faced with a choice of prey organisms of varying ecological origin, including marine or estuarine species on the one hand, and "limnic" species on the other. In clearly sublittoral areas S. entomon has no principal invertebrate competitors for food, but in shallow water regions odonata larvae may play a similar regulatory role on the benthic community. Against this background, the structuring role of S. entomon for the benthic infauna in shallow brackish waters was tested in relation to (a) one major invertebrate food competitor (Libellula quadrimaculata; Odonata), and (b) prey species of varying ecological origin (marine or estuarine, exemplified by Macoma balthica and Corophium volutator, and "limnic", e.g. Asellus aquaticus and larval chironomids). Field and aquarium experiments illustrated that S. entomon is technically capable by predation to exhibit a regulatory pressure on all prey items offered, but that the effects at community level are difficult to distinguish from the natural variation within the ecosystem. On shallow bottoms S. entomon exhibits similar predatory effects to the larvae of the dragonfly L. quadrimaculata. It is concluded that S. entomon in shallow Baltic archipelagoes is something of a "universal competitor", capable of affecting populations regardless of their functional origin.
23736697|The phylogeography of north European anadromous and non-anadromous Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) populations was investigated using 21 nuclear (microsatellites and allozymes) loci and mitochondrial DNA haplotypes. A neighbour-joining population tree revealed several statistically supported groupings that generally corresponded well with the sampling regions. A comparison of FST and RST estimates with a novel allele size permutation method suggested that at least two of the groups had diverged from each other already prior to the ice receding after the last ice age, thus suggesting that north European Atlantic salmon are derived from at least two separate refugia. We propose that the anadromous and non-anadromous salmon populations from the Baltic Sea basin most likely originate from a southeastern ice-lake refugium. The present day White and Barents Sea basins have probably been colonized from multiple refugia.
23732253|The genera Theonina and Microneta are considered to be very close relatives. The taxonomic features of T. cornix, the type-species of Theonina, are described in detail and compared with those of Microneta viaria, the type-species of the genus described earlier.
23735727|We compared the feeding behaviour of lone tenders, multi-female tenders and post-breeding, non-tending eider females Somateria mollissima in the northern Baltic. Few prey species are available for eiders in the Baltic; in the non-breeding season adults prefer blue mussels Mytilus edulis, whereas small ducklings feed primarily on gammarids Gammarus spp. Infections by the acanthocephalan parasite Polymorphus minutus occur when eiders feed on gammarids and this infection may be fatal if the host's resistance is low. The mussel beds and areas with gammarids are close together but do not overlap. Assuming that females always should prefer blue mussels to gammarids we tested the following predictions: (i) non-tending females should exclusively feed on mussels, (ii) lone tenders may be forced to feed like their young, and (iii) multi-female tenders may occasionally utilise mussels, thereby mitigating constraints associated with consumption of unprofitable gammarid prey. Tending females foraged like their young, whereas non-tending females fed on mussels throughout the brood-rearing season. Individually marked females fed on mussels immediately after losing their brood, suggesting that a conflict between female and duckling feeding needs exists during early brood-rearing. However, later in the season all females and young fed on mussels. Multi-female tenders achieved no obvious foraging benefits compared to lone tenders, indicating that crching in eiders may have primarily evolved for other reasons.
23736061|Fourteen species of Pegomya (Anthomyiidae) are the only significant primary fungivorous flies breeding in Leccinum (Boletaceae) sporophores in Finland. The length of the thorax in the flies is negatively correlated with the number of flies emerging from a sporophore, suggesting increasing larval competition with increasing numbers of larvae in sporophores. Further evidence of competition is provided by a geographical comparison: in Central Europe there are only 2 species of Pegomya that use Leccinum, but their abundance is as high as the pooled abundance of all Pegomya in Finland, i.e. 20 to 50 flies per sporophore. We demonstrate that Pegomya are intraspecifically aggregated amongst sporophores, which will contribute to the coexistence of many species in spite of competition. In Finland, the number of abundant species is about 7 throughout the country, though the species pool decreases from south (13) to north (7). Predation of full-grown larvae and pupae is also severe and may inflict up to 90% mortality. Prolonged diapause is common in Pegomya in Lapland but not in south Finland, probably because of increasing year-to-year variation in sporophore production with latitude.
23736771|Martes martes and Martes foina occur sympatrically in most of Europe. Little is known about differences between trophic niches of these species, because martens are difficult to observe and it is impossible to distinguish between scats of both species based on their morphological features. To resolve this problem, we used DNA extracted from faeces for species identification. This method allowed us to compare the diet of the two species in the area of their sympatric occurrence in central Poland. We analysed the composition of 287 scats of stone martens and 155 of pine martens. Both species fed mainly on small rodents, birds and fruits. Although the trophic niches of both martens highly overlapped, we found significant quantitative differences in their food composition. Pine martens fed more frequently on rodents and birds, and stone martens on fruits and insects. These differences were also visible in the seasonal perspective. Although both martens exploited the same forest habitat, genetic identification of faeces allowed us to indicate significant differences in the diet of these closely related species.
43923476|We tested the usefulness of silicone casts for gathering morphological data from freeranging wildlife by documenting the tracheobronchial anatomy of the Eurasian lynx (Lynx lynx). The silicone compound accurately reproduced the main aspects of the tracheobronchial branching but the demonstration of smaller airways was less accurate. Evaluation of air-inflated specimens and tracheobronchial casts showed that the right lung consisted of cranial, middle, caudal and accessory lobes, whereas the left lung was divided into cranial and caudal lobes. The left cranial lobe was further divided into cranial and caudal parts. The right cranial lobar bronchus was almost tracheal in location. The trachea had an average of 37 cartilages that showed a pattern of random anastomoses between adjacent cartilages. The silicone compound tested in this study holds promise for its use also under field conditions to gather quantitative morphological data.
23733640|O2 consumption was measured in Eurytemora hirundoides Nordqv. individuals acclimated to two salinities, 3  and 9 . In 9  the animals were unable to maintain osmotic equilibrium, and were therefore thought to face physiological stress when transferred to either lower or higher salinity.
23735476|Developmental instability of harbour seals (Phoca vitulina) that died during the epizootic in 1988 in the Kattegat was compared with that of the population prior to the epizootic to investigate whether animals that died were the developmentally less stable individuals in the population. As an assessment of developmental instability the fractal dimension of the paired maxillo palatinae suture was calculated and the degree of fluctuating asymmetry in teeth, foramina and the paired suture was estimated in a total of 240 skulls. Moreover, prevalences of three pathological changes of the skull were compared. No difference was found in developmental instability or prevalence of skull lesions between animals that died in the epizootic and estimates from the population prior to the epizootic. The lack of difference could be in accordance with the suggestion that organochlorines had an influence on mortality during the epizootic. Levels of organochlorines have decreased in the last decade before the epizootic, and thereby could have equalized differences in levels of developmental stability.
23735749|Population densities are heterogeneous across a variety of spatial scales. The variation in density reflects a similar variety of processes ranging from density-dependent habitat selection at small scales to independently regulated populations at much larger ones. I measured each scale with experiments capitalizing on the behavior of individual deer mice foraging in badland habitats in Alberta, Canada. First, I used patterns in rodent density along transects crossing badland and prairie habitats to measure the scale of habitat selection. Consistent with theoretical predictions, differences in the intercepts of isodars (graphs of density in adjacent habitats assuming ideal habitat selection) comparing prairie and badland densities revealed a maximum scale of habitat selection on the order of only 140 m. Second, I used foraging experiments to estimate density-dependent declines in fitness measured by the surrogate of giving-up-density of mice foraging in artificial foraging patches. Habitat selection should tend to equalize giving-up-densities among replicated, but spatially segregated, grids containing different numbers of foragers. Contrary to predictions from habitat selection theory, giving-up-densities declined with increased forager density in the majority of grids. Giving-up densities in nine of 12 grids increased linearly as population density was reduced in 1997. Giving-up densities in eight of 10 grids increased linearly with resource supplements in 1998. The results of both experiments are consistent with independent resource harvest by varying numbers of foraging mice. The identity of "outlier" grids, that showed little response to either manipulation, varied between years. The combined results document spatially-structured populations and allow us to estimate the frequency of stochastic dynamics that may have a profound influence on evolution and conservation strategies in heterogeneous landscapes.
23736740|We studied the relationships between the occupancy of territory sites and environmental and behaviour-related factors in a declining farmland bird, the ortolan bunting Emberiza hortulana, in southern Finland in 19842003. We investigated the dependence of different factors on population density. The surrounding breeding group positively affected the occupation frequency of territory sites before and after the population crash. Bush- or tree-covered ditches and springtime non-vegetated fields also had positive effect on territory site occupancy. We suggest that large breeding groups, and obvious conspecific attraction, give indications of favourable breeding locations. Habitat deterioration may have pronounced consequences for local populations, in which the breeding group tends to be the unit of population dynamics. The results suggest that for conservation of the ortolan bunting, the maintenance and improvement of structurally and biologically diverse habitats is vital, since tendency to breed in groups apparently makes the species more sensitive to habitat changes than many other farmland species.
23734704|Models of interspecific competition in a stochastic environment show that the effects of environmental fluctuations on species coexistence can be expected to vary from community to community. However, by taking account of some basic properties of the species in a community it is possible to predict whether environmental fluctuations should promote coexistence, promote competitive exclusion or have no effect on species coexistence. One such property is the way the growth rates of the species respond to the joint effects of environment and competition. In simple (additive) models the joint effect of environment and competition is the sum of their separate effects. Deviations from additivity, in either the direction of subadditivity or superadditivity, are important determinants of species coexistence in a fluctuating environment. Such nonadditive growth rates are predicted on the basis of life-history traits, heterogeneity within a population and heterogeneity in space. Nonadditive growth rates have intuitive interpretations in terms of buffers and amplifiers of the joint effects of environment and competition. A second property concerns the way fluctuations in the strength of competition are related to environmental fluctuations. We argue that favorable environmental conditions at some stage in the life cycle of an organism may lead to more competition for resources needed at a later stage, and hence positive covariance between environment and competition. In the presence of positive covariance, subadditive growth rates promote coexistence in a fluctuating environment, while superadditive growth rates promote competitive exclusion. Negative covariance between environment and competition reverses these conclusions.
23735446|In the enamel of Ursus spelaeus, prisms with incomplete prism sheaths dominate, although prisms with complete prism sheaths are also present. The Schmelzmuster consists of two indistinctly separated layers. Dominant is the inner layer characterized by well developed Hunter-Schreger bands. The outer layer, varying in thickness, is formed by radial enamel. Aprismatic enamel was found in a few areas close to the enamel-dentine junction but occurs more frequently on the outer surface. The crystallites of the interprismatic matrix are parallel to the prisms or form a slight angle (max. 45). Although Ursus spelaeus preferred a vegetarian diet, its teeth show typical carnivore enamel and have no similarities with herbivore enamel. In many herbivores, crystallites of the IPM are oriented at wide angles (about 90) to the prisms and frequently form "inter-row sheets". In comparison to the enamel in carnivores, herbivore enamel is derived and often combined with a secondary occlusal surface. Examples, however, show that both characters are independent. The enamel of Ursus spelaeus demonstrates that a specialization of diet over a short period of time does not have an immediate influence upon enamel structure. Only during longer phases of evolution does selection result in an almost perfect correlation of the Schmelzmuster and stress patterns during mastication.
23736528|Mating behaviour has long been proposed as a potential cause of inverse density dependence that can affect the viability of small populations through the reduction of female mating rates. However, under the general designation of mating behaviour we may find a diversity of traits that are likely to influence the mating rate. In the present study, we have analysed the influence of the social mating system, mate choice and mating opportunities on population dynamics given a demographic model that explicitly takes mating behaviour into account. The effect of mate choice on extinction risk depends on aspects such as the social mating system, the probability of accepting unattractive males, mating opportunities and variation in reproductive success. Thus, mate choice per se only leads to a significant increase in extinction risk if the social mating system is monogamous. If mating opportunities are limited, however (e.g. reduced encounter rate), the extinction probability associated with mate choice increases considerably. The risk of extinction associated with mate choice further increases when differences in reproductive success due to male attractiveness are taken into account. A comparative analysis of the establishment success of introduced bird species supports our predictions concerning mate choice. Sexually dichromatic species have a significantly lower establishment success than monochromatic species. However, the establishment success of non-native species was not significantly correlated with the social mating system, so that monogamous species are not less likely to be successful than polygamous species.
23736744|Constant re-evaluation of social affiliations and shifting social network structures can profoundly affect the adaptive fitness of individuals within a population, as well as yielding super-additive effects felt by the population as a whole. To evaluate the impact of different social affiliation choices, and the relative ability of individuals to correctly assess the success of other individuals, we have created a set of mathematical models based on network centrality measures. We choose the hypothetical measures of "popularity", "closeness" and "betweenness" to examine the resulting self-organizations of social groups. Our findings suggest that some different types of social behaviors can lead to the same levels of stability and organizational success, suggesting the possibility that complex organizations could have evolved from simpler ones without any change in the selective pressures acting on the population.
23732274|Rates of development of ova and the first three larval stages were determined in some constant-temperature regimes for British, Icelandic, South-Swedish and Swiss populations. Comparison with data for a Finnish rock-pool population revealed poorer tolerance of high temperatures in larvae from the northern and mountain habitats. At lower temperatures no differences could be detected between the populations. The rates of development of the ova of different populations did not differ.
23736102|Lake Hjlmaren is a shallow eutrophic lake with an intense commercial fishery. The pikeperch is the most important species from an economical point of view. A total of 2 299 individuals with a total length of 2239.5 cm were marked with Dart tags during late Juneearly August 1990. The fish were caught in commercial trap-nets, measured, marked and released immediately at the place of capture. In total 1 900 recaptures were recorded and the number of recaptured individuals were 887 (38.6%). Six individuals were recaptured 20 times and one fish 39 times in trap-nets, before it was caught and killed in a gill-net. These figures show that the fishing is intense. 48% of the fish that were recaptured once and released were recaptured also a second time. They also show that the young pikeperch tolerate capture in trap-nets and also survive post-capture handling before the release quite well. The pikeperch showed a very stationary behaviour during the growth season and many individuals were captured repeatedly in the same trap-net, both during the season of tagging and following seasons. On average pikeperch smaller than 30 cm were caught less than 2 km from the point of release, whereas fish 3539 cm on average were caught 45 km away during summer. In the autumn the pikeperch moved from shallower areas to the deeper central part of the lake and were caught in gill-nets in the winter-fishery. The average rate of growth of pikeperch in the size 2530 cm at the time of marking was 51 mm/365 days until they reached 40 cm (legal size limit). After that, the size selective gill-net fishery significantly affected the average growth rate, by catching and removing the most fast growing individuals.
23736963|Preliminary results on the ecology of raccoon in Poland are presented. The use of space (by radiotelemetry), diet composition and parasite infections (both by scat analysis) were investigated. The home-range size of the raccoon in western Poland averaged 1 km2 in suburban areas (n = 5 individuals), 10 km2 in the Warta Mouth National Park wetland area (n = 5), and 60 km2 for a single individual studied inhabiting woodlands. Space use patterns in relation to habitat type were also studied. About 44% of the biomass consumed by raccoons were mammals, 41% other vertebrates, 12% invertebrates, 2% plant material and only 1% eggs. Three species and one genus of helminths, e.g. the humans pathogen parasite, Baylisascaris procyonis, were identified.
23736810|We examined the relationship between web architecture, microhabitat utilization, and prey capture for five sympatric species of spiders (Araneae: Tetragnathidae: Tetragnatha Latreille) in Waikamoi Preserve, East Maui, Hawaiian Islands. We found that each species of spider built webs that differed from its congeners in one or more architectural and microhabitat features, and that each species also differed in the types of insect prey they captured. Although the causal mechanisms remain to be tested, we suggest that species-specific differences in web building behaviors could account for the differences found in utilization of prey and microhabitat resources. Furthermore, the ability to construct webs with different architectures may be related to the extraordinary diversification of endemic web-building Hawaiian Tetragnatha.
23736753|Transactional Skew (TS) theory predicts that cooperative breeding associations can be adaptive for all group members as long as they properly allocate reproduction within a social contract. Polistes wasps have been the preeminent model genus for testing TS models. Most tests have focused on either the patterns of skew or on patterns of aggression between wasps, which has been assumed to set skew. However, the totality of evidence suggests that aggression (observed as darts, lunges and bites) has no connection to establishing reproductive skew. Although some patterns of reproductive skew support TS theory, most of the reproductive data are either non-supportive or inconclusive relative to the models. Of particular significance are recent findings of high skew associations between distantly or unrelated wasps when TS theory strongly predicts skew should be low. A possible evolutionary explanation for the failure of TS models is derived through a simple model. Although the TS strategy optimizes fitness, its relative advantage over a much simpler conventional rule for group formation is never greater than 3% and often less. Therefore, even small costs in evolving the cognitive mechanisms needed to form social contracts may preclude their appearance. Although TS theory may have failed in Polistes, reproductive skew is now a well-described phenomenon. Finding new viable explanations for reproductive skew and extending the theory to skews in non-reproductive contexts will maintain Polistes in its role as a model taxonomic group in the study of the evolution of social behavior.
23731827|The numbers of small rodents were estimated by sampling in a deciduous forest (Tilio-Carpinetum) in southern Poland during several years. For two consecutive years, representing high and low population densities (44 and 17 animals per ha) of bank voles (Clethrionomys glareolus) and field mice (Apodemus flavicollis), the age of the animals caught was determined, and their life tables were constructed. At the high density the mean life span was 2.2 months for voles and 2.4 months for mice, while at the low density the figures were 2.8 and 3.1 months, respectively. The growth rate of individuals is slower in the year of peak abundance. The body weights of voles and mice born in that year reached averages of 13.2 and 17.8 g, whereas in the normal year the values were 14.5 and 20.6 g. Net production was estimated for the two densities of these rodent populations. The values obtained for voles amounted to 2 874 and 1 121 kcal/ha per year, and for mice to 856 and 535 kcal. At the low density, vole and mouse populations achieved a much better percentage of their potential production. The efficiency of the net production in relation to costs of maintenance was also better at the low density. The turnover of individuals varied greatly in relation to animal numbers; to a smaller extent this was also true of the turnover of biomass.
23733688|The secondary lamellae of rainbow trout gills from hypoxic and anaesthetized fish were analysed stereologically for the blood volume and haematocrit value. In hypoxia the gills undergo vasodilatation, which is accompanied by slight haemodilution. When oxygen is available the situation changes; there is a tendency to vasoconstriction, but a continuing decrease in the haematocrit value. In anaesthesia the vasodilatation seen in the secondary lamellae is combined with haemoconcentration. During recovery vasodilatation continues, while the haematocrit value falls to below that of controls. Explanations for these observations are offered in terms of the circulation through the gills.
23733659|Recent decades have witnessed great changes in the densities of land birds in Finland. This study, based on habitat censuses made in northern Finland (Kainuu and Kuusamo) in 19431945 and 19701973, examines the relative importance of two components of population change: have the populations increased (decreased) within their previous habitats, or has the area of suitable habitats increased (decreased)? The results of the habitat censuses are compared with line transect data collected from northern Finland in 194277. Changes in habitat area were probably responsible for population changes in certain species, such as Perisoreus infaustus and Phoenicurus phoenicurus, which have decreased with the clear-cutting of old pine forests. Within-habitat changes were more important in the majority of common species; thus Parus cristatus and P. montanus have decreased and Turdus iliacus, Phylloscopus trochilus and Muscicapa striata have increased. The within-habitat changes are suggested to be linked with changes in forest structure affecting winter resources (Parus spp.) or with habitat expansion resulting from increases in population due to increases in the amount of forest edge, in the bush layer of the forests, and in the extent of trees of young age classes. As shown by a comparison between observations made during an excursion to Kuusamo in 1917 and the density estimates obtained in the line transect censuses in the 1970s, the bird fauna has changed considerably in Kuusamo during this century; population increases are more characteristic than decreases.
23735736|Baltic Sea populations of the ringed seal (Phoca hispida) and grey seal (Halichoerus grypus) have been dramatically declining throughout this century. They are currently recovering from a population low in the 1970s, but sizes before the decline remain unknown. The land-locked Saimaa ringed seal (Phoca hispida saimensis) has similarly been declining over much of the century. We use past bounty statistics to estimate sizes of these three populations at the beginning of this century, and investigate the sensitivity of our results to assumptions on population growth, density dependence, the true extent of kills, and the age of killed individuals. The possible range extends from 50 000 to 450 000 individuals for Baltic ringed seals, from 30 000 to 200 000 for grey seals, and from only 100 to 1 300 individuals for Saimaa seals. The larger estimates apply if hunting tended to remove adult individuals with high reproductive value, and if the initial population was regulated by density dependence rather than kept below its true carrying capacity by nineteenth-century hunting. The low estimate for the Saimaa seal may either indicate that it was initially less abundant than thought, or that known hunting statistics simply do not capture the true magnitude of the decline.
23735854|The mesowear method assesses the dietary regime of herbivorous mammals based on the attrition/abrasion equilibrium by evaluating cusp shape and relief of upper second molars. The method has recently been extended to include four tooth positions, upper P4M3, in equids. In this study we determine whether the method can be extended in ruminants by applying it to maxillary and mandibular dentitions of a browser, the giraffe (Giraffa camelopardalis) and two mixed feeders, the oribi (Ourebia ourebi) and the musk ox (Ovibos moschatus). We find that including the upper third molar in addition to the upper second molar provides consistent mesowear classifications in these species. Lower dentitions of mixed feeders score significantly differently in terms of mesowear as compared with upper dentitions. We infer that adaptive optimization in differential anisodonty is related to the composition of the diet and should be mirrored in differential mesowear signals of adjoining upper and lower molars. Our results suggest that in mixed feeders, sharpness is maximized in upper teeth, whereas in specialized feeders this is not the case.
23734572|A comparison is made between three study areas on the Finnish and Norwegian coasts with differing environmental gradients in order to determine the macrozoobenthic community structure. Regression analysis is used to fing the environmental parameters that correlate with the two most important principal component axes obtained in the Principal Component Analysis (PCA). It is concluded that depth is the most important factor determining the community structure. However, areas with no external disturbance show a more obvious correlation to depth than polluted areas. To avoid problems in interpreting the data when several environmental gradients are overlapping, one should have a sample design that includes as many environmental gradients as possible.
23736887|The decline of semi-natural grasslands throughout Europe has given rise to the idea that road verges under mowing management could serve as alternative habitats for several meadow species. We studied the distribution and movements of the ringlet butterfly (Aphantopus hyperantus) at a highway intersection and its surroundings. A total of 2113 individuals were marked, and 17% of the individuals recaptured, in 2003. The population densities were generally low in the verge and in sections mown in midsummer. Mid-summer mowing also delayed the dispersal of individuals to the area until the vegetation had regenerated. The majority of individuals were sedentary but there was more emigration from linear verges and sections with a low population density. A dense network of roads may decrease the movement of the ringlet but a single road is not an absolute barrier to the species. We conclude that intersections and road verges can provide alternative habitats for meadow species, as shown here with the ringlet, but that the quality of these habitats depends on the mowing management.
23734531|Mating behaviour was observed in a caged pair of Sorex isodon Turov. During courtship play, the female only shammed flight. The male used both smell and hearing in pursuing the female, which was especially noisy at this time. During the copulations, which usually lasted for 57 sec, the male seized the fur on the nape of the female's neck with his teeth.
23736199|The reintroduction of whitefish of Pomeranian Bay origin to Puck Bay (southern Baltic) has been underway since 1993. Stocking has been conducted with juveniles weighing 12 g. In 2002, a program was initiated to rear whitefish fry in a manmade brackish water pond located at a sewage treatment plant close to the sea. The fish were fed live zooplankton which was filtered from purified wastewater. Until the current program, this zooplankton was not utilized. The mean weight of the 30 000 fry at the start of rearing on 26 June was 1.2 g. The final mean weight was 21.2 g on 22 October when over 3200 fish were released into Puck Bay as a supplement to the stocking program. The mean growth rate obtained by the fish was 0.82 mm day-1, but the survival rate was only 11% due to heavy losses in July caused by the sudden deterioration of water conditions in the pond.
23733700|Swarming was studied in Ephemera vulgata L., Siphlonurus linnaeanus (Etn.), Heptagenia fuscogrisea (Retz.), Leptophlebia marginata (L.), L. vespertina (L.), Caenis horaria (L.), and Centroptilum luteolum (Mll.) at three localities in southern Finland. Each species swarmed close to a shoreline above a swarm marker. In L. vespertina populations differed in swarming behaviour. In L. marginata differences in the shape, size and density of the swarms, in swarming height and in orientation of individuals in the swarms indicate the presence of two sibling species. S. linnaeanus swarms in the morning and evening twilight, and L. marginata and L. vespertina in sunshine, whereas C. horaria starts swarming in the afternoon and continues until the late evening. E. vulgata, H. fuscogrisea and C. luteolum swarm mainly in the evening, but E. vulgata also in the morning; these species may also swarm during the day, depending on temperature and amount of cloud. The time of swarming of each species is affected by light intensity and air temperature. The higher the temperature, the later the time and the darker the twilight at which evening swarming takes place. However, swarming is apparently also controlled by internal factors. Swarming is prevented by wind at velocities of 1.5 to 2 m/s, depending on the species. It may also be arrested or prevented by high or low air temperature. In S. linnaeanus it was not directly affected by humidity. In its major features, swarming in mayflies resembled swarming in Nematocera.
23736526|Sexual selection is a field with a strong focus on the 'costs' of traits. However, whether such costs have an influence on the demography of the population is very rarely discussed. Here we present various processes through which sexual selection might have an impact on population viability and thus increase or decrease the risk of extinction. We argue that evolutionary 'suicide'  as sometimes suggested e.g. to have caused the extinction of the Irish elk  is unlikely in deterministic environments, except if costs are not paid by the same individual that bears the trait. Thus, intra- or inter-locus sexual conflict could in principle drive a population extinct, and we do not know why this does not frequently happen. Whether sexual selection increases or decreases extinction risks when populations face variable or unforeseen environmental conditions is likewise unknown, and we outline mechanisms that could account for either pattern. Inbreeding is another factor that could either increase or decrease population viability in sexually selected species. Inbreeding may be caused by a high mating skew, but it could also be reduced if females adaptively choose mates to avoid inbred offspring. Finally, when intraspecific competition for resources is taken into account, it is unclear how individual viabilities translate to extinction risks faced by the population. We show an example where greater mortality of males due to sexual dimorphism improves the carrying capacity of the environment, and thus presumably population viability.
23734522|Samples collected in and around Helsinki reveal that the melanism of Adalia bipunctata (L.) has a uniform level of 1012% of melanic beetles in, and falling to zero or near zero roughly 15 km from the city. In Finland, melanism mainly occurs in the towns, the northernmost melanics being from the town of Oulu (65N). In Leningrad, U.S.S.R., 300 km E of Helsinki, melanism reaches 85% in the city centre and declines to a level of 50% first at a distance of 1240 km (published Soviet data). In two towns  Tallinn and Narva  in Estonia, U.S.S.R., on the southern side of the Gulf of Finland the melanic percentages are 27% and 20% respectively. The concept of thermal melanism, resulting in a negative relationship with sunshine, does not explain the low-level melanism of Helsinki because there tends to be, as a mesoclimatic effect of the coast, more radiation available in areas with higher proportions of melanism, and also higher average temperatures because of the "heat island" effect of the city. The melanism of A. bipunctata has many similarities with that of Oligia strigilis (L.) (Lepidoptera, Noctuidae), a species which has been used as an indicator of air pollution. Several findings suggest that in this area Adalia bipunctata shows industrial melanism, although the mechanism leading to selective advantage of the melanic forms remains unknown.
23737054|This study aims to investigate if patterns of immigration by voles into removal plots on the third day of trapping are evident in the grey-sided vole, and if altering the number of traps at each station will result in increased precision of the vole abundance estimate. Traps were placed using the small quadrat method, with one, three, or five traps placed at each corner. Traps were checked twice a day for five days. Mixed-effect models were used to investigate the relationship between the number of traps and the length of time the traps were out on the abundance index. There was no difference between having three or five traps. Having one trap resulted in an inflated estimate. Five traps had the highest number of successful trapping events, reducing the number of zeros in the data set and leaving fewer individuals unaccounted. There was a peak in catches on the third day, driven by younger individuals and by males. These are suspected immigrants that are exploiting the territories left by individuals trapped in the first two days, suggesting this is not a closed system.
23735392|We studied in the laboratory the effect of the risk of predation by weasels (Mustela nivalis) and stoats (M. erminea) on early development and maturation of red voles Clethrionomys rutilus, grey-sided voles C. rufocanus, and cyclic and non-cyclic populations of bank voles C. glareolus. In red voles, predation risk lowered the weight of embryos, but had no effect on the weight of adult females. Predation risk had a marked effect on the growth of young voles and on the weights of their testes and ovaria, indicating a lowered rate of maturation when at high risk of predation. The weight of the adrenals was significantly lower in experimental than in control females but not in males. In cyclic bank voles, predation risk had a strong effect on the growth rate of young voles. There was a marked effect on the weight of testes but not on the weight of ovaria. In non-cyclic bank voles predation risk had no effect on females but a marked effect on the growth rate of males. The weight of the testes indicated only a marginal effect on maturation in non-cyclic voles. In grey-sided voles, there was no effect of predation risk on the growth or the weight of testes, ovaria and adrenals. These results 1) support the notion that young voles may delay reproduction under great risk of predation, 2) indicate that the response varies among different species living in the same area, and 3) show predictable differences between conspecific voles from cyclic and non-cyclic populations.
23736074|The distribution and food of age-0 pikeperch were investigated in the lowland Sulejw Reservoir in Central Poland. Samples were taken weekly, from mid June to mid August 1994, both in pelagic and littoral zones. Up to mid-July, age-0 pikeperch were found to be divided into two distinguished groups. The first group was located in the pelagic zone and consisted of planktivorous specimens; the second group seemed to be restricted to the littoral zone and were predominantly piscivorous already at a very small size (TL 30 mm). These differences in feeding between the two groups of age-0 pikeperch were due to prey fish availability and resulted in a slower growth of pelagic fish, as compared with that of littoral fish. In mid-July, after reaching mean length of about 50 mm, pelagic pikeperch invaded the littoral zone, but they were not able to shift from planktivory to piscivory, as available prey fish were already too big. As larger littoral pikeperch continued foraging on fish, previously established size differences were further strengthened.
23734465|Confusion concerning certain trematodes which occur in sporocysts in tissues of the clam Macoma balthica and which are currently identified as Parvatrema affinis is pointed out here. There may be two different species, or else the diagnostic features of the genus Parvatrema should be amended. Metacercariae up to now referred to as P. affinis were found in a few individuals of M. balthica collected in the northern parts of the Baltic Sea. The prevalence was less than 1 %. These metacercariae had a small, but conspicuous, genital pore slightly anterior to the ventral sucker, whereas members of Parvatrema should have a large genital pore. Specimens originating from the Dutch Wadden Sea were similar. The metacercariae resemble those of Meiogymnophallus multigemmulus Ching, except that the genital pore in the latter is inconspicuous and close to the ventral sucker. The arrangement of papillae on the suckers and the site of the "genital papillae" at the genital pore of P. affinis are compared with those in Lacunovermis macomae (Lebour). The tegumental spines are similar, i.e. multi-pointed, in both these species.
23737020|The lock-and-key hypothesis of genital evolution is evaluated using the highly variable male genitalia of two species of Hystrichophora (Tortricidae: Olethreutinae) moths. Traditionally, morphological differences in male genitalia have been used to differentiate similar species of Lepidoptera, and, while other characters may be examined, it is often assumed that genital morphology is the unique characteristic that "defines" a species. The significance of this assumption is based, many times unknowingly, on the lock-and-key hypothesis, which states that male and female genital compatibility serves to isolate different species reproductively. This concept is tested by quantifying the shape of Hystrichophora male valvae and analyzing variation in individual populations using principal components analysis. The resulting extreme levels of intraspecific variation support evolution by means of sexual selection and reject the traditional lock-and-key hypothesis.
23735899|The use of morphological characters as the basis for species recognition and identification has permitted the development of a consistent taxonomy. However, limitations are evident when dealing with cryptic speciation or when intra-specific variability matches the total inter-species variation. Molecular techniques complement or enhance morphological inference by providing sets of data directly applicable to the taxonomic problem. Cases in which molecular techniques are particularly relevant are those involving larval or juvenile identification for which taxonomic characters are based on adult organisms and also those in which the original taxon description leads to uncertainty over the applicability of the species name. In this paper we report the use of mitochondrial DNA sequence data in a group of nudibranchs to exemplify the two cases mentioned above. The first issue is the longstanding debate on the taxonomic status of Tambja abdere and Tambja fusca, and the second issue is the identification of two juvenile specimens previously considered to represent two different undescribed species of the genus Tambja from the scarcely explored waters of Costa Rica. We also present a preliminary molecular phylogeny of the subfamily Nembrothinae.
23737101|In the pied flycatcher, singing is thought to be used mainly for attracting females, because males seem to sing very little after pairing. However, I observed a peak of high singing activity in 19 mated males  so-called dawn singing  that had never been reported for the pied flycatcher. Mated males started to sing 1 hr 15 min before sunrise, under poor-light conditions. Their singing activity lasted for 4050 min and then decreased substantially. I compared songs before pairing and dawn songs after pairing for nine individually marked pied flycatcher males. Dawn songs had significantly higher song versatility and song rate as compared with songs performed before pairing by the same males. I propose that pied flycatcher males use dawn singing to stimulate females for extra-pair copulations, because pied flycatcher females prefer males with greater song repertoires, higher song rates and higher song versatility.
23737073|Bechstein's bat (Myotis bechsteinii) is one of the rarest European bat species. In oceanic climates, they appear to be restricted to woodlands, with preference for mature deciduous forests in lowlands. We investigated habitat selection by 20 lactating females belonging to 13 maternity colonies in Mediterranean landscapes. Deciduous forests (particularly Quercus pyrenaica) were positively selected, and coniferous forests were opportunistically used, whereas no foraging bouts occurred in evergreen broadleaved woodlands or in non-forested areas. Bats preferred to forage inside the forest rather than in edges or clearings. Stands of high canopy cover were also preferred. The preference for deciduous over evergreen broadleaved woodlands suggests that other variables such as prey availability, rather than structural constraints, drive habitat selection. M. bechsteinii might be abundant in well preserved deciduous forests within its Mediterranean range, in which the species' distribution might be limited by habitat loss and degradation related to agricultural practices and deforestation.
23734510|The biomass and the species richness of the zooplankton communities were reduced in the most polluted parts of the watercourse below a sulphite pulp mill in central Finland. Only occasional cladocers and copepods were found in the vicinity of the mill, whereas the rotifers Keratella cochlearis, K. ticinensis, Kellicottia longispina, Polyarthra remata and P. vulgaris occurred more frequently. Ciliates were characteristic inhabitants of these areas. Dominant crustacean species were Daphnia cristata, Diaphanosoma brachyurum, Eudiaptomus gracilis and Mesocyclops leuckarti. Many zooplankton species probably avoided the polluted areas because of the scarcity of suitable food. The zooplankton biomass and species richness showed zonation similar to that of the phytoplankton biomass, and the zooplankton biomass maxima were found in the same areas as the phytoplankton maxima. The zooplankton biomass was rather small in the hypolimnic waters because of the oxygen depletion up to 35 km from the mills.
23733663|Skeletal material of the extinct Issoire lynx, Lynx issiodorensis (Croizet & Jobert) from the early Villafranchian site of Etouaires, Mt. Perrier, France, is described and compared with the recent L. lynx (L.). The extinct species had a larger head, longer neck, and shorter limbs, and was more heavily built. Its body length was only slightly greater than that of L. lynx. A life reconstruction of the extinct species is presented.
23735604|Use of the diverse Australian carabid fauna in environmental assessment is at present restricted, because of lack of ecological and faunistic information and the difficulties of identifying most taxa. They are not yet a core focal group in monitoring studies. In contrast to groups such as ants, in particular, many carabids are usually captured in only small numbers, and functional groups of Australian Carabidae are poorly defined. Although a few studies have demonstrated the predominance of particular taxa in local assemblages and their responses to changes in land management, the presence of particular taxa and the richness of assemblages is unpredictable because of lack of knowledge of habitat requirements. The general usefulness of carabids as indicators in Australia is not yet proven. Carabidae are one of several groups of epigaeic invertebrates with potential for incorporation into a portfolio of focal groups for environmental assessment, but are still far from being a 'stand alone' group in Australia.
23731738|In free-living reindeer kidney, urine and blood concentrations of urea and electrolytes showed that urea concentrations were much higher in winter than in autumn. The gradient of urea concentration in the kidneys was in the same direction in the two seasons with the highest urea concentration in the inner medulla. The urea concentration in urine was still higher. Reindeer are apparently unable to conserve urea by decreasing its concentration in urine as many other ruminants on a diet low in protein. The poor diet in winter is suggested to result in breakdown of tissue protein, with a rise in blood urea concentration. The urea is important as a source of non-protein nitrogen for rumen microbes in winter, when the dietary protein supply is not sufficient for their survival.
23734693|The proportion of shrews in the diet of European birds of prey is higher in western Finland than in northern and southern Fennoscandia, and in central, western and southern Europe. In western Finland, 14 (out of 17) species of avian predators consume shrews at least occasionally. The proportion of shrews in the diet is negatively correlated with the body size of avian predators: Tengmalm's owls, short-eared owls, ural owls, long-eared owls and kestrels catching most shrews. Tengmalm's and barn owls are the worst enemies of shrews among European birds of prey. Mammalian predators consume many fewer shrews than avian predators, probably because of their distaste for shrews. The badger, red fox, stone marten and mink consume more shrews than the stoat, common weasel and least weasel. In western Finland, Tengmalm's owls, short-eared owls, long-eared owls and kestrels shifted to shrews when the density of their preferred prey (Microtus voles) declined. However, the density of shrews did not affect these shifts, which is in agreement with the prediction of the optimal foraging theory. The predation impact on common shrews by breeding Tengmalm's owls, short-eared owls, long-eared owls and kestrels tended to be positively density-dependent on Microtus and Clethrionomys voles, but negatively density-dependent on shrews, suggesting that predation by these birds of prey amplifies the population fluctuations of shrews. These results support our earlier suggestion that birds of prey are the most likely candidates causing synchronous population crashes of coexisting vole and shrew populations.
23734504|The swimming activity of the amphipod Pontoporeia affinis Lindstrm during different seasons of the year was recorded with the aid of infra-red photocells in laboratory conditions at 4C and an LD 12:12 regime. The animals exhibited nocturnal swimming activity which increased throughout the year, with a maximum at the time of sexual maturity in October  December. In the daytime the animals burrowed into the bottom mud and exhibited almost no swimming activity. The shape of the diel activity curve varied with the season. Reactions to light-on and light-off were more distinct in winter. In substrateless conditions swimming showed a different pattern, diurnal activity being high and even exceeding nocturnal activity.
23735888|Species experience landscapes differently depending on their needs and behaviors, and on their trophic level. We expect species at high trophic levels in a community to be more sensitive to habitat fragmentation than species at lower trophic levels. But this depends on attributes such as resource breadth, dispersiveness, reproductive rate, and longevity, which may not be related to trophic level. I address the association of fragmentation with trophic level using a literature review of 31 studies of herbivores and their natural enemies, and a case study of the parasitoids associated with the Glanville fritillary butterfly. Measures of species richness or total parasitism in an entire insect community provide the strongest support for the idea that negative effects of fragmentation amplify at higher trophic levels. Generally though, there is great variation among studies, due to variation among species, as well as in designs of both experimental and observational studies.
23736971|European bison Bison bonasus refuges in the Bieszczady Mountains were characterised using four habitat variables: elevation above sea level, slope exposure, tree crown closure, and stand composition. We compared habitat composition of ranges representing a 95% probability of bison use with ranges representing a 25% probability of bison use, on a seasonal basis (summer, winter). During the growing season ("summer"), the 25% probability ranges contained more high elevation (550749 m), other than northern-exposure areas with more open-canopied, fir-dominated forest than did the 95% probability ranges. During winter, the 95% probability ranges contained less high elevation (550749 m), northerly exposure areas with more close-canopied, beechfir, alder, and Scotch pine forests.
23734541|The niche relations of 20 snail species and the species composition of snail communities in the shallow littoral zone of 72 Finnish lakes was studied. The analysis showed that only a few species can be regarded as specialists for the niche dimensions measured (lake area, calcium content of lake water, content of humus substances), but most of them showed no preference for lake size, and showed a wide tolerance with respect to water quality. The species were arranged according to the size of the communities they occupy; as species which were found in communities of all sizes (type a), or as species of species-rich lakes (type b). The type b species, 10 in all, occupy the most productive lakes, whereas the type a species tolerate the oligotrophic lakes, too. Thus the community size is due not so much to the biological coherence of different species, as to the euryoecious-stenoecious properties of the species. An analysis of habitat niche overlap revealed three groups of species, which differed with respect to the lowest tolerated calcium content. Within the groups most species showed differences with respect to crude autecological features. The result supports the conclusion that the species composition of gastropod communities deviates from random subsets of species from the species pool, this being primarily affected by abiotic components of the habitat.
23737055|Western Palearctic water frogs offer a unique possibility to study the genome dosage effect (GDE). There are two morphologically distinct species, Pelophylax ridibundus RR and Pelophylax lessonae LL, and their hybridogenetic hybrid Pelophylax esculentus (RL, LLR or RRL). It is supposed that RL have intermediate morphological features, LLR are more similar to P. lessonae, and RRL more similar to P. ridibundus. We tested if the morphology of the water frogs reflects the GDE, and whether it can be used in the field for determination of the genome composition. Mean values of the indices DP/CI, T/CI and F/T followed the order LLLLRRLRRLRR. After applying discriminant and canonical analyses 89% RR, 95% LL, 91% RL, 84% LLR and 52% RRL were correctly classified. Surprisingly, the L haplotype had bigger influence on morphology than the R haplotype  all hybrid genotypes were morphologically closer to P. lessonae than to P. ridibundus.
23736128|The effects of urea (nitrogen only) and ash + phosphorus (no nitrogen) on populations of Collembola were studied under laboratory and field conditions. In addition to the untreated controls, ash-treatment was controlled with Ca(OH)2, and urea-treatment with NH4NO3 in order to separate the impact of pH from that of nutrients. Several species displayed significant reactions, either positive or negative, to the treatments. The results are compared with recent studies on the effects of experimental acidification and liming. Soil acidity would appear to be an essential factor in explaining the changes observed.
23736222|Using economic and historical yield data models in this paper we outline the socioeconomic and ecological conditions for sustainable use of fish resources in commercial lake fisheries in Finland, in the context of fragmented private ownership and owner-based management. Interlocked use refers to area greater than the typical current area on one or two lakes, and that could be used as a joint resource by the fishers in the area. The results of the economic model show that the management of the interlocked fishery, in particular by encouraging mobility of fishers, can produce higher sustainable economic benefits from the fishery. The yield data analysis shows that an interlocked resource may considerably decrease fluctuations of yield in commercial vendace fisheries. This implies that the interlocked use approach would increase the cost-effectiveness and decrease the interannual variability in income to the fishers, thus promoting sustainability in the fishery and making it potentially a more viable livelihood in rural areas.
23735535|Induction of short- (present year) and long-term (subsequent year) resistance reactions in Pinus sylvestris (L.) saplings was assessed by rearing two species of diprionid sawflies, (Neodiprion sertifer Geoffr. and Gilpinia pallida Klug), on previously artificially or naturally defoliated trees. Both treatments consisted of three defoliation levels based on the amount of removed needle biomass per whole canopy (25%, 50% and 75%), carried out during the early and late periods of the growing season. Defoliation treatments had no significant effect on most of the growth variables of N. sertifer or G. pallida. In most cases there was no consistent pattern to either both sawfly species or in all treatment groups. Artificial defoliation tended to induce stronger effects than insect-made defoliation. By the end of the second year artificial defoliation increased needle water contents, but the values were reversed in respect to natural defoliation. In both years, during the early season, manual removal of foliage induced the highest nutrient concentrations in needles on adjacent branches, but by late season this was the case in the insect-made defoliation treatments. Elevated contents of soluble tannins and soluble sugars were induced by natural and artificial damage, respectively. The concentrations of N, P, Cu, Fe and glucose and fructose, representing the soluble sugars, appeared to be the best indicators of sawfly performance.
23736506|This paper describes patterns of distribution and abundance of insect fungivores inhabiting the polypore Fomitopsis pinicola. I sampled fruiting bodies of the polypore from nine old-growth forest sites in southern Finland. Most species encountered in the present study were rare and only a few species were abundant and widely distributed among the fruiting bodies and study sites. Feeding guild and host-fungus specificity were the best predictors of species abundance and distribution in the fruiting bodies in that obligate fungivores, and F. pinicola specialists were more common than generalists, facultative fungivores and parasitoids. Two specialist beetles on F. pinicola, Cis glabratus and C. quadridens (Cisidae), constituted over 78% of all individuals in the pooled sample. Cis quadridens, an old-growth forest species, had lower abundance and frequency of occurrence in the fruiting bodies than C. glabratus, which is a common species also in managed forests.
23731747|A study of the distribution and abundance of six Halacarid species in various bottom habitats of the oligotrophic lake Pjrvi revealed that one species (Soldanellonyx chappuisi) occurs only in the profundal and the others mainly in the littoral. Four species (Lobohalacarus w. weberi, Limnohalacarus w. wackeri, Soldanellonyx chappuisi and Porolohmannella violacea) are reported for the first time from Finland and one (Lobohalacarus w. weberi) from Fennoscandia. The highest mean abundance (c. 20 000 exx/m2) of the Halacarids was observed at 1 m depth in the Isoetid zone and the minimum at the deepest site (65 m, c. 40 exx/m2). The greatest density observed was c. 44 000 exx/m2. The three species of Limnohalacarinae had their maximum abundance in different depth zones of the lake.
23737061|Eurasian otters, top predators of freshwater ecosystems, are food limited; thus, species conservation plans should consider local food resources. We used spraint (faecal) analysis to assess diet of otters inhabiting a river in the Polish Carpathians. Although elsewhere in their range otters feed mostly on fish, in our study area amphibians were equally important prey (43% of all prey occurrences, 54% of estimated biomass of consumed prey). Amphibians dominated in the otter diet in winter and spring, and occurred as often as fish in autumn. Only in summer was amphibian occurrence marginal. Typically, two factors explain seasonally high consumption of amphibians: limited fish availability and availability of amphibians gathered to spawn or hibernate. However, factors such as energetic costs of hunting may also cause seasonal changes in otter feeding behavior. Low water temperatures might increase the energetic cost of fishing in cold seasons and force otters to seek an alternative prey. This study raises the possibility that amphibian declines could negatively affect otters in cold, mountainous regions.
23734540|The diel migratory rhythm of Eudiaptomus gracilis was investigated both in the field and as the diel rhythm of oxygen consumption in the laboratory. The animals maintain an increase in oxygen consumption between 24.00 and 03.00 hours. This is in accordance with the field results, which show an ascent of the individuals to the surface layer after midnight.
23736754|Here we present a novel model for the selective maintenance of alternative phenotypes. Our model is appropriate for systems where the expression of alternative tactics is both condition and frequency dependent. We use Polistes dominulus as our model system, and show how frequencies of solitary nest founding, collaborative nest founding, usurpation of defended nests, and adoption of abandoned nests are predicted to vary with changes in ecological and social conditions. To accomplish this we (1) review commonly used models that explain the selective maintenance of alternative phenotypes, (2) describe some basic life-history characteristics of Polistes wasps, (3) present a novel condition dependent mixed strategy model, (4) use this model to predict frequencies of alternative tactics under conditions of differing survivability, relatedness between co-foundresses, and reproductive skew between co-foundresses, and (5) provide future directions for refining and testing this unifying model.
23734194|The structure and numbers of the forest bird populations at different distances from the forest edge were studied on the three main islands of the Krunnit group in the northern Gulf of Bothnia (approx. 64N) in 1975 and 1977. The birds were observed on transect lines and divided into three categories: outermost edge zone 050 m, inner edge zone 50100 m, and central forest over 100 m from the forest edge. The following trends were observed from the forest edge towards the centre: 1) an increase in the number of species, 2) an increase in species diversity, and 3) a decrease in bird density. The most typical species favouring the edge was Emberiza schoeniclus, but most of the species reached their maximum densities in the inner edge zone, e.g. Phylloscopus trochilus, Turdus philomelos, T. iliacus, Erithacus rubecula, Phoenicurus phoenicurus and Acanthis flammea. The relative abundances of Muscicapa striata and Sylvia borin were highest in the central forests. The great variety of compressed biotopes within a narrow belt adjacent to the forest edge may be one of the basic reasons for the concentration of nesting birds in the edge zones. This compression creates more diverse resources, e.g. with respect to food and shelter, than in the central forest; other possibilities are also discussed. The authors stress the importance of paying attention to the edge effect when assessing quantitative bird studies, especially when dealing with fragmented areas.
23731764|The occurrence and food of the fourhorn sculpin, Myoxocephalus quadricornis (L.), in 11 lakes of eastern Finland was studied in the field and in museum specimens. In four of the lakes listed the fourhorn sculpin has not been recorded before. Mysis relicta Loven was found in 78 % of the fish examined and in all the lakes from which fish with food in the stomach had been caught. Pallasea quadrispinosa G. O. Sars was found in 21 % of the fish examined and in three lakes. Additional food items were Limnocalanus macrurus G. O. Sars, Acanthocyclops gigas Claus, Cyclops s. str. cf. lacustris G. O. Sars, a Halacarid larva, Trichopterous pupae, and Coregonus roe. Chitinous plates of insects, cone scales, birch achenes and lake ore were also found in small quantities.
23731717|The diet, size of prey fish and feeding habitats of the arctic and the common tern in the middle and outer zones of the archipelago of southwestern Finland were studied in 1966  1972, mainly from pellets collected at the nesting places. Gasterosteus aculeatus was the commonest prey fish of both species. But the common tern, as both young and adult, consumed more fish of other species, especially Cyprinids; the difference was highly significant. The arctic tern ate a higher proportion of crustaceans and insects. The diet changed little during the breeding season, except among arctic terns nesting in the outer archipelago, whose food included large amounts of small crustaceans (Idotea baltica) in early summer but later in the season was mainly sticklebacks. In early spring especially, adult arctic terns selected the bigger sticklebacks. Newly hatched chicks were fed on smaller fish, but those over 5 days old were given bigger ones. Common terns offered their chicks significantly bigger fish than arctic terns did. The difference in diet between the tern species was probably due to their different feeding habitats. The common tern usually foraged in shallow eutrophic bays, whereas the shores where the arctic tern mainly fished were more barren, stony or rocky. In the arctic tern, during the fledging period of 23 days, the average food intake per chick was about 750 g in fresh weight.
23735547|The effects of several environmental factors on the relative year-class strength variations of pikeperch (Stizostedion lucioperca (L.)) were studied in a shallow brackish Baltic bay in Helsinki, Finland, during 19711990. The year-class strength correlated positively with the mean summer water temperature from June to September during the first year of life. Negative correlations between the year-class strength and wind indices were found with the southerly and southwesterly winds in July. These winds explained 35% (F = 4.53, P = 0.027, n = 20) and the mean temperature alone 40% (F = 9.89, P = 0.007, n = 17) of the total variation in year-class strength. When the exceptionally weak year-class in 1971 was excluded from the analysis, the corresponding values were 62% for the winds (F = 6.50, P = 0.007, n = 19) and 55% for the mean summer temperature alone (F = 16.92, P < 0.001, n = 16). No correlation existed between the year-class strength and water level, water salinity or water transparency.
23737143|The theories for the predominance of sexual reproduction predict that parthenogens should have no long-term evolutionary potential due to the lack of genetic recombination, despite short term advantages. Although parthenogenesis is rare among high order animals, true parthenogens can be found in various taxa. The intriguing question of the proliferation and persistence of parthenogenetic species needs investigation. An ideal species for such research is a parthenogenetic moth Dahlica fennicella that appears to be as equally successful as other coexisting sexual species. We investigated whether high ploidy level of D. fennicella is due to hybridization between closely related sexual species. The results from flow cytometry measurements confirmed that D. fennicella is exclusively tetraploid whereas all sexual species of the genera Dahlica and Siederia are diploid. Our phylogenetic results showed the non-hybrid origin of the parthenogenetic D. fennicella in this group of Lepidoptera. Most likely, the parthenogenetic D. fennicella originated by autopolyploidization of D. lazuri, which is one of its closely related sexual species. We suggest that the apparent evolutionary success of D. fennicella might be due to polyploidy that could mask deleterious mutations and provide greater levels of genetic variation.
23735459|A new cladogram of (living) higher mammalian relationships is presented for 52 OTUs, based upon analysis of the alpha crystallin A chain, a lens protein of the eye. Pangolins and (other) edentates are weakly united, and they, plus elephant shrews (partial analysis) and paenungulates, appear to be the sisters of the rest of the placental mammals. These results are in agreement with some morphological analyses but not with others. Among rodents, Spalax offers evidence that the "molecular clock" does not run very accurately above the DNA level. No one approach has a monopoly on "the truth", but it is hoped that morphologists and molecular biologists will continue to cooperate in an effort to bring as many perspectives as possible to bear on phylogenetic analysis of the Mammalia.
23734150|Individually marked pheasants were used to map territories and study the selection and fidelity of these territories in South Sweden. The territories were occupied in MarchMay and 75 % were established within two weeks. The cocks returned year after year to the same territory areas. However, in two cases (5.6 %) it was demonstrated that cocks shifted their territories between two years. Yearlings occupied their territories later in the season than did older cocks. About 20 per cent of the yearlings did not get any territories but constituted a "floating" population of cocks during the breeding season. In a removal experiment it was demonstrated that the non-territorial yearling cocks were physiologically capable of holding territories. The pheasant hens moved around among the territories and visited several cocks in early spring but by May they had selected a territory and settled there for the rest of the breeding season. Further, it was possible to state that the hens returned to the same territories and the same cocks even in the following year.
23736001|Defoliations of Prunus padus by Yponomeuta evonymellus were monitored in two areas in southern Finland. During a long-term study (19801995) in the area with high peak defoliations, P. padus trees recorded two defoliation peaks, leading to complete defoliation of many trees. The negative relationship between pupal mass and current year tree defoliation during the peak years suggested shortage of food affected reproductive potential of Y. evonymellus. Furthermore, no delayed induced resistance was observed in these populations. Interannual correlations in degrees of defoliation experienced by individual trees were low, i.e. high defoliation in one year did not predict the degree of defoliation the following year. We also detected a sharp increase in parasitism rates with defoliation between years. In the other study area located about 150 km NW, only 4% of more than 200 study trees experienced defoliations higher than 50%. In this population, high defoliation of tree individuals in one year predicted low defoliation in the following year. In addition, rates of parasitism were less variable and intermediate compared to those in the high peak area. Altogether, the relatively rapidly operating negative feedback in the low peak  compared with the high peak area was consistent with the difference between both areas in the levels of peak densities.
23734549|The relationship of the food supply to avian reproduction was studied in the common treecreeper Certhia familiaris. Special attention was paid to the seasonal change in both the potential food supply and reproductive success. Food supply samples collected from the surface of tree trunks included 55 taxa (family or order) and provided on average 4.7 mg dry weight food for the treecreeper per m2 of tree trunk surface. A seasonal increase followed by a decrease in October was found to be the primary cause of variation in the food supply. The seasonal development in reproductive success at first increases, but then begins to decrease long before the potential food supply does. According to these results the increasing food supply could account for the increasing reproductive success, but this cannot be the reason for the subsequent rapid decrease in reproductive success. The diet of treecreeper nestlings was found to be taxonomically very similar to the food supply. However, adult treecreepers preferred larger food items than expected. From the quantitative food supply results the foraging area for one breeding pair was predicted, which was also found to agree well with the observed home range size and the smallest forest islands used by treecreepers.
23731812|A study of 1 200 specimens of A. agrarius revealed that the dry weight of the lens is the most reliable measure of age. Toothe wear shows great individual variation, but is fairly reliable when applied to a large sample from a single population. Because the growth rate varies according to the season of birth, the body weight is not a reliable criterion of age. Results of measurements of several other characters are given, and the value of each of these parameters is discussed.
23735563|The historical range of Mustela lutreola extended from Finland to east of Ural Mountains, to northern Spain and Caucasian Mountains. The species went extinct in some parts of Central Europe already a hundred years ago. During this century, populations have declined almost everywhere. Several hypotheses have been put forward to explain the disappearance of the species. These include climatic change, competition with the American mink M.vison, destruction of the habitat, disease transmitted by the introduced American mink, crash of the favored food item, crayfish Astacus astacus, hybridization with the European polecat M. putorius, etc. It is very clear, however, that none of the hypothesized factors alone could explain the events in various place at different times. The early declines in Central Europe and later in Finland took place before the spread of the American mink. On the other hand, the present decline of M. lutreola in Estonia seems to coincide well with the spread of M. vison. The early declines in Central Europe could have been caused by destruction of the natural river ecosystems, especially river banks. Still, in Finland the major disappearance happened well before the major environmental change of natural small river ecosystems due to modern forestry. Even if the detailed explanations seem to vary, there is an underlying theme: environmental change. The European mink seems to be a much more specialized species than the American mink. Before the arrival of M. vison, the change in the preferred habitat, small sandy brooks, or the crash of the food source, could have been the underlying cause. With the arrival of the American mink, the European one loses even without the environmental change.
23734143|The breeding biology of the Pied Flycatcher was studied in two nest-box areas with a fourfold difference in box density. Population size varied between 40 and 101 breeding pairs with a declining trend during 1971-83. Population density was on average 2.5 times higher in the high-density box area irrespective of population size in the low-density box area. The annual breeding success correlated to the temperature during the first two thirds of the nestling period, and the annual changes in population size to the breeding success in the preceding year. Probably due to the pronounced effect of density-independent weather factors, density-dependence of the annual fluctuations could not be demonstrated. However, keeping years apart, the breeding success was slightly better in the low-density area. Within any one year, male attendance during the nestling period was the most important factor influencing breeding success. Using the male absence as an indicator, the degree of polygyny correlated positively to the density of the population. Density-dependent regulation of the population size could thus act through the polygynous behaviour of the species.
23736930|We tested the hypothesis that in harsh environments seed contents, specifically water, and handling time will determine food preferences in an arid bird species, the trumpeter finch. Rape (69.9%) and canary (23.9%) were the most commonly consumed seeds. Mean handling time differed among the tested seed types. There existed a non-linear inverse relationship between mean handling time of different seeds and their selectiveness by individuals. Data estimated from five hypothetical diets and their respective nutritional intakes indicate that this arid land passerine selects a balanced diet optimizing energy and total water intake (energy and water gain per unit of time), rather than a diet that maximizes just energy intake. For birds inhabiting arid and semiarid habitats, food selection should be highly adaptive as selected food items must maximize energy intake rate, but also must contain or produce adequate water to satisfy metabolic requirements.
43923477|The study of the spatial distribution of phenotypic and genetic diversity of pollinators has conservation implications since pollination is a key ecosystem function and a basis for the maintenance of biodiversity. The impact of landscape heterogeneity on the population structure of the important hoverfly pollinator, Eristalis tenax (Diptera, Syrphidae), was investigated. Allele frequencies at allozyme loci, wing traits (size and shape) and abdominal colour pattern were compared using samples from eight locations in the Durmitor National Park, Montenegro. These locations covered a broad range of altitudes and vegetation structures, from deciduous and coniferous forests to alpine meadows. From the conservation point of view, we investigated to what extent the localities in the Durmitor mountain range are connected. Results indicated a lack of population structure in the study area. A genetic clustering analyses based on Bayesian model revealed no resolution among samples, coinciding with FST estimates. Weak genetic differentiation was accompanied by wing size and shape similarity. In addition, there was an overlap between the levels of abdominal colour variation among samples supporting the negative association between gene flow and phenotypic divergence in E. tenax. We conclude that the surrounding landscape is of no relevance to the species movement capabilities. The availability of many sites for E. tenax and its strong dispersal capacity might make the study region a more or less continuous habitat for this species. Thus, our results may contribute to understanding the potential extent to which E. tenax can facilitate gene flow among isolated plant populations on Mt. Durmitor.
23735681|The effects of caging and source on the valve movements of freshwater mussel Anodonta anatina were studied in two different lakes. Caged mussels were compared with those in their natural environment on the lake bottom. In both lakes, the mussels from the study lake and the mussels from the other lake were monitored. Caging was found to increase the valve openness. The source effect was demonstrated in a few treatments. The overall level of valve openness did not differ very much between the lakes. The water temperature was negatively correlated with valve openness in one of the lakes. The correlations between the rate of valve movements and water temperature were of different signs in the two lakes. The particle concentrations, measured by water transparency, had little effect on valve movement. The daily rhythm of valve movement was different between animals at the bottom of the lake and in cages, while the effects of source or study lake were smaller.
23731823|A 5.8 hectare grid, consisting of 258 stations spaced 15 meters apart, was laid out in a mature cove hardwood forest. Snap traps were used to remove animals from the grid. The grid was trapped once each year from 1967  1970. Emphasis was placed upon population levels, changes in species composition and habitat utilization of the small mammals. Also considered were the effects of various environmental and treatment variables upon the final trapping results. Population levels declined during the study. Species composition did not remain the same over the four-year period. Prebaiting resulted in different removal rates. Weather changes also influenced removal rates.
23734584|Seven observers independently sampled the bird assemblage in oak-pine woodlands in central California by completing 5-min point counts at 210 counting stations during April 1986. Either total counts or frequencies, or both, could be used for monitoring trends in relative abundance of birds. However, density estimates have limited usefulness for most monitoring efforts. Location and date affected results significantly, even in relatively homogeneous habitat and with all counts being completed in a 9-day period. We see little opportunity to control these sources of variation more than was accomplished in this study. Results showed that the observer was a major source of variation in counts and frequencies. We recommend (1) that three or more observers sample all sites in a system to monitor trends in bird populations on the small geographic scale represented by this study, (2) that observers pass a performance test, including hearing, to be included on a monitoring field team, and (3) that all observers undergo training prior to field sampling. However, even these measures will not eliminate all effects of observer variability, requiring caution by practitioners when interpreting results.
23734536|The muscles assumed by earlier authors to depress the coxae ("Depressor anterior & posterior") have no leverage acting on the coxa/cephalothorax joints. The author suggests that the contraction of the "depressors" (muscles c7 and c8) pulls their origin on the endosternum outwards, resulting in a piston-like action of the more dorsal muscles c5 and c6 against the upper part of the coxa. Another possible mechanism is a hydraulic action.
23733638|The effect of mortality on the biomass ratio in late larval stages of Arctocorisa carinata and Callicorixa producta was studied by ratio diagram analysis. A typical frequency-independent change was detected. Difference equations describing the biomass changes and incorporating linear competition and a substantial time-lag to mimic the changes observed yielded competition coefficients of 1.451.50 per unit of biomass for A. carinata and 0.660.68 for C. producta.
23731784|Stridulation was recorded in both sexes of Palmacorixa buenoi and Sigara nevadensis, and in males of Corisella tarsalis, Trichocorixa macroceps, T. naias, Callicorixa audeni, C. vulnerata, Sigara solensis, S. omani, S. compressoidea, S. mackinacensis, and S. signata. Audiospectrography showed that the signals are species-specific, the main differences being in the temporal pattern of the pulse-trains. In most of these species the males produce only one kind of signal; this is emitted both spontaneously and in response to visual or auditory stimuli of other specimens. Thus, the same signal is used in calling, courtship, and agonistic situations. Only three species gave two structurally different signals. Thus, in P. buenoi the males, in addition to spontaneously produced calling signals, have a separate call for courtship situations. In S. compressoidea a peculiar "conversation signal" is given in turn by two or more males in close proximity; the exchange is presumably provoked by an agonistic situation. In S. mackinacensis the males also produce two different calls, but the functions of the signals remained obscure. In P. buenoi and S. nevadensis female signals are produced only by sexually receptive specimens, and usually only in response to conspecific male calls. The signals indicate readiness to mate, and help the males to orientate to the females.
23735427|Field experiments testing the roles of relatedness in vole demography make different assumptions on the ability of voles to recognize their unfamiliar kin and this may have contributed to their contrasting outcomes. We measured the rate of dissipation of discrimination between related male and between related female Orkney voles (Microtus arvalis orcadensis) after increasing periods of separation to test these assumptions. Females showed a decreasing preference for the odour of their sisters as familiarity for new cage-mates increased and an increasing preference for their new cage-mates as familiarity increased. In contrast, males showed no such changes in their avoidance of their brothers following separation. Dissipation of kin-discrimination by Orkney voles in absence of reinforcement by familiarity is therefore rapid and familiarity established in adult life seemingly has the same impact on preference between females as relatedness.
23733685|In the Tvrminne area (SW Finland) the cold-stenothermal glacial relict Pontoporeia affinis occurs, even abundantly, at lesser depths than reported for other Baltic waters. The upper limit of temperature tolerance observed at Tvrminne is also clearly higher than suggested for the Baltic P. affinis in a recent paper.
23735857|The effects of extended autumn daylength and winter fasting on growth and smolting were studied in one-year-old Saimaa landlocked salmon. Underyearling juveniles were either exposed to extended light LD 20:4 regime (LD group) during AugustOctober or reared under routine fish-farm illumination (ND group). After the photoperiod manipulation, LD fish were larger and a greater number of them belonged to upper size classes in comparison with ND fish. Upper size class fish from both photoperiod groups were selected for further experiments in which the fish were either fed or fasted during winter. Contrary to the LD fish, the ND fish increased their length and weight during JanuaryMarch by which they achieved the size of the LD fish. There was a clear size difference between the ND fed and fasted groups during MarchApril, but the fasted fish compensated for their growth suppression soon after the feeding was started again. The activity of gill Na+,K+-ATPase was lower in the ND fasted group during JanuaryMarch as compared with that of the ND fed group suggesting that smolting may be switched off by poor nutritional conditions. The different gill Na+,K+-ATPase profiles between the ND and the LD fish may indicate disturbed endogenous smolting cycle of the LD fish. However, despite these differences, all groups, independently of the treatment, completed their smolting at the same time in June as indicated by elevated gill Na+,K+-ATPase activity, enhanced salinity tolerance, and hypoosmoregulatory ability. Lower levels of plasma sodium, chloride and magnesium in freshwater observed in all groups during springearly summer coincident with other changes typical for smolting indicate gradually increasing maladaptation of the fish to freshwater. These results as well as an observed increase in potassium concentration in freshwater during spring-summer suggest that downstream migration is more like a passive than active process.
23731635|Spring to autumn trends in the sex ratio of C. rufocanus populations subject to strong cyclic fluctuations in numbers were studied on the basis of samples collected during 15 years in Finnish Lapland. The sex ratios found at cyclic lows in both the mature and immature components of the population remain more or less balanced throughout the season, corresponding to the sex ratio at birth. At cyclic highs, the mature component shows a distinct seasonal decrease in the proportion of males, mature females greatly predominating late in the breeding season and in the post-breeding season. In contrast, the corresponding sex ratios of the whole population remain more or less balanced. The mature sex ratio found late in the season appears directly to reflect the ratio of the young males and females attaining puberty, the annual variations being a consequence of the fact that during seasons characterized by a cyclic high more females than males reach sexual maturity.
23735921|The main aim of this paper is to examine and discuss the global pattern of woodpecker diversity from a conservation perspective. In addition, I review ecological traits and the conservation status of the entire family Picidae, and relate these factors to the human driven change in their habitats. Finally, I present a global overview of the research on woodpeckers in order to identify the major gaps in our knowledge which render the management of populations of these species difficult. The hotspots of woodpecker species richness identified by GIS were found in tropical and subtropical forests of South-East Asia, South and Central America, and equatorial Africa. Most of these hotspots were located in developing countries. However, almost 90% of articles published in 19852004 encompassed studies performed in North America and Europe, that is, in geographic areas harbouring only 17% of the global number of Picidae species.
23735915|Clear-cutting can greatly impact red wood ant (Formica rufa group) colonies by changing microclimate, altering forage routes and eliminating aphid colonies as a food source. However, changed forestry practices in Finland, such as smaller clear-cut areas, leaving residual trees, and less intensive site preparation methods used during the last decade may result in less detrimental effects on red wood ants. Therefore, we studied how the number and size of red wood ant mounds varied between mature, 140-year-old, Norway spruce, Picea abies (L.) Karst., dominated mixed stands, and in 20-year-old and 5-year-old stands planted with Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) in eastern Finland, all originating from similar mature forest stands. No red wood ant mounds were found in the 20-year-old Scots pine stands, which seems to be due to the cutting practices and heavy site preparation used at that time. The mound density in the 5-year-old stands (2.7 mounds per ha) was not different from that in the mature stands (2.9 mounds per ha), which could be a result of lighter harvesting and site preparation practices. However, the mounds in the 5-year-old clear cut areas were smaller in volume and flatter in shape than those in the mature stands. This could be due to accelerated organic matter decomposition in the mounds after timber harvest, or large mounds may have split into smaller ones as a result of changed environmental or food supply conditions. However, five years after clear-cutting and site preparation could be too short a time period to observe the degeneration and eventual disappearance of the still existing red wood ant mounds.
23735639|We test whether there is a significant correspondence between the morphology of ground beetles and their life traits, as measured with phylogenetic independent contrasts. Seven life traits of known functional importance, and the morphospace defined by 87 species of ground beetles occurring in Scottish agricultural land were investigated using two different systematic arrangements as an approximation to the phylogeny of the group. The morphospace was previously defined with the first three multivariate ordination axes of 13 quantitative measures of the shape of the body, hind legs, eyes and antennae, plus total length as a surrogate measurement of size. Results were found to be largely coherent irrespective of the classification used, demonstrating the robustness of the associations despite possible changes in the knowledge of the detailed phylogeny of the group. The first ordination axis of the morphospace was significantly related to diet, and the second to diel activity. When individual morphological measures were compared, diet of the adult was most significantly related with length of the hind legs. The variable most related with diel activity was the length of the antennae. Species with overwintering larvae and species with two year cycles were larger than species which either overwinter solely as adults or which always complete their development in one year.
23735442|The quantification of morphological change plays a major role in the study of the pattern and process of evolution. Here we present a short history of the quantification of evolutionary rates and a review of the problem.
23734243|Territorial behaviour of Fennoscandian G. najas was studied in nature and in the laboratory. Many of the reproductive females were territorial, while males and diapause individuals were not. In the field, the proportion of territorial females ranged from 1 to 24 %. Territorial behaviour was common in the laboratory, where territories lasted on average for about an hour, and often for several or more hours. Moroccan G. cinereus, studied only in the reproductive season in the field, was similar in territorial behaviour to that of G. najas. Territorial females of both species kept their positions in the current by striding upstream, and behaved aggressively toward alien individuals coming closer than 1030 cm. Non-territorial individuals behaved aggressively only infrequently, and usually retreated if attacked. Territorial conflicts were usually won by the resident, but replacement of residents sometimes took place during the first half hour after the founding of a territory. Territories were frequently abandoned without fights. Individuals that abandoned territories often established new ones elsewhere either immediately or at some later time. Males of both species ride upon the backs of females more or less permanently throughout the whole reproductive season and take part of the food caught by the female. Males stay attached to the female even when she dives down to the bottom of the river to oviposit under stones. The function of female territoriality is probably defence of food supply. The patchy nature of the stream environment is likely to favour the evolution of food territories: insect food drifts downstream along definite lanes, and elsewhere food is more sparsely distributed. We also suggest that male riding behaviour is an ESS that secures repeated matings through the long reproductive season. Decoupling from a female would eliminate a male from the reproductive population.
23735648|The species richness increased with the area sampled and the number of individuals studied in the oligotrophic, clear-water Lakes Pjrvi and Inarijrvi, while five lakes sampled by the same methods showed a strong correlation between the abundance of individuals and species richness and between biomass and species richness. Total phosphorus and water colour seem not to explain the variation in species richness. The results regarding the whole macrofauna and the chironomids alone were parallel.
23735885|Variation in the pattern of dynamics of the forest tent caterpillar was assessed over a 13-year interval of population collapse and increase among 68 sites within a 420 km2 region. Patterns of population change were compared with the level of forest fragmentation among sites, and interpreted in light of previous studies on the effect of forest fragmentation on the impact of natural enemies of forest tent caterpillar. Outbreaks peaked earlier in contiguous forests than in fragmented forests, and collapsed more rapidly. Parameters of population change for populations in contiguous forests were more characteristic of strongly cyclic dynamics than were those in more fragmented forests, reflecting a significant effect of forest structure on the lagged density-dependent component of tent caterpillar dynamics. Despite the relative shortness of these time series the patterns identified are consistent with a reduction in efficacy of natural enemies in more fragmented forest habitats.
23734696|This paper describes interactions between individuals belonging to different functional groups of the common shrew (juveniles, adult males and adult females). The competitive ability of members of the functional groups was studied using field observations and laboratory experiments in relation to season and population density in a cyclic population of the common shrew in Central Siberia. The results support Croin Michielsen's (1966) hypothesis about the social dominance of juveniles over adults. Adult males in particular appear to experience a high level of social pressure, and it is suggested that they may be forced to occupy marginal habitats in summer and have an increased rate of mortality due to frequent aggression.
23732520|Thirty-six species of the tribe Tanytarsini collected in northernmost Fennoscandia in 1968 and 1969 are recorded. Four new species (Corynocera oliveri, Tanytarsus aberrans, T. fennicus, T. lapponicus) are described, and some suggestions for the solution of certain problems concerning identification and nomenclature are presented.
23731380|The qualitative and quantitative composition of the macroscopic bottom fauna in a brackish water area off the mouth of the river Kokemenjoki, southwestern Finland, is described. The local distribution of the species and their relation to some environmental factors such as salinity, oxygen content of the water, the amount of deposited or precipitated organic matter, is discussed. Of these factors, the salinity and the amount of organic matter have the greatest effect upon the species composition and the bottom animal communities.
23734206|An easy method for measuring surface wave signals is presented. The system is based on microscope lamp, photodiode and oscilloscope. Surface wave signals of waterstriders are used as an example.
23737130|Small mammals with leucism are very rarely recorded, most likely because the probability of surviving to maturity would be very low for abnormal, white individuals. Here we report a record of a bank vole (Myodes glareolus) with complete leucism delivered to a nest of the Eurasian kestrel (Falco tinnunculus) in the boreal forest in SE Norway.
23736713|Predation by small mustelids is widely considered to be the most likely mechanism to maintain multiannual fluctuations of vole populations in Fennoscandia. Apart from the direct effect of predation, small mustelids have been suggested to have indirect effects on vole population dynamics. We studied in a field experiment the indirect effects of the presence of the least weasel (Mustela nivalis nivalis) on behaviour and demography of field voles (Microtus agrestis). We constructed grids made of drainpipe with small holes and covering an area of 0.24 ha (4  6-m grid, pipes with 10-m intervals). A least weasel moved in the experimental grid without having access to voles during the entire experiment, lasting for 11 weeks. We analysed the rate of maturation, breeding success, movements, and home range use of field voles in the experimental and control grids. The results indicate that weasel's presence had no or had only minor effects on voles.
23735441|Monodactyly developed independently in at least four distinct equid lineages: Astrohippus, Pliohippus, the two closely related genera Hippidion and Onohippidium and the lineage represented by Protohippus, Dinohippus and Equus. While Astrohippus and Pliohippus did not survive past the Hemphillian (late Miocene to earliest Pliocene), Hippidion and Onohippidium survived until the end of the Pleistocene or beginning of the Holocene, and Equus survives today with six species in the Old World. In spite of a remarkable uniformity in body structure this genus dispersed over five continents and gave rise to a rich evolutionary radiation, adapting to a variety of habitats and diverse, even extreme climates. Six lineages differentiated within it between the late Pliocene and the early Pleistocene. One of these, represented by Equus stenonis and its descendants, six to eight species in all, became extinct during the middle Pleistocene, with a possible survival into the late Pleistocene in the Indian peninsula. The other five lineages survived until the end of the Pleistocene, when they were represented by no less than 27 species. This should be considered a minimum estimate: several poorly known species are not considered here. There were never critical periods of mass extinction and many species disappeared through evolutionary change, resulting in the radiation of the final Pleistocene. The South American genera Hippidion and Onohippidium also dispersed widely and survived into the final Pleistocene or early Holocene with an unknown, but probably restricted number of species. In view of their remarkable capacity of adaptation, the dramatic decline of equids in number of species, and in the case of Eurasia in number of individuals of the surviving species, can hardly have been caused by climatic factors alone and is believed to be largely the result of prehistoric overkill.
23736913|School closure at the outset of epidemic outbreaks has been recommended as one of the best ways to protect children and prevent amplifying the outbreak by gathering susceptible individuals, with relatively poor hygiene, into close contact, and then sending them back out to mix with society at large. However, school closure is not without its own, potentially critical, impact on the function of society. Outbreak-related workforce depletion is already another major concern of pandemic preparedness planners, and caring for children during the day may drastically contribute to adult absenteeism from work. We present a series of computational models to examine whether alternative inschool strategies could provide some measure of infection control without producing the same societal burden in finding alternative childcare. These investigations lead to the conclusion that some non-closure options may provide the best societal protection, finding an appropriate balance between preventing further infection and compromising general societal function.
23734172|Since 1937, the author has censused 38 wooded islands in SW Finland relatively continuously. Only land birds are considered in the present publication. The method was a plot censusing method. The main question with respect to the method is whether, if a plot is censused more than once in a nesting season, the final result should be given through pooling the single results, or by them. The main sources of error influencing the plot census will be: (1) overlooking individuals, (2) counting drifting, non-breeding individuals, and (3) counting individuals breeding outside the plot but visiting it, as members of its population. Errors of type (1) will be amended by the pooling method, whereas it will cause overestimation because of errors of types (2) and (3). Checking the method, (a) repeated censuses within a single breeding season, (b) prolonged single censuses, as well as (c) a normal single census of a thoroughly censused island, were undertaken. These checks confirmed the existence of the error sources but did not permit a final evaluation of their relative importance. As the errors presumably to some extent counterbalance each other, computing averages instead of pooling census results was considered preferable.
23736131|Three putative sibling species within Fennoscandian Mysis relicta Lovn were detected by biochemical genetic methods (enzyme electrophoresis). Four to seven completely or partially diagnostic loci were found to discriminate each species pair. Two partially sympatric species are present in the Baltic Sea, one of them abundant in coastal and peripheral areas ('M. relicta I'), the other predominant in the outer sea ('M. relicta II'). Both species were found also in a lake that became isolated from the Baltic at the end of the Litorina period, whereas in samples from over 20 lakes isolated even from the earlier stages of the Baltic, only 'M. relicta I' was observed. The northern lake Pulmankijrvi, isolated from the Barents Sea, is inhabited by another genetically distinct type ('M. relicta III'). Genetic distances among the three sibling species, M. mixta and M. litoralis (presumably the closest marine relative of M. relicta) were estimated on the basis of 21 loci. The results suggest that all the nominal species examined and probably also the three sibling species diverged from each other in the Tertiary, and thus do not support the controversial view that the glacial immigrant (or glacial relict) crustaceans evolved from marine ancestors only relatively recently in connection with Pleistocene glaciations.
23735923|Although many forestry management strategies rely on population estimates of indicator species such as woodpeckers (family Picidae), empirical estimates of demographic parameters within this taxon are few. In this review, I searched the literature for survival estimates of woodpeckers and found information for 54% of North American species and 30% of European species. The average survival rate for all woodpecker species combined was 0.58 but varied from 0.30 to 0.93 in apparently stable populations. Data were few, but there was not a consistent pattern of sex-biased mortality. Among North American species, there was a negative correlation between clutch size and survival consistent with life history theory.
23732272|A preliminary study has been made of the present stage of industrial melanism in Oligia latruncula (Schiff.) and O. strigilis (L.) in Finland by analysing random samples from the years 1972 to 1974, comprising about 6000 moths. The moths were scored for "wild", "dark" and "black" forms. The proportions mostly conformed to the Hardy-Weinberg ratios, and the melanism is assumed to be dependent on a single semi-dominant gene, the dark form being the heterozygote. In O. latruncula, the melanic frequencies range from 5 to 20 % in the rural areas and reach 100 % in central Helsinki. The melanism of O. strigilis is more strictly limited to the heavily polluted areas, with a maximum of 92 % in central Helsinki. Old museum samples indicate that the melanism of O. latruncula arose at about the turn of the century; the melanism of O. strigilis is of a much later date. An Oligia index (OI) was constructed on the basis of the probable genetic background to describe the combined melanic gene frequency of these species. The local variations in this index were mathematically explained by the values of the total dustfall (g/100 m2 per month). Thus, it seems that the evolutionary explanation lies in the cryptic advantage of the melanics in the polluted areas. Since the melanism of these species is a sensitive measure of atmospheric pollution and they are also abundant and easily caught, they promise to be a valuable bioindicator.
23736196|Swimming speed of pelagic whitefish (Coregonus lavaretus) and vendace (Coregonus albula) was studied in two subarctic lakes at 69N in northern Norway in June, August and September 2000. At this latitude, the light regime changes strongly during the summer months, from 24 hrs of daylight in June to 14 hrs in September. Swimming fish were monitored by a bottom mounted split-beam echosounder, and the hydroacoustic traces were analysed with software designed for fish track analysis. Fish tracks were smoothed using a locally weighted algorithm before estimating swimming speeds. The swimming speed was strongly influenced by light. Average swimming speed was highest in periods with low incident light or crepuscular light (1618 cm s-1) and lowest in darkness (810 cm s-1). A positive relationship between fish size and swimming speed was observed during daylight, but not during periods of darkness.
23737214|An understanding of the spatial organization of endangered species is particularly important in the light of habitat degradation and fragmentation. In bats, little is known about whether and how space is organized between individuals of the same species. We investigated space use in four maternity colonies of Bechstein's bats. We were able to show for the first time that spatial organization reflects the social organization in Bechstein's bats. We found a strong segregation of foraging ranges within colonies, and an even stronger segregation between different colonies. Our results suggest that the spatial organization of females is determined by foraging efficiency. It is crucial to determine the essential characteristics of both feeding and roosting core areas. We provide a precise prediction of effective population size and space requirements. Thereby, implications for the protection of Bechstein's bats and assumedly also for other bat species with a similar social and spatial organization can be deduced.
23734175|The Black Woodpecker Dryocopus martius has been observed regularly in Jutland only since 1959. The first breeding was recorded in 1979 in central Jutland, where the present population amounts to at least four breeding pairs. This paper summarizes the history of immigration of the Black Woodpecker to the Jutland peninsula and some preliminary results of a population study started 1982.
23731568|Colour marking was used to study the small-range dispersal of Arctocorisa carinata and Callicorixa producta populations inhabiting small rock pools. Clear specific differences were detected, as well as seasonal variation in the rate of dispersal. The adults exhibited some ability to discriminate pool size, and this, in conjunction with an increased innate tendency to fly, led to the distribution of the adults from winter areas to suitable breeding pools in the spring, and to the aggregation of adults in pools deep enough for overwintering in the late autumn. Dispersal during the breeding season was sufficiently intense to allow the species to utilize the discontinuous and rapidly changing habitat effectively. Strong dispersal of rock pool species is an effective adaptation to the temporary habitat. Immature adults seem to be more inclined to fly, and dispersal mostly occurs at periods when the population is immature.
23734578|The paper reviews the use of birds as a tool in environmental monitoring by discussing the value of birds as biological indicators and by describing the integrated bird monitoring programme in Finland. The paper emphasizes the central role of the interpretation of data. It is important that environmental authorities are aware of this interpretation. Birds are useful biological indicators of, for example, broad-scale habitat changes and environmental contaminants. Birds are especially suitable for detecting unexpected changes which cannot be observed by measuring pre-selected physical and chemical parameters, and for monitoring biological, often cumulative and non-linear consequences of many environmental changes acting simultaneously. In Finland about 15 study projects monitoring the regional population ecology of birds have been integrated to give maximal opportunity for data record linkage across projects. The breeding and wintering resident species are the most important populations for monitoring. The interpretation of results, the most important part of monitoring, tries to confirm cause-effect relationships between birds and their environment. Useful approaches to find the reasons for bird population changes include indicator species, comparison of species with similar ecologies and partitioning the total population change into different population processes. Knowing the reasons for changes is necessary to prevent negative environmental changes, influencing both nature and human well-being.
23736897|In order to test how emotions affect individual neutral facial expressions and the reliability of humans to read these expressions, we photographed faces of 25 women wearing clothes in which they felt attractive, unattractive, or comfortable while expressing an emotionally neutral face. Men found the faces of women in attractive clothes the most attractive, whereas the faces of women in comfortable and unattractive clothes were ranked as intermediate and least attractive, respectively, even though the clothes were not visible in the photographs. Our results demonstrate that despite very subtle effects, the emotional state of women is perceived by men and that the two sexes are concordant on the signal sent and received. We show a close connection between exterior attributes, confidence, and how a person is perceived by others.
23731376|In rock pool populations of Arctocorisa carinata and Callicorixa producta the males suffer a higher mortality than the females, the sex ratio changing from a balanced ratio in late summer to only 25  30 % of males in the spring. The change remained relatively constant from year to year in spite of the occurrence of both mild and severe winters during the study period covering five years.
23735782|Meadow voles (M. pennsylvanicus) are known to select herbaceous plants with high protein contents and low phenolic values. However, they eat the bark of coniferous and deciduous seedlings with low dosages of protein and high phenolic contents. We tested the hypothesis that voles can use bark of red oak seedlings (Q. rubra) when their regular diet contains high proteinic components (> 8% dry matter). Three groups of 10 non reproducing female meadow voles were maintained on 15%, 8%, and 4% protein diets supplemented with red oak seedlings during two weeks. Variations in body mass, total food intake, ingestion of bark and the assigned diets, chemical constituents of fecal matter, protein digestibility, and phenolic recovery rates in fecal matter were compared between the experimental groups. Animals of all groups used extensively the bark of red oak seedlings. Ingestion of bark tissues explained 46% and 20% of the body mass variation of voles maintained on the 15% and 4% protein diets, respectively. Fecal matter yielded significantly higher contents of phenolics and total nonstructural carbohydrates and lower dosages of protein for voles maintained on the 4% proteinic diet. The opposite was true for animals maintained on the 15% proteinic diet. Protein digestibility was similar for every treatment which indicates that voles maintained on a 4% proteinic diet can keep an excellent proteinic balance if they have access to seedlings with high proteinic values in bark. Phenolic recovery rates from fecal matter varied between 12 and 23% for the three vole categories but were not statistically different. These results suggest that low proteinic content of food does not regulate the use of bark by voles. Bark tissues during short periods can be added to the vole diet without any apparent costs.
23736956|Crabapple Island (located in Bedany Lake, NE Poland) was the site of concurrent study on the reproduction and survival of bank voles (Myodes glareolus) and yellow-necked mice (Apodemus flavicollis) in 19942002. We evaluated the importance of reproduction and survival for seasonal population dynamics as well as the formation of a summer peak in population numbers. Yellow-necked mice started breeding earlier in the spring than did bank voles. However, early breeding and rapid increase in numbers of both species resulted in a particular seasonal distribution of pregnant female numbers indicative for delayed (even up to 40 days) maximum reproduction of yellow-necked mice as compared with that of bank voles. A high survival rate of mature females of the yellow-necked mouse preceeds the July peak in population numbers, and a low survival rate of immature individuals of this species contributes to a rapid decline of numbers following this peak. The survival rate of mature females of the bank vole does not affect the summer peak in population numbers of this species. A relatively high survival rate of immature individuals of bank voles following the summer peak results in a slow decrease of its population size.
23736947|There are now a growing number of studies linking environmental conditions operating at different life stages of birds to their arrival on breeding grounds. Here we focus on one of the major fitness determinants; timing of breeding. We examined the influence of climate relevant to different parts of the birds' annual life cycle, and the impact of population size on distribution traits in a central European population of the red-backed shrike Lanius collurio. Timing of breeding was affected by breeding ground climate as well as by population size. In years with higher population densities shrikes started to breed earlier. In contrast to previous studies we did not find that our climatic variables adequately explained the variability of timing of breeding. We argue that density-dependent processes are also important for the reproduction of shrikes and that in phenological studies; attention should also be paid to other factors operating at breeding grounds.
23737099|Social network analysis is an increasingly popular method for analyzing relational data in animal social systems. The abstract nature of network metrics primes them for use in cross-comparisons of social systems, but more work is needed to determine how well such measures can approximate meaningful biological properties. Finding biological correlates of network metrics, and extending the existing network methods to include the analysis of ongoing dynamics of social processes, will bring us closer to standardization of the terminology used to describe animal social and interaction networks. This will allow us to use the social networks in simultaneously studying the individuals embedded in a social setting, the consequences of their interactions, and the global properties of the social system. We discuss how certain facets of the existing network methods need be further developed to fulfill this potential and provide a multi-scale systems approach to the studies of animal sociality.
23735461|The meaning of prematurity in scientific discovery is addressed and examples are given of premature discoveries. The history of the early hominid Homo habilis is outlined, from its discovery in 1959 and its launch in 1964 to the general acceptance of the new species in the 1980s. It is shown that the history of this species distinguishes it as a premature discovery, whose acceptance was delayed until the tenets of the old paradigm had one by one been demolished or modified.
23731658|Observations on the swarming of Trichocera maculipennis Meig. were made in Kaavi, eastern Finland (6251' N). These midges swarmed throughout the night, even during the dark nights of late summer. The extended corners of the eaves of the buildings acted as swarm markers. The swarms were situated in front of and beneath the marker. Although the orientation of the swarmers to the marker is suggested to be visual, how orientation could take place during the dark nights of late summer remained uncertain.
23736133|Practically trematode-free Macoma balthica (L.) were infected experimentally with cercariae which were released from sporocysts obtained from a few infected individuals of M. balthica. The metacercariae which developed from the cercariae in the clams in laboratory conditions, and thus also the cercariae, were shown to be those of Lacunovermis macomae (Lebour). During the first 1  2 months after the penetration of the cercariae some cercarial characteristics, i.e. the penetration glands, microvilli in the suckers and spines in the ventral sucker, disappeared. The lumen of the digestive caeca soon dilated and the caeca grew in size for three months. Fettrot-stainable lipids appeared in the gastrodermal cells, and -glucuronidase activity appeared in the digestive caeca. The activity of acid phosphatase increased in the distal margins of the gastrodermal cells. Three to four months after the infection a remarkable development of many organs (e.g. growth of the gonads) of the metacercariae was apparent. Vitelline globules began to appear in the vitelline cells. The ventral pit, genital atrium and papillae of the genital pore were forming. The tegumental spines, which had first divided into doublets, began to broaden. Usually two new individual spines grew under and between the former members of the doublets, and so four-pointed spines were formed. The spine bases were undivided. After four months, at 7  15C, the metacercariae were still slightly smaller than aged metacercariae measured earlier, and their genital organs were usually less developed than those in the latter. The sucker ratio (oral sucker length/ventral sucker length) of the metacercaria became greater than it was in the cercaria. The oral sucker was proportionally small during the growth of the metacercaria. Infestation with great numbers of developing metacercariae only slightly depressed the general condition of the host clam in the laboratory during the first three months of a six-month experiment. The mean number of metacercariae per clam decreased during the experiment. In a collecting site where M. balthica are generally infected by metacercariae of L. macomae an increase of young metacercariae was noticed in the clams in July. This, with the age assessment of the metacercariae, suggests mass emergence of cercariae coincident with the spawning season of the clam.
23735606|In winter, when food availability was low, sika deer in the high Tanzawa Mountains preferred clearings, characterised by the highest biomass of food. In the other seasons, when food was abundant, habitats were used in accordance with their occurrence within home ranges, except in the case of erosion sites, which were avoided in every season. Patterns of habitat use differed between periods of the day and this phenomenon was influenced by human disturbance or weather, depending on the season. The abundance of food and interspersion of habitat patches allowed yearly home ranges of four sika deer to be very small at between 11.2 and 20.2 ha. The smallest mean home range size was recorded in autumn, probably because the same habitat then provided both food and cover.
23731675|In root voles trapped during five winters at Kilpisjrvi Biological Station, Finnish Lapland, the weights varied significantly from winter to winter. The principal winter food of root voles consisted of first-year rhizomes of Eriophorum angustifolium. The numbers of these nutrient-rich rhizomes fluctuate greatly from year to year. The weight of the root voles is clearly correlated with the amount of winter food available. Wintering success of root voles seems to depend on the weight of the voles: after winters characterized by heavy voles, spring populations have been fairly high, whereas during winters with small-sized voles and small numbers of first-year rhizomes root vole numbers have fallen markedly, and in consequence spring populations have been low. It is concluded that the number of root voles in the Kilpisjrvi district depends greatly on the supply of winter food. On the other hand, the evidence presented suggests that in the wintering root vole size is not density-dependent. Voles have been both large-sized (in 1969/1970) and small-sized (in 1964/1965) during winters preceded by summers with high postbreeding root vole populations, and small-sized after summers with both high (1964) and relatively low (1967) postbreeding populations.
23735491|Although the American black (Ursus americanus) and American brown (grizzly) (Ursus arctos horribilis) bears have been the subjects of intensive physiological research, very little so far, has been done to understand the physiology of the European brown bear (Ursus arctos arctos). In our laboratory the research on the physiology of European brown bears started 10 years ago. Between 1987 and 1997, the seasonal changes in physiological indicators such as body temperature (Tb) and blood chemistry were studied in 12 bears under captive conditions in the Zoological Garden of the Department of Biology, University of Oulu, Finland. Changes in the Tb were measured either by using telemetric transmitters or dataloggers implanted into the abdominal cavity under anesthesia. The results show that the Tb decreases during the winter sleep to 35C below the normal level or 37.037.5C. Our bears only slept for just over three months per winter. The winter sleep started in late November/early December and ended in late February/early March. Our results do not support the theory of universal hibernation induction. Plasma from a winter-sleeping bear after injection either into Djungarian hamster (Phodopus sungorus) or laboratory rat did not affect body temperature or diurnal activity of the recipient. The urea concentration during the denning period is only half of that observed in the summer. This decrease during the denning period is in agreement with studies performed on American black and grizzly bears. In sharp contrast to earlier studies performed on the American black bear, our results reveal increases and decreases in the concentration of amino acids supporting the view that the denning bear may be even able to synthesize essential amino acids. The analysis of the total plasma fatty acids show that there may be a trend towards a greater need of unsaturated fatty acids in the denning bear as is the case of true hibernators.
23736772|Museum collection of endangered freshwater pearl mussel (Margaritifera margaritifera) shells was studied. The ontogenetic ages of the mussels were estimated to be between 12 and 178 years. Information from shell increments, morphometry and taphonomy was combined into age-dependent life-trait reconstructions that were modelled using linear and non-linear growth functions. Nearly all the life-trait records were best explained by non-linear models and only the shell weight was best modelled by the linear growth function. In accordance with the previously set theory about the plasticity of the species life-traits and their dependence on climate and hydrogeochemistry, the shells with northern origin reached relatively large sizes with slow growth rate. The ontogenetic age could be statistically predicted using the composite dataset of life-trait information. Based on the morphometrics, we theorized that the over 60-year-old mussels are better hedged against the potential hydrological changes resulting from climat change than younger individuals.
23731606|The mercury content was determined in the fourhorn sculpin, a glacial relict occurring in the Baltic and in some lakes. In an unpolluted area of the Baltic the mercury content varied between 0.060.36 ppm, being positively correlated with size. In the stunted specimens of Lake Ladoga the content was the same as in the largest specimens in the Baltic  obviously because the irages were identical and hence also the possibility for bioaccumulation. In the mercury-polluted lake Pijnne the mercury content of M. quadricornis was elevated, values up to 1.9 ppm being found. In another lake, Nsijrvi, with the same degree of mercury pollution, however, the mercury contamination of M. quadricornis was, very low (0.02  0.28 ppm), possibly because the oxygen content of its deeps is so low that mercury is not microbially transformed to the bio-accumulating methyl mercury.
23735449|Using families, this paper reviews the pattern of mammal fauna changes in South America throughout the late CretaceousPaleocene span, comparing them with the changes in North America. Although there are as yet no records of land-mammal fauna of the latest Cretaceous in South America, the unique Alamitian (Campanian  early Maastrichtian?) and the late early Paleocene Tiupampian land-mammal faunas provide eloquent evidence that abrupt changes occurred during this lapse of time. The known late Cretaceous Paleocene land-mammal faunas of North America show no such abrupt changes. In North America, a major change occurred between the "middle" Cretaceous Paluxian and the late Cretaceous Aquilan. In both North and South America another major change occurred during the first half of the Paleocene, the PuercanTorrejonian change and the Tiupampian Itaboraian change, respectively. The different North and South American scenarios are related to quite different geological histories. The physical (and biotic) Cretaceous Cenozoic South American history is characterized by long periods of isolation (late Jurassicearly late Cretaceous, and early middle PaleocenePliocene), alternating with brief connections. This explains why the history of the South American CretaceousPresent terrestrial biota is characterized by relatively few episodes (Simpson's Faunal Strata), which, as a rule, are sharply and clearly separable.
23737134|Haemoparasites prevalence in birds can vary among species, age and sex groups and ecological conditions. To comprehend the hostparasite assemblages, it is important to investigate physiological mechanisms underlying the interactions in wild bird species. Here, using blood smears we investigated how leukocyte profiles in reed warblers (Acrocephalus scirpaceus) and sedge warblers (Acrocephalus schoenobaenus) vary in relation to the heamoparasite presence with respect to the host's age and sex. We sampled the birds during their autumn migration in 2008 at a stopover site in northern Poland. We found a significant relationship between the leukocyte profiles and parasite infection. Parasite infection was associated with elevated relative number of heterophils with simultaneous lowered relative number of lymphocytes. These opposite pattern resulted in an elevated H/L ratio in infected birds. Total leukocytes, lymphocytes and heterophils counts were elevated in birds infected with blood parasites as compared with those of non-infected ones. Leukocyte profiles of parasitized birds were similar regardless of individual age. However, non-infected adults had lower total leukocyte counts and values of H/L than non-infected immatures.
23731824|Methods were developed for measuring the productivity of small mammals in spruce plantations and similar types of successional grassland. Estimates of productivity in the former habitat are supplied. Density, turnover and biomass measurements according to the earlier proposed Standard Minimum sampling method are analysed, and shortcomings, e.g. in estimates of juvenile mortality, pointed out. The estimates obtained were comparatively high. Total production, energy flow and consumption were mostly due to the Microtus agrestis population. However, a considerable amount of the energy flow was brought about by the shrew populations. There was an increase in productivity of almost all small mammal species during the second year of study, coinciding with an increase in primary production. The greatest increase occurred in the M. agrestis population, which consumed 1.5  2.8 % of the field layer production. Certain sources of error and restrictions in the applicability of the rodent productivity models are discussed, and studies on other rodent influences in the ecosystems suggested.
23735524|Distribution of the badger Meles meles in Finland was studied using game inquiries. The northern distribution limit of the badger has moved about 100 km northwards since the mid-1940s, and the frequency of occurrence has increased. Thus, the distribution area is larger and less fragmented today than it was a few decades ago. The increase in badger population has been particularly clear near the northern distribution limit. Climate seems to be the most important factor affecting the distribution area of the badger in Finland. Near the northern limit of distribution, climate, too, partly explained the change in badger occurrence. The onset of spring and the length of the snow-free period are important for species that sleep in winter; if the summer is very short the young do not have enough time to accumulate fat reserves for the winter. Habitat changes (the extent of fields) may also have affected the occurrence of the badger. The availability of wild berries may also have had some effect on badger numbers. Both badgers and raccoon dogs have increased in most provinces during the study period. Thus, the rapid increase of the raccoon dog population has not caused a decline in the native badger population of Finland.
23734516|Carabid beetles were sampled by using pitfall traps in 35 fragments of old coniferous taiga (area range 0.4101 ha) and in managed forest in their immediate surroundings in southern Finland in 1984 and 1985. The pooled sample comprised 1986 individuals from 42 species. Species number, standardized by rarefaction, was greater in the forest surroundings than in the forest fragments, but the difference is due to great between-site variability in the surrounding areas. Marked differences in the composition of the carabid samples between the fragment interiors and their surroundings were mainly caused by species that are scarce or occasional in coniferous forests. Nine abundant forest generalists comprised about 90% of the pooled sample, and they were widely (although not uniformly) distributed over successional stages of forest. In order to detect possible area effects the pooled data sets of fragments larger than 30 ha and smaller than 5 ha were compared. No differences were detected in the species assemblage characteristics, and of the nine most abundant species seven were more abundant in the small fragments than in the large ones, and two species were equally abundant in the two fragment size classes. We discuss the significance of the results concerning the preservation of faunal diversity in coniferous taiga, using carabids as an example, and we support the maximization of habitat heterogeneity on the regional scale as an appropriate conservation strategy.
23736217|The population dynamics, especially recruitment, of vendace (Coregonus albula) in lake Konnevesi were analysed from a time series of three decades from 1971 onwards. Recruitment success was highly variable, with no clear relationship between spawning stock and recruitment. Furthermore, no regular recruitment failure from large spawning stocks that would imply over-compensation was detected. Since 1982, an 11-year period of very poor year classes occurred despite the spawning stock and larval density being at high enough levels to produce abundant year-classes in the beginning of this period. A comprehensive recession appeared at the same time in other vendace stocks in southern Finland. In lake Konnevesi, perch (Perca fluviatilis) stock increased rapidly during the vendace recession. High summer temperatures were revealed to strengthen the perch stock, especially in the 1980s, as indicated by CPUE data with a lag of two years. Perch probably delayed the recovery of vendace and it is also likely that its predation affected the dynamics of the vendace stock even in the beginning of the recession. We suggest that predation pressure as a whole was an important factor for the onset and duration of the vendace recession.
23735674|This review aims to compile the current knowledge of tetraonid population dynamics. As most of the grouse species in the world are game, long-term data often originate from hunting statistics. Many of these data sets show decreasing trend in population numbers. Environmental changes due to forestry and other human activities are the most obvious causes in this process. Some tetraonid species have populations which display both non-cyclic and cyclic dynamics of various length. Hence, cyclicity is not a species-specific property. However, most of the detailed population studies have been conducted in cyclic populations. No single factor has been found to explain the fluctuations. The possible effects of hunting on the dynamics are also explored. This is done by using logistic population growth model as a starting point and implementing various hunting strategies into it. The results show that, in most cases, the hunting pressure has to be high to change the original dynamical behavior of the population. It is concluded that better understanding of population fluctuations of tetraonids requires data of age-class specific mortality and fecundity, as well as of the direct and indirect effects of hunting.
23736076|Variation in egg survival has been suspected to be a major source of walleye (Stizostedion vitreum) recruitment variability in Lake Erie. We sampled walleye eggs and larvae in western Lake Erie in 199495. Densities of eggs and larvae were higher in 1994 than 1995. Egg survival for depths and reefs pooled averaged 37% in 1994 and 13% in 1995. We found white perch (Morone americana) to consume large numbers of walleye eggs on reefs in 1995. Mean density of larvae from the date of first hatch through the end of May was 14 times higher in 1994 than 1995. Relatively slow water warming rates and frequent intense winds contributed to the low density and survival of eggs on reefs in 1995 by prolonging incubation periods and increasing the vulnerability of eggs to predation and severe wind events.
23736101|One-summer-old pikeperch (Stizostedion lucioperca (L.)) fingerlings (48 cm) were released in ten small and medium-sized (1753 600 ha) Finnish lakes with no permanent pikeperch stock in five successive years. Mean stocking density ranged 1040 fingerlings/ha. In the following 57 years, data were collected to estimate the growth and survival rates of the fish and to assess the total yield and profitability of the releases in each lake. Catch samples were obtained from co-operating local fishermen. Fishing statistics were obtained by mailed fishing questionnaires. Reference data on growth and survival were collected from the two parent populations, which belong to the most abundant in Finland. Large annual and between-lake variation was found in the growth and survival rates of the fish released. In most year-classes, the stocked fish were smaller than one-year-old pikeperch in the parent populations. In two lakes, subsequent growth rates were faster than in the parent populations. Similarities in year-class patterns in parent populations and annual survival patterns of stocked fish suggest that common factors contribute to the variation in both cases. Year-class indices for the parent populations were, however, not correlated with summer mean temperatures or wiht the mean size of one-year-old fish. The yield of the releases varied in different lakes from 0.1 to 34 kg per thousand fingerlings (mean 11.5 kg). In two lakes, the estimated economic output exceeded the direct costs of the releases. An onset of natural reproduction was recorded in two other lakes. In an attempt to explain the variable results, the quality of the stocking material, the limnological features of the lakes, as well as the differences in the fish communities and in the fisheries are considered.
23735676|The early winter assemblages of Harpacticoida and densities of Cyclopoida were compared at the upper profundal and sublittoral zones of two large lakes of contrasting trophic levels in eastern Finland. Supplementary information is given about the not so well known benthic copepod fauna in Finnish lakes. Assuming unimodal relationships between the species' relative abundances and lake productivity, a weighted averaging regression and calibration model to infer lake trophic level from harpacticoid assemblages in upper profundal depth was constructed and evaluated using the available data from Finnish lakes. The epilimnetic total phosphorus was used as the measure of lake trophic level. In different comparisons the harpacticoid-inferred and observed total phosphorus was significantly correlated and the root mean squared error of prediction estimated by bootstrap or cross-validation methods was tolerable (3.35.1 g l1). The results prove harpacticoids as potential trophic indicators and demonstrate the applicability of weighted averaging approach in biological indication using benthic invertebrates. Larger numbers of benthic cyclopoid resting stages were observed in lake areas of higher trophic level, but it was concluded that the phenomenon cannot be explained by decreased fish predation resulting from oxygen deficiency, as recently suggested. Two alternative explanations are hypothesized.
23736735|Human activity is sometimes seen as the reason for nocturnal activity of wolves (Canis lupus). We tested this assumption in the Bieszczady Mountains (southeastern Poland), a region with a human density of 44 inhabitants km-2, and where wolves were hunted until recently. The radio tracked wolves of three packs moved throughout the day with one major peak around dawn. Wolves avoided the area around main public roads more at night (up to a distance of 1.5 km) than in the day (up to 0.5 km). Wolves avoided a 0.5-km area around secondary public roads and paved forest roads both at night and in the day but did not avoid the surroundings of settlements. As compared with other studies, wolves in this study were the least nocturnal although human density was the highest. We conclude that human activity is unlikely to be the reason for nocturnal activity in wolves.
23736057|Pontoporeia affinis swims actively during the night-time, thereby migrating both vertically and horizontally. Light effectively inhibits this behaviour. In the laboratory the animals were allowed to swim in 3 m long, narrow choice aquaria, equipped with recording photocells in three sections. In low-speed water currents the animals migrated in the opposite direction to the current at the moment of light-on. In a horizontal temperature gradient of about 2C, they migrated towards the higher temperature. The swimming activity decreased with increasing temperature. In experiments with different bottom substrates, the animals preferred bottom mud to sand or a hard bottom. The substrate preference dominated over the temperature preference.
23735940|Visual signals are commonly used by animals to manipulate both their prey and predators. The conspicuous silk structures included in the webs of many orb-web spiders, termed web decorations or stabilimenta, could be an example of this. The function of these curious structures remains controversial with some authors suggesting that they attract insect prey, while others suggesting that they camouflage the spider or deter predators. Here we test the hypothesis that web decorations increase the foraging success of 'Araneus' eburnus by attracting prey to the web. Using field correlations and field manipulations we show that decorated webs capture more prey per web area than undecorated webs under certain conditions.
23734117|Species composition of local dabbling duck (Anas spp.) assemblages in Finland were mainly composed of one, two or three species (out of six possible), and were dominated by different combinations of mallard (A. platyrhynchos), teal (A. crecca) and wigeon (A. penelope). Dabbling duck assemblages in more productive lakes were more closely packed in niche space than in less productive lakes. When analysed in terms of nearest-neighbour distances among all the six species in the niche space (bill morphology and neck length together) the two, three, four and five-species assemblages did not imply any competitively determined species composition. Patterns with regard to neck length were considered separately among mallard, teal, garganey (A. querquedula) and pintail (A. acuta) (species very similar in bill morphology), and among these species the competition-based prediction was supported in two-species assemblages but not very well in three-species assemblages. Very little support was found for the competitive assumption that two species would have more exclusive distributions than expected by chance from the point of view of co-occupation of a given lake by the species. Morphologically distinct species were neither particularly common regionally nor locally abundant. Results tentatively suggest that competitively structured species composition in local dabbling duck assemblages may exist among mallard, teal, garganey and pintail, but more information on niche relations among these species as well as examination of alternative biological reasons are necessary.
23734570|The relationship between the harvest mouse Micromys minutus and the bank vole Clethrionomys glareolus was studied in two 0.5 ha enclosures differing in the distribution of food. In the enclosure with only one feeding point, harvest mice were excluded from the feeding point. Their survival was poor throughout the winter and the recovery of the breeding population was slow. The enclosure with evenly distributed food was divided between the two species. The harvest mouse population of the even habitat was also able to maintain the overwintering area after the onset of breeding and the population grew as rapidly as that of the voles. Female bank voles in particular avoided the area inhabited by the harvest mice. After the removal of the mice the voles rapidly took over the area. In laboratory experiments, bank voles preferred traps with vole odour. Harvest mice showed no significant preference between clean traps or traps with vole or mouse odour. I conclude that because of interspecific competition for limited food resources the two species exhibited exclusive spatial distribution during winter. At least when food was readily available the smaller species was able to maintain its range during the early part of the breeding season. The mechanisms of this maintenance possibly involve odour production by the mice. At the highest population densities late in the breeding season, the mice change to a three-dimensional way of life in the high vegetation and in this way minimize contacts with possible competitors in the ground layer.
23736939|The practice of statistical analysis and inference in ecology is critically reviewed. The dominant doctrine of null hypothesis significance testing (NHST) continues to be applied ritualistically and mindlessly. This dogma is based on superficial understanding of elementary notions of frequentist statistics in the 1930s, and is widely disseminated by influential textbooks targeted at biologists. It is characterized by silly null hypotheses and mechanical dichotomous division of results being "significant" (P < 0.05) or not. Simple examples are given to demonstrate how distant the prevalent NHST malpractice is from the current mainstream practice of professional statisticians. Masses of trivial and meaningless "results" are being reported, which are not providing adequate quantitative information of scientific interest. The NHST dogma also retards progress in the understanding of ecological systems and the effects of management programmes, which may at worst contribute to damaging decisions in conservation biology. In the beginning of this millennium, critical discussion and debate on the problems and shortcomings of NHST has intensified in ecological journals. Alternative approaches, like basic point and interval estimation of effect sizes, likelihood-based and information theoretic methods, and the Bayesian inferential paradigm, have started to receive attention. Much is still to be done in efforts to improve statistical thinking and reasoning of ecologists and in training them to utilize appropriately the expanded statistical toolbox. Ecologists should finally abandon the false doctrines and textbooks of their previous statistical gurus. Instead they should more carefully learn what leading statisticians write and say, collaborate with statisticians in teaching, research, and editorial work in journals.
23736115|Eggs of ruffe inhabiting a fresh-water (FW) lake and a brackish-water (BW) Baltic bay were inseminated and reared in sea water of different salinity. Normal prelarvae hatched at salinities up to 9 ppt in the BW ruffe and 6 ppt in the FW ruffe. The duration of incubation until hatching in the BW ruffe remained constant at 08 ppt but increased in the FW ruffe at salinity > 2 ppt. The maximum length of prelarvae in the BW ruffe was observed at higher salinity than in the FW ruffe. These differences indicate an adaptive increase in embryonic salinity tolerance of ruffe inhabiting brackish water.
23736087|The catch per unit effort (CPUE), total catch and growth data of pikeperch, Stizostedion lucioperca (L.), from two Finnish lakes, Lake Lohjanjrvi and Lake Pyhselk, were gathered between 1979 and 1994. The growth rate of pikeperch in southern Lake Lohjanjrvi was faster than in northern Lake Pyhselk. The variation in the year-class index was higher in Lake Lohjanjrvi. We concluded that the shorter growing season and lower temperatures in northern areas weakened the variation in the relative strength of the year-classes.
23731664|The restriction in the Baltic Sea of the amphipod Gammarus duebeni to localities where other species of the genus are lacking has led to the conclusion that this feature is due to lessened competitive stress in such situations. Work performed at the Zoological Station at Tvrminne, south Finland, including observations in the field and laboratory experiments with G. duebeni and some related species, suggests that the peculiar occurrence of G. duebeni is rather due to its preference of a special ecological niche. This conclusion gains support from certain data in the literature.
23737175|The applicability of simple PCR-based approaches for sex discrimination in the three European Phalacrocoracidae species was tested, using 93 individuals of known sex and two sets of primers (1237L/1272R and 2550F/2718R) for the amplification of the avian sex-specific chromo-helicase-DNA-binding protein gene. We evaluated the accuracy of each set of primers in providing the correct sex for each individual. The first primer set did not produce reliable results. The second provided a band pattern for each sex, easily distinguishable with agarose gel electrophoresis, which correctly identified all the individuals, even in samples of low DNA yield. The amplification products were sequenced and aligned revealing important nucleotide diversity among Phalacrocoracidae species. Compared with morphometric discriminant analysis and DNA-fingerprinting techniques previously applied, the PCR-based sexing with the 2550F/2718R primers is more accurate, less invasive and widely applicable to both adults and chicks, using a variety of DNA sources such as blood, tissue, feathers, egg shells and others.
23731680|Data on the Finnish bear, mainly from the period 1960  1971, were collected from various sources. Of the bears killed during the period 1960  1971, the sex of 536 was determined and the age of 666. The present range of the bear in Finland covers a narrow zone on the eastern frontier in North Karelia and Kainuu, and eastern and central parts of Lapland. The total number of bears was estimated as about 150  200 in 1970  1971. In 1967  1971 frontier posts reported immigration of bears from the east. During the same period at least 254 bears were killed. A balanced sex ratio was recorded among bear cubs younger than a year. Males dominated (70  72 %) among bears older than a year killed in 1967  1971 in North Karelia and Kainuu, whereas during the same period the corresponding sex ratio in Lapland was 50 : 50. In 1967  1971 2.0 % of the bears killed in Kainuu and North Karelia were younger than a year, whereas the corresponding figure for Lapland was 27.3 %.
23733681|The food habits of the muskrat were studied in a north-Swedish lake from May to November by microscopic analysis of faecal pellets. Remains of Equisetum were found in all pellets during the whole period. Carex spp. were constantly present from May to early July, thereafter only sporadically. Schoenoplectus was found in significantly more pellets between late July and early October than either from May to early July or in November. Other plant species were recorded only occasionally, and no remains of animal food were found in any pellets. After the thaw the Schoenoplectus belt can only be utilized with difficulty, because of the high water-level during the spring flood and the problems connected with constructing feeding platforms before the Schoenoplectus culms emerge above the water surface. The importance of absolute water-level in the utilization of Schoenoplectus by muskrats was confirmed by comparison of the observations made in years with above- and below-normal lake water-levels. The muskrat feeds in the immediate vicinity of its lodge and the seasonal changes in food habits correspond to the seasonal shift in habitat preference for lodge sites.
23732271|An account is given of the activity and feeding of small groups of walrus living in Nordaustland, Spitsbergen. In addition, observations are presented on the behaviour of the walrus and how it is affected by the weather (temperature, ice conditions).
23731591|Between samples of Sciurus vulgaris L. originating from Sweden and Finland significant differences in polymorphic structure were found. The red colour phase, while decreasing from over 30 % in the north of Finnish Lapland to less than 2 % in southern Finland, is relatively abundant within the whole area of Sweden, its incidence in the extreme south of that country being about fifteen times higher than in southern Finland. This difference is due not only to the geographically changing climatic conditions but probably also to differences in genetic background.
23735999|Diel activity rhythms and factors affecting the duration of daily activity were studied in nine male common weasels Mustela nivalis vulgaris, radio-tracked in the pristine deciduous woodland in eastern Poland from April 1990 to August 1991. During the study, mean daily temperature varied from -5.3 C to 25.5 C, and densities of forest rodents (bank voles Clethrionomys glareolus and yellow-necked mice Apodemus flavicollis) ranged from 2 to 270 ind. ha-1. Weasels showed clearly diurnal activity, with a peak around 10001300 hrs. On average, weasels were active for 3.8 h day-1 (SE = 0.3, range 014 h day-1), with 0 to 7 bouts of activity (mean 2.1, SE = 0.1), each bout lasting, on average, 1.8 h (SE = 0.1). Spells of activity were separated by short inactivity bouts (on average 2 h, SE = 0.2). Long (nocturnal) inactivity lasted, on average 17.5 h day-1 (SE = 0.7). A remarkable seasonal variation in the duration of weasel daily activity and number of activity bouts per day was related to changes in ambient temperature. In winter, weasels were active in 12 bouts day-1 each bout lasting 12 h; whereas in summer they showed 34 (maximally 7) bouts of activity. The highest level of activity coincided with the mating season. Fluctuations of rodent numbers had little effect on weasel activity pattern.
23731693|The taxonomic status of the subfamily Lepthyphantinae within the family Linyphiidae is revised according to the characteristics of the male palpi and female epigynes. This subfamily corresponds to Merrett's group A, except for his inclusion of the genus Helophora. Furthermore, there are certain European and non-Europea genera belonging to this subfamily which Merrett (1963) did not treat at all. They are not listed here either. The correspondence in structure and function between the male and female secondary genital organs in Lepthyphantinae is discussed, as well as the possibility that this might form an interspecific isolating mechanism.
23735697|Feeding of test organisms during sediment toxicity testing may have a great effect on biological parameters, like the growth and survival of the animals, which are used as toxic endpoints. The nutritional condition of the organisms both before and during toxicity testing affects their fitness, as it does their sensitivity to contaminants. Adding uncontaminated food with high organic carbon and/or lipid content to test vessels possibly changes the partitioning of chemicals and thereby alter their accumulation in animals. Also elimination may be changed by feeding. It has also been observed, that actual toxic responses at population level may be determined by the amount of food available for each organism. In spite of these observations, the effect of feeding has only rarely been extensively studied in sediment ecotoxicology and currently there is no concensus on the feeding regime to be used in toxicity tests.
23732270|PCO2, PO2, pH, and HCO3- concentration were studied in permanently cannulated (aortic cannulas) hedgehogs (Erinaceus europaeus L.) in winter and in summer. In hibernating hedgehogs these parameters were measured at the beginning and end of apnoeic periods. Blood pressure was recorded during periodic respiration. PCO2 rose from 26.5 to 34.6 mmHg and HCO3- from 30.3 to 37.4 mEq/l, and the pH value fell from 7.46 to 7.42 during the periods of apnoea. PO2 changed most; at the beginning of an apnoeic period it was higher (120.3 mmHg) than in active hedgehogs (105.2 mmHg) in winter, but then fell to a very low value (10.5 mmHg). At the end of an apnoeic period in the hypothermic hedgehogs pH was 0.09 units higher, PCO2 18.9 mmHg lower and HCO3- concentration 10.1 mEq/l higher than in spontaneously awoken active hedgehogs in winter. Blood pressure varied from 50/20 to 30/6 mmHg during periodic respiration, being lowest during the respiration periods. In summer hedgehogs PCO2 was 60.1 mmHg, PO2 111.9 mmHg, pH 7.37 and HCO3- 36.5 mEq/l.
23734430|Soil samples for qualitative and quantitative investigation of Enchytraeid populations revealed 32 species, among them Mesenchytraeus franzi sp. n. Abundance of Enchytraeids was estimated at thirteen permanent stations, and biomass and biosurface of Enchytraeids at seven of them.
23733704|O2 consumption was measured in normothermic hedgehogs during the summer season and in hypothermic hedgehogs during the hibernation season. O2 consumption was lower in August than in May and June and decreased further at the approach of the hibernation season. The results suggest that O2 consumption in normothermic hedgehogs is closely related to the area of the body surface. In all normothermic groups a significant negative correlation was observed between BW (body weight) and O2 consumption calculated per unit of BW. There was a positive correlation (significant in October) between log BW and log total O2 consumption. In hibernation hypothermia the dependence on the area of body surface disappeared, and instead O2 consumption was dependent on body weight. The O2 consumption of hypothermic hedgehogs was lower (10.6 ml/kg/h) in January and February than in April (14.8 ml/kg/h). The RQ (respiratory quotient), 0.7, in hibernation hypothermia indicated that the source of energy was fat. The differences between hibernation hypothermia in winter and induced hypothermia in August were suggestive.
23734855|The periodic respiratory pattern in hibernating garden dormice was studied at TAs of 0, 6.5 and 9 C during six months in each study winter. The results are compared with those obtained in optimal conditions at 4 C. The animals were kept in constant conditions in darkness without food or water. The periodic respiratory pattern was TA dependent. Both apnoeic and respiratory periods shortened from 4 to 9. Deviating from this trend, at a TA of 0, the apnoeas were short and the respiratory periods of long duration. The changes in the periodic respiratory pattern at different TAs were parallel to the changes in the periodicity of hibernation. The periodic respiratory pattern is the most sensitive indicator of undisturbed hibernation at low TAs: 06.5 C, but at 9 heart rate is more sensitive.
23736865|We analysed 2166 songs of 90 males of the tree pipit (Anthus trivialis; Passeriformes: Motacillidae) from five Czech localities to evaluate variation in song characteristics, the song structure and syntax rules, and differences between songs performed in flight and from perches. We measured temporal and spectral song characteristics; structure analysis was based on the identification of individual syllable units. There was a high among-population variation in the repertoire, suggesting substantial differences in local dialects. Flight and perched songs significantly differed in most analysed quantitative characteristics. While both types of songs are apparently used in territorial defence, trill elements within flight songs may also indicate male quality to potential mates. Characteristic bi-syllable repeats within songs were often unique for individual males and may function in individual recognition. Features of tree pipit songs make it a good species for studying song variation and function in birds with complex repertoires.
23736220|The Finnish sea area is inhabited by migratory and sea-spawning forms of the European whitefish (Coregonus lavaretus (L.)). In the Gulf of Finland, these forms have overlapping gill-raker counts but differing growth rates. The whitefish are heavily exploited with gill nets, so an age-and-length structured model was constructed to study the effects of fishing effort and alternative mesh size restrictions. The results show that the gill-net fishing effectively removes the largest individuals from the four- and five-year-old whitefish and thus strongly affects the length distribution, decreasing the mean length of the surviving population. Consequently, the share of slowly-growing individuals increases in mature age groups. In naturally-reproducing whitefish, this might be reflected in the genetic characteristics of the population. The strength of the selective effect on different age groups depends on the fishing effort and the mesh sizes used.
23735696|Hydrophobic organic chemicals tend to sorb to suspended organic material and to accumulate in the sediments. Due to their strong affinity to sediment particles, the most probable bioaccumulation route to benthic animals is through the ingested food. The feeding behaviour of benthic organisms significantly affects the bioaccumulation of hydrophobic organic chemicals. This behaviour includes processes like food selection, manipulation, ingestion, digestion and assimilation. Especially selective feeding and the ingestion rate of deposit feeders are involved in bioaccumulation. According to theories on foraging models, deposit feeders adjust their ingestion and digestion rates to a level where net energy gain is highest. If the uptake of organic chemicals is dependent on gut turnover time, the feeding behaviour of benthic animals should be taken into account in bioaccumulation studies.
23731653|Acute exposure to cold (30 min at  5 C) increased the blood free fatty acid level in both cold- and warm-acclimated Norwegian lemmings. This effect was enhanced by immediate and previous injection of noradrenaline. No significant difference was seen between these acclimated groups. Inderal injection after exposure to cold retarded cold-induced lipolysis only slightly. Noradrenaline and Inderal had little effect on glycolysis. In vitro incubation studies showed a strong correlation between noradrenaline-stimulated and Inderal-inhibited release of free fatty acids from the brown adipose tissue and the metabolic rate of this tissue in the corresponding conditions. Electron microscope studies showed that incubation of brown adipose tissue with noradrenaline induced similar changes in mitochondrial ultrastructure as did acute exposure to cold.
23734129|Rainbow trout (Salmo gairdneri, Richardson) were exposed in fresh water to zinc (1 mg/l) for 17-20 hours. The O2-tension in dorsal aortic blood (PaO2) and external water (PIO2) was measured and the sedondary lamellae of the gills were analysed morphometrically. Zinc exposure increased the PIO2 - PaO2 difference significantly. The PIO2 - PaO2 difference was positively correlated with the increase in the fractional volume of blood channels to which the diffusion distance from water was over 15 m. The results are discussed in the light of the hypothesis that gill O2-transfer is dependent on the intralamellar shunting of blood.
23734473|The social organization of the vole, Clethrionomys rutilus (Pall.), was studied by extensive live trapping at Kilpisjrvi, Finnish Lapland. Strict female territoriality was demonstrated. In males the territorial behaviour was not as strict as in females. The territories and home ranges of both sexes were extremely large. Strict regulation of maturation by territorial behaviour in females and by territorial behaviour and/or dominance in males was demonstrated. Both the social status of males and territory size and breeding in females of C. rutilus was severely affected by increasing numbers of C. rufocanus. The ecological consequences of social organization in C. rutilus are discussed.
23734558|Between 1974 and 1977 the population density of perch at egg, larval and adult stages in the dys-oligotrophic Lake Suomunjrvi, eastern Finland, was studied quantitatively. In addition, data on fecundity, age, growth, size distribution and biomass were gathered. The density of eggs deposited on the bottom was calculated from egg clusters sampled quantitatively by a scuba-diver. This gave a mean density of 320,000 eggs/ha at the 03 m depth zone, with only low variation between years, sites and depths. Larvae about one week old were sampled quantitatively with the Clarke-Bumpus and CalCoFi net samplers. The results obtained with the latter, which gave much higher densities (mean 6,850 larvae/ha) than the former (2,850/ha), are considered more reliable because of the larger mouth area of the sampler and the higher number of larvae caught. To estimate the adult population density, a scuba-diver counted the fish directly and the reliability of the method was established by comparing the diver's estimation with that given using a capture-mark-recapture method in a small isolated bay. The mean population density of perch of three years or older was 312 ind./ha. The survival in the total populations of the lake was 8 % from deposited eggs to one week old larvae and 0.05 % from eggs to three year old fish.
23736125|Fourteen species of helminths (1 trematode, 7 cestodes and 6 nematodes) parasitic in microtine rodents (Clethrionomys glareolus, C. rutilus, C. rufocanus, Microtus agrestis, and M. oeconomus) were studied for dispersion patterns and frequency distributions in Finnish Lapland during 1977  1985. Comparisons between the helminth species revealed that the nematodes, together with a trematode and a larval cestode, were more aggregated than the adult cestodes. The high degree of aggregation in nematodes may be an adaptation to increase the pairing probability of unisexual worms. The differences in the degree of aggregation among nematodes are suspected to be due to the variability of sex-ratios, the severe aggregation characterizing species with markedly female-biased sex-ratios. In addition, the interspecific differences in aggregation among helminths may be explained by ecological factors like differences in dispersal ability and spatial distribution of infective stages. The seasonal changes in frequency distributions were studied in the dominant helminths of C. glareolus, the nematodes Heligmosomum spp. and the cestode Catenotaenia sp. Most seasonal samples, representing specified age groups of voles, were aggregated, fitting the negative binomial distribution. However, the samples with low prevalence and intensity, or with a small size, agreed with the Poisson, or both with the Poisson and negative binomial, distributions. The degree of aggregation of Heligmosomum was higher in male than in female voles, suggesting that individual differences in behaviour, for example in foraging activity, could be one of the causes of aggregation.
23731705|Information on the faunistics of Finnish Gerrids is given. The species are: Gerris odontogaster (Zett.) (od), G. lateralis Schumm. (lat), G. lacustris (L.) (lac), G. argentatus Schumm. (ar), G. thoracicus Schumm. (tho), G. sphagnetorum Gaun., G. rufoscutellatus Lt. (ru), G. paludum Fabr. (pa) and G. najas (De G.). The distribution maps are based on the Finnish uniform grid system, but 20  20 km squares are used instead of 10  10 km ones. An impoverishment of the Finnish Gerris fauna towards the north is evident: 9, 6 and 2 species in South, Central and North Finland, respectively. lac, which was previously believed to occur in the far north is shown to have no records north of the polar circle. The commonest species are od, lac, lat and ru. Information on population sizes and densities, and dominant and pure populations is given. The species with high vagility (od, tho, ru, ar), a generally wide habitat range and a preference for luxuriant habitats showed association with each other. The habitat ranges of ru and od overlap with that of lac, so that these species occur in association. od and lac are the most eurytopic species, od preferring the luxuriant and lac the barren end of the habitat spectrum. lat shows high negative association values with all the other species. The habitats of tho are restricted to temporary rock-pools and brackish-water bays in the Baltic Sea. The relations between the permanence of the habitat, voltinism, wing length and the proportions of the alary morphs in Gerris species are shortly discussed. It is concluded that the degree of polymorphism increases with habitat diversity (patchiness), whether the habitat varies in space or in time, indicating that polymorphism has adaptive significance for the denizens of temporary habitats.
23735626|Juveniles of the native crayfish Astacus astacus and the newly introduced crayfish Pacifastacus leniusculus were reared separately in artificial ponds in the presence and absence of a predatory fish, the European perch (Perca fluviatilis), to measure the effects of this predator on the behaviour and survival of the two species. The two species responded strongly and similarly to the presence of perch by changing microhabitat use, thereby reducing their exposure to the predator. Crayfish that were observed outside of shelter did not tend to stay closer to shelter in the presence of perch than in perchless controls. The presence of perch increased the mortality of both species, but there was no significant difference in predation vulnerability between the two species. The prediction that A. astacus, because of a common evolutionary history with perch, should show stronger and more effective antipredator responses and therefore suffer a lower mortality rate than P. leniusculus was not supported. The juvenile growth rate is slower in A. astacus than in P. leniusculus and, consequently, A. astacus is at a predation-vulnerable size for longer. The total risk of mortality due to predation during the whole juvenile period may therefore be higher for A. astacus than for P. leniusculus.
23736965|Remains of invertebrates, especially insects, are frequently found in carnivores' faeces. Invertebrates are generally restricted to a given area and many factors such as land-use pattern, vegetation structure or even moisture can separate different groups; thus, invertebrates can be used as bioindicators. Forty-five samples of marten and fox scats were analysed for the presence of insect species. Thirty insect species  which were expected to be found  were identified. Canonical correspondence analysis indicated that the factor 'species' (i.e., marten and fox) was the main factor determining invertebrate species variation. Redundancy analysis allowed us to identify invertebrate ecological groups associated with these two carnivores. Martens prefer nest-building insects as a supplementary source of food and mainly forage in meadows, whereas foxes foraged in forest with high volumes of insects as well as necrophages. Martens preferred smaller, while foxes preferred lager insects. We conclude that insects found in faeces might play an important role in understanding food and habitat relationships between sympatric predators.
23736962|Spatial organisation, and the rate and causes of mortality of released hares were investigated using a radio-telemetry technique during one study year in the vicinity of Maciejowice, Poland. Territorial ranges of released hares were between 0.14 km2 and 2.86 km2. The average home ranges of males were significantly greater than that of females: 1.3 km2 and 0.5 km2, respectively. Released hares travelled, on average, a distance of 2.6 km (range = 1.44.9 km per year). The annual mortality of the studied was ca. 72% and was highest in the first month after release, i.e. in December. The average lifespan of killed hares was 31 days for females and about 80 days for males. The major cause of hare mortality was predation.
23734280|The oxygen consumption of the young of Zoarces viviparus (L.) was measured at different O2 concentrations in brackish water with a closed system respirometer. Changes in routine metabolic rate and hypoxia resistance related to age are presented. The routine metabolic rate remains at a steady level over a wide range of O2 concentrations, the critical O2-level being 3.52.0 mg O2/l depending on the age and acclimatisation state of the young. Lactate is produced under hypoxic conditions by both intra-ovarian embryos and by young. Both show high tolerance to hypoxia. Lactate is excreted at least partly in to the surrounding media (embryotrophe/brackish water). The lactate concentration in the young does not begin to increase in a brackish water environment until the water O2 concentration is under 1 mg O2/l. In the ovarian cavity, the lactate concentration in embryos and embryotrophe has increased already at 4 mg O2/l, when it is still at a steady level in the blood and muscle tissue of parent fish.
23733720|Samples of Turolian / Upper Sarmatian-Meotian Hipparion from southwestern USSR (Moldavia and the Ukraine) are analysed. They are compared with each other and with type H. mediterraneum from Pikermi, using univariate (t = d/ and 2), bivariate (scattergrams with 95 % equiprobability ellipses) and multivariate (clusters) methods. These hipparions are referred to H. moldavicum and H. cf. moldavicum.
23737021|In population and evolutionary genetics it is commonly recognised that more reliable results are often obtained when the number of loci analysed is increased, however lack of DNA is one of several factors which can limit the possibility to increase the number of loci assessed in a given study. A promising way to overcome the problem is the simultaneous amplification of several loci within the same reaction i.e. multiplex PCR. The purpose of the present work was to develop a series of microsatellite multiplexes using a recently released commercial multiplex buffer in order to demonstrate the potential usefulness of PCR multiplexing in a non-model organism. We developed ten multiplex sets of primers for the amplification of 77 microsatellite markers in collared flycatchers, each reaction requiring 30 ng of genomic DNA. The multiplexed microsatellite markers provide an easy and cost effective method for collection of genotype data thereby reducing the quantity of reagents and importantly reducing the quantity of DNA required for obtaining successful amplification to less than 4 ng per locus.
23736192|The first detailed examination of the gonadal development of Volkhov whitefish juveniles was performed. Morphology and sequence of germ cells and gonad development are presented. Thirty days after hatching in the gonad anlagen, primordial germ cells began to divide. Sex differentiation occurred 82 days after hatching. Gonia in ovaries proliferated rapidly, some of them entered meiotic prophase developing into oocytes. In two weeks, the developing oocytes had reached the 'early perinucleolus stage' and began the cytoplasmatical growth. At the same time, in ovaries of some females, cysts with male germ cells appeared. Ten days later, all whitefish females had hermaphroditic features. In male gonads few germ cells were dispersed singly amongst stromal tissue. The reason for the mass hermaphroditism among Volkhov whitefish females may lie in the environmental circumstances such as high temperature during the study period, or the specificity of the early gametogenesis in this whitefish species.
23734428|Hedgehogs hibernating in a cold room at a TA of +4.2C were studied during spontaneous and induced arousals. Respiratory and circulatory changes were monitored automatically. O2 consumption, blood pressure and heart rate increased more rapidly during induced than during spontaneous arousals. In induced arousals, the peak values of O2 consumption occurred 30 min earlier and were 36 % higher than in spontaneous arousals. Heart rate accelerated at the onset of spontaneous arousals, but blood pressure did not rise until the heart rate reached 20 per min. In induced arousals, cessation of apnoeas, acceleration of heart rate and increase in blood pressure all occurred together shortly after the arousing stimulus. The blood pressure reached its maximum earlier than the heart rate, when the TB had reached 1720 C (TB in fully aroused animals was 3235 C). Pulse pressure was quite high, 1520 mm Hg, but in fully aroused animals fell to about 810 mm Hg. These observations indicate that even a small stimulus, if sufficient to induce arousal, modifies the process so that it differs markedly from spontaneous arousal.
23734593|The distribution of breeding birds within 30 ha of mixed coppiced woodland in south-east England was determined by territory mapping over five years. During this period all stages of coppice growth from freshly cut to nearly 40 years old were present. Bird species differed greatly in the stages of growth at which they were most abundant and in their habitat amplitude. All species with narrow habitat amplitudes, including all the abundant long-distance migrants, were confined to young coppice; no species was restricted to old coppice. Where migrants did use old coppice they were largely confined to the edges where it adjoined young coppice. Patterns of temporal change in the assemblages of birds closely matched major changes in the structure of the coppice vegetation. Low foliage (within 2 m of the ground) reached its greatest development between 3 and 5 years of growth, subsequently declining as the coppice canopy closed. From 8 years of growth there were no major changes in vegetation structure. Young coppice with few standard oak trees supported higher densities of several migrant species than coppice with many standards. Some areas of old coppice had been thinned with the aim of producing high forest; temporal changes in populations of migrants in such areas were broadly similar to those in coppice.
23734856|Twelve hares were shot in two areas in northern Finland (the Oulu University campus and the Vrritunturi fell area) for the analysis of lead and cadmium by direct current plasma atomic emisssion spectrometry. The concentration of lead in the liver in Oulu was around one mg per kilogramme (fresh weight), while at Vrritunturi it was only a half of that. Cadmium values in liver were highest at Vrritunturi, being about 0.4 mg/kg. The pattern of occurrence for cadmium in the muscle tissues was fairly similar to that in the liver, but at a slightly lower level on average, while the muscle values for lead showed great variation in Oulu (on average 1.2 mg/kg in 1981 and 0.3 mg/kg in 1982). The importance of the winter diet and preferred habitats of the animals (refuge theory) are discussed from the standpoint of heavy metal contamination.
23737144|Energetically demanding life-history stages in birds (reproduction, migration) might be associated with sex- and age-specific physiological changes expressed in suppressed immune function or declined body mass. Here, we examined the numbers of red and white blood cells (RBC and WBC), the ratio of heterophils and lymphocytes (H/L)], and body mass of reed warblers (Acrocephalus sirpaceus) and sedge warblers (A. schoenobaenus) during the breeding and migration periods. Higher WBC counts and H/L ratio in adults (both warblers) and lower RBC counts (only the reed warbler) during the prelaying/laying period as compared with those during the incubation/chick-rearing period suggest greater energetic demands during the latter period. In adults, higher H/L ratio and WBC counts in males of both species as compared with those in females during the prelaying/laying period indicate higher energy expenditures of males, probably associated with mate guarding and chasing intruders. Lower H/L ratio and WBC counts in adults of both species as compared with those in immatures during the migration period suggest lower stress level of adults, possibly due to their greater experience and/or higher social status.
23734176|An alpine breeding population of Fieldfares was studied on Hardangervidda, southern Norway in 1981-1983 within a 3 km2 large bog/delta system where nearly all nests were placed in Salix-bushes. The population size varied annually from zero to 26 pairs. The onset of breeding depended on flooding and snow melting of the bogs. The prelaying period lasted about two to three weeks. Egglaying was very synchronous and occurred mainly during the second week of June. One egg was laid per day and replacement clutches were rare. The mean clutch size was 4.760.16 (SE) and the most frequent clutch size 5. No seasonal variation of clutch size was found. Incubation started before egglaying had terminated. This resulted in an asynchronous hatching, which took 1-2 days. The incubation period averaged 12.80.30 (SE) days. Predation was the most important cause of loss of eggs/young (56.0 %) in 1982, but zero in 1981. Nest desertion accounted for 54.5 % of the losses in 1981, but only 16.0 % in 1982. Hatching success of eggs in a successful nest was in both years similar and averaged 87.5 %. In nests which produced at least one young, 3.6 and 3.8 young fledged during the two years. An average pair produced of 1.6 and 1.0 fledglings.
23734544|The winter food of the willow grouse and its crude protein and ether extract composition were studied in two areas in the extreme north of Finnish Fjeld Lapland in February  early May 19721975 and 1981. The contents of 918 crops (empty crops excluded) were examined. In both areas the most important food plant was Betula spp. (almost entirely pubescens ssp. tortuosa), constituting 77.397.8 % of the dry weight of the crop contents in the various years. Its frequency of occurrence varied between 88 and 100 %. In 1973 there were a lot of birch catkins available in both areas, and these were also utilized by the willow grouse in large quantities. Willows (Salix spp.) constituted 0.922.5 % of the dry weight of the crop contents, their frequency of occurrence and their proportions being lowest at times when the consumption of birch catkins was highest. The rest of the diet consisted of plants available in snowless places, where grit was also taken in. There were no significant differences between age or sex. The frequent consumption of protein-rich birch catkins shows that the willow grouse tend to obtain relatively nutritious food even in winter.
23734707|In many insect populations some individuals miss one or more breeding opportunities by remaining longer in diapause than others. Extra long diapause (ELD) may be achieved either by entering diapause exceptionally early (premature diapause) or by completing the diapause exceptionally late (prolonged diapause). In both cases diapause induction may be density-independent or density-dependent. This paper reviews models and selected examples illustrating the four kinds of ELD, emphasizing their population dynamic causes and consequences. Many theoretical predictions about ELD have been little tested or not at all, while interesting empirical findings await further theoretical studies. Examples of the latter include different patterns of ELD in species using the same, temporally varying resource, and ELD in coupled host-parasitoid interactions.
23731830|On the basis of a collection of 14 876 pellets of Asio otus, the numbers of small mammals and birds taken by a colony of owls in 1957  1968 have been calculated. The mean number of prey animals taken varied between 0.3 and 7.6 specimens per hectare within the study area of 2 800 ha. Data on the seasonal variation in the food items and their biomass as well as average daily food consumption are given.
23736525|Of the several deleterious consequences that sex chromosome meiotic drive can have for a population, extinction is the most severe. Several studies of this phenomenon have suggested that males carrying a driving X chromosome may be disadvantaged during sperm competition. Deterministic modeling indicates that sperm competition can maintain a balanced polymorphism of driving and non-driving X chromosomes, but that if the frequency of the driving chromosomes exceeds some threshold value, then these chromosomes will spread to fixation and the population will go extinct. In this article we present the results of individual-based simulations of a stochastic model of X chromosome drive in finite and structured populations. We show that in large populations the balanced polymorphism can be maintained for hundreds of thousands of generations, but that reductions in population size and certain forms of population structure promote fixation of the driving chromosome.
23734048|The Enchytraeids extracted from 10 soil samples collected in the USSR have been identified. Of the 25 species found, six are described here, and some others are discussed. New taxa are: Henlea ghilarovi sp.n., Bryodrilus cejkai sp.n., B. chernovi sp.n., Punahenlea gen.n., Punahenlea dicksoni sp.n., P. palmeni sp.n., P. taimyrensis sp.n.
23737124|Cyclic dynamics with extensive spatial synchrony has long been regarded as characteristic of key herbivores at high latitudes. This contrasts to recent reports of fading cycles in arvicoline rodents in boreal and alpine Fennoscandia. We investigate the spatio-temporal dynamics of boreal red fox and alpine arctic fox in Sweden as a proxy for the dynamics of their main prey, voles and Norwegian lemming, respectively. We analyse data from five decades, 19602008, with wavelets and autocorrelation approaches. Cyclic dynamics were identified with at least one method in all populations (arctic fox n = 3, red fox n = 6). The dynamics were synchronous between populations, or coupled with a 1-yr lag, in 8 of 13 pairwise comparisons. Importantly though, the dynamics were heterogeneous in space and time. All analytical approaches identified fading cycles in the three arctic fox populations and two northern red fox populations. At least one method identified similar patterns in three southern red fox populations. Red fox dynamics were cyclic in the 1970s primarily, while arctic fox dynamics was cyclic until the late 1980s or early 1990s. When cyclic, 4-yr cycles dominated in arctic fox and northern red fox, whilst 34-yr cycles was found in southern red foxes. Significant cyclic regimes reappeared in the 1990s or 2000s in two red fox populations and one arctic fox population. Cycles and regionally coupled dynamics appeared associated in northern arctic and red foxes. This study supports accumulating evidence which suggests that cyclic and synchronous patterns in the dynamics of lemmings and voles are nonstationary in space and time. Furthermore, the similar patterns of change in both fox species indicate that persistence of cycles is governed by similar mechanisms in lemmings and voles.
23737123|Empirical evidence does not fully support the universal nature of the positive interspecific abundancedistribution relationship. We have earlier documented a negative relationship for butterfly species in Finland, but recently our view was again challenged using a small subset of Finnish butterflies as apparent evidence. Here we scrutinize the critique and identify some general conceptual challenges in analyses of interspecific abundancedistribution relationships. We identify the common problem that the abundancedistribution studies include only a small subset of species, and thus reveal only sample characteristics, not overall patterns in complete assemblages. Small subsets of species are also unlikely to have sufficient power to reveal nonlinear relationships. Second, varying definitions of abundance, especially the practice of using a single point estimate to describe average density, further spur the empirical evidence for the abundancedistribution relationship. To get theoretically relevant results abundance and distribution must be defined and operationalised consistently; otherwise macroecology will reduce to simple documentation of ambiguous patterns and aid little in understanding the biological world.
23734119|Metacercariae, mainly of Lacunovermis macomae (Lebour), were present in Macoma balthica (L.) taken from 6 collection sites, where the depth varied between 5 and 40 m and the salinity between 2 and 7 . Metacercariae were present even in specimens of 4-6 mm shell length. The infection incidence (% of infected individuals from those studied) and degree (number of metacercariae/shell valve) usually increased in conjunction with shell length increase. To all intents and purposes the infection incidence attained 100 % in most collection sites when the shell length was over 12 mm, and coincidently heavily infected individuals (30 metacercariae/shell valve) began to appear. Heavily infected individuals could amount to over 50 % of specimens in the larger size categories. At one collection site, at a depth of 35 m, the infection incidence and degree of infection by metacercariae in M. balthica were, however, considerably smaller. Only 30-55 % of individuals of 12-22 mm shell length were infected, and they usually carried no more than 1-2 metacercariae per valve.
23736126|The flight pattern of Entephria caesiata (Denis & Schiffermller, 1775) was studied using light traps in the Vrritunturi fell area in E Finnish Forest Lapland during the summers 1978 1982. The beginning of flight varied between 7 and 23 July and the yearly flight period was on average 49 days long, varying between 39 and 63 days. The last specimens were caught between 31 August and 11 September. Fifty percent of the yearly catch of males was obtained on average 7.6 days before that of females.
23735378|The relationship between regional distribution and local abundance of British noctuid moths was studied using literature data. Distribution and abundance were strongly positively correlated at the scale of the UK, but at a smaller spatial scale no relationship was detected. Body size correlated negatively with abundance, while body size and regional distribution were weakly positively correlated. Food and habitat generalists were on average more abundant and more widely distributed than specialist species. Polyphages were larger in body size than oligophages/monophages. Regional distribution and potential population growth rate of the species were positively correlated. These results are in agreement with Brown's (1984) hypothesis that ecological generalists are both widely distributed and locally abundant.
23736788|Ants are important harvesters of plant-derived sugars, but little is known about how anthropogenic disturbances influence this behaviour. We investigated factors related to honeydew harvesting by red wood ants, Formica aquilonia, in managed boreal forests. Ant activity was lowest in middle-age stands (3040 years old), which had the fewest and smallest ant mounds. It was best predicted by a model containing an interaction among tree species, basal diameter and stand age. Individual workers collected similar masses of honeydew from the different aged stands, which suggests that colonies optimise foraging efforts by adjusting the number of active foragers to match resource availability. The rate of honeydew harvesting from recently clear-cut stands during the survey was similar to that in old stands, although significantly faster than in middle-aged stands. This may be a result of high aphid loads on clear-cuts and recent changes in forest management that improve the temporal continuity of forests for red wood ants. Anthropogenic alteration of habitats thus significantly alters energy use by ants, mainly as a result of changes in the abundance and size of ant colonies. This change is likely to have further consequences for ant-driven ecosystem functions.
23736900|This essay grew out of an examination of one-tailed significance testing. One-tailed tests were little advocated by the founders of modern statistics but are widely used and recommended nowadays in the biological, behavioral and social sciences. The high frequency of their use in ecology and animal behavior and their logical indefensibility have been documented in a companion review paper. In the present one, we trace the roots of this problem and counter some attacks on significance testing in general. Roots include: the early but irrational dichotomization of the P scale and adoption of the 'significant/non-significant' terminology; the mistaken notion that a high P value is evidence favoring the null hypothesis over the alternative hypothesis; and confusion over the distinction between statistical and research hypotheses. Resultant widespread misuse and misinterpretation of significance tests have also led to other problems, such as unjustifiable demands that reporting of P values be disallowed or greatly reduced and that reporting of confidence intervals and standardized effect sizes be required in their place. Our analysis of these matters thus leads us to a recommendation that for standard types of significance assessment the paleoFisherian and Neyman-Pearsonian paradigms be replaced by a neoFisherian one. The essence of the latter is that a critical  (probability of type I error) is not specified, the terms 'significant' and 'non-significant' are abandoned, that high P values lead only to suspended judgments, and that the so-called "three-valued logic" of Cox, Kaiser, Tukey, Tryon and Harris is adopted explicitly. Confidence intervals and bands, power analyses, and severity curves remain useful adjuncts in particular situations. Analyses conducted under this paradigm we term neoFisherian significance assessments (NFSA). Their role is assessment of the existence, sign and magnitude of statistical effects. The common label of null hypothesis significance tests (NHST) is retained for paleoFisherian and Neyman-Pearsonian approaches and their hybrids. The original Neyman-Pearson framework has no utility outside quality control type applications. Some advocates of Bayesian, likelihood and information-theoretic approaches to model selection have argued that P values and NFSAs are of little or no value, but those arguments do not withstand critical review. Champions of Bayesian methods in particular continue to overstate their value and relevance.
23734476|The efficiency of intra- and interspecific predation by adults and the later larval stages of Arctocorisa carinata and Callicorixa producta was studied in the laboratory using 1st- and 2nd-stage larvae as prey. Animals which had been killed had characteristic punctures on their dorsal sides. The efficiency of individual predators varied greatly. The average attack rates were low, but A. carinata was significantly more efficient than C. producta. No differences were found between the two last larval stages and adults of the species studied. The predator functional response appeared to be linear over the prey density range recorded in the field. Predator density had no effect on the attack rate. Larvae of C. producta were the more vulnerable to attack, but no differences could be detected between 1st and 2nd larval stages of any one species. It is assumed that the difference between the two species is due to differences in evasive prey behaviour. In field conditions the mortality of small larvae is correlated with the density of larger individuals. The attack rates observed in the laboratory are sufficient to explain the observed patterns of mortality. Cannibalism is potentially an important mechanism of population limitation in the rock-pool environment.
23734474|Demographic data on the pied flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca (a southern species; 196782) and the redstart Phoenicurus phoenicurus (a northern species; 196982) in northern Finnish Lapland is key-factor analysed. The mortality factors included were: clutch size reduction, hatching failure, nestling mortality and mortality outside the nesting season. The results on the pied flycatcher in the north are compared with a similar analysis performed in southern Finland (Virolainen 1984). In the north the most important mortality factor of both species was mortality outside the nesting season, which seemed to be density-dependent. Mortality during the nesting season was density-independent. In the south and in the north the relative importance of the different mortality factors was remarkably similar in the pied flycatcher, although in the north hatching failure was a relatively more important factor than in the south; in the south polygyny, which is rare in the north, was an important density-dependent regulatory factor. Both in the south and in the north nestling mortality of the pied flycatcher was significantly and positively correlated with mortality outside the nesting season.
23731621|The breeding population of Arctic Skuas in Finland totals about 225 pairs, sporadically distributed along the coasts. The distribution is determined mainly by the availability of suitable nesting sites and the influence of man. Since the end of the last century the population has become almost extinct in the Bothnian Bay and the Gulf of Finland, through persecution by man. Birds from the coast of the Arctic Ocean regularly migrate along the Gulfs of Finland and Bothnia. The size and timing of the migration, and the ringing recoveries, are discussed. Non-breeding birds, mainly immatures and belonging in part to the population of the Arctic Ocean, are seen on the coasts of Finland throughout the summer. About 95 % of the breeding population consists of the dark phase, whereas about 92 % of the migratory population is of the light phase. No selective mating between the colour phases could be demonstrated, neither any cline in the phase ratio within the Baltic. The breeding grounds of the passage migrants are discussed on the basis of their phase ratio.
23736809|Recently, there has been much interest in estimating fluctuating asymmetry (FA) of morphological traits as a short-cut measure of individual quality. FA deals with small differences around the symmetry value of zero. Thus, measurement error is often relatively large. However, repeated measurements and large sample sizes allow reliable estimates of FA that can be corrected for errors. The purpose of this study was two-fold: at the biological level, we examined with a large sample size (N = 804) whether pedipalp FA could be used as a short-cut measure of individual quality in the wolf spider Hygrolycosa rubrofasciata. This was done by estimating how strongly FA correlates with male sexual performance, i.e. drumming rate and mobility. At the statistical level, we examined how the deflating effect of measurement error could be eliminated to get unbiased correlations between FA and any repeatable trait. We also examined which is the more economical way to get accurate population-level estimates of FAtrait associations, to increase sample size or the number of within-subject repeats. Our results show that there was a very weak, but significant negative relationship between pedipalp FA and mobility (Kendall's partial rk = -0.086). However, this value inevitably underestimates the true relationship, given the large measurement error. It is possible to estimate the unbiased relationship by correcting the above correlation coefficient with effective reliability estimates of both FA and sexual performance. After the correction, the unbiased relationship between FA and mobility was r = -0.183. Our results indicate that FA is weakly related to male sexual performance in H. rubrofasciata. Our results also show that leptokurtosis, which is characteristic of signed FA distributions, was entirely caused by 17 outlier individuals. This indicates that large sample sizes are important to illustrate the true between-individual heterogeneity in FA. Furthermore, our power analysis indicates that it pays to measure more individuals than to increase the number of within-subject repeats to obtain accurate population-level estimates of FA-trait associations.
23733722|Salmo gairdneri erythrocytes were lysed and the oxygen-binding properties of the haemolysates in 0.1 M tris-HCl, veronal-HCl, imidazole-HCl and phosphate buffers were determined over the pH range 77.9. The oxygen-binding properties of erythrocyte suspensions were determined over the same pH range (tris-HCl). In this range the haemolysates in tris-HCl, veronal-HCl and phosphate buffers behaved similarly: their oxygen affinites were the highest and their ability to bind oxygen was least affected by the changing pH. In atmospheric oxygen tension the oxygen saturation of these haemolysates was depressed (Root effect) only below pH 7.2. Below this pH the oxygen affinity also decreased rapidly as the pH was lowered (an increase in the Bohr effect). In the erythrocyte suspensions oxygen affinity decreased rapidly with decreasing pH throughout the pH range measured (Bohr constant = 1.0). The oxygen saturation of the suspension was depressed at pH values other than 7.9. The difference between the suspension and the haemolysates is suggested to be due to the lower pH within the red cells. The imidazole buffer caused a marked decrease in the ability of the haemolysate to bind oxygen; up to pH 7.47 the haemolysate was only 35 % oxygen-saturated when equilibrated with air.
23731819|The average daily metabolic rate (ADMR), resting metabolic rate (RMR), and basal metabolic rate (BMR), as well as food digestibility and assimilation, were determined in the water vole, Arvicola terrestris L. (n = 44), during spring and autumn. The cost of maintenance and daily energy budget (DEB) were also estimated. The ADMR value of water voles at 20 C amounted in spring to 142.5 kcal/kg0.73-day and in autumn to 118.8 kcal/kg0.75-day. The relationship between metabolism and body weight is described by the regression equation: $\mathrm{A}\mathrm{D}\mathrm{M}{\mathrm{R}}_{\mathrm{c}\mathrm{c}\mathrm{m}{\mathrm{O}}_{2}/\mathrm{g}-\mathrm{h}\mathrm{r}}=24.47 \ {\mathrm{W}}^{-0.57}$ The metabolism-temperature curves followed similar courses in the two seasons according to the equations: $\mathrm{R}\mathrm{M}{\mathrm{R}}_{\mathrm{c}\mathrm{c}\mathrm{m}{\mathrm{O}}_{2}/\mathrm{g}-\mathrm{h}\mathrm{r}}=4.26-0.082 \ \mathrm{X}$ (in spring), and $\mathrm{R}\mathrm{M}{\mathrm{R}}_{\mathrm{c}\mathrm{c}\mathrm{m}{\mathrm{O}}_{2}/\mathrm{g}-\mathrm{h}\mathrm{r}}=3.31-0.059 \ \mathrm{X}$ (in autumn). The mean increase in heat production when the ambient temperature was lowered by 1 C amounted to 3.6 % in both seasons. The BMR determined at 30 C was found to be 74.3 kcal/kg0.75 day. The digestibility of the various foods tested (grass, carrot, kohlrabi, Typha) ranged from 55 to 91 %, and metabolizable energy constituted 44.7  87.7% of gross energy. The animals assimilated 16 to 25 kcal daily. The daily cost of maintenance, calculated from metabolizable energy, amounted to 152 kcal/kg0.75-day. The DEB was described by the equation: DEBkcal/animal-day = 2.50 W 0.50. Hence for the average animal in the population, having a body weight of 104 g, the DEB value amounted to 25.5 kcal/animal-day.
23733648|Metamorphic changes in soluble proteins and lipoproteins of haemolymph, distribution of soluble proteins among and within other tissues (fat body and midgut), and the effect of dietary deficiency of lipids on haemolymph proteins and lipoproteins were examined with acrylamide gel electrophoresis in Pieris brassicae. The last larval ecdysis, pupation and adult emergence were associated with notable changes in the pattern of haemolymph proteins and lipoproteins. The patterns of soluble proteins in the haemolymph, fat body and midgut of fifth instar larvae were markedly different. Haemolymph lipoproteins resolved into four bands late in the fourth instar but into nine or ten bands late in the fifth instar and in pupae. Slowly migrating lipoproteins were prominent in newly oviposited eggs and in fifth instar larvae, but were almost absent from ecdysing fourth-fifth instar larvae and 2-day pupae. In fifth instar larvae reared from eggs on a diet deficient in essential fatty acids the haemolymph proteins had lipid contents greatly below normal.
23736015|Young crucian carps from a natural pond were enclosed in jars with anoxic water and the survival times at different temperatures were recorded. Considerable seasonal differences in the survival times were demonstrated. The year of the crucian carp can be divided into three periods. 1) the reproductive period in spring and early summer. This starts from the melting of the ice (in April  May) and during its first three weeks the high tolerance to anoxia is lost. 2) the start of reserve build up from late summer to autumn is further characterized by only short survival (approx. 1 day) in anoxia. Then, accompanied by a final accumulation of winter reserves (glycogen), a longer survival time of up to 10 days or more at low temperatures is attained. 3) wintering is the period characterized by very long survival times in anoxia. The tolerance of juveniles (age group 0+) seems to develop a month or two later than that of older fish. The long survival times (up to 4.5 months at +3C) in winter are suggestive of even longer tolerance to natural anoxia at the low temperatures prevailing in local ponds.
23733723|A preliminary worldwide revision of nesticid genera is presented and taxonomic criteria for all nesticid taxa are discussed. Genital organs of the type-species of the family, Nesticus cellulanus (Clerck, 1757), are analysed. Ten nesticid genera are accepted. They are classified into four groups: the tribes Nesticini and Nesticellini, and the genera Gaucelmus and Eidmannella. Tribe Nesticini consists of Tuganobia Chamberlin, 1933, Nesticus Thorell, 1869, Carpathonesticus gen. n. (type-species Nesticus fodinarum Kulczynski, 1894), Ivesia Petrunkevitch, 1925 (= rvesella Arndt, 1928), Cyclocarcina Komatsu, 1942 (= Sunitorypha Komatsu, 1960 syn. n.), and Typhlonesticus Kulczynski, 1914 (corrected type designation: T. speluncarum Kulczynski, 1914 = Nesticus absoloni Kratochvil, 1933). Gaucelmus Keyserling, 1884 (= Theridionexus Petrunkevitch, 1910, syn. n.) and Eidmannella Rower, 1935 (= Gondwanonesticus Dumitrescu, 1973) are both isolated genera. All indigenous Oriental-Australian Nesticidae belong to the tribe Nesticellini, consisting mainly of species living in litter of tropical forests. This tribe comprises two new genera, Howaia (type-species Nesticus mogera Yaginuma, 1972) and Nesticella (type-species Nesticus nepalensis Hubert, 1973). Howaia buiconghieni ( Vietnam), H. inthanoni ( Thailand), H. proszynskii ( Java), Nesticella taurama ( New Guinea), N. robinsoni ( New Guinea), and N. sogi ( New Guinea) are described and more than 30 new combinations are listed. New records of Eidmannella pallida (Emerton, 1875), E. suggerens (Chamberlin, 1924), and Howaia mogera (Yaginuma, 1972) are listed from the Pacific Islands and additional Nepalese records of Nesticella nepalensis. Schenkeliella spinosa (O. Pickard-Cambridge, 1870), Nesticus alt'eratus Chamberlin, 1924, and N. carteri Emerton, 1875 are removed from Nesticidae.
23735708|Modern forestry alters the structure of boreal forest landscapes, and this affects several forest species with different habitat requirements. Quantitative analyses of the structure of real landscapes are scarce, although this information will be needed in landscape-level planning and management applications. We investigated the occurrence and configuration of mature forest (> 80100 year) in relation to five different extents (ranging from 20 to 7 854 ha) of circular landscapes around random points in managed forest environment in NE Finland. The habitat type was coarsely chosen according to requirements of certain resident birds and mammals. We present an approach where species-specific home-range scales are related to the observed environmental heterogeneity pattern for assessing the potential of actual landscapes to maintain these species. As a result we found that there is a minority of landscapes where total area of mature forest was comparable to species' home ranges. Irrespective of the scale examined, the average proportion of habitat in a landscape was approximately 15%. Besides that the mature forest was physically fragmented already on a scale relevant to individual animals, the variation in habitat proportion between landscapes decreased rapidly when the landscape extent was increased. This decrease of variation occurs on surprisingly small scales; the forest landscape structure is unintentionally altered due to small-patterned land ownership, even age distribution of managed stands, and small variation in regeneration patch size. In terms of related landscape metrics, we also compare our results with patterns achieved in randomly generated neutral landscape models.
23731382|The vertical distribution and the fluctuations in numbers of zooplankton, especially rotifers, in the weakly eutrophic lake Lngelmvesi, south Finland, is described on the basis of regular quantitative samples taken in 1963  1965 throughout the years. The fluctuations in the amount of zooplankton were correlated with the temperature conditions of the year and with the amount of food available. Competition and alternation between the species as well as the vertical distribution of the plankton is discussed. Detailed data are given about the occurrence of 34 species of rotifers and several planktonic crustaceans. Notholca cinetura Skorikov is reported for the first time from Finland.
23734483|Trap catches from 12 forest ponds showed that in monospecific fish communities, populations of crucian carp attained high densities but were dominated by small (<13 cm) individuals. This contrasted with populations co-occurring with predaceous fishes (perch and pike), which were dominated by significantly larger fish (>15 cm) but at much lower densities. The removal of all fish from a 1.5 ha monospecific pond, and its restocking and subsequent monitoring over a two-year period revealed that crucian carp could rapidly repopulate the empty pond, increasing in population size from the 280 restocked fish to 16 600 in the first summer and to 25 500 in the next. After two years, the size structure of the introduced population closely resembled that of the original population.
23735949|Flowers exploit the sensory capabilities of pollinators to lure them. The crab spider Thomisus spectabilis benefits from this system by responding to floral signals that are intended to lure honeybees, Apis mellifera, which they prey upon. We investigated whether honeybees and crab spiders discriminate between flowers of Jasminum mesnyi plants that are either fully rewarding, with two reproductive stamens, or not. We found that both honeybees and crab spiders preferred fully rewarding flowers in the field. Moreover, honeybees preferred small flowers over larger ones, while the height above the ground and the number of petals did not influence flower choice of honeybees and crab spiders. Under experimental conditions, crab spiders showed the same choice pattern as observed in the field. This indicates that they actively search for fully rewarding flowers, which are also preferred by their potential prey. Fully rewarding J. mesnyi lure honeybees through visual, olfactory or a combination of these floral signals and T. spectabilis exploits this communication to enhance their chance of prey encounter.
23733678|In the southwestern part of Nsijrvi and in Vesijrvi the water quality varies widely because industrial wastes and sewage cause pollution and eutrophication. In Nsijrvi the distribution of Micronectae was clearly correlated with water quality, but in Vesijrvi, which is fed mostly by ground-waters, the situation was more complicated. The study supports the previous suggestion that in Finland M. griseola favours eutrophic, M. minutissima somewhat eutrophic, and M. poweri oligotrophic waters. M. minutissima seemed to be the species best able to tolerate industrial pollution. A semiquantitative standard sweep sampling method revealed that in areas influenced by pollution the numbers of Micronectae were always small. In waters throughout the range from oligotrophic to eutrophic there were wide fluctuations in the numbers of specimens, but differences between the average catches were surprisingly small, although the species composition changed completely.
23735761|Population density estimates are a significant aspect of ecological theory. Of the approximately 6000 shrew literature citations, we located none that compared shrew density estimates and explained their variation. We compared 476 usable estimates of shrew density reported in 27 publications for 10 of the 70 species in the genus Sorex. Several factors explained the variation in density, including study area size, year of study, site selection, sampling method, trap type, reported vegetation details, elevation, and body mass. Unlike many larger mammals, shrew numbers were often estimated at study areas too small to encompass "populations". The 59 study areas ranged in size from 0.041 to 9.975 ha, numerical estimates ranged from 0 to 249 shrews, and density estimates ranged from 0 to 17 667 shrews km-2. The average numerical estimate was only 14 shrews and the highest densities were recorded at the smallest study areas. The numerical estimates and study area sizes of shrews were disproportionately small compared to estimates of highly carnivorous species of Carnivora. Our results can provide guidance for setting and designing future studies of shrew numerical patterns that could contribute substantially to knowledge of shrew biology.
23732522|After inhibition of brain monoamine biosynthesis, depletion of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) in the brain was accelerated in a warm but retarded in a cold environment; noradrenaline (NA) depletion was also accelerated at temperatures above the thermoneutral zone (32 C) but the rate did not change in the cold. The hyperthermia caused by an intraperitoneal injection of adrenaline (2 mg/kg) at 32 C accelerated the depletion of NA in the hypothalamus but did not significantly influence 5-HT depletion. At 23 C injections of 5-HT and NA into the cerebral ventricles (3 g/mouse) lowered the body temperature. In a thermoneutral environment a 5-HT injection had a similar effect, whereas an NA injection caused a slight initial rise, which was followed by a fall. Depletion of 5-HT improved thermoregulatory effeciency at both low and high ambient temperatures; in contrast, NA depletion slightly impaired thermoregulation. The results indicate that the central 5-HT neurones become activated with rising ambient temperature and induce reactions promoting heat loss; the NA neurones participate in thermoregulation at high and probably also at low ambient temperatures.
23736206|We analysed the spatial scale of synchrony in the inter-annual variation of vendace population indices from time-series of 21 Finnish lake basins. We detected significant positive correlation between lakes in the variation of abundance of young-of-the-year recruits, residuals of a density dependence model for recruitment, newly hatched larvae and spawning stocks. The spatial scale of correlation was typically 100300 km and anisotropic, being shorter along the northsouth vector of distance than along the eastwest vector. The outcomes did not change when the data were restricted to rule out cases with a possibility of dispersal between populations. The scale and anisotropy structure of synchrony in mean temperature during the four week period after the local ice break date closely resembled that of the vendace population indices. Regionally correlated exogenous factors synchronise the recruitment variation either directly or perhaps also through environmentally induced synchrony in predator stocks. The effective scale of correlation for these factors, especially along the northsouth axis, can be short if a large proportion of the prerecruit mortality occurs during a short period and the timing of this period at different latitudes varies by weeks due to differences in time of ice break and vendace hatching.
23735580|The skull and tooth morphometrics of Finnish and Japanese raccoon dogs (Nyctereutes procyonoides ussuriensis and N. p. viverrinus, respectively) were examined and compared. The skulls of Finnish raccoon dogs were larger overall than those of Japanese raccoon dogs (tanukis) and were also larger relative to occipital condyle breadth, i.e. body size. Almost all measurements differed among samples in relation to skull size, indicating differences in skull shape. Mandible width and jaw height were the best measurements for discriminating among populations; the mandible is both absolutely and relatively more robust and the jaws more powerful among Finnish than among Japanese raccoon dogs. Japanese raccoon dogs have a relatively longer rostrum and longer tooth rows than Finnish raccoon dogs. Although the absolute measurements of most teeth of Finnish raccoon dogs were larger than those of Japanese raccoon dogs, the relative measurements of molars in particular were larger in Japan than in Finland, indicating a larger grinding surface among Japanese raccoon dogs. We suggest that viverrinus has adapted to a milder climate and less carnivorous diet than ussuriensis. The Japanese raccoon dog is smaller and, due to its less carnivorous diet, its head has become decreased in size and the jaws less powerful; however, since its diet consists largely of invertebrates and coarse plant material, its molars have increased relative to skull size.
23731730|Supplementary records of the distribution and habitats of Eiseniella tetraedra (Sav.), Allolohophora caliginosa (Sav.), A. chlorotica (Sav.), Octolasion lacteum (rley), Dendrobaena rubida (Sav.), D. subrubicunda (Eisen), D. tenuis (Eisen), Lumbricus rubellus Hoffm. and L. terrestris L. in Finland are presented. Dendrobaena rubida is reported from Finland with certainty for the first time. The species composing the Lumbricid fauna in comparable biotopes in different parts of Finland is presented. Three Dendrobaena species, viz. D. rubida, D. subrubicunda and D. tenuis, are discussed.
23736881|Predation is an important agent leading to the evolution of accurate risk assessment. In fishes, one of the best studied modes of threat assessment is the use of damage release cues from consumed or damaged individuals. These cues act as sources of public information alerting both conspecific and heterospecific individuals in the immediate area of a possible predation threat. Responses to damage release cues can be behavioural (e.g. avoidance of the cue or increased schooling), morphological (e.g. change in body shape), and potentially reproductive (e.g. altered patterns of breeding and reproductive investment). In the current study we documented the response of convict cichlids (Archocentrus nigrofaciatus) to damage release cues from conspecifics, unknown heterospecifics (swordtail, Xiphophorus helleri), and distilled water. In short term behavioural trials we found that cichlids exhibited an antipredator response to injured conspecifics, while they exhibited a foraging response to injured swordtails and no response to distilled water. In longer term trials (41 days) we found that cichlids exposed to conspecific cues grew significantly less than those in the other treatments. Finally, we found that reproductive patterns were influenced by the treatments. Cichlids bred faster in the presence of predation cues (conspecific skin extract) and food cues (swordtail skin extract) than the control treatment (distilled water).
23731748|The insect emergence in a dysoligotrophic Finnish lake was studied for several years with the aid of tent and funnel traps. Emerging insects were most abundant in the shallow stony belt, averaging 15 000 exx/m2 (2.3 g ash-free dry wt/m2). Emergence averaged 6 000 exx (1.2 g/m2) in the Carex and Equisetum zones, 3 600  4 500 exx (0.4  1.0 g/m2) in the marshy meadow, sandy bottom and Isoetes zone, 2 500 exx (0.2 g/m2) in the algal zone and 150 exx (0.02 g/m2) in the epiprofundal. The energy output due to insect emergence was 4  13 kcal/m2 per year in the littoral and 0.06  1.1 kcal/m2 per year in the sublittoral and epiprofundal. The spatial variation in the annual catches in the shallow stony belt was found to be negligible. The emergence phenology of many species is dependent on the rise of water temperature after the breaking up of the ice. Water mite larvae were most abundant on the adults of the Chironomidae, especially Tanypodinae, in the stony belt. Their numbers decreased steeply with increasing depth. In the whole material comprising about 50 000 insect adults, nine specimens of three Chironomid species were parasitized by a Mermithid worm. All of them were females caught in the funnel traps at 2  2.5 m depth and two of them were gynandromorphic. The annual emergence of the insects represents 0.2 % of the organic matter, 0.5 % of the nitrogen and 0.2 % of the phosphorus that accumulates yearly in the lake. The output of the littoral is 96 % of the total output, while the area of the littoral is only 48 % of the whole lake area.
23736110|The influence of stocking density on the dynamics of growth, cannibalism and survival (GCS) was investigated in cultured larvae (044 day old fish, 5004 000 fish m-2, 2023C) and juveniles (60143 day old fish, 952 380 fish m-2, 23C) of perch Perca fluviatilis. High stocking density granted significantly (P < 0.01) more homogeneous growth patterns within the cultured stocks that decreased the overall mortality rate and emergence of cannibals. The impact of cannibalism was proportionally decreased when fish grew more slowly. Weaned juvenile perch showed higher growth at high stocking density (P < 0.05). Cannibalism was suppressed by size-sorting after 24 days of rearing and was most intense at intermediate densities till this moment (P < 0.01).
23731783|Forty-four new records of Mysis relicta, Pallasea quadrispinosa, Pontoporeia affinis and Gammaracanthus lacustris are given from 25 lakes. The probability of the occurrence of the relict crustaceans increases with the maximum depth of the lake. Mysis seems to live in shallower, browner and smaller lakes closer to the watersheds than the other species. Pontoporeia and Gammaracanthus are absent from some of the lakes of the system, probably owing to their high humus content and shallowness, respectively. Pallasea and Pontoporeia show no difference in their preference of the colour of the water, which indicates humus content. Gammaracanthus was found only in the largest and clearest lakes, the smallest maximum depth of the lakes where it occurred being 44 m, whilst it was 10 m for the other species.
23735701|Biomarkers can be a powerful tool to detect the exposure of sublethal concentrations of xenobiotics to fish and are useful in studies of chronic toxicity. However, evaluation of the results should be done with caution, especially if results are extrapolated to population- and ecosystem-level effects. If a biomarker can not be connected to clear adverse effects, on at least an individual level in the ecosystem, it is not useful in an ecotoxicological perspective. Still if the biomarker has a high specificity, it can be used as an integrated measure of exposure to certain xenobiotics and replace direct measurements of chemical concentration. In field the interactions of the investigated chemical, with both abiotic and biotic factors are very important and determines the ecological effect. Seasonal variations of the bioavailability of the toxic chemicals are evident, and so are the physiological status of the individuals in the ecosystem. The step from toxicology to ecotoxicology is long, and the use of biomarkers in ecotoxicological studies must never replace the ecological on-site investigation.
23736892|The population structure of the Baltic salmon (Salmo salar) specific clade of Gyrodactylus salaris was studied using mitochondrial and nuclear DNA markers across a gradient of historical coadaptation. In the Onega and Ladoga lakes, the salmon was near to eliminating the parasite: just 5 of 548 inspected salmon juveniles carried a small number of parasites. In the northern Baltic Tornio River, G. salaris was observed as non-pathogenic in 23% of 765 fish. The population of nave anadromous salmon in the Keret' River (White Sea) had almost perished after the parasite was imported from Lake Onega in 1992. The parasite clones defined by mtDNA were strongly spatially structured (FST = 0.548 in Keret'; FST = 0.484 in Tornio), suggesting competitive interactions via host defense. The prevalence and clonal structuring of G. salaris were concordant with the host resistance predicted from the suggested 132 000 years of common phylogeographic history in the Baltic refugia.
23734181|The Black Woodpecker Dryocopus martius has regularly attacked wooden houses and wooden gables of buildings on the Island of Bornholm, Denmark. The study records the results of a twelve year observation series on this behaviour. Data are also given on the dispersion of the fledglings and on the use of Black Woodpecker holes by other animals.
23731665|The catches in small removal quadrats were affected by type of bait and by number of traps per trap station. With standard small quadrats there were indications of competition for traps, resulting from the clumped distribution of small mammals. Most variability was between, not within trap stations, and not due to trap arrangement within the station. Point trapping was clearly inferior to small quadrats. Removal from the actual quadrats was incomplete in all categories of the population, but catches included animals from outside, mainly subadults. Attempts to convert quadrat catches to absolute densities met with several difficulties. However, at present this seems the best method for forecasting purposes.
23736079|A recruitment model for perch (Perca fluviatilis L.) was used to predict relative abundances of young-of-the-year in habitats with different degrees of exposure to the open sea in the Gulf of Bothnia. The model describes the most basic conditions influencing the recruitment process, namely the influence of day-length and temperature on consumption affecting the growth potential. First year growth in these waters is positively correlated with year-class strength, thus, the size at the end of the first growth season is in the model used as an index of recruitment. The predictions were compared with observations during surveys regarding growth, distribution and abundance. As verified by the survey results, recruitment success should be very low in the most exposed habitats due to a low potential for first-year growth. Only sheltered bays and archipelagos, estuaries and small freshwaters provide favourable conditions for production of recruits in the Gulf of Bothnia. As predicted by the model, recruitment areas with the highest basic quality, the highest temperatures, had the widest extensions in the archipelagos.
23736743|We studied community composition and activity densities of spiders around stand-alone Norway spruce at the alpine timberline with respect to three interrelated parameters: (1) relative distance from tree trunk, (2) branch-, and (3) vegetation cover. Pitfall traps were positioned in an inner distance range (close to tree trunk), a median, and an outer distance range (at the outer limit of branch cover). Community composition: Linyphiid species numbers increased significantly towards the tree trunks where the branch cover was high, whereas lycosid and gnaphosid species numbers increased towards the edge where branch cover was low. Activity densities: 11 out of 14 species were significantly correlated with the relative distance to the tree trunk, ten with the branch cover, and two with vegetation cover. Open-land species preferred the outer distance range and forest species the inner distance range. Caracladus avicula is probably a habitat specialist of the alpine timberline.
23737077|Evolutionary and ecological effects of DNA and protein polymorphisms are controversially discussed, since the raising of molecular approaches. Functional differences among different genotypes of allozymes might strongly influence evolutionary processes and spatial distributions. Therefore, we analysed nine polymorphic allozyme loci for 127 individuals sampled from one population of the chalk-hill blue Polyommatus coridon during one flight season. We observed fluctuations in the genotype frequencies during this flight season, but only two enzyme loci showed significant changes. The percentage of observed heterozygosity was decreasing in more than three quarters of all loci over time (e.g. Mdh2 decreasing from 72.7% to 36.4%). These changes might be due to different adaptations of heterozygotic individuals if compared with homozygotic ones. In contrast to genotypes, no changes in allele frequencies were observed (e.g. low FST value for Mdh2). Therefore, allozyme data represent a suitable tool for studying ecological adaptation and biogeographical pattern.
23731642|In the dorsal lymph sac of a mating female frog there was almost as much normally developed ovarial tissue as in the body cavity, and the oocytes in the two sites were at the same stage of development. Because a cranial duct connects the lymph sac and the body cavity, this anomaly originates from a traumatic hernia through which an ovarial diverticulum has protruded into the lymph sac.
23735878|Most ecologists acknowledge that both natural enemies and host-plant resources act in concert to influence populations of insect herbivores. What is poorly known is how the strength of top-down and bottom-up impacts on insect herbivores vary spatially and what factors dictate the relative strength of these forces. We examined spatially-explicit change in top-down and bottom-up impacts along a tidal gradient on the inter-tidal marshes that fringe the Atlantic coast of North America. These marshes are dominated by extensive stands of Spartina cordgrass and its associated arthropod food web, comprised mostly of herbivorous planthoppers (Prokelisia) and their spider predators. Using "effect sizes" generated from experiments, we show that bottom-up forces dominate in low-marsh habitats and that top-down impacts increase up the elevational gradient. We develop a graphical model that integrates spatial variation in top-down (predation) and bottom-up variables (plant nutrition and vegetation complexity) to make habitat-related predictions concerning herbivore abundance.
23734219|Indices of density variations (or "cyclicity") for local populations of four species of Clethrionomys voles were computed as the standard deviation of late summer  early autumn density-estimates transformed by logarithm of base 10. They were compared whenever possible, with litter sizes, maturation rates, frequencies of litters and lengths of breeding season as components of the total reproductive output. A south-north increase in density fluctuations in Clethrionomys glareolus, accompanied by an increasing occurrence of summer declines, did not correlate with increased litter sizes as predicted earlier but with annual variations in maturation rates. Clethrionomys rufocanus and C. rutilus showed geographical variations in fluctuation patterns on approximately the same northern latitudes, with generally highest degrees of cyclicity in northern Fennoscandia. The relations between "cyclicity" and litter sizes and maturation rates were similar to those for C. glareolus. Clethrionomys gapperi did not show any clear gradient in cyclicity. Laboratory breeding of Clethrionomys glareolus did not demonstrate any inherited difference in litter size or total reproductive output between cyclic and non-cyclic populations. Thus, the variations in maturation rates seem to be due to social or other density-related conditions.
23734550|Carabid beetles were collected with 300 pitfall traps throughout the growing season of 1985 in a coniferous forest in southern Finland (Musturi State Forest Reserve). The traps were emptied every five days from mid-May to late August, and at longer intervals in SeptemberNovember. The total sample was 2405 individuals of 22 species. The five-day samples (all species pooled) increased from May to July, decreased slightly in August and even more in SeptemberNovember. Species richness and diversity in the samples were lowest in the spring. Especially early in the season (MayJuly) the samples closely followed the temperature fluctuations. Five species dominated the total sample, and their activity patterns were studied in detail: the activity of Pterostichus oblongopunctatus peaked in the spring, whereas Calathus micropterus, Cychrus caraboides and Leistus terminatus showed a peak of activity in the middle of the summer. There was no clear peak in the activity of Notiophilus biguttatus. A comparison, in this study, showed that the activity patterns of the dominant species in southern Finland did correspond with those reported from central Europe, but Calathus micropterus and Cychrus caraboides tended to be active earlier in our study.
23737032|In species expanding their ranges in response to climate warming or for other reasons, individuals with superior dispersal capacity are often more likely than others to establish new populations beyond the current range boundary. Previous studies on butterflies have shown that molecular variation in the glycolytic enzyme phosphoglucose isomerase (Pgi) is associated with variation in flight metabolic rate, flight capacity under unfavourable conditions, and dispersal rate. We examined allelic variation in Pgi in the European map butterfly (Araschnia levana), which has rapidly expanded northwards in Finland. We show that the kinetically fastest Pgi allele, Pgi-1, is associated with superior flight metabolic rate and is more frequent at the eastern Finnish expansion front than in old established populations in Estonia. In eastern Finland, the Pgi-1 allele is significantly more frequent in newly-established (age ca. 4 years) than in older populations (age 11 to 22 years), and the Pgi-1 allele is more frequent in the spring than in the summer generation, possibly because the greater mobility of the summer generation butterflies selects for Pgi-1. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that range expansion may select for increased dispersal capacity at the expansion front, which may in turn further elevate the rate of expansion.
23731690|Rates of development of immature stages of two species of Corixidae were determined in several constant temperature regimes. The response of rate of development to temperature fitted a logistic model in the temperature range studied. Mortality in the cultures varied erratically; at extreme temperatures differences in tolerance were found between the two species. The general applicability of the results was tested against larvae developing in the field in known conditions. Satisfactory agreement was found with the values predicted from laboratory data.
23736760|Severe brood care costs have favoured the evolution of cheaters that exploit the parental services of conspecifics or even heterospecifics in both birds and social insects. In Polistes paper wasps, three species have lost worker castes and are dependent on hosts to produce their sexuals, while other species use hosts facultatively as an alternative to caring for their own brood. This paper offers an overview of the adaptations, strategies and tricks used by Polistes social parasites to successfully enter and exploit host social systems. Moreover, it also focuses on the analogous solutions adopted by the well-known brood parasite birds, and stresses the evolutionary convergence between these two phylogenetically distant taxa. A comparative analysis of life-history patterns, as well as of phylogenetic relationships of living facultative and obligate parasitic species in Polistes wasps, has suggested a historical framework for the evolution of social parasitism in this group. As with avian brood parasites, the analysis of adaptation and counter adaptation dynamics should direct the future approach for the study of social parasitism in Polistes wasps. The Polistes parasitehost system seems a suitable candidate for a model system in coevolutionary arms race studies, just as Polistes paper wasps have been considered for many years a model organism for sociobiological studies.
23734580|The first Finnish bird atlas project, covering an area of 3859 10-km squares, was completed during 197479, with over 2000 observers collaborating. The second atlas survey was started in 1986 and had several methodological improvements. For example, the number of categories of evidence of breeding for a species in a square was reduced from 17 to 9. The areal coverage of bird atlas studies in a square is given by the research grade, using a scale of five categories; the index increases yearly. Numbers of breeding pairs of a species in a square can be estimated on three levels of different accuracy. A register of important bird sites is kept for conservation purposes. Point counts in homogeneous habitats are recommended for the quantification of pair numbers and to study population changes of land birds in atlas years. Further, salaried assistants will census line transects in the whole of Finland during 198789. These data are used to estimate pair numbers and regional densities of common land bird species in 50-km squares, to calculate distribution of pairs in various habitats and to detect long-term population changes which occurred during the last 50 years. Counts of breeding waterfowl pairs in lakes are conducted in early summer by two methods, (1) circumventing a lake and censusing adult birds, or (2) censusing from fixed points along the shore. Archipelago birds are censused using standardized methods. A nest record card has been developed, e.g. to combine data on reproductive success with data on population fluctuations.
23736843|Root voles (Microtus oeconomus) are competitively superior during summer and locally displace field voles (M. agrestis). Since the two species co-exist in many areas, competition may be relaxed or reversed during winter. To assess the competitive interaction during winter, we used PIT tags to study activity patterns and home range overlap of the two species in two enclosures with food-supplemented and non-supplemented plots during the winter of 20022003. Additionally, we established single species systems of root-vole and field-vole populations in the winter of 2004. Home-range size was smaller and activity lower in field voles than in root voles, and food supplementation caused an increase in activity in both species. Activity and home-range size in either species was not affected by the presence of the other. Despite the different activity patterns of the two species, home range overlap between field voles and root voles did not differ from random in the food-supplemented plots. In the non-supplemented plots daily overlap was higher than expected. As predicted, we were not able to detect any interference competition between field and root voles during winter. This supports our hypothesis that coexistence between the two may be caused by relaxed contest competition during winter.
23734596|To assess the importance of the region south of the Alps for wintering birds, we made bird counts in Lombardy, Northern Italy, from 1983/84 to 1986/87 using (1) line transects in homogeneous habitats performed in the first half of December and in the first half of January and (2) point counts randomly performed in the entire administrative region, from November 15th to the end of February. The habitats studied by means of line transects were (a) lowland farmland, (b) lowland broad-leaved woodland, (c) lowland heathland, (d) lowland wetland, (e) hill broad-leaved woodland, (f) mountain mixed woodland. For the point counts, the locations of the stations and hence the types of habitats were defined randomly. There were no significant differences either in the number of species or in the indices of abundance, between December and January. Conversely, there was a gradient both in the number of species and in the index of abundance, from the mountain mixed woodland, with the lowest values, to the lowland wetland and farmland, with the highest. When the through-winter trends of single bird species were analyzed, no changes, decreases or even increases in numbers were observed, suggesting a number of different wintering strategies.
23735627|The effects of predatory adult backswimmers (Notonecta lutea) on young-of-the-year of the signal crayfish (Pacifastacus leniusculus) were examined. Laboratory experiments showed that crayfish juveniles (2 months old, carapace length 14 mm) resorted to cheliped autotomy to escape predation by backswimmers. Autotomy proved to be a successful tactic, since no crayfish young were killed by the backswimmers, in spite of many attempts. The number of lost chelipeds was higher in experiments with backswimmers and without shelter, but the time of day had no effect. However, the crayfish young did not alter their sheltering behaviour in the presence of a backswimmer. In seminatural nursery ponds the proportion of crayfish juveniles with cheliped regeneration was highest in the pond with the highest Notonecta predation pressure. In all ponds the crayfish with regenerated chelipeds were smaller than intact individuals. Moreover, crayfish survival rate was lowest in the high predation pressure pond. This study indicates that although cheliped autotomy is an effective escape mechanism for signal crayfish young, predation by backswimmers, through nonlethal injuries, reduces individual growth rate and resource holding potential in crayfish.
23735928|A long-term study of the breeding success of an increasing population of great spotted woodpeckers in southern England has shown that nest survival has increased dramatically and the nesting season advanced over the last 20 years. Nest site interference by starlings was frequently observed in the early years of the study and was thought to be the main cause of the low nest survival and delayed nesting. Starling numbers have now declined to such an extent that they no longer nest in the study woods and nest site interference does not now occur. Great spotted woodpeckers are increasing in Britain and the reduction in nest site competition from starlings may be one of the factors contributing to this increase.
23737154|Populations should adapt to the climate at their respective localities. Here, we examined differences in thermal biology between two populations of Podarcis hispanica lizards from areas with different climates. Lizards from the cold, northern mountains attained lower field body temperatures than lizards form the warm, southern plains. However, the larger body size and darker coloration of northern lizards resulted in slower cooling rates, which may increase efficiency of thermoregulation. Northern populations selected higher temperatures in a thermal gradient, possibly as an adaptation to heat up before conditions changed, as their mountain environment is unpredictable. Finally, lizards from both populations had similar temperature-dependent locomotor performance curves, although southern lizards were relatively faster considering their smaller body size. We suggest that environmental differences may lead to differences in morphology and locally adapted thermal biology in lizards that might allow maximizing thermoregulation in each local climatic conditions.
23735565|We have monitored the number of arctic foxes and microtine rodents in northern Finland for 30 years. Arctic fox densities were estimated by inventories at den sites, and microtine abundance by snap trapping. Time series analyses showed that the arctic fox population fluctuated widely but always close together with the microtines in a five year cycle. However, there was no time lag in the numerical response of foxes on microtines. The strong dependence on microtines was confirmed by analyses of faecal droppings and food remains at dens. In summer time microtines consisted in average of 45% of the diet and reindeer 30%, but during winters reindeer was the most important food source with 45% compared to 15% for microtines. There was a surprising positive correlation between number of voles and reindeer carcasses, suggesting competition or alternatively an external correlation from e.g. weather. Mean litter size of the arctic fox was also highly dependent on microtine abundance but decreased during the study period despite that food resources had not changed. Further, when microtines had high densities during two consecutive years, arctic foxes only responded to the first year. A feeding experiment resulted in an increase in number of red foxes but had no or little effect on arctic foxes. So, it is difficult to single out one explanation to the decline and second year effect. Food was probably not involved and we do not know if diseases and parasites have been involved. However, both competition and predation, primarily from the red fox, may be responsible together with climatic or weather changes.
23734517|Carabid beetles (776 individuals from 33 species) were sampled with pitfall traps in five habitat types on small (829 ha) islands in the land archipelago (2.54 km off Main land), in the Baltic Sea (about 60N, 20E). Reference samples (1570 individuals from 32 species) were taken in three equivalent and two additional habitat types on the land mainland. The occurrence of the species over the habitats was roughly similar on the islands and on the mainland. An ordination analysis showed that the carabid assemblages tend to be more similar within islands than between them. This can probably be attributed to the movement of individuals from one habitat patch to another, which tends to even out differences in species composition between patches. Due to the small size of the patches on the islands, most carabid species are able to cover the distances between neighbouring patches. Only two of the thirteen abundant species were more numerous on the islands than on the mainland. Eight species were more abundant on the mainland, and three were equally abundant on the islands and on the mainland. The island-mainland distribution patterns were similar to those found in one habitat type only in a previous study. There are no obvious explanations for these patterns, but habitat effects, differences in dispersal ability and interspecific interactions are suggested.
23734212|A brief survey of the genus Clethrionomys is given. Maps of distribution are provided for the four most studied species (C. gapperi, C. glareolus, C. rufocanus and C. rutilus). Comments to the population dynamical patterns are also given.
23735840|Female ability to exploit conspecifics may have unusual expressions. Golden egg bug (Phyllomorpha laciniata, Heteroptera, Coreidae) females lay eggs on the backs of conspecifics. Eggs are only attached on bugs and no active care is given. Egg carrying is costly due to increased predation risk. Females do not choose any particular "back" but lay eggs on all conspecifics available. Females carry one third of the eggs, and they never carry their own eggs. The majority of the eggs carried by males in the field are not fathered by the carrier. Females commonly dump eggs during reproductive activities on courting males or on (other) copulating females and males. In most habitats, eggs do not survive unless carried. Thus, females are dependent on the availability of conspecifics to lay eggs. Here, we review current knowledge on egg carrying and explore the costs of carrying eggs, how eggs are received and who carries the eggs. We also compare this system with that of arthropods which have exclusive paternal care. The main conclusion is that the system is a special form of intraspecific parasitism. It is maintained by high fitness benefits to an egg-dumping female and probably by rather low costs to an egg-carrying bug. Reproductive activities provide egg-laying opportunities for a female, and thus sexual interactions resulting from female polyandry are necessary for female egg dumping.
23735803|The movements and use of haul-out sites of nine adult Saimaa ringed seals (Phoca hispida saimensis) were monitored by VHF-radiotelemetry during the open-water season. Saimaa seals exhibited a high degree of site fidelity. The home range of this subspecies is probably smaller than that of ringed seals living in the sea. The main living area of one male was about 3 km2 and whole living area about 20 km2. All seals used more than one haul-out site during the study periods. Maximum distances between different haul-out sites of studied seals ranged from 2.7 km to 13.0 km. Moreover, the wintering areas of five seals were the same as the summertime haul-out site of each seal. The first translocation experiment on the Saimaa ringed seal was made in this study. After translocation of 100 km, mature female moved 18 km and showed a high degree of site fidelity in her new environment.
23736504|We present an example of how systematic studies of habitat loss thresholds at multiple scales can be used for assessing the functionality of habitat networks. The different steps are: (1) carefully select a suite of species representing each land cover type; (2) use quantitative targets based on the requirements of the focal species at multiple scales; (3) make regional gap analysis for the different land cover types; (4) use habitat modelling to build spatially explicit maps describing the probability that existing habitat patches really contribute to the functional connectivity of that theme in the landscape. The latter is important, since gap analyses alone neglect aspects like the quality, size, duration and configuration of land cover patches, and therefore overestimate the amount of functional habitats. The presence of thresholds at different scales suggests that the conservation management should be planned in a spatially explicit way.
23731829|Field experiments carried out in the South Jamal tundra revealed that the intensity of the increase in plant biomass is proportional to the amount of plant biomass eaten by rodents such as Microtus oeconomus and M. middendorffi. It is suggested that the effect of rodents also intensifies the formation of vegetative shoots and inhibits the formation of inflorescences.
23736929|Amplifiers belong to a class of signals that alone do not indicate an individual's quality, but through design they improve the receiver's ability to assess pre-existing cues and signals. Amplifiers are cost free to produce and maintain, but may yield disadvantages to the individuals that are compelled to reveal their inferior quality. We suggest that zebra stripes, combined with the movement and proximity of other individuals with the same pattern, might function as an amplifier of the individual's escape potential. As a zebra flock is set in motion by predators, stripes may facilitate ascertainment of the quality of the moving individuals (i.e., their escape potential) relative to other individuals in the flock. We tested whether the suggested relationship between stripes such as that of the zebra and quality ascertainment might occur by constructing animations involving 5 moving objects, with one object moving differently from the others. A test panel was asked to identify the deviant object in 4 animations, each of the 4 animations having objects with a different color pattern (striped, black, gradient and spotted). This study lends support to the hypothesis as behaviorally deviant objects were easiest observed in "flocks" of zebra striped objects. Thus, zebra stripes may make odd individuals more visible rather than making them less distinguishable.
23734456|The distribution of carabid beetles was studied in four archipelagoes near Stockholm and in southern Finland. The sample sizes (per sampling effort) varied considerably among the archipelagoes (0.32.4 individuals/trap-day). In all the four archipelagoes species number increases with island area. There were distinct differences in the identities of the dominant species among the archipelagoes, but most of the species according to distribution maps occur on all mainland areas. Striking differences were also observed in the species distributions in similar habitats among the archipelagoes. The variation in species distribution patterns is probably due to subtle habitat variation (even between similar habitat types), to the differing area range of islands studied in the archipelagoes, and to stochastic population fluctuations. The habitat effects are mediated through two factors: (1) autecological requirements of individual species, and (2) dynamics of local populations. It is suggested that population dynamic models which incorporate species characteristics, spatial and temporal variation in the environment, and interspecific interactions offer a promising approach for further studies.
23735720|The extinction debt of boreal forest species is estimated to be of the order of 1 000 species in Finland. Using a spatially explicit metapopulation model, this paper examines the likely consequences for the survival of species of different scenarios of forest management and conservation. The results point to the conclusion that it generally pays to concentrate the efforts of improving forest quality at certain areas rather than to spread the same total effort evenly and therefore thinly throughout the entire forest landscape. The practical conclusion is that in southern Finland an extensive restoration program of managed forests to natural-like successional forests is needed to avert the imminent wave of extinctions of specialist forest species. The greatest positive effect is obtained if forests located close to the existing remnants of biologically diverse forests are restored, which would facilitate the migration of target species to the restored forests.
23736208|Vendace (Coregonus albula) is a new introduced species in the Paatsjoki river system and lake Inari; it has only got a 30- to 40-year history in the area. The strong vendace year-classes of the 1980s were followed by weak ones until 2000, when a stronger year-class emerged. Data on the vendace catch-at-age were collected from 1987 to 2001 and the year-class strengths (YCS) were estimated by the virtual population analysis (VPA). The YCS was estimated directly by survey trawling conducted annually in early fall aimed at 0+ fish and by seine netting in the following winter. Direct estimates were compared with VPA estimates. The trawl survey and winter seine data show that the YCS of vendace is discernible during the first year of their lifespan. As a practical application in fisheries management, these data can be used in adjusting of e.g. stocking of predatory salmonids.
23735426|Crucian carp, a common Eurasian cyprinid fish, shows striking dichotomies in several aspects of its physiology and ecology, at both the individual and population levels. These dichotomies consistently reflect the communities and ecosystems in which they occur, contrasting crucian carp that occur in "monocultures" (single-species fish assemblages) in ponds with those occurring in multi-species assemblages, primarily in lakes. Dichotomies also occur in the physiological state of individuals between summer and winter. All these dichotomies, involving differences in morphology and population structure, population dynamics and life history, reflect in an integrative way the adaptive strengths and limitations of a unique species. In numerous northern ponds, dense monocultures of crucian carp are sealed in by thick ice and snow to live more than six months in dark, anoxic waters at near freezing temperatures. In summer, these populations experience temperatures of up to 30C during a relatively brief period of vigorous growth and repeated bouts of reproduction in almost continuous daylight. Crucians in lakes experience a more benign abiotic environment and, with densities that can be orders of magnitude lower than those in ponds, are likely unaffected by intraspecific interactions. However, co-occurring species present a challenging biotic environment. Crucian carp is exceptionally vulnerable to predation and populations persist via three kinds of refugia. Aided by extreme physiological adaptations, crucian carp can be the sole piscine inhabitant of seasonally harsh but productive small ponds, the refugium habitat, where they form dense monocultures of stunted individuals. The structural complexity offered by dense beds of macrophytes in productive larger lakes, the other common habitat (habitat refugium) of crucian carp, ensures survival of a few offspring, even in the presence of piscivores. The risk of predation still remains high for crucians until a certain length (and/or body depth), the size refugium, is attained. Crucian carp's unique anoxia tolerance, accompanied by many exceptional structural and functional features, and the species' suitability for laboratory studies, has recently raised crucian carp to a status of a physiological model species like its relative, the goldfish. Moreover, the dichotomy found in the structure of natural populations has made crucian carp an attractive model for ecological studies in competition and predation. Crucian carp's resistance to adverse environmental conditions further suggests promising economical use in aquaculture to produce hybrids endowed with higher survival capacity than common carp.
23735511|Contrasting views are held about the possibility of developing ecologically sustainable forestry in northern boreal forests, the taiga. Foresters tend to be optimistic, but they evaluate 'sustainability' on the sole basis of timber production, whereas some environmentalists express very pessimistic views. The conflict can be resolved on substantial arguments, backed by ecological data. I review ecological characteristics of the taiga and the consequences of modern forest management for the forest fauna, particularly in northwestern Europe. Uniform 'monoculture' would be disastrous for a majority of forest species, but it is, fortunately, impossible to attain: heterogeneity in forest vegetation and stand structure remains. This improves prospects of maintaining a diverse fauna in appropriately managed forests. Systematic surveys to detect patterns in abundance variation, and assessments of ecological conditions for population viability ('minimum requirements') of target species are urgent research priorities. The taiga seems to be a resilient ecological system, and the possibilities of modifying management practices such that they match forest dynamics seem good. I discuss recommendations drawing upon conclusions presented in other papers in this issue.
23736205|We report the results of a long-term age validation of the fin-ray method of aging lake whitefish (Coregonus clupeaformis). We further compare fin-ray ages with otolith ages and describe a technique to back-calculate lengths of lake whitefish. Using ages determined from individuals when tagged, we correctly predicted the ages determined from fish when they were recaptured one to 28 years later for 1092 (73%) of the 1492 individuals that we examined. When differences occurred between predicted and actual ages at recapture, there was no tendency for the actual ages to be greater or less than the predicted age. We found no significant difference between fin-ray and otolith ages for individual lake whitefish from two other lakes, although the ages agreed for only 49% of the age pairs. We used the upper section of the first pelvic fin ray to back-calculate fork lengths of lake whitefish from one population using the direct proportionality method, and compared these predicted lengths with actual lengths recorded one to three years earlier when fish were tagged to validate the method.
23735571|We pursued the hypothesis that pine martens (Martes martes L.) suffer from intraguild predation by red foxes (Vulpes vulpes L.). An increase in population density of pine martens in Scandinavia was observed concomitant with a decline in the number of foxes due to an epizootic of sarcoptic mange during the 1980s. The increase was noted both as numbers of crossing marten tracks on snow along transects in a local area, and as number of martens harvested in Sweden. The latter could be linked county-wise by timing and amplitude to the occurrence of mange and decline in number of foxes harvested. We also compiled 16 cases of casually observed predation by red foxes on martens, and calculated a yearly mortality rate due to fox predation of 0.13 from >14 transmitter years of 26 radio-collared martens in three areas of Scandinavia during the period of high marten numbers. We conclude that the case against the fox is strong.
23735922|Understanding temporal dynamics of populations is important for the management of endangered and/or harvested populations as well as for evolutionary biology. Population sizes usually fluctuate over time because of changes in reproduction, mortality/survival, immigration and emigration. I reviewed the state of knowledge with respect to these vital demographic parameters on nine European woodpecker species. Only 4.2% of over 2100 publications found on these species reported on one or more of the vital rates, indicating severe knowledge gaps with respect to these traits. For most species, I found some information on reproduction (nest and fledging success), but generally much less on adult survival and immigration. No study quantitatively reported on emigration. No information on vital rates was found for Picus canus and Dendrocopos syriacus. Results are discussed in relation to geographic distribution and trends of the studied populations as well as with respect to life-history aspects and factors influencing vital rates.
23731761|Total lipids, neutral fats and non-esterified fatty acids in the plasma of Zoarces viviparus were measured at different seasons. In females the plasma total lipid concentration showed a two-peaked course, with very marked hyperlipaemia in December, when gestation is at a late stage, and a smaller peak in August that coincided with the end of the ovulation period. Males also became hyperlipaemic in December. Neutral fats were increased in December in both males and females, but in relation to total lipids they increased only in females. In both sexes non-esterified fatty acids reached their highest concentration in June. The level had fallen markedly by September, but rose again in females until December.
23736144|This paper offers a view of firefly mate recognition and choice seen through the lens of recognition system theory. We review the expression and perception of firefly bioluminescent signals, and describe the photic cues used by Photinus fireflies (Coleoptera: Lampyridae) in the processes of species recognition (identifying conspecifics) and mate-quality recognition (discriminating among potential conspecific mates). The signal characters used by Photinus females to discriminate among potential mates include flash pulse rate and pulse duration, similar temporal characters to those assessed by females in acoustically signaling insects. We also review male nuptial gift production and transfer, and describe the relationship found between male flash signals and nuptial gift size for Photinus ignitus. We present evidence of mate choice by Photinus males, which appear to allocate limited resources by rejecting low fecundity females. We assess the potential for postcopulatory female choice to mediate mate acceptance errors by increasing paternity success of higher quality mates, or blocking fertilizations by low quality mates. Finally, we integrate recognition system and mate choice theoretical approaches to develop predictions concerning how various factors will alter both male and female mate acceptance thresholds for Photinus fireflies.
23734539|Oil is taken up by Acartia bifilosa and Eurytemora hirundoides in the gut system when exposed to Russian crude oil for 24 hours. 14C-l-naphthalene is also absorbed by E. hirundoides from emulsions in sea water. Oil was present in E. hirundoides bodies after exposure for 24 hours to 1 ml/l oil emulsion. Naphthalene elimination from E. hirundoides bodies after being transferred into clean sea water was studied. The half-life Tb is 6.2 days and the consumption rate is 6.3 ng naphthalene/copepod from 1 mg/l naphthalene emulsions. It is therefore assumed that copepods eating oil form a potential danger to the other components of the food chain, as part of the naphthalene accumulated in the bodies.
23731381|The taxonomic characteristics of the larval instars are presented for 27 North European species of Corixidae, and keys to the species are given for all genera where identification of the larvae is possible. All larval instars can be identified down to subfamilies. In Micronectinae and Cymatiinae all larval instars can be identified down to species on the basis of differences in size, colour patterns and/or chaetotaxy, and in Corixinae the larval instars III  V can be identified on the basis of size, colour patterns and chaetotaxy, but the two first instars cannot be identified down to species.
23734188|Prey choice strategies of the kestrel in a large field plain (63 km2) in western Finland were studied in relation to available small mammal abundance and other birds of prey in 1977-83. The common vole was the most preferred small mammal species in the diet, followed by the water vole, shrews, bank and field voles, and the brown rat. The birds eaten were those breeding principally in forests, although the main prey group (Microtus spp.) only inhabited fields. The sex ratios of the mammals and birds in the diet showed a clear male predominance. This was caused by the greater activity of the males in spring. The kestrel, like Buteo spp. and Circus spp., belongs to the primarily small mammal prey guild among birds of prey. The food niches of the kestrel, long-eared and Tengmalm's owls overlapped to a great extent in the study area. The food niche appeared to expand as the abundance of the most preferred prey in the field decreased. The data were in agreement with the theory predicting that the relative densities of the non-preferred prey items are unimportant in determining the optimal diet. The predator adopted the energy maximisation strategy in prey choice during breeding in order to maximise reproductive output. Making use of the present and earlier studies concerning the prey choice of avian and mammalian predators, one could put forward a new hypothesis: birds of prey mainly prey on small mammal males and tree-nesting birds, while mammalian predators prey more on small mammal females and ground-nesting birds in spring. This might reduce interspecific competition for food.
23734134|The occurrence of water mites in the estuary of the River Kyrnjoki, in the southern Bothnian Bay (6320'N), was examined during the summers of 19801982. The material, sampled using different methods, consisted of 1812 specimens and 30 species, nine of which were new to the coastal waters of Finland. Unionicola aculeata and Arrenurus sinuator have not been previously reported from Finnish waters. Water mites occurred most abundantly in shallow parts of the transition zone of the estuary with varying salinities. The previously documented harmful influence of the acid river waters on many aquatic animals in the innermost, limnic zone was also pronounced on water mites. Only three species were living in the limnic zone, 29 species in the transition zone and seven species in the outermost, brackish water zone.
23734159|The diet and breeding success of the Golden Eagle nesting in northern Finland has been studied yearly since 1958. The Arctic Hare and Capercaillie are the main prey species, about 25 % each. Tetraonids in total make up about 50 %. 9 % of the prey individuals are reindeer calves. The Capercaillie is captured relatively more often than the Black Grouse or Willow Grouse in relation to the densities of the respective populations. The yearly changes in tetraonid and hare populations induce corresponding fluctuations in their percentages in the food of the eagle. The reproductive success of the Golden Eagle in Finland was a little better in 197177 than in 196067. The brood size and breeding success per pair in Finland and Sweden correspond to figures for areas with rich prey resources in central Europe.
23734486|Faunistical recording during the past c. 100 years shows that the Finnish Lumbricidae fauna comprises sixteen species, viz., Allolobophora chlorotica, Aporrectodea caliginosa, A. longa, A. rosea, Dendrobaena octaedra, Dendrodrilus rubidus, Eisenia andrei, E. fetida, E. hortensis, Eiseniella tetraedra, Lumbricus castaneus, L. festivus, L. rubellus, L. terrestris, Octolasion cyaneum and O. tyrtaeum. Faunal formation among the Lumbricidae in Finland was traced through indirect evidence based on the up-to-date ranges, present ecology, modes of dispersal and reproduction of the species. The Finnish ranges are in general continuous with those of the species in the adjacent countries, implying affinities with distributional history. Habitat spectra of marginal species populations were worked out to assess the ecological requirements for the pathways of northward dispersal of the species in Finland. Post-glacial phases of geomorphology, climate, vegetation and human impact on the environment are discussed in relation to dispersal and habitat occupation of the species. The most widely distributed Lumbricidae in Fennoscandia are the eurytopic D. octaedra and D. rubidus and stenotopic E. tetraedra that live among litter or close to the soil surface where they are exposed to forces (e.g. floodings, wind, visits by ungulates and birds) that can facilitate passive dispersal. Man-made habitats play no major role in their habitat spectra and records from localities without any considerable human impact indicate a good ability for passive dispersal without man's agency. Anthropochory may be of secondary importance in their post-glacial dispersal northwards. They reproduce parthenogenetically, i.e. one worm or viable cocoon may be sufficient to establish a population. These species may represent an old faunal element in the study area. The majority of Lumbricid species in Finland are deep-burrowers. In the northern parts of their range at least they are closely associated with man-made habitats. Many of them occur in Finland only in areas which were long submerged post-glacially. Long-distance dispersal jumps due to anthropochory from one man-made habitat to another, biparental reproduction (with some exceptions) and life cycles taking place in deeper soil layers are characteristic for them. Many of them are nowadays expanding their range. Since agriculture, trade connections and so on constituting human activities which may facilitate their dispersal have been maintained in Finland only for some thousands of years, deepburrowing species such as A. longa, Eisenia species, L. festivus and O. cyaneum confined to man-made biotopes in S Finland may represent a young faunal element. Lumbricids seem to have dissimilar distributional histories in Finland where the faunal formation is still in progress, particularly due to increasing human activities (e.g. trade, intensive land use, agricultural, horticultural and forestry practices, soil transportation) that facilitate earthworm dispersal and create new habitats for them.
23734725|Relative provisional abundances for the adder (Vipera berus), grass snake (Natrix natrix), slow worm (Anguis fragilis) and common toad (Bufo bufo) were worked out on the basis of route censuses undertaken in different parts of Finland in 198183. The adder and grass snake are most abundant in coastal SW and W parts and the slow worm along the S and SW coast of Finland. The common toad becomes scarcer towards the north but in central parts of the country a zone with higher abundances is indicated. In each species provisional abundances proved to be in accordance (P = 0.100.05) with another set of corresponding abundances yielded in a survey by the author at the end of the 1970s. Grey individuals of the adder comprised 42%, brown 19%, bluish 18%, black with vertebral zig-zag stripe 16% and completely black 4%. The censuses of the three years were homogeneous in this respect. Grey adders are scarcer in the eastern and central parts of S Finland, where bluish varieties are more abundant than elsewhere. Brown adders in turn are relatively more frequent in the coastal parts of S Finland and in SE Finland and black adders (with or without dorsal zigzag stripe) comprised >30% of the records only in the central parts of S Finland. Completely black morphs occur in all parts of the Finnish range of the species but in most provinces they made up <5% of the records. In the south they seem to be as rare as they are in the north. Blue-spotted individuals of the slow worm totalled 13% (range of years 421%) and most records refer to central and western parts of S Finland.
23737147|This study focused on life strategies of Ephemeroptera and Plecoptera species found in a karstic spring stream at the Mal Karpaty Mts. (West Carpathians, Slovakia), which is characterized by low thermal fluctuations throughout the year (610 C). We examined the life cycle and secondary production of three mayfly species (Baetis alpinus, Baetis rhodani and Rhithrogena semicolorata) and three stonefly species (Protonemura nitida, Protonemura hrabei and Nemurella pictetii). We found an unusually slow univoltine cycle for P. nitida and an asynchronous life cycle for B. alpinus, with first-stage nymphs occurring almost all year round. Uncommonly low abundances of B. rhodani were found, which indicates that the population lives at its ecological limit. Moreover, for the first time we acquired and analysed the data on secondary production of P. nitida, which reached the highest values (3335 mg DW m -2 y -1 ) among all investigated species. In summary, the total annual secondary production of the mayfly community (889 mg DW m -2 y -1 ) was seven times lower than the annual secondary production of the stonefly community (6233 mg DW m -2 y -1 ).
23734851|This study gives an account of the quantitative and qualitative distribution of the macrozoobenthos in the Kyrnjoki estuary, in the southern Bothnian Bay (63 20 N). The quantitative material, sampled with an Ekman-Birge grab, consisted of 150 samples from six different subareas including 25 sampling stations. Each station was sampled in June and August 1980. Additional samples were taken using different qualitative methods. The study is a part of a large-scale investigation on the conditions prevailing at the estuary before extensive construction work is done on the river. Altogether 116 animal taxa (excluding water mites) were recorded, a large proportion of which were limnobionts. The differences in quantity between the months were not statistically significant, while the regional variation was significant. The innermost, limnic zone had a deteriorated fauna and low biomass (0.1 g/m2 ODW) consisting mainly of oligochaetes, especially Limnodrilus hoffmeisteri. The transition zone was heterogenic and further divided into three subzones where the mean biomass was 0.30.8 g/m2. Potamothrix hammoniensis was the most important species, though midge larvae, especially Tanytarsus spp., were abundant, too. Some brackish water and relict species (e.g. Pontoporeia affinis) inhabited the outermost and deepest parts of the zone. Pontoporeia, Macoma baltica and Saduria entomon were the most important species in the brackish water zone. The mean biomass, 2.5 g/m2, was high compared with those reported from the northern Bothnian Bay. In addition to salinity, acidity seemed to be one of the most decisive factors leading to faunal zonation. The impact and importance of some other environmental factors on species distribution is also discussed.
23734710|Models proposed by Atkinson & Shorrocks (1981) and Hanski (1981) explore how different distribution patterns of eggs among discrete patches of resource affect the coexistence of competing insect species. They conclude that intraspecific aggregation of females finding and ovipositing on patches may permit species to persist together which otherwise could not coexist. This paper presents a version of these models to highlight the mechanism by which aggregation may facilitate coexistence. The model is then illustrated with data from a carrion-fly community. Finally, other empirical studies that have examined the effects of aggregation on coexistence are reviewed. Models addressing the distribution patterns of females ovipositing among patches provide valuable insights into the coexistence of insect competitors by considering the role of female behavior in interactions among species.
23735413|The replacement of perennial ryegrass with broad-leaved wildflower swards has been suggested as a means of achieving an increase in diversity, but in order to assess the value of these swards as wildlife habitats, it is necessary to determine how the invertebrate fauna is affected by their establishment and by subsequent management practices. The carabid faunas of nine sites of varying sward type and management practices were analysed in 1989 and 1993. Management had a detrimental effect especially on the larger species, and tended to favour those species preferring drier conditions. The wildflower swards did support a more diverse carabid fauna, but with no sign of any re-establishment of the natural fauna found in unmanaged habitats in the same area. Recolonisation by this fauna, if possible at all, is likely to take considerably longer than five years.
23731744|Adult mosquitoes are dimorphic normally as males and females that differ in all of the external parts and in internal reproductive parts. Many species particularly northern Aedes (subgen. Ochlerotatus) are dimorphic when reared under normal conditions but may be heteromorphic when reared at temperatures near the upper limit for development. This report includes descriptions of the modifications exhibited by the normally male-producing component when reared at constant temperatures between 21 and 28 C. High temperature inhibits expression of male features but does not inhibit those of the female. Since the male is derived from embryos with both male and female primordia, an embryo so endowed will have male elements suppressed and female ones released to develop. Resulting adults are heteromorphic in degree of maleness according to the temperature. Species from both Palearctica and Nearctica are compared.
23731725|Littoral fish populations of areas of the Baltic sea affected by an oil spill from a tanker were examined two years after the disaster occurred. The most frequent species were Phoxinus phoxinus (L.), Gasterosteus aculeatus L., and Pungitius pungitius (L.). The aim was to ascertain whether the oil, and the emulsifiers used to repel it, had had long-term effects on these species. The fish were caught with a beach seine in June and July, 1971. Their age, growth, condition factor and regression coefficient of log length on log weight were studied in several populations. No statistically significant differences were found between populations of three oil-polluted areas and a control area. The effects of oil and emulsifiers on the fish and the situation after the disaster are discussed.
23736853|Analyses of phenology, oviposition preference and patch occupancy of Hamearis lucina were made in calcareous grasslands in the Diemel Valley (central Germany) at its northwestern latitudinal limit in continental Europe. Distribution and range dynamics in Germany are shown. The patch occupancy of H. lucina in calcareous grasslands could best be explained by oviposition-habitat preferences, adjacency of old woodland and isolation. H. lucina mainly colonised shrubby semi-dry calcareous grasslands with Primula veris and a high total vegetation coverage on west-facing slopes. The key factors determining the oviposition habitat are (i) the presence of the host plant and (ii) the vegetation structure and, partly interrelated with this, the meso-/microclimate. The spatial structure and the climate near ground drive the host plant availability. The colonies of H. lucina in calcareous grasslands showed a strong association with adjacent old woodlands, which suggests that the current distribution pattern still reflects the historical habitat shift from coppiced woods into calcareous grassland after abandonment of coppicing and grazing. The present study showed that H. lucina tolerates a wide range of grazing intensities in Germany. The most favourable tool is traditional rough grazing. Habitat heterogeneity could buffer populations against climate change. Therefore it is necessary to create and secure sites with a high structural and aspectual variety.
23735651|Metabolic rates at the thermoneutral zone and at 0C were measured in bank voles from four localities: Pallasjrvi (Finland, lat. 68N), Loppi (Finland, 6045'N), Niepoomice (Poland, 50N) and Vitosha Mts. (Bulgaria, 43N, elevation 1500 m). The seasonal times of measurement were chosen to secure that animals were in summer or winter pelage, respectively. Seasonal trends were found in body mass, metabolic rates at thermoneutrality and at 0C, but no clear relation to latitude was revealed. We conclude that the lack of distinct popoulation differences in the metabolic response to cold exposure may be due to similarity in the microclimatic conditions of the habitats of the voles.
23735943|We studied the numerical response of a population of the common buzzard Buteo buteo to the fluctuations of its main prey (voles) and alternative prey (forest grouse) in western Finland between 1979 and 1996. Populations of main prey fluctuated in a cyclic manner with three years between peak densities. The nesting success of buzzards averaged 1.7 fledglings per nesting attempt and the brood size averaged 2.2 fledglings per brood. The nesting rate (no. of active nests per number of occupied territories) and the productivity rate (no. of chicks for all territories) positively correlated with the abundance of Microtus voles in the current spring but not with the abundance of grouse. The Alternative Prey Hypothesis (APH) predicts that, in the years when the main prey species decline, generalist predators can shift their diet to alternative prey and thus cause its decline. The Shared Predation Hypothesis (SPH) states that all important prey species, including alternative prey, are under high hunting pressure when the density of predators in high. The predation rate (the combination of numerical response and previously studied functional response) of Microtus voles by buzzards was positively correlated with the densities of these voles in the current spring, whereas the predation rate of grouse tended to peak one year after peak densities of Microtus voles. Therefore, our results appear to support APH rather than SPH and indicate that predation by buzzards may dampen population cycles of main prey (voles) but amplify population fluctuations of grouse.
23734448|A community of Dytiscidae in a northern Swedish seasonal pond was studied. Altogether 33 species were recorded from the pond over a period of seven years. Two groups are recognized: (1) 10 core species that are abundant and reproduce in the pond every year, and (2) 23 satellite species that are less frequent occupants of the pond. The core species are the potentially most interactive ones, and if the community is structured by interspecific competition it should be most readily detected among these species. The use of food resources of the 10 core species is deduced from a comparison of larval phenology and seasonal distribution of prey organisms together with observations of larval diets made in culture. From these data the 10 core species are separated into two guilds. Guild I includes 5 Hydroporus species: (1) of small size, (2) with larval development in June, and (3) with larvae of the creeping type. Guild II includes 4 Agabus species: (1) of large size, (2) with larval development in May, and (3) with larvae of the creeping type. A. labiatus approaches guild I, but differs in the larger size, the creepingswimming larvae, and in adult phenology. The most important larval prey animals are culicid larvae for guild II, and cladocerans and chironomid larvae for guild I. Species packing in guilds is studied in terms of adult and larval size differences. Size ratios show considerable variation, with means for each guild between 1.1 and 1.2. The coexistence of these species indicates either a lack of interspecific competition or the existence of other, yet unknown, relevant differences between species.
23736007|Bird communities in four different phases of secondary forest succession (clear cut, seedling stand, young mixed forest, climax conifer forest) were censused by the line transect method in northeastern Finland in 1980  85. Yearly variations in bird density and species diversity, as well as community compositional stability of the successional bird communities, were measured. The bird community of the clear cut was the most stable, while the other phases did not deviate from each other in stability. Relative density variation of long-distance migrants (as a group) was lower that that of short-distance migrants or sedentary species. There was a strong negative correlation between the population variability and average population density among the studied succession stages for each of the abundant species. The finding that clear cut supports the most stable bird community contradicts the general theory of succession; however, clear cut is an artificial habitat which cannot be included in the natural forest succession series. The negative correlations between density variation and average density of the species in different successional stages support the idea that the optimum habitats of species are occupied more regularly than marginal ones. An identical pattern might also be caused by chance. The lower the density (or smaller the sample) the greater the role of stochasticity. Some evidence is presented that the population densities of species in studied habitats behave as a Poisson variate, i.e. they are 'random samples' from stable source populations.
23735470|This study was conducted with soils from the vicinity of Oulu, northern Finland to investigate the effect of pH on the accumulation of Cd and Pb in earthworms. The earthworms (Aporrectodea caliginosa) were maintained in wooden boxes in two series of experiments. The calcium, pH and heavy metal content (Pb and Cd) were adjusted in order to follow the influence of pH on the Pb and Cd uptake by the worms. The cadmium uptake seems to clearly depend on the pH of the soil and the accumulation becomes faster at a lower pH. The same trend is also seen in lead accumulation. The concentration ratio for cadmium over a period of 230 days varied from 13 to 33.
23737023|Sublethal parasite infections may cause mortality indirectly by exposing the host to predation. Intestinal helminth parasites are common in forest grouse, the capercaillie Tetrao urogallus, the black grouse Tetrao tetrix and the hazel grouse Bonasa bonasia, and these grouse are valuable prey for several species of predators. We evaluated the hypothesis that parasite infection makes the host more vulnerable to predation by comparing the intestinal parasite infection status of grouse hunted with a trained dog to that of grouse hunted without a dog. Cestode infections were more common in grouse hunted with a dog supporting the hypothesis. Cestodes were mostly parasites of juvenile grouse but even among juveniles only, cestodes were more prevalent in dog-assisted hunting bag. The results suggest that mammalian predators could prey more selectively on parasitized individuals and that intestinal parasites may contribute to the high mortality of juvenile grouse through increased predation.
23736045|In the northern Baltic proper, the mysid shrimp Mysis mixta has a one year life cycle. The young are released in early spring and grow from about 4 mm in May to 1520 mm in December, when they are mature. The abundance in 2540 m deep coastal waters is between 20 and 100 ind./m2, although sometimes over 200 ind./m2 has been recorded. The mysid undertake nocturnal vertical migrations, from the bottoms where they are found during the day, and up in the pelagic zone at night, however avoiding light intensities above 10-4 lux. The diet of M. mixta is dominated by zooplankton, mainly copepods, and together with fish they probably contribute to the autumn decline in the abundance of zooplankton.
23731753|The life-cycle of Clossiana freija occupies about one calendar year. Under artificial conditions it occupied 360  363 days, but it is likely to vary considerably according to local conditions. The insect hibernates as a 4th-instar larva. The preferred food-plants of bred larvae, in order of decreasing importance, were Rubus chamaemorus, Vaccinium uliginosum and Andromeda polifolia. The ovum, the five larval instars and the pupa are described. Illustrations of the 4th-instar larva, and the pupa are included.
23737088|We used 10-km grid data from the Finnish Bird Atlas data and high-resolution data on temperature and rainfall to estimate species richness from climate and environmental variables across spatial scales. We used an ordinary least-squares (OLS) linear-regression model with a quadratic error function to estimate the number of bird species that occur. As a baseline, we used a simple dummy model that estimated the number of species in each grid to be the average number of species over all grids. We found that the best estimator for avian species richness in Finland is the length of the growing season with R2 values from 0.5 to 0.8, depending on the scale. Our results support the energy-water hypothesis, and we suggest that the proximate control of species richness in the present case is productivity, which is in turn controlled by climate. Some of the effects conventionally attributed to scaling may have trivial causes associated with sampling, in particular the completion of missing data as primary units of observation are merged. For broad surveys of patterns, medium resolution may often be adequate and even superior to the highest nominal resolution available.
23735712|According to a traditional view, organisms and populations inhabiting high latitudes are likely to be exposed to lower effective doses of potentially harmful solar ultraviolet-B radiation (UV-B) than those inhabiting lower latitudes. We challenge this traditional view by demonstrating that due to differences in phenology, populations occurring at high latitudes may actually be exposed to much higher effective doses of UV-B radiation than those occurring at lower latitudes. Related to this, we point out a possibly wide-spread interaction between climate change and ozone depletion which can effectively mask (or delay the appearance of) the negative effects of increased solar UV-B radiation on organismal fitness. These points are illustrated with examples from amphibians, which have been recently suggested to be particularly vulnerable for UV-B mediated fitness loss.
23733711|Metabolic activity as a function of (1) body size and surface area, (2) temperature, (3) digestion and starvation, and (4) reduction of comb plates was studied for Pleurobrachia pileus Fabr. For Beroe gracilis Knne and Bolinopsis infundibulum Mller only items (2) and (3) were investigated. In studies on respiration versus body size, the regression coefficients for Pleurobrachia were around 0.8 at 2, 8, 12, 18 and 24C. The Q10 coefficients were 2.72 for Pleurobrachia, 3.56 for Beroe and 3.73 for Bolinopsis with body weights (fresh) of 0.2, 0.3 and 1.08 g, respectively. In Beroe O2 consumption was elevated at the moment of swallowing prey and during its digestion, and probably also at the time of egg production. Individuals without comb plates consumed O2 at a lower rate than normal Pleurobrachia.
23735684|Sharp blade tips are advantageous to herbivorous and faunivorous mammals because bite forces are concentrated on the sharp blade tip and produce an initial tear in the tough foodstuff. We examine whether blade sharpness scales with body size and how tooth design and diet are related to the sharpness of the blade tip. Blade sharpness scales isometrically and the physical properties of food form a secondary influence. A high attrition/abrasion ratio is associated with sharp blades regardless of total wear rate, while high relative abrasion blunts the blades. The height of occlusal features is the main aspect of tooth design associated with sharpness.
23737173|We examined whether gene expression in the young salmon (Salmo salar) gill differs in relation to the salinity of their migration habitat by comparing three salmon stocks: (1) fish that migrate from a river system to Lake Saimaa, (2) fish that migrate to the brackish waters of the Baltic Sea, and (3) fish that migrate to the full-strength salinity of the Arctic Ocean. Transcripts of the gill tissue were measured at three successive developmental stages (parr, smolt and postsmolt) using the cDNA microarray in fish reared under common conditions. The changes in gene expression were qualitatively and quantitatively similar in the three stocks irrespective of the salinity of the natural growing habitat. This suggests that the parrsmolt transformation in the gill tissue of the landlocked fresh-water salmon stock is similar to the seawater migrating salmon. The transformation of the gill to a hypoosmotic organ in the freshwater salmon has been retained in evolution, possibly due to its adaptive role as a signal for migration from a relatively poor-growth environment of the river to a more productive lake habitat.
23737125|The niche variation hypothesis suggests that a population's ability to react to varying environmental conditions depend on the behavioural variability of its members. However, most studies on bats, including the work on the habitat use of the western barbastelle bat, Barbastella barbastellus, have not considered sex-specific and individual variability. We studied the habitat use of 12 female and five male western barbastelle bats within their home ranges with respect to available habitat types by applying kernel methods and Euclidean distances. Our results indicate individual habitat preferences within and among sexes of this species. Females preferred deciduous forest and linear elements within the forest. Males used habitat patches in the vicinity of the maternity colony and preferred forest edges and open habitats. Our results strongly suggest that both sexes' as well as individual variability in habitat choice are to be considered to assess a population's true potential to react on habitat alterations.
23731652|The alkaline phosphatase and maltase activities in the duodenum of SPF Fischer rats were about twice as high as in SPF Sprague-Dawley rats, and somewhat higher than in Wistar rats. No significant differences were found in the ileum. In trehalase and ATPase activities no significant differences were found between these strains. For all the enzymes studied SPF Wistar rats had slightly higher activities in the intestinal mucosa than conventional Wistar rats. Since the SPF strains were bred and raised under similar conditions, the significant differences in mucosal alkaline phosphatase and maltase levels are probably due to genetic differences between the strains.
23735924|Here, I examine whether both nestling prey abundance and profitability affect the timing of reproduction and hence the number of fledglings of three-toed woodpeckers, Picoides tridactylus. Individuals living in eastern Finland reproduced earlier and reared larger broods in habitat patches where the bark-beetle community developed earlier and/or faster and where the wood-boring beetles, whose larvae account for the bulk of the nestlings' diet, were more abundant. As expected, mean breeding success increased with spring temperature, if laying date was related to prey phenology, which is temperature-dependent. However, using a larger data set with more years, adults seemed to face increasing difficulties in optimising their reproductive effort above certain spring temperature threshold, with a dramatic reduction in natal dispersal and winter population size over Finland following the warmest springs. I suggest climate-mediated phenological disjunction between the predator and its prey to be a likely cause of further decline in the insect specialist three-toed woodpecker.
23732521|A larval population of Tanytarsini (comprising 16 species) has been examined over a period of two years at depths of 150 and 230 cm, in a shallow woodland lake in south Finland. A cessation of feeding with construction of sealed-off tubes was observed during the ice-cover. The winter population density at 150 cm was greater in 1965/1966 than in 1964/1965, whereas at 230 cm the 1964/1965 population was larger than in 1965/1966. In the first winter the 230 cm station supported a larger population than did the 150 station. In the second winter no difference in population density was observed between the two stations. Growth rate varied between Cladotanytarsus-group and Tanytarsus-group larvae, the former having peak growth in the summer and the latter with an additional autumn growth period. Emergence took place throughout the open water period from May to late September. Observations on the activity of the larvae, their depth distribution, and their pathogens and predators are presented and the effect of environmental factors on larval population density is discussed.
23735649|The parthenogenetic earthworm Aporrectodea rosea (Savigny) showed a wide electromorph ('clonal') heterogeneity in southern Finland with 46 'clones' in a sample of 155 individuals. Individual clones were not randomly distributed along an east-north-west sample transect. Clonal heterogeneity was highest in Inkoo in the West, where agriculture and horticulture have been practised longer and more intensively than in the other sample localities. Morphological characters related to soma and secondary reproductive organs varied according to locality, region, and clone. With the exception of the protuberance of male pore terminalia, no clear-cut clinal trends were observed in the patterns of morphological variability. However, application of a detrended correlation analysis, which groups the clones according to their enzyme variant constitution, indicated a separate cluster of clones, all of which were sampled in Inkoo. The worms representing these clustered clones were significantly smaller, with a lower number of segments than the worms of the other clones sampled in Inkoo and in the other localities. This implies that electrophoretic differences can be correlated with differences in morphological characters in parthenogenetic A. rosea.
23734169|This study is based on censuses carried out in an archipelago off the southern coast of Finland in 19141981. The most extensive censuses were made in 192122, 193637, 197475, and 197881. Most censuses are not directly comparable, as the censused areas and census methods have not been the same. Of the four wader species breeding mainly in woodless skerries, the Oystercatcher Haematopus ostralegus has increased and is now the most abundant wader species. The Turnstone Arenaria interpres and the Redshank Tringa totanus may have increased. The Ringed Plover Charadrius hiaticula has decreased. The distribution of the waders has changed within the archipelago. The Oystercatcher has spread both out- and inwards, the Turnstone inwards. The Redshank has decreased in the outer parts, but increased in the inner parts of the archipelago. The changes are probably mainly due to an increase and spreading inwards of the Arctic Tern Sterna paradisaea and the Common Gull Larus canus colonies and to human activity.
23731781|Natural NDV-0 agglutinins were demonstrated in sera of all adult rabbits, many guinea-pigs and sheep, and occasional rats and domestic fowls, but not in mice. In rabbits and guinea-pigs NDV-0 agglutinins are transmitted from the maternal to the foetal circulation. In rabbits postnatal production reaches detectable titres at the age of about 2 months. The reactivity pattern of the natural NDV-0 agglutinins in laboratory animals corresponds to one of the four agglutinin specificities described previously in man. This agglutinin, like anti-T, is presumably directed against some erythrocyte receptor exposed by the virus.
23736732|Seven species of small mammals (N = 160) caught on a cattle farm in southern Finland were screened for various parasites and viral pathogens. Antibodies to lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus were detected in 3.6% of Mus musculus (N = 110) and in 7.7% of Apodemus flavicollis (N = 26). Two (33%) Myodes (Clethrionomys) glareolus (N = 6) had Puumala virus antibodies, and one (11%) Microtus agrestis (N = 9) tested positive for cowpox virus. Of fungal organisms, Pneumocystis sp. (7.3%) and Emmonsia parvum (0.9 %) were found in histological examination of lung tissue of the house mouse. No blood parasites were detected in thin blood smears but kidney forms of Trypanosoma musculi were visible in impression smears of two of 27 (7.4%) house mice examined for the kidney forms. Meront forms of Hepatozoon sp. were detected in lung tissue sections in one Myodes glareolus. Of possible vectors of blood parasites, six species of fleas were recovered from the small mammals. House mice from the cattle farm had the sex chromosomes of the M. m. musculus type whereas mtDNA was of the M. m. domesticus type. House mice from another population in western Finland had both the nuclear and mitochondrial genome of M. m. musculus.
23735823|The modern theoretical ecology has identified travelling waves as one of the appealing features suggesting that spatially structured populations may be self-organized. Using a set of population renewal models in one-dimensional space, generating regular periodic fluctuations, we seek possibilities to identify travelling waves superimposed on the local dynamics. The waves move at a known speed to one direction. The speed of the waves and the local population dynamics may be modulated by noise. Our study suggests that the indicators of travelling waves are, first, the overall level of synchrony among the populations is low, second, the frequency distribution of the synchrony measure is bimodal (i.e., it has low central tendency); and third, there is either no or a weakly decreasing trend between the level of synchrony and distance between the populations compared. These features are most easily recovered by cyclic or quasi-periodic dynamics. Data has recently started to accumulate to indicate that the theory-anticipated travelling waves are also found in dynamics of natural populations.
23735829|Conditional strategy theory provides a theoretical and experimental framework from which to predict both population differences in the expression of alternative behavioral phenotypes and the condition above and below which individuals will perform different tactics. Here I briefly review the current functional explanations for stabilimentum production in orb-web spiders and reinterpret previous results within a conditional strategy framework. I argue that using this framework and incorporating a hierarchical approach to the multiple possible selective benefits of the structure is sufficient to explain some of the seemingly contradictory results in the literature.
23736083|Maturity, fecundity, and egg size of a stunted (mean length at age 5: 13.5 cm) and normal-growing (21.8 cm) population of yellow perch (Percaflavescens Mitchill) were studied in central Alberta, Canada. Stunted perch matured at a younger age and at a much smaller size than normal perch. Minimum size at initial maturation in stunted females was the smallest recorded in the literature for either perch (Perca) species. Relative fecundity, the slope of the fecundity-weight regression, and the gonado-somatic index were significantly higher in stunted perch. Mean dry weight of eggs, percentage connective tissue, gonad energy content, and gonad weight specific fecundity were similar for perch from both populations. Reproductive parameters of stunted perch are discussed in the context of life-history theory.
23735613|We studied various aspects of the imaginal biology of the stonefly Hemimelaena flaviventris in the southern Iberian Peninsula. This species was found to have a spring flight period (May and June). A great variety of components were recorded in its diet (e.g., pollen grains, especially of Pinus; cyanoficeas; cyanolichens; coarse particulate matter), indicating little dietary selectivity. We also analysed male drumming (three beats with intervals of 122.39 and 82.25 ms) as well as female drumming (13 beats, mean = 1.41; intervals between beats = 97.10 and 120 ms), suggesting a simple, monophasic model of intersexual vibration call. Mating duration ranged from 39 to 106 min (mean = 63 min/copulation, SD = 20.6). Both the males and the females proved able to copulate on more than one occasion. Finally, we described the morphology and size of the eggs of this species, indicating some parameters pertaining to the clutch, such as maximum fecundity encountered (357 eggs per female), the maximum number of clutches per female (n = 4), and the number of eggs per clutch (mean = 87.7, range = 22195).
23731803|Removal trapping along three sets of lines was used to estimate density of small mammals in the lowland mesic-hardwood forest on the Atomic Energy Commission's Savannah River Plant near Aiken, South Carolina, U.S.A. Traps were checked on the octagon census lines for 28 days, on the primary assessment lines for a second 28-day period, and on the secondary assessment lines and the octagon census lines during a final 28-day period. Primary assessment lines were placed across the octagon census lines while the secondary assessment lines were placed across the primary assessment lines. Linear regression equations were fitted to accumulative captures over distance for the primary assessment lines and the secondary assessment lines to determine the area of effect around the octagon census lines and a selected portion of the primary assessment lines, respectively. Linear regression equations were also used to estimate numbers of small mammals in the two areas of effect when the methods of Hayne and Janion et al. could not be used to estimate numbers. Using the estimated area of effects and numbers, density estimates in the area of effect of the octagon census lines were 2.7 to 2.9 P. gossypinus per ha, 3.7 to 3.9 O. nuttalli per ha, and 1.3 to 1.4 B. brevicauda per ha. Density estimates in the area of effect along the selected portion of the primary assessment lines were 7.4 to 9.8 P. gossypinus per ha, 5.4 to 7.1 O. nuttalli per ha, and 1.7 to 2.2 B. brevicauda per ha.
23737169|Spatial variation in wintering bird communities in different types of urban residential areas is poorly understood. The objective of this study was to find out which bird species from the regional species pool are able to inhabit residential areas, whether bird communities in different types of residential area differ from one another, and what are the factors affecting birds. We conducted our study in five apartment-building areas, five family-house areas, and five villages in northern Finland by using the single-visit study plot method during five winters, i.e. 1998/19992003/2004. Old-growth-forest-specialist species, in particular, avoided residential areas, whereas the other species appeared to benefit from residential development. The species richness, the total number of individuals, and the abundance of most of the species were higher in the family-house areas and in villages than in apartment-building areas. The proportion of individuals belonging to resident species was higher in the apartment-building areas than in the other habitats, whereas the proportion of individuals belonging to feeding-table species was higher in the villages than in the other habitats. The species richness and the total number of individuals increased with the increasing number of feeding tables and decreased with increasingly larger proportions of apartment buildings within the study plot. Parus montanus, P. major, P. caeruleus, Passer domesticus, and Carduelis flammea benefitted from feeding tables. Our study demonstrated that carefully planned winter feeding programmes can enhance the wintering possibilities for birds, and thus promote the biodiversity in urban ecosystems at northern latitudes.
23732525|The species of Miridae and Isometopidae found on the author's field trips to the Sudan and the adjacent countries in 1961  1963 are listed. The following 25 genera and subgenera are described: Deraeocoris Kb. subgen. Afroderaeus, Yambio, Oreolygus, Orthops Fb. subgen. Verdeius, Jiggiga, Grewiocoris, Aloea, Ruwaba, Glaphyrocoris Rt. subgen. Pongocoris, Shendina, Zinjolopus, Somalocoris, Dignaia, Darectagela, Ghazalocoris, Waupsallus, Godataira, Nubaia, Atractotomellus, Ethatractus, Indatractus, Oreocapsus, Thymopsallus, Darfuromma, and Campylomma Rt. subgen. Sthenaromma. The following 259 species and subspecies are described: Monalocoris punctipennis, Prodromus ibbaicus, Kunungua pallida, Deraeocoris pallens ssp. atramentarius, D. dentifer, D. lucidus, D. martini ssp. australis, D. morosus, D. inflaticeps, D. langannus, D. oparicus, Cranocapsus affinis, C. niloticus, C. rivularis, Platycapsus pilosus, P. lateralis, Fingulus longiceps, F. longiceps ssp. ifensis, Cyrtopeltis longicornis, C. tuberculifer, C. montivaga, C. brunneicollis, C. brunneicollis ssp. alkannae, C. flavoviridis, C. falciger, C. virgator, C. fagoniae, C. pochalla, C. pavoniae, C. diabolus, Dicyphopsis spectabilis, Nabidomiris giloicus, Collaria nigra, Schoutedenomiris longicornis, Pleurochiloporus rubrinervis, Phytocoris geminus, P. duplicatus, P. advenus, P. bilineatus, P. kansisrob, P. excellens, P. procerus, P. crotonis, P. maichewicus, P. dulcis, Megacoelum superbum, M. rubrolineatum, M. quadrituberculatum ssp. nomadicum, M. angustulum, Yambio chaetacme, Y. clavicornis, Cyphoxacicoris dolosus, C. aspersus, Oxacicoris brunneipennis, O. elongatus, Stenotus hathor spp. probus, S. aureus, Paurolygus ciliaris, Tinginotum sabulicolum, T. lucidiceps, Taylorilygus morosus, T. figuratus, T. obscuripes ssp. plagiatus, T. dispar, T. caucanthus, T. tessellatus, T. nairobiensis atricollis, T. pseudopunctatus, T. longicornis, T. suturalis, T. compactus, Lygidolon elegans, Oreolygus ericae, O. triangulum, O. nigrisulcus, O. sexvitlatus, O. maesae, O. junipericolus, O. junipericolus ssp. frigidus, O. rubidus, O. viridipennis, Orthops podocarpi, O. nigriscutum ssp. arcanus, O. versicoloreus, Yngveella scutellaris ssp. iokaste, Horvathiella umbrina, Bowdenella hirtula, B. gloriosa, Proboscidocoris tamburanus. P. bifasciatus P. saginatus, P. asper, Polymerus xerophilus, Charagochilus pallidus, C. mollis, Halticus punctiger, Nanniella palustris, N. gracilis, Orthotylus acacicola ssp. chariensis, O. polemon, O. massawanus, O. indigoferae, O. asper, O. kenamuke, O. vittiger, O. rubrocuneatus, O. tamarindi, O. tamarindi ssp. nubaensis, O. strigilifer, O. mollis, O. repandus, O. compactus, O. omanensis, O. halaibicus, O. halaibicus ssp. abbreviatus, Pseudoloxops sudanicus, Druthmarus tibialis, Jiggiga nigra, Grewiocoris elongatus, G. harrarensis, Malacocoris montanus, Hyalosomalla depressa, Mecomma fumida, Cyrtorrhinus viridis, Pilophorus pilosus ssp. brevicollis, P. minutissimus, Ambonea v-rubra, A. tamaricis, A. russeola, A. uniformis, Aloea cunealis, A. cunealis ssp. persimilis, A. planiceps, A. nigritula, A. callosa, Trichophorella monticola, T. palustris, T. ocellaris, T. pilipes, Aeolocoris curtulus, A. decarinatus, A. pusillimus, A. nigrinus, Diocoris pilosus, Formicopsella magniceps, Kapoeta somalica, Aspidacanthus globicollis, Glossopeltis combrelicola, G. ornatulus, Ruwaba elegans, Alloeomimus hilaris, Glaphyrocoris v-albus, G. torridus, G. varians, G. varians ssp. microphthalmus, G. antennalis, G. opertus, Laemocoris nomadicus, L. angusticollis, L. pygmaeus, Plagiorrhamma ruficollis, P. punctatulus, P. monticolus, P. quadripunctatus, P. sororculus, P. curtipes, P. lucidulus, P. jocosus, P. jocosulus, Shendina globiceps, Zinjolopus elegans, Z. albostriatus. Somalocoris pulcher, Dignaia ocularis, Ectagela suavis, E. safahana, E. vitellina, E. ghazalensis, E. novella, E. bicuspidata, E. trichiliae, E. armata, E. darfurensis, Darectagela celata, Ghazalocoris modestus, Ellenia anuak, E. mollis, E. guttata, E. hyalinipennis, E. picticornis, Schoerederiella nigra ssp. pallidicornis, S. paludicola, Nubaia longiceps, Waupsallus rubromaculatus, W. tricuspidatus, W. dentatus, W. hilaris, Godataira pulchella, G. aqualla, G. ectagela, Yotvata nigricornis, Psallus jurorum, Stigmocorista rorida, S. velata, S. crassa, S. marcida, Compsidolon torridum, C. surdum, Ethatractus planicornis, Indatractus pantherinus, Plagiognathidea grisescens ssp. atricapillus, P. flavescens, P. minuta, P. simplex, Oreocapsus pallipes, O. immundus, O. lividus, O. nemoralis, O. serotinus, O. tristis, Anonychiella abendica, Thymopsallus alpinus, T. ericetorum, Gediocoris leptadeniae, G. vitellinus, G. hargeisanus, Darfuromma celata, Campylomma mundrica, C. somalica, C. imitans, C. montana, C. hilaris, Stenocapsus crotonicolus, S. minutus, S. admittens, Psallomimus ornatus, P. insignitus, P. tibialis, P. bicoloripes ssp. plagiatus, Auchenocrepis gracilis, Tuponia adenica, T. platycranoides, T. somalica, T. diversa, T. ornatipes, Aphaenophyes richteri ssp. elongatus, A. juniperinus, Eurycranella nubica, Isometopus pictus, I. lunaris, I. niger, Magnocellus scutellaris, Myiomma montana, M. zandeana and M. juniperina. Statistical data and illustrations of the male genitalia of several previously known species are included.
23734705|We propose that plant succession in environments that fluctuate randomly around some constant mean can result solely from interspecific differences in two life-history parameters, namely longevity and annual seed production. Using a model of interspecific competition for space we show that species with a high seed set and short life span are gradually replaced by species with the reverse characteristics. It also follows that species with very different life spans, but with the right combination of parameter values can coexist, as is required for a climax stage. The results show that field observations can be inadequate to distinguish between stable and unstable coexistence in ecological time.
23735525|We studied host specificity and the effects of host sex, age, breeding status and habitat on prevalence and intensity of helminths in the tundra vole Microtus oeconomus and the singing vole M. miurus at Toolik Lake on the North Slope of Alaska. The helminth faunas of the vole species were similar. However, the cestodes Paranoplocephala omphalodes and Hymenolepis horrida were particularly prevalent in M. miurus and M. oeconomus, respectively. Host preference was accompanied by a larger body size in the preferred host species, especially in P. omphalodes. This together with biogeographic data suggests that the specificity of P. omphalodes to M. miurus may be due to an intimate phylogenetic association between the host and the parasite. The factors behind the specificity of H. horrida to M. oeconomus are less obvious. The habitats of voles (wet vs. dry) did not significantly affect the occurrence of the common cestodes. Sex, age and breeding status of voles showed significant interactive effects on the occurrence of P. omphalodes and H. horrida; these effects were partly different in the two host species. The prevalence of both cestode species was higher in overwintered males than in other subgroups of the host population, probably because of the combined effect of increased exposure and decreased resistance in overwintered males. The pronounced heterogeneity of host populations with respect to helminth infections suggests that the reported patterns of parasite prevalence in small rodents may be severely biased when the host population structure is not considered and that the harmful effects of helminths may differ among the subgroups of the host population.
23736928|The Saimaa ringed seal (Phoca hispida saimensis) is an endangered endemic subspecies of Lake Saimaa, Finland. Due to its threatened status, the morphology and physiology of the subspecies cannot be studied using live individuals. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is an accurate research method to study normal anatomy and pathology of the subspecies. A female seal cadaver was examined with MRI in three orientations. Morphological structures were identified and verified by reference slice sectioning and dissection. The results provide a morphological MRI reference database for ringed seals and for other pinnipeds. Moreover, pathological and possibly infectious lesions were visible in the blubber and in the apex of the lung. In addition to morphological studies of pinnipeds, MRI can supplement conventional autopsies.
23734203|The influence of later-stage larvae and adults on the development of 1st and 2nd-stage larvae of Callicorixa producta was studied in laboratory cultures. The presence of large individuals lengthened the developmental time by 20 %, and the moulting 3rd-stage larvae were 5 % smaller than the controls. The effect could be largely eliminated by providing refuges for the small larvae. Direct interference with feeding and resting of small larvae is assumed to be the main mechanism involved.
23735758|We studied diet patterns of six sympatric dabbling ducks (Anas sp.) in wetlands with abundant invertebrates. In contrast to some earlier studies, we found no correlation between the lamellar density of different ducks and the mean length of prey in their diet. The size distributions of prey in the diet of different ducks varied, however, although in most cases the differences were not very large. Compared with earlier studies, the prey size distributions in the diet of the ducks differed quite little from that in the environment. There was not much segregation of food use along the vertical foraging dimensions, although teal Anas crecca and wigeon Anas penelope used invertebrates above the water surface. We propose that the high level of diet overlap was promoted by abundant food resources, which are quite typical for habitats where many species of dabbling ducks coexist.
23733646|Plasma Na+, Cl- and Mg2+ concentrations in pike (Esox lucius L.) are maintained at higher levels in brackish than in fresh water. Plasma Na+, Cl- and Mg2+ concentrations increased, and blood glucose and tissue water concentrations decreased during 4-day exposure to a slightly hyperosmotic medium. Blood mean corpuscular haemoglobin concentration (MCHC), a rough index of circulatory red cell volume, increased in pike exposed to slightly hyperosmotic and Mg2+ -supplemented brackish water. Transfer from brackish to fresh water caused a transitory increase in MCHC, but within 3 weeks the fish achieved levels typical of freshwater pike.
23731692|The contents of 53 hazel grouse crops collected in SeptemberDecember 1967  1970 were analyzed. Food items fell into two major categories: berries and browse. Especially the berries of Vaccinium myrtillus were found to be rich in nitrogen and potassium. Catkins and buds of Betula pubescens and Alnus incana were rich in nitrogen, and leaf buds of B. pubescens had a relatively high fat content, which, however, may be partially due to the resins. When the ground is exposed, various berries available to the hazel grouse seem to be the major source of simple carbohydrates. It is assumed that the browse items of birch and alder are of equal value to the hazel grouse, and birch apparently replaces alder without causing any dietary deficiences in the areas where alder does not occur.
23735939|We studied otter diet in a heterogeneous coastal environment in S Spain including sandy and rocky coastal habitats as well as four small Mediterranean-regime streams. The main sources of environmental variation (rocky coast vs. sandy coast, coastal habitat vs. inland habitats) were clearly reflected in the otter diet composition. In rocky coastal transects otters intensely predated on wrasses, blennies and rocklings, while in sandy coastal ones eels, flatfish and crayfish were characteristic prey types. Grey mullet was the most important prey type in terms of biomass in both coastal environments. Fish consumption clearly decreased from coastal habitat to inland ones. Otter prey were heavier in coastal than in inland habitats, while consumed fish were heavier in the sandy coast than in the rocky one. Within the wide habitat variation in the study area, otter foraging efficiency was considered maximum in estuarine environments.
23731801|Small mammal movement patterns were studied on a 14.1 ha grid with 26 lines and rows (676 trap stations) with 15 m intervals between stations. The study area was located in a lowland mesic-hardwood forest in the southeastern United States. All stations were prebaited with radioactive peanut butter for five days prior to the initiation of snap-trapping. The radioactive isotopes 59Fe, 65Zn and 131I were mixed with the peanut butter. After the five-day prebaiting period, two traps were set at each of 256 stations on the centrally located 16  16 (256 station) grid for a period of 18 days. At that time, traps were also set on the remaining 420 stations arranged in a band around the 16  16 grid. Traps were set on the entire 26  26 grid for the last 18 days. Animals were taken to the laboratory and checked for the presence of isotopes using a multichannel pulse-height analyzer. Most of the animals, consisting mainly of Blarina brevicauda, were removed within 4  8 days. However, certain animals were difficult to capture. Isotope-labeled animals were captured on days 21, 25, 30 and 36. Removal trapping caused animals to move into the grid from the border zone. Also, many animals captured on the inner 16  16 grid were double isotope-labeled (65Zn  131I). Many animals captured on the surrounding outer band were single-isotope-labeled (131I). Also, a large proportion of animals captured on the surrounding outer band were unlabeled. Mean minimum distances traveled were calculated to set a lower limit on movement distances. The results indicated that the absolute minimum width of the border zone affected by small mammal removal was about 15 m.
23736027|Chromosome numbers and karyological characteristics were examined during spermatogenesis in Saduria entomon (n=30), Mysis relicta (n=52), Pontoporeia femorata (n=14) and P. affinis (n=26) from the northern Baltic Sea, and in Mysis relicta (n=52), Pallasea (Pallasiola) guadrispinosa (n=26) and Gammaracanthus lacustris (n=19) from Lake Pjrvi, southern Finland. The chromosomes of the postglacial immigrants Gammarus lacustris and G. pulex were also recorded (n=26). These observations suggest karyological differentiation of the originally subarctic marine amphipods Pontoporeia femorata and Gammaracanthus lacustris from Pontoporeia affinis, Pallasea quadrispinosa and Gammarus spp. evolved in Palearctic freshwater bodies.
23736209|Density of young-of-the-year (YOY) peled (Coregonus peled) in late summer trawling was used to estimate their forthcoming year-class strength (YCS) in two northern reservoirs, Lokka and Porttipahta. We applied virtual population analysis (VPA) in estimating year-class strength. A good correlation was found between YOY density and YCS of peled. In contrast, the density of YOY whitefish (C. lavaretus) did not reliably reflect their YCS. Annual number of trawling tows in 19912001 averaged 23 per reservoir. Precision (SE x-1) of the annual replicate samples averaged 0.33 and 0.31 for peled and whitefish, respectively. This level of precision was sufficient for detecting the large, often order-of-magnitude differences between annual mean YOY densities. As a practical application in fisheries management, YOY densities in survey trawling can be used in adjusting of stocking density and fishery of peled in the reservoirs studied.
23736139|The ability to distinguish self from non-self is one of the fundamental organizing principles of life on Earth. Such recognition systems permit the unification of distinct elements into cohesive social groups, from multicellular organisms to colonial "superorganisms". Although the phenomenon of self/non-self recognition has been studied extensively, recent advances have provided fascinating glimpses into the inner workings of recognition systems, and have illuminated some of the extreme forms of selection that drive the evolution of label polymorphism. This polymorphism permits different classes of individuals to be distinguished with high precision, thus creating barriers to outsiders who seek entry into the social group. Here I review the structure and evolution of self/non-self recognition systems across a variety of taxa, with particular attention to the selective forces that maintain label polymorphism. I highlight recent findings that have opened up new avenues of research, and suggest future directions that may provide additional novel insights.
23734137|Movements of common gulls ringed in Finland were analysed on the basis of 3292 recoveries. The species uses two distinct spatial units during the year, the Breeding Area and the Main Survival Area. The Survival Area is west of 14E, from Denmark to Britain and France. Adults leave the Breeding Area as soon as breeding is over, the first year birds following shortly after. Transitory areas are exploited only briefly. The Main Survival Area appears the same for all studied age-classes (1-yr, 2-yr, 3-/4-yr and 4-yr+), but there is some indication of spatial segregation between northern and southern populations. Juveniles seldom return to the Breeding Area in summer, although there is movement out of the Main Survival Area. Older immatures (3-4-yr) resemble adults in their movements. There is some indication that adults may recruite into breeding populations distant from the natal colony. The movements of Finnish common gulls are compared with other populations. It is argued that there is evidence for a latitudinal displacement migration pattern for the species in NW Europe.
23736185|Previous studies of the mtDNA cytochrome b gene and control region indicated that the Baikal omul was closely related to the Baikal whitefishes, but not to the Arctic cisco, Coregonus autumnalis Pallas, its closest taxonomic relative. Moreover, extremely high mtDNA similarity between Baikal omul and Baikal lacustrine whitefish, C. lavaretus baicalensis (Dyb.), was revealed. Direct sequencing of PCR-amplified DNA of the first internal transcribed spacer of ribosomal DNA (rDNA ITS1) of five taxa was carried out using previously designed primers to determine the position of the species within the Coregonidae: two ciscoes including the Arctic cisco, C. autumnalis Pallas, and the Irish pollan, C. pollan Thompson; and three of Lake Baikal's coregonids including Baikal omul, C. autumnalis migratorius Georgi, Baikal lacustrine whitefish, C. lavaretus baicalensis Dybovsky, and Baikal pidschian, C. lavaretus pidschian Pallas. The study showed again that Baikal omul grouped within the C. lavaretus complex. The trees that were obtained correlated with our previous results based on mtDNA analysis. We conclude that Baikal omul is one of many representatives of the C. lavaretus complex.
23736969|The research was conducted on 600 (311 male and 289 female) European bison skulls of the Lowland line collected between 1967 and 2006. The specimens came from the bison breeding centre in Biaowiea (n = 67) and from the free-ranging population of the Polish part of the Biaowiea Forest (n = 533). Two indices best differentiating male and female skulls were selected: one being the quotient of the orbital breadth EctEct and the length of the splanchnocranium StP, the second being the quotient of the neuro-cranium length BSt and the basal skull length BP. Using these indices we constructed an equation which produced negative values for females and positive values for males; 223 (74%) of the male skulls produced positive values consistent with sex, and 82 (26%) produced negative values, indicating female features. Those features were present mainly in skulls of young males (< 4 years old). 230 (80%) of the female skulls had shapes typical of the female sex, whereas 59 (20%) displayed male features.
23731831|Seven hundred Apodemus flavicollis, 500 Clethrionomys glareolus and 500 Apodemus agrarius were estimated to be present in a 40-hectare forest during one year. About 1 000 Microtus arvalis lived in a 40-hectare band of fields surrounding this forest during the same period. The dietary habits of foxes, martens, badgers, tawny owls and common buzzards were also investigated during the same period. These predators ate about 1 200 forest rodents and 1 100 field voles. The data are preliminary and only indicate that predation on rodent populations is heavy. The fact that more field voles were eaten than were estimated to be present results from underestimation of the size of the territory hunted by owls and the inaccuracy of the method used to census field rodents.
23736085|Covariation in the year-class strengths of perch, Perca fluviatilis L., and pikeperch Stizostedion lucioperca (L.), were studied among ten populations in Baltic coastal areas and three pikeperch populations in lakes. Within the studied periods in 19741981 and 19801987 the covariations in the year-class strength were similar between populations of the same species and between species. When the variations in year-class strength in several populations were compared annually between species no statistically significant differences were found during the 16 examined years. Despite the covariations, correlation coefficients in year-class strength between populations were lower for greater distances. About half (18 cases out of 35) of the correlation coefficients were statistically significant when the distance between populations was less than 300 km. Some rather high correlation coefficients were also found at distances between 300 and 900 km, but only one was statistically significant.
23731657|A strong expansion of L. argentatus cachinnans started in the Baltic area at the beginning of this century. This resulted in several new colonies in peat bogs and inland lakes in Latvia, Estonia, and Finland during the following decades. The early phases of this expansion occurred a few decades earlier than the strong increase of the maritime colonies off the south coast of Finland. The maritime colonies originally contained pink-legged gulls only. But in the first decade of this century, while still small in size, they were increased by a small proportion of the yellow-legged immigrants and have since been polymorphic for leg colour. Most of the yellow-legged gulls settled in the inland habitats, however, presumably according to their habitat preference. This colonization cannot be attributed to a mere increase of the individual local populations that may have been in existence as small scattered colonies before the beginning of this century. There must have been a strong invasion from elsewhere and, in fact, there was one from the southeast. This assumption is supported by the following facts: 1) the expansion coincides with a climatic period characterized by very warm springs and thus by conditions promoting prolonged migration; 2) long-range migrations of the yellow-legged gulls from the Ponto-Caspian area appear to have increased in intensity; 3) the regular appearance of the Yellow-legs from the Baltic area as stragglers or winter visitors in the Russian mainland is an established fact; and (4) there appears to be an increasing tendency for the members of the southern colonies to start their autumn migration toward the east and southeast, which suggests that the southeastern immigrants exert an influence on migration within the populations concerned. This tendency, though indicative, cannot be considered an established fact, however, until the recovery data have been proved to be satisfactorily unbiased.
23735804|We compared beetle fauna among six types of forests: (1) old-growth pine, (2) old-growth spruce and (3) old-growth mixed forests; (4) 1-year-old and (5) 15-year-old seed-tree cut pine forests, and (6) 15-year-old clear-cut spruce forests using window trapping. In the old-growth forests, species richness was explained by site productivity, amount and quality of coarse woody debris (CWD), and tree species composition. Many of the explaining variables, e.g., site productivity, volume of living timber and volume of CWD were intercorrelated. Beetle assemblages varied according to the site fertility and successional stage. The species compositions of non-saproxylic species were rather similar in the seed-tree-cut areas and in the old-growth pine forests, but the species composition of saproxylics differed between the two forest types. On the contrary, the species compositions of both saproxylics and non-saproxylics differed distinctly between the old-growth spruce forest and clear-cut sites. Species colonising recently died trees, soil-dwelling open-habitat species and some polypore-living cisids were more abundant in regeneration areas than in old-growth forests, whereas species of many other mycetophagous beetle families were practically absent from the logged sites. Compared with old-growth forests, the proportion of nationally rare saproxylic species was high at the recently cut sites, but clearly lower at the old regeneration sites. This indicates that in the long run the changes in the amount and quality of CWD may have detrimental effects to rare saproxylic species in the regeneration areas.
23735897|The possible effects of pikeperch abundance, size and condition on cannibalism were studied in 19992001 in two basins of lake Hiidenvesi, Finland. Cannibalism was found only during the warm summer of 1999 when the abundance of young-of-the-year (YOY) fish was the highest. In July 1999, YOY pikeperch were the smallest prey (2.53.5 cm TL) recorded from pikeperch stomachs. In September 1999, only the smallest YOY juveniles (6.58.6 cm) were predated of the available size-distribution of YOY juveniles in the lake (6.513.8 cm) showing that the risk of cannibalism was highest among the smallest juveniles. There was no effect of prey or predator condition on cannibalism.
23735430|Diplostomid metacercariae were found at a high prevalence and in large numbers in the eyes of a wide variety of fish species from widely differing freshwater and brackish water environments in northern Finland. These parasites were found to infect the following: 21 of 25 fish species, some of which were marine, studied in the oligohaline, brackish waters of the Bothnian Bay, Baltic Sea; all nine fish species studied from a large, oligotrophic lake in NE Finland (Yli-Kitka); and all five studied fish species in a small, hypereutrophic lake (Kuivasjrvi). Diplostomids in the lens of the fishes of the Bothnian Bay, studied during two periods extending over seven years, suggest the presence of a stable and predictable system, despite the extremely narrow transmission window between the first (snail) and second (fish) intermediate hosts. Diplostomids in the lens of fishes from the Bothnian Bay and Lake Kuivasjrvi predominated (> 50% infection in 14 of 21 species) over those from the vitreous body of the eye in most cases, but were much lower (< 18%) in Lake Yli-Kitka. The situation in the vitreous body was quite the reverse, since diplostomids in this site predominated over those in the lens in fishes of Lake Yli-Kitka (> 80% prevalences in five of nine fish species). This difference is considered to be dependent on differences in the piscivorous bird fauna. The fact that diplostomid metacercariae accumulated in the fish, together with the lack of any real seasonal variation, confirms the longevity of these larvae in their fish intermediate hosts. Thus metacercariae form a reservoir which is mainly responsible for the maintenance of diplostomid suprapopulations in these northern latitudes.
23735357|For many years water quality in lakes has been seen as an important linear predictor of fish yield (kg/ha/yr). However, in Finnish lakes prediction fails. Therefore, we have explored a theoretical basis for such empirical models. With a niche-theory-based model, built on the assumption that each species exhibits a bell-shaped distribution around some optimal water quality value, we are able to show that a linear relationship between water quality and total fish yield is extremely unlikely to result. To illustrate this we shall present data on yield of eight fish species in 148 Finnish lakes. In accordance with the model, the empirical data show roughly bell-shaped yield responses along an environmental gradient for each of the species. This also results in the total yield's peaking at intermediate gradient values, and yield decreasing as we move to either direction from the modal point.
23734155|The paper presents methodological experiences of an internordic study based on neckbanding of 365 Bean Geese, also having been marked with aluminium leg rings. Altogether more than 800 reading observations have been received, and of the 191 Finnish marked individuals 63.4% have been identified after marking. The neckbands, made of doublelayered, UV-protected PVC plastic, have been proved very durable, as well as the visibility of the engraved codes being readable in the field with spotting scopes. No disturbance to birds have been reported from the field, nor observed in cage experiments. The rare cases where the neckbands have been lost do not lower the value of marking as the mortality calculations are based on the leg ring recoveries. The observation work must be specially organized when starting such a study and the marking should be done at the breeding places if birds with known origin are desired. The observation efficiency varies from year to year and in different areas dependent on concentration tendency of birds, the escape distances and the length of periods they stay in areas most intensively studied.
23735856|We investigated the occurrence of blood parasites on the red-backed shrike Lanius collurio during a three-year study in southern Czech Republic. Selected traits of shrike body morphology, male plumage and reproduction were studied with respect to the presence and intensity of haematozoan infection in blood samples collected from 172 breeding adults. Haemoproteus lanii was found to be the most common parasite (72.7%), the prevalence of other parasites (i.e., haemoproteids Plasmodium sp. (cf. relictum) and Leucocytozoon sp., kinetoplastid Trypanosoma sp. and microfilariae Aproctella stoddardi) being markedly lower. Incidence of parasitemia did not differ between sexes in any of the parasite species considered. However, females infected by Haemoproteus lanii initiated egg-laying later in the season than uninfected females. Among males, infected individuals had significantly longer wings and larger melanin-based tail colour patterns (a secondary sexual trait) than uninfected individuals. Moreover, mating was assortative with respect to infection status.
23735702|The direct and indirect effects of iron on the structure and function of lotic ecosystems are reviewed. In addition to the mining of Fe enriched ores, intensified forestry, peat production and agricultural draining have increased the load of iron in many river ecosystems. The effects of iron on aquatic animals and their habitats are mainly indirect, although the direct toxic effects of Fe2+ are also important in some lotic habitats receiving Fe-enriched effluents in cold seasons, in particular. Ferric hydroxide and Fe-humus precipitates, on both biological and other surfaces, indirectly effect lotic organisms by disturbing the normal metabolism and osmoregulation, and by changing the structure and quality of benthic habitats and food resources. The combined direct and indirect effects of iron contamination decrease the species diversity and abundance of periphyton, benthic invertebrates and fishes. Sorption and co-precipitation of metals by Fe-oxides decrease the bioavailability and toxicity of water-borne metals, but may increase the dietary supply of metals and lead to toxic effects along the food chain. At the cellular level, Fe functions both as a detoxification mechanism, as well as a cell degeneration agent by inducing the formation of hydroxyl free radicals. More research is needed on the factors that affect the environmental fate and ecotoxicological impacts of iron on river ecosystems. As the flux of iron is heavily affected by seasonally varying physical, chemical and biological processes, its impact on ecosystems should be studied on multiple spatial, and temporal scales and at different levels of biological organisation.
23735934|A method allowing the easy access of nestlings of cavity nesting species is outlined. Briefly, a hole saw fitted to an 18-V cordless drill is used to cut a hole between 5 cm and 8 cm below the cavity entrance. The aperture created allows extraction of nestlings by hand. After manipulation, the wooden disk cut during the formation of the hole is wrapped with duct tape, fitted into the hole and secured in place with two screws. The technique was tested on 25 occupied black-backed woodpecker cavities. No mortality occurred during the drilling process, no nest was abandoned and adults returned to feed nestlings within a few minutes of completion of the manipulations. Furthermore, some opened cavities were reused, either by black-backed woodpeckers or by secondary cavity nesters, suggesting that the nests conserved their natural aspect.
23736188|Lake Hytiinen in eastern Finland has suffered from several prolonged vendace (Coregonus albula (L.)) recessions during the last decades. To strengthen the spawning stock, about 2.6 million vendace were transferred from lake Suvasvesi into lake Hytiinen in late winter 2000. The success of stock transfer was studied with the help of microsatellite genetic markers. Newly hatched larvae were collected in two years preceding and two years after the first reproduction of the transferred fish in lake Hytiinen. Microsatellite DNA variation of larvae was assessed and the genotypes were compared with the genotypes of the two original populations and known hybrids of these two populations. An assignment test showed that a majority of the sampled larvae originated from the indigenous lake Hytiinen population, and stock transfer had only minor effects on the population structure of lake Hytiinen.
23736019|Recent experiments have demonstrated the adaptive advantages of schooling behaviour during predator defence. Fish in schools benefit from increased vigilance and, as a consequence of inspection behaviour, predator recognition and assessment is improved. Information about advancing predators can be obtained from other school members without each fish needing to independently confirm the extent of the danger. Schooling behaviour and inspection behaviour may inhibit attack by predators, and, if schools are attacked a variety of tactics, ranging from the confusion effect to the flash expansion, serve to protect individual members. There are however a number of constraints on the evolution of schooling and associated anti-predator mechanisms. For instance, conflicting selection pressures, such as the need to forage, mate and avoid predation, can operate simultaneously. Selection pressures acting on immature and adult fish may be discontinuous necessitating a period of increased vulnerability when individuals switch tactics. Schooling may not be an equally appropriate defence against all predators and the phylogenetic origins of populations or species can lead to additional genetic constraints. It seems probable that behavioural ecologists will increasingly focus on how interactions between such constraints govern the evolution of behaviour.
23734278|Free-living nematodes were collected from a wide depth range (0.8-82m) and different substrate types in the northernmost part of the Bothnian Bay (Hailuoto, Krunnit area; salinity 2-3.5 %). The collection comprises 32 species and contains limnic and brackish-water elements. Most of the species showed a wide range of occurrence with regard to both depth and substrate type (especially the three most common species Axonolaimus spinosus, Chromadorita fennica and Paracanthonchus bothnicus n.sp.). The paper gives a detailed systematic account of several species, in particular Hofmaenneria brachystoma, Chromadorita tentabunda, Neochromadora izhorica, Paracanthonchus bothnicus n.sp. and Tripyla filipjevi.
23733637|Samples of adults of the snail Cepaea hortensis (Mll.) from natural populations in southern Iceland were analysed with respect to variation in shell diameter. Significant differences in mean shell size occurred between areas and closely adjacent sites. Analyses of June samples from different sites within a restricted area revealed a significant association (P  0.01) between mean shell size, mean minimum temperature, calcium in soil, and calcium in decaying vegetation, temperature accounting for most of the variation in shell size. Variation within samples was small, with coefficients of variation  5 %. At a site studied for 5 years seasonal and annual variations in mean shell size were small. Between consecutive sampling occasions some significant changes in variance occurred, mostly during summer and autumn when recruitment of adults takes place. In some winters a significant reduction of variance occurred, which suggests stabilizing selection. During winters the mean shell size decreased, although not statistically significantly. However, the mean shell size in early June was positively correlated with the air temperature of the preceding winter (P = 0.017). It is suggested that the mean shell diameter of the adult snails is subject to climatic selection.
23735900|Recent studies proposed that the colouration of diurnal orbweaving spiders can attract hymenopteran prey. The main assumption behind the prey-attraction hypothesis is that orbweavers might lure pollinators by mimicking floral images. However, the visual appearance of spiders hunting in webs seems to mimic foliage, soil or a dead leaf. Here, we performed a field experiment with artificial webs to test the hypothesis that the appearance of diurnal orbweavers serves to attract pollinating insects. We predicted that if the presence of diurnal spiders attracts prey, the nets containing diurnal Argiope bruennichi should intercept more prey than both empty nets and the nets with nocturnal Larinioides cornutus. Alternatively, if diurnal spiders are cryptic to diurnal prey, Argiope nets should collect more prey than Larinioides nets, but Argiope's capture success should be similar to that of empty nets. We found that Argiope webs collected more insects than Larinioides webs, yet their capture success was comparable to that of the nets containing no spider. Also, Argiope showed less saturated colouration than Larinioides. Our work supports the hypothesis that the physical appearance of diurnal orbweavers might have evolved to camouflage them in their hunting habitat.
23735605|The moose population has been intensively managed in Finland since the beginning of 1970s. However, recent decline in population sizes observed in many parts of the country was unexpected. In this study, the development of the Finnish moose population in 19741994 was analysed with a simulation model where the crucial factor was the annual hunting. The simulation model was also used to generate predictions of the future population size. The simulations for three game management districts (Varsinais Suomi, Etel Hme and Pohjois Savo) followed well the actual population data. In forecasts, the population size predictions began to become increasingly unreliable when the forecast horizon was extended to two or more years. The analysis revealed that a successful management strategy calls for information on spatial migration of the moose and more accurate population estimates.
23735847|Fisherian sex ratio evolution is based on a set of common assumptions which, if met, will result in the maintenance of an equilibrium sex ratio of 0.5. One of these assumptions is the absence of intrasexual fitness differences. To investigate Fisherian sex ratio selection, variation is provided by three factor sex determination systems like that found in the platyfish, Xiphophorus maculatus. Here, populations with genetically-based intrasexual fitness differences were established at a sex ratio predicted to be at Fisherian equilibrium. The frequency of earlier versus later maturing genotypes changed in these populations, resulting in a sex ratio of 0.5, but at a different point along a curve of Fisherian sex ratio equilibria. Thus it appears that genetic differences in fitness which are in linkage with sex-determining factors can result in evolution along the sex ratio equilibrium curve.
23736768|Previous research on red porgy, Pagrus pagrus, has shown that physiological colour change does not depend on changes in plasma cortiscol or -MSH. The purpose of this study was to identify the endocrine mechanism responsible for skin blanching in fish exposed to white background. There was no significant difference in serum cortisol, glucose, lactate, thyroid hormones, or plasma epinephrine concentration between black and white-background-adapted fish. Mean daily plasma melatonin concentration was significantly higher in black- (41.29  2.46 pg ml-1) than white-background-exposed fish (32.07  1.26 pg ml-1) while mean plasma norepinephrine was almost fivefold higher in white- (6.26  1.57 ng ml-1) than in black-background-adapted fish (1.01  0.34 ng ml-1). Skin melanin concentration did not differ significantly between the experimental groups. Our study indicates that skin blanching in red porgy is mediated through norepinephrine release.
23734239|Exoskeletons of kinorhynchs, resembling those of Echinoderes levanderi Karling, were encountered in tissues (most often in the gonad) of Macoma balthica (L.) taken from muddy bottoms at depths of 20-40 m. They could be found in up to 70% of individuals. The foreign bodies were usually surrounded by clam granulocytes. Resorption of the cuticular parts was difficult; such material was capable of surviving in the tissues for at least a year. In clams taken from a depth of 7-8 m no kinorhynchs were found.
23737153|Scavengers can improve their foraging possibilities by associating with predators that provide food. Therefore, the presence of grey wolves (Canis lupus) may increase scavenging opportunities for wolverines (Gulo gulo). There have been many observations of wolverines utilizing wolf-killed moose (Alces alces), but quantitative information is lacking. We analysed wolverine and wolf habitat selection in eastern Finland, where the two species are sympatric. Generalized linear mixed-effect models were constructed to explain the location of wolverines in terms of their distance from settlements, the forest type and the presence of wolves. We found that wolverines favoured wolf presence, coniferous forests, mixed forests and mires; and avoided settlements, young forests and deciduous forests. These findings improve our understanding of wolverine habitat selection by demonstrating the importance of remote forest areas, as well as the presence of other carnivore species, to wolverines in boreal forests in Finland.
23733726|The effects of pre-storage homogenization and duration of continuous oven storage on the energy and ash content of biological material were studied in tests with Helix pomatia L. The energy content and amount of calorimetric ash were determined in an oxygen bomb and the total ash in a muffle furnace, over 100 determinations being made with some 200 snails. Four methodological recommendations are given. The mean energy content of the snails was 20.78 kJ g-1 (4960 cal g-1). The energy content increased by about 5 % over a period of more than six months, and was somewhat higher (about 2 %) for the material homogenized before storage than for that homogenized at the start of the determinations. The mean percentage of furnace ash was 16.5 %. The ash content determined by oxygen-bomb combustion was underestimated by one-third as compared with that determined by muffle furnace incineration. The ash content was significantly affected by pre-storage homogenization and storage time, but because of considerable interaction the roles of these two factors could not be estimated separately.
23735487|In the dung fly, Scathophaga inquinata, females oviposit on fresh cow droppings where males arrive to mate with females before oviposition. While searching for females, single males spent most of their time in the vicinity of droppings, and were frequently involved in fights with conspecifics. On the dropping, both single males and pairs were attacked by the yellow dung fly, Scathophaga stercoraria, and hardly ever by conspecifics. Copulating males were larger than searching males, suggesting selection for large male size. Nevertheless, females were the larger sex. Only a few pairs formed at the dropping; most pairs flew to it. In copulating pairs, females were the flying individual. This was shown in an experiment where copulating pairs were tested for their ability to fly. In addition, pairs were size assortatively mated. Sexual size dimorphism in S. inquinata is discussed in relation to the mating behaviour and sexual selection on male and female size. It is suggested that loading constraints may be among the factors that maintain female-biased sexual dimorphism in this species.
23732276|Measurements of plasma ion concentrations and muscle water contents revealed differences in osmoregulation between the northern pike Esox lucius L., a Baltic teleost of freshwater ancestry, and two species of sculpins, Myoxocephalus scorpius (L.) and M. quadricornis (L.), of marine ancestry. In the Myoxocephalus species, seasonal levels of plasma sodium, chloride, magnesium and inorganic phosphates are primarily temperature-dependent variables. In the pike, acclimation to unseasonable temperatures showed that these variables (except plasma inorganic phosphates) are all independent of temperature, but plasma sodium and chloride concentrations are relatively stable all the year round, whereas plasma magnesium, and muscle sodium and water contents vary with the season. In both pike and fourhorn sculpin the plasma inorganic phosphate level showed sex-dependent seasonal variation.
23734467|Formica exsecta Nyl. populations in southern Finland exhibit two distinct male size classes. This phenomenon, which also occurs in Formica sanguinea Latr., is seen both within single nests and at the population level. Small males (micraners) appear to mature later, to have sharper diurnal activity peaks and to disperse more widely than do large males (macraners). Micraners appear to predominate in crowded polydomous colonies characterized by strongly male biased sex ratios, while macraners are characteristic of monodomous populations with a sex ratio close to 1:1. We suggest that macraners represent a mating tactic based on limited dispersal, including inbreeding, and that they may be most common during the early stage of the colony cycle preceding polygyny, while micraners represent an outbreeding strategy associated with a decline in resource availability.
23736094|Research on predator-prey relationships in the littoral zone of Lake Constance showed that eels (Anguilla anguilla (L.)) were the most numerous piscivorous predators in the shallow water zones up to 3-metres depth in 1992. From July on fish was the most important component of the diet of eels. Perch (Perca fluviatilis L.), burbot (Lota lota (L.)) and bream (Abramis brama (L.)) were thwe most frequently consumed fish. As 61% of all identifiable fish the eels had consumed were perch, an attempt was made to estimate the impact of eel predation on the young-of-the-year (y-o-y) of the perch population. Consumption by the total eel population never exceeded the amount of perch fry consumed by adult, cannibalistic perch estimated in other studies, but it seems possible that eel predation could have an adverse influence on weak year classes. Further reoligotrophication of the lake might lead to even higher fish consumption by the eels due to declining benthic production and consequent increased predation pressure.
23735478|Fluctuating asymmetry (FA) as expressed in metric and meristic skull traits was analysed in a sample of 172 otters collected in Denmark between 1861 and 1994. Tissue levels of organochlorine pesticide residues and PCBs were determined and the correlation between contaminant concentration and FA was tested. A significant correlation was found between FA in different traits and the year of collection, but there was no significant correlation between FA and the concentration of contaminants. These results suggest that factors other than pesticides have affected the developmental stability of skulls in the Danish otter population. Among these, a population bottleneck following habitat fragmentation is discussed as a possible cause.
23736030|The evolutionary stable homing and straying of migratory salmon populations are studied in this paper. Homing behaviour is a well-known character in the life history of many migratory fish. After emerging as fry Pacific salmon spend one to three years in fresh water and then migrate out to sea. After spending several years migrating in the sea the adults return to spawn in their natal rivers. The few available estimates e.g. in sockeye salmon populations show that straying, i.e., spawning in non-natal rivers, also occurs. It has been proposed that the fraction of straying increases as the river-lake systems where the fish reproduce and where the young fish spend their first years become more uncertain. In this paper I develop a simulation model to study the evolutionary stable homing and straying strategies of migratory salmon populations. Special reference is made to the problem of how uncertainties in reproduction affect homing and straying in salmon. I also discuss the relationship between evolutionary risk spreading and evolutionary stable strategies.
23736699|Teal (Anas crecca) broods were studied in 19882003 in a boreal watershed comprising 51 permanent wetlands. Brood size of near-fledged ducklings was negatively related to the hatching date, i.e. early pairs had higher reproductive success than late pairs. However, brood size of newly hatched ducklings was not related to the hatching date, implying that the advantage of early breeding is due to processes operating during the brood stage rather than during nesting. Half of the lakes never produced a brood, and among the 26 lakes that actually did, two 'preferred' lakes generated 44% of the broods and 55% of the near-fledged ducklings. Early broods were over-represented on such 'preferred' lakes, and late broods over-represented on 'less preferred' lakes. Our study suggests that lake selection and early nesting may have important fitness consequences in teal.
23734594|Bird communities of virgin and managed coniferous forests were censused by the line transect method in Northern Finland in 198287. Managed forests were thinned, dry pinedominated forests and virgin climax, dry pine and moist spruce-birch forests. I assessed the stability of bird communities in these different forest types by measuring variation in bird density, species richness, species diversity, evenness component of diversity and average individual turnover between consecutive years. I also compared annual fluctuations of the five most common species (Fringilla montifringilla, Phylloscopus trochilus, Carduelis flammea, Phoenicurus phoenicurus and Turdus iliacus) in virgin and managed forests. The stability indices did not reveal any clear patterns between different forest types, presumably because of the irregularity of seed crops (affecting seed eaters) and the unpredictability of weather conditions in late spring and early summer (affecting migratory insectivores). These two aspects of environmental unpredictability probably make stability patterns in different habitats similar to each other in the north. The effect of forest management on the stability of bird communities and populations is discussed. Species preferring virgin forests (Parus cinctus, Perisoreus infaustus, Pinicola enucleator, Bombycilla garrulus, Picoides tridactylus, Phoenicurus phoenicurus, Tetrao urogallus) fluctuated less in virgin compared with managed forests, but these species have always comprised only a minor proportion of the community. Thus, bird communities of virgin forests have probably not been more stable earlier, when forest management was not so intensive. Density fluctuations of Ph. trochilus and Phoenicurus phoenicurus were most pronounced in their marginal habitats, whereas similar fluctuations could not be seen in F. montifringilla, T. iliacus or C. flammea. The northern species F. montifringilla and C. flammea possess specific adaptations to the environmental unpredictability, such as low site tenacity and breeding nomadism, which probably decrease differences in the density variation of these species between forest habitats. The mass appearence of Loxia leucoptera in 1987 indicates that local bird communities studied also reflect changes occurring outside the study area, on a regional or a continental level.
23736739|Evolutionary interactions between brood parasites (e.g. cuckoos) and their hosts (e.g. small songbirds) became an important model for the study of coevolution, recognition and other subjects central to evolutionary biology. I argue that both primary literature and textbooks provide an unequal picture of brood parasitehost relationships: they make an impression that hosts can defend against parasite only at the egg stage but not at the nestling stage. However, the general impression that chick discrimination is either very rare or even non-existent does not follow from available data  it is studies of chick-related host adaptations which are rare. Using quantitative data on publication and citation rates of egg vs. chick studies I show that there is a strong inequality in favour of egg studies and against chick studies in respect to both research effort (number of studies, number of model host species, studies sample sizes) and citation rates. This bias is apparent in both observational and experimental studies. I argue that current poor knowledge of chick discrimination and mimicry can hardly be explained by logistic obstacles. Both theoretical frameworks and experimental designs were developed and successfully used in several studies of parasite chicks. I suggest that chick discrimination and mimicry should become a priority issue in brood parasitism research in the future to reach a more balanced view of hostparasite interactions.
23734529|Three previously known nematodes are redefined on the basis of observations of living and fixed animals from the macrophytes of the brackish waters in the southern archipelago of Finland: Chromadorina erythrophthalma (G. Schneider, 1906), Punctodora ratzeburgensis (Linstow, 1876) and Chromadorita tenuis (G. Schneider, 1906). The redescriptions of Chromadorina erythrophthalma and Chromadorita tenuis are the first from the type locality since the original descriptions. C. tenuis and P. ratzeburgensis are common inhabitants on 11 macrophytes and are found on these in great abundance.
23736949|We investigated the response of predatory spiders, carabids, staphylinids and heteropteran bugs to the age of wildflower areas at twenty 1- to 4-year-old wildflower sites and in wheat fields. Density, biomass and species richness of spiders, carabids and bugs increased with the age of wildflower sites, and were higher at older wildflower sites than in the wheat fields. In contrast, staphylinid density decreased significantly with the age of wildflower sites. Canonical correspondence analysis explained 42.4% and 46.7% of the total variance of spider and carabid assemblages, respectively. Spider and carabid assemblages were best explained by vegetation cover. Mean individual weights of spiders, carabids and staphylinids increased significantly with the age of wildflower sites. The positive response of these three groups of beneficials is of practical relevance because many farmers currently remove wildflower areas after two to three years of establishment. Thus, older stages of succession increase the numbers of most beneficials studied.
23735642|The structure and the histological expression of annual bone growth marks of Moroccan water frogs (Rana saharica) from an arid climate region (northern edge of the Sahara desert) differ from the pattern observed in water frogs from temperate climate regions. At early ages, when growing rates are high, the osteogenic activity of the froglets never stops completely, and during the resting period the histological marks formed in the bone are mostly annuli. However, growth marks formed in older individuals are mostly well defined thin LAGs, which correspond to a complete stop in of osteogenesis. Males and females mature when they are two years old. The oldest males and females were six years old. One-year-old froglets showed a wide range in body size (22.4 to 40.9 mm) associated with an extended period of metamorphosis. Considering LAG diameter as the diameter of the phalange at a given age, we obtained successive phalange diameters for each individual corresponding to each year of its life. The diameter of the LAG1 of adults of Rana saharica is significantly larger than the diameter of the LAG1 of one year old juveniles. We found similar results studying the tibiofibulae of the sister taxon of R. saharica, R. perezi. Larger froglets were thus more successful than smaller ones in generating the adult samples suggesting the existence of size mediated selection. Extended breeding periods, which allow various metamorphosis peaks along the year, would be apparently disadvantageous for the species, since only froglets of a few subcohorts would be able to survive. However, this strategy could be of importance in Mediterranean and desert areas where local conditions change dramatically from year to year.
23734124|The colonization of the archipelago of Lake Inari (69N, 28E) by land birds is analyzed on the basis of census data from 41 islands with a size range of 0.5885 ha (17 islands censused in two breeding seasons). 43 species of land birds were recorded on the islands. In calculating species-specific expectations of population numbers on the islands, published density estimates from mainland habitats and data on regional abundances were used as a background. Fourteen of the 24 abundant species were observed on the islands in expected numbers, but only one deviating case was not plausibly explained by obvious differences in habitat structure between islands and the mainland (Anthus trivialis). Less numerous species on the islands are habitat specialists occurring there in roughly expected numbers. All absences are obviously caused by lack of suitable habitats on the islands  the missing species include specialists of alpine and tundra habitats. Habitat preferences of the species can thus be distinguished as by far the most important factor affecting colonization propensity of land birds in Inari. Communities in different "island type groups" defined on the basis of habitat composition were relatively similar. "Sampling" seems the main factor causing increase in species numbers with increasing island size in Inari, although increasing habitat heterogeneity also has an influence. Frequency patterns in the total pooled data were also compared with distribution types of single species. Successful species on the islands can roughly be divided into three groups: (1) characteristic generalists of forest habitats at the transition between taiga and tundra (4 spp.); (2) characteristic species of the northern taiga, widely distributed in northern Palearctic (11 spp.); and (3) species with an "interzonal" distribution type, i.e. specialized to habitats that are geographically widely distributed but locally patchy (in Inari shores and open, rocky grounds) (2 spp.) Data from the Inari islands support the suggestion that the forest avifauna of Finnish Forest Lapland is impoverished, and a comparison with data from northern Russia and Siberia indicates that this is due to habitat impoverishment: Pine is the only conifer in Finnish northern Lapland, but the richest bird communities reside in spruce forests in the North-Russian taiga.
23735929|In four 1450-ha landscapes of differently aged coastal western hemlock (Tsuga heterophylla) forests on Vancouver Island (British Columbia, Canada), sites and elements used by pileated woodpeckers for foraging were examined. Snags and defective trees (decayed or damaged) used for foraging (n = 94) were larger, more decayed, and had less bark remaining than those not used; also, more were in the upper and main canopy strata (n = 587). Pileated woodpeckers foraged on sites (n = 23) where there was greater basal area of snags and defective trees, more coarse woody debris, and more western red cedar (Thuja plicata) than sites that were not used (n = 36). Logs used for foraging (n = 27) were larger, longer and less decayed than unused logs (n = 360). The reduction of remnants of old forests and their structures could have negative consequences for pileated woodpecker, particularly where heavy rainfall or deep snow limit prey availability. Foraging habitat must be provided in managed forests.
23735595|The size, migration activity and pathogenity of Diphyllobothrium dendriticum (Cestoda) plerocercoids in the intermediate host were studied experimentally in age 1+ brown trout Salmo trutta m. lacustris (L.). In the first experiment (A) which lasted 12 weeks, two water temperatures were used: heated water at about 15C and non-heated at about 10C. In the second experiment (B) which lasted 7 weeks, the water temperature was raised gradually to 2426C. Increased water temperature did not promote D. dendriticum-induced mortality in either of the experimental conditions. Experiment A revealed, however, that the worms were longer and migrated more actively outside the body cavity of fish in heated aquaria.
23736195|Population biology changes in native dimorphic whitefish Coregonus lavaretus were studied over a decade in the subarctic Pasvik watercourse, where large biotic changes occurred due to an invasion by vendace C. albula. Although initially recorded in the upstream part of the watercourse, where it is now the dominant pelagic species, the vendace subsequently also colonised the downstream area. We hypothesized that the impact of the invader would affect the population biology (density, habitat choice, growth, size- and age-structure and size and age at maturation) of the native whitefish populations, especially upstream in the watercourse, late in the invasion phase, and in the pelagic whitefish morph. Strong effects from the invading vendace were observed on the native dimorphic whitefish populations. Effects on the densely-rakered whitefish, which are ecologically similar to vendace, ranged from numerical responses (strong density decline in the population), habitat use (shift from pelagic to littoral) and individual growth (significant growth reduction in zooplanktivorous life stages). For the benthic sparsely-rakered whitefish, effects were more restricted and recorded mainly on growth.
23737176|Acorn barnacles were assumed to have a self-thinning exponent close to 3/2 widely acknowledged for plant populations. However, space and food competition mechanisms would lead to a different exponent. Different recruit densities between tidal levels should result in different geometry of space occupation with adult individuals morphologically different and a different biomassdensity relationship. Using Tetraclita squamosa, an intertidal barnacle, we investigated the biomassdensity relationship along an intertidal gradient to study self-thinning. The self-thinning slope was steeper than the 3/2 power and did not differ among lower tidal levels with an intercept significantly higher in the low intertidal than in the mid-intertidal, whereas there was no significant relationship in the high intertidal. Growth in height of crowded barnacles along with the weaker effect of competition for food may retard mortality and result in a self-thinning slope steeper than 3/2. Our results suggested that self-thinning exponent in barnacles is steeper than 3/2 found for plant populations and allometric growth may not be the only factor causing this deviation from the "self-thinning law". As one progresses higher in the intertidal, self-thinning processes disappear owing to reduced competition.
23736095|Size distributions of cohorts of pikeperch and perch originating from three lakes in the Netherlands were compared to test the hypothesis that skewness or bimodality within cohorts of pikeperch and perch develops especially in environments with a discontinuous size distribution of their potential food items. In older, more eutrophic lake ecosystems like Tjeukemeer and IJsselmeer, where macro-invertebrates occur in low densities, 0-group pikeperch generally exhibit differential growth of fast-growing piscivores and slow-growing zooplanktivores. The size distributions of such cohorts become positively skewed during their first summer and often become bimodal at the end of the growing season with modes at ca. 1015 cm and 68 cm, respectively. The size attained by zooplanktivorous 0-group perch in these systems is relatively small (69 cm) and is positively related to summer temperature. Cohorts of perch in these systems shift to piscivory, partially or totally, in their second or third summer. The differential growth of zooplanktivorous and piscivorous perch of the same cohort can cause a broadening and a positive skewness in the cohort size distribution, but never results in a bimodal size distribution. In the recently freshened, mesotrophic Volkerak ecosystem, the initial high availability of the macro-invertebrate Neomysis integer, in the first couple of years enabled 0-group pikeperch and perch to reach similar large sizes of 1214 cm and to both switch to piscivory in their second summer. After ca. 5 years Volkerak became more eutrophic, the stock biomass of cyprinids increased, the size distribution of 0-group pikeperch became bimodal and the 0-group perch stayed small (< 10 cm), as in the older, more eutrophic systems. It is postulated that more productive systems with a higher fish biomass, but with lower biomasses of macro-invertebrates and less large-sized zooplankton probably have stronger selection mechanisms for recruiting percids.
23731539|A circadian rhythm of adult emergence from their pupae  in the laboratory as well as in the field  is described for 4 Chironomid species from the Hula Nature Preserve, Israel. The evidence suggests that the periodicity is induced at an early larval stage, possibly by the change in light intensity from day to night.
23736028|Territorial behavior and factors which influence aggression in young stream salmonids are briefly reviewed, as are characteristics of the territory and determinants of territory size. Population regulation of brown trout (Salmo trutta) fry is also reviewed and used as a type example for coupling stream-salmonid behavioral ecology to population dynamics. A comprehensive working hypothesis is proposed to explain the mechanisms behind population regulation which result in a dome-shaped stock-recruitment relationship in a migratory brown trout population: Parr recruitment increases with increasing egg or alevin (initial) density on the ascending portion of the curve; i.e. recruitment is positively density-dependent. Aggression rates among newly-emerged fry increase with progressively higher initial population densities, as does selection pressure for individuals with greater growth potential (GGP dominants). Beyond the optimum initial density where maximum parr recruitment is attained, GGP dominants continue to progressively increase their territory size by increasing attack distance toward territorial intruders, and exclude subordinates from assuming even suboptimal feeding positions. Increasing numbers of subordinates are forced to move downstream where they die due to malnutrition. Consequently, parr recruitment gradually decreases; i.e. recruitment becomes negatively density-dependent. The time taken to regulate numbers from high densities at emergence to stable, first-summer population levels becomes progressively shorter with increasing initial population density.
23736510|Obtaining reliable data on small mammal population structure and numbers requires efficient traps that trap all functional categories of the population. We compared three types of live-traps (Ugglan, Sherman, Longworth) in a pairwise comparison in two arid environments, the Negev Desert in Israel and in south-eastern Australia. Ugglan traps did not capture a single gerbil in the Negev whereas Sherman traps captured probably all resident gerbils in the trapping grid in ten trap nights. Significantly more mice were captured with Longworth traps than with Ugglans in arid and open Australian grain-growing area. Ugglan traps have a very high trapping efficiency in boreal habitats with a dense undercover, but seem to be inefficient in arid and open environments.
23736866|Genus Cheilosia (Diptera, Syrphidae) with more than 300 Palaearctic species is the most speciose group of hoverflies in Europe. One of the most widespread taxa with unclear taxonomic status is Cheilosia vernalis (Fallen, 1817). This species shows great morphological variation in external morphological characters. A subdivision of the taxon has been suggested, but the male terminalia of the different morphological forms appear identical. The aim of this study was to integrate the information from mitochondrial COI sequence data with re-evaluated morphological characters for exploring species boundaries and for revealing phylogenetic relationships of C. vernalis and closely related species. We sequenced a 698 bp fragment of the 3-end of the mitochondrial gene cytochrome oxidase subunit I of 43 specimens agreeing with traditional morphological interpretation of C. vernalis (Diptera, Syrphidae), sampled from a broad geographic range in Europe and single representatives of 10 species of the vernalismelanura complex. Parsimony analysis of the molecular data showed C. vernalis specimens grouped in three different lineages. The C. vernalis lineage presents 8 different mitochondrial haplotypes. We found no congruence between these haplotypes and diagnosable morphological characteristics of the adult fly specimens supporting species subdivision. Based on re-examination of type material two new synonyms are proposed: C. rotundiventris Becker, 1894 and C. ruficollis Becker, 1894 are junior synonyms of C. vernalis (Fallen, 1817). New diagnostic morphological character for C. reniformis Hellen, 1930 is added and first distribution data of this species in Europe are given. Taxonomic status of C. longifila Becker, 1894 remains unresolved.
23734189|The systematics of the family Byrsophlebidae is revised on the basis of supplementary and correcting remarks on the structure of some Byrsophlebidae, especially Byrsophlebs graffi Jensen and Maehrenthalia agilis von Graff. The genera Byrsophlebs Jensen, Maehrenthalia von Graff, Maehrenthaliella gen. n. and Parabyrsophlebs gen. n. are diagnosed. Functional and terminological remarks are made on the structure of the genital organs in the Turbellaria with special reference to Byrsophlebidae. Maehrenthalia agilis is new for the Pacific Ocean.
23731729|The effects of two oil spill dispersants (BP 1100X and Finasol SC) used in Finland and Sweden on the eggs and larvae of the Baltic spring-spawning herring (Clupea harengus membras L.) were studied by exposing eggs to different concentrations of the test media 6 h after fertilization or in connexion with fertilization. In addition, larvae which had hatched in pure sea water were exposed to the same media. The salinity was about 6  and the temperature 11  0.5 C (eggs) or 14.5  0.5 C (larvae). A concentration as low as 1 ppm Finasol SC induced abnormal cell division and malformed embryos. In both test media the heart rate of the embryos decreased. All concentrations of BP 1100X caused a significant decrease in the heart rate early in development. With increasing concentration, both dispersants caused increased numbers of malformed larvae and a decreased percentage of successful hatching, with no hatching at 100 or 50 ppm Finasol SC. Eggs were more sensitive if exposure started in connexion with fertilization than 6 h after fertilization. Larvae exposed to the dispersants were more sensitive than embryos before hatching. The toxicity of Finasol SC appears to be of the same magnitude as that of the BP 1002 used in connection with the "Torrey Canyon" oil spill.
23734489|Four species of the D. virilis group, D. lummei, D. littoralis, D. ezoana and D. montana, occur sympatrically, at least in Scandinavia. These species are sexually isolated and prohibiting the passage of visual, auditory or chemical cues between the males and the females does not break this isolation. On the other hand D. virilis (cosmopolitan domestic species) flies mate with D. lummei males and females and D. montana males in a no-choice situation. Removing the aristae or the antennae of the females or the wings or tarsal sense organs of the males reduces the mating success of the males of all of these species except D. lummei. Differences between species suggest that the species-recognition and sexual stimulation of the flies relies on different stimuli depending on the species. In D. montana and D. ezoana the females, whose aristae or antennae have been removed, or who are courted by wingless males, persistently refuse to copulate. Cessation of mating in these species is probably due to their courtship relying mainly on auditory cues i.e. on the sounds produced by the wing vibration of the males.
23737069|The Hong Kong newt (Paramesotriton hongkongensis) has a restricted distribution in Hong Kong and its adjacent coastal area in China. We employed amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) DNA markers to examine the genetic diversity and differentiation of P. hongkongensis populations (101 individuals) from three streams. Two mainland populations are separated by Tai Mo Shan, the highest peak in Hong Kong. On Hong Kong Island, there is only one population. We investigated whether the marine barrier would affect the population genetic structure and diversification of Hong Kong newts more than an upland peak barrier. With seven selected primer combinations, 476 AFLP markers with 102 polymorphic loci indicated that newt populations exhibited considerable genetic differentiation. Our results indicate that the two mainland populations, separated by the mountain ridge, were genetically more distant from each other than from the island population separated by the sea barrier that was created about 6000 years ago. The terrestrial biogeographic barrier appears to be crucial in influencing genetic divergence of Hong Kong newt populations.
23734179|Breeding bird communities were studied in different stages of secondary forest succession during three years' period in Kuusamo, Northeastern Finland. The data consist of 36 plots (size range 3-100 hectares), the birds of which were censused by single visits. The plots of young forest stages were surrounded by mature forests and the plots of older forest stages by clearcut areas. No correlation was found between bird density and habitat area in plots of 2-10 years of age. In areas appr. 25 years old and in the moist mature forest plots the correlation was negative. The relationship between habitat area and number of species was described best with the logarithmic function. The older stages (75 ys) support roughly twice as many species per unit area as do the younger stages (25 ys). Part of the difference in the number of species is due to the larger samples of the older stages. Cuculus canorus, Turdus iliacus, Sylvia borin and Carduelis flammea preferred small habitat areas while Certhia familiaris and Carduelis spinus show an opposite trend. The relationship between habitat area and bird density is discussed in the light of the edge effect theory. Three aspects are pointed out which affect the bird density at forest edges: 1) the structure of vegetation, 2) forest edges as singing places of some species, 3) in spite of extra territories in edges between forest and open habitat foraging may take place in open areas.
23736720|Socio-sexuality has been described in bonobos as a mechanism reducing social tension. We studied a captive group of bonobos (Apenheul colony) and tested the influence of feeding sessions on various sexual patterns to functionally differentiate them. Non-reproductive sexual interactions (mounting, GG-rubbing) peaked during the feeding period, whereas copulations did not. During short-term crowding, aggression, self-grooming and copulation rates did not change, however, non-reproductive sexuality and grooming intensified. We suggest that during feeding bonobos may selectively use non-reproductive sex to reduce tension, and that during short-term crowding they may employ both grooming and non-procreative sexuality to avoid a potential raise in tension.
23732262|Polymorphism in the pattern of pigmentation of the frontoclypeus was investigated in Finnish populations of the meadow spittlebug, Philaenus spumarius (L.). The populations were found to fall into three distinct groups. One of the groups is confined to northeastern Finland, one to central and southern Finland, and one to the land islands. The shifts from one type to another may be considered accentuations in clines of phenotype frequencies. The polymorphism is sensitive to the biogeographical zone of transition running WNW  ESE across the 65th parallel. The three regional groups of frontoclypeal polymorphism, as delineated in this study, largely parallel the regional groups of dorsal polymorphism, as defined by earlier investigations. The fact that two independent colour polymorphisms react to geographical changes in the environment in similar ways implies that in both the frequencies of the phenotypes are determined by natural selection.
23736155|After mating and leaving the maternal nest, gynes of several paper wasp species living in temperate climates aggregate in sheltered places. Some authors state that the social stage of paper wasps ends at the beginning of autumn. Here, we show that the death of workers and the abandonment of the nest do not imply the endo of the social phase in Polistes dominulus, and that many social interactions also occur in pre-hibernating clusters. In particular, a few individuals performed external tasks, i.e. foraging and providing food via trophallaxis to other wasps. These "helpers" died early in winter, as workers generally do, but they were fertilised like gynes.
23734718|Some experiments were conducted in which three copepods: Eurytemora hirundoides, Thermocyclops oithonoides (planktonic species) and Halectinosoma curticorne (bottom dweller) were exposed to different kinds of oil, the oil (0.1 ml/l) being dropped into Petri dishes. Thermocyclops and Halectinosoma behaved in a different way to Eurytemora when exposed. Eurytemora individuals died much faster than Thermocyclops and Halectinosoma, and hence swam away from the oil in order to survive. Eurytemora individuals exposed to fuel oil fell into reversible narcosis, waking up when the oil slick was removed.
23735815|I present data indicating that Polistes dominulus females overwinter in multi-colony groups, recognize natal nest fragments after overwintering, and select nesting cavities based on cavity volume. In a seminatural environment, seven field-captured P. dominulus colonies completed the colony cycle, and the resulting reproductive females were observed in hibernacula groups, on natal nest fragments prior to colony initiation, and in nest boxes after initiating colonies. Given the choice of three nest box sizes in which to initiate colonies, P. dominulus preferred medium nest boxes and avoided large nest boxes. This site preference may indicate a balance between the cost of detection by predators and the benefit of space for colony growth. Even though natal nests were cut into small fragments and distributed into nest boxes, spring foundresses recognized and preferentially perched upon fragments from their natal nest. Individuals whose natal nest contained multiple queens were significantly more likely to perch upon natal nest fragments than were individuals whose natal nest contained a single queen. Returning to and recognizing the natal nest may be an adaptive mechanism to (A) locate nestmates with whom to initiate multiple foundress colonies and (B) reduce the cost of finding these nestmates.
23736507|Optimal group size of gregarious larvae is the result of a trade-off between the costs and benefits undergone by individuals living in groups of different sizes. Thus, females should adjust their clutch size to an optimal-minimum group size. In this study, we experimentally manipulated the size of colonies of pine processionary caterpillars, a capital breeder species, to test the hypothesis that a large group size enhances larval growth and survival. We also explored whether this relationship fits a quadratic or an asymptotic curve and estimated an optimum or a minimal-optimum group size. The results showed significant differences in the final larval sizes in the various treatments, being greater in the larger groups. In addition, according to the existence of a minimal-optimum group size, we found that a Piecewise Linear Regression fits the above relationship better than does a linear regression. Groups larger than 32 individuals did not differ in growth or survival parameters. Although the number of dead larvae per group did not differ between experimental treatments, large experimental colonies suffered a lower percentage of mortality. Thus, the probability of reaching the pupal stage was greater for larvae from large colonies because of dilution effects. Our results demonstrated a minimum group size, above which group size did predict larval growth or mortality, thereby explaining why pine processionary caterpillars live in large groups.
23737121|We describe eight new microsatellite loci for hawkmoths of the Hyles euphorbiae complex. They are polymorphic (except for one locus in one population) with 218 alleles per locus, an expected heterozygosity between 0.14 and 0.94, and an observed heterozygosity between 0.10 and 0.75. As typical for Lepidoptera, the yield of new loci was low due to the presence of microsatellite gene families and variable flanking regions. These microsatellites provide informative results in population studies of the West Palearctic H. euphorbiae complex since cross amplification for H. euphorbiae and H. tithymali was successful for all but one locus.
23735751|We model the foraging game between a prey and predator when the prey experiences a temporally pulsed resource (e.g., seed-eating gerbils). Animals have the options of foraging or remaining inactive. Prey harvest resources and incur a mortality risk only while foraging. ESS levels of prey and predator activity have three distinct phases over the time course of a resource pulse. During the first phase, resources are sufficiently abundant to permit profitable foraging by all prey and predators. During the second phase, only a fraction of prey and predator are active. The fraction of active prey is sufficient to allow profitable foraging by the predators. Resource abundances and activity level of predators decline synchronously, balancing the prey's needs for food and safety. During the third phase, resources decline to where both prey and predator cease activity. These adaptive behaviors of prey and predator to resources and to each other promote the stability of the predator-prey dynamics.
23731709|Gravid females of Zoarces viviparus from the Gulf of Finland (brackish water, salinity 5  6 ), were studied. The length of the fish ranged from 32.5 to 42.0 cm. The number of embryos varied from 72 to 296. The growth of the embryos was found to have reached completion in December, the mean length then being 46 mm. In January the length of embryos was about the same. Parturitions began in January. Attention is paid to the high frequency of clumping of the embryos in the ovaries of gravid specimens. A histological description of ovarian structure and of the structure of the embryonic hindgut is presented and the roles of these organs as nutritive transport and absorptive surfaces, respectively, are discussed. The total inorganic ion concentrations of plasma and embryotrophe were found to be roughly equal. Ca2+ and Mg2+ were significantly lower and K+ correspondingly higher in embryotrophe than in plasma. The total concentration resembles that described for marine fishes. Plasma total protein, haemoglobin and haematocrit values were lower in gravid females than in males analysed at the same time. Embryotrophe contains very little protein, in some case none. Free amino acids are on a much lower level in embryotrophe than in plasma. A very marked hyperlipaemia, coinciding with the late gestational phase, is described.
23736729|During the harshest winter, preference of forest habitat by reindeer should be dependent on the availability of energy-rich lichens, while in summer and easy snow conditions on the availability of protein-richer food. Reindeer should also avoid linear infrastructure (roads, power lines) if it causes disturbance and energy loss. We tested seasonal home range and habitat selection by semi-domesticated reindeer (Rangifer tarandus tarandus) in a sub-arctic pine forest area, northern Finland by tracking 29 female reindeer with GPS collars from 19992002. As expected, reindeer preferred old-growth forest and avoided felled areas and linear infrastructure in the selection and use of their wintering areas. Old-growth forest had high preference especially in late winter. During summer and early winter, reindeer also used sapling stand areas, young cultivated forests, mires and high-elevation open land. The net energy balance hypothesis including the total energy profits and expenditures could primarily explain habitat selection by reindeer during winter in intensively grazed and logged forest areas. Maintaining a certain amount of old-growth forest and minimizing linear infrastructure in wintering areas considerably improves the suitability of these ranges for reindeer herding.
23733664|Arguments have arisen about whether copepods feed on bacteria or detritus, or possibly on dissolved organic nutrients. In this paper evidence is presented that Cyclops oithonoides G. O. Sars, treated with antibiotics, ingests and assimilates dissolved glucose in sterilized brackish water. With glucose solutions of 1 g/l the biological half-life of the carbon ingested is 0.7 days, and with 0.02 g/l it is 1.7 days. Bacterial matter (Arthrobacter sp.) is also ingested, but living bacteria pass through the gut more or less undigested. Some organic compounds are assimilated from dead cells in senescent bacterial cultures. Halectinosoma curticorne Boeck also retains glucose from solutions of 0.02 g/l, but dies in solutions of 1 g/l; this species seems able to assimilate living as well as dead bacteria (Arthrobacter sp.).
23733686|A study of the Lumbricidae in nine types of habitat in different parts of Finland shows that both the habitat spectra and the constancies of the species decrease gradually from south to north, the more eurytopic species (Dendrobaena octaedra (Sav.), Dendrobaena rubida (Sav.) s.l. and Lumbricus rubellus Hoffm.) extending farther north than the less eurytopic and stenotopic ones. At the northern periphery of their ranges the species occupy those types of habitat in which they are most constant in southern Finland, and the more eurytopic a species is in the south, the less rapidly its habitat spectrum diminishes towards the north. Similarities in habitat spectrum were found between some of the species, but these did not apply over the whole range of the species in Finland. The number of species decreases gradually along the climatic gradient from the south of Finland to the north. Within each climatic zone it also decreases along a soil gradient from fertile mull to raw humus or peat. The effect of climatic and edaphic factors upon the geographical distribution and habitat spectra of the species in Finland is discussed.
23736134|Scanning and transmission electron microscopy were used to study the distribution of microvillar extensions of mouse oocytes and embryos ranging from the 2-cell stage to the 16-cell morula. During early development up to the uncompacted 8-cell stage, numerous microvilli were found on all aspects of the blastomeres, including the areas of intercellular contacts. A distinct redistribution of microvilli took place during compaction: polar concentrations of microvilli were present on the outward-facing surfaces of the blastomeres, and simultaneously, the number of microvilli in the intercellular contacts was significantly reduced. On the other hand, on the outer surface of the compacted embryos, many rather long microvillar processes extended across the cell borders. When compacted embryos were exposed to the microfilament disrupting agent cytochalasin B, they decompacted. In the decompacted embryos, the blastomeres showed distinct concentrations of microvilli together with nonmicrovillous surface areas. We also studied the microfilament system of compacted and decompacted embryos and found changes which seemed to be closely related to the simultaneous alterations in the microvillus distribution. Our results suggest that cell surface specializations such as microvilli together with the cortical microfilament system may be involved in the regulation of early mouse development.
23737150|Vole grazing may be a step-function, with a critical threshold density, at which voles expand their preferred diet to lower quality forage (threshold herbivory hypothesis). Accordingly, we predicted that the establishment of unpalatable woody plants would be more strongly associated with peak herbivore abundances than with cumulative herbivory at lower numbers. We also investigated whether damage level is better explained by actual vole numbers or by numbers adjusted to the carrying capacity of the herbaceous vegetation. Our results did not support the threshold-density hypothesis. Cumulative herbivory explained the probability of sapling damage better than peak herbivory; sapling survival and growth were equally well explained by mean- and peak-vole abundances. Even at low abundances, herbivory was extended to all woody species; the damage level, however, varied according to the palatability of the woody species. Actual herbivore numbers explained sapling damage better than did abundance adjusted to carrying capacity.
23731704|The larval stage of the common frog (Rana temporaria L.) lasted 63  112 days (mean 78 days) in two ponds at Haapavesi, northern Finland (6410' N, 2510' E), in summer 1970. All the froglets that left the water (4026 specimens) were captured daily at two breeding places. Migration started 63 days after spawning and lasted 43  50 days. At one site about half the tadpoles remained partially neotenic. The froglets came ashore almost exclusively during the daylight hours between 7.00 and 22.00 hours. The diel activity pattern during migration was regulated principally by the environmental temperature (> 12 C). After the inactive period during the cold night, the juveniles required a higher temperature to become active than that at which they remained active in the evening. On rainy days the froglets were more active than on sunny days. The mean length of the frogs immediately after metamorphosis was 10.9 mm (8  17 mm), and their mean weight was 0.15 g (0.12  0.17 g). The first frogs to migrate from the ponds were the smallest, probably owing to slight retardation of growth due to overcrowding. The diminution of the population during the migration period leaves more space and better food conditions which permit better growth in the remaining tadpoles.
43923435|The breeding of hole-nesting passerines under the harsh environmental conditions of northern Lapland was studied in 1966-81. The factors limiting the populations of different species varied considerably. The Siberian tit Parus cinctus, a northern resident, bred early in the spring. The adults of this species were relatively insensitive to cold, but the hatchlings suffered from adverse weather during the period when the incidence of late cold spells was high. The great tit Parus major, a southern newcomer and partial resident, seemed to be a relatively "robust" breeder, but it has apparently failed to evolve the necessary adaptations to cope with the arctic winter. The redstart Phoenicurusphoenicurus, northern native and migrant, bred successfully and its population fluctuations seemed to be influenced by factors occurring outside the breeding season. The pied flycather Ficedula hypoleuca, a southern newcomer and migrant, suffered severe nesting losses, and the harsh northern weather conditions were the most important factors limiting its population. In northern Lapland, annual fluctuations in the numbers of breeding pairs (Ph. phoenicurus and F. hypoleuca), the time of egg-laying (F. hypoleuca) and nesting success (F. hypoleuca) greater than further south.
23734508|The distribution of lipids and the seasonal variations in their contents in various organs of Zoarces viviparus (L.) are described and related to the earlier plasma lipid analyses and to the reproductive cycle of the species. The lipid content of the liver was highest in August, at the time of mating, being 37 % in females and 44 % in males, and lowest in March, 16 % in females and 18 % in males. In females the decreae began earlier than in males because of the transfer of nourishment to the embryos during pregnancy and partly because of the flow of materials into the growing oocytes. Muscular tissue contained 5.8 % lipids in August and 2.1 % in March. The lipid content of the ovarian tissue was 2.5 % in March. The eggs contained 8.2 % lipids in August, just before ovulation. The mean lipid content of the testes was about 1.61.8 %. Oleic acid was the most abundant fatty acid in liver lipids. It ranged from 34 to 39 % of the total fatty acids. Seasonal variations in the proportions of the fatty acids were greatest for 16:1, 18:1, 20:5 and 22:6. The sexes differed slightly in the proportions of 16:1, 20:5 and 22:6 in the liver. The reasons for the striking changes in the levels of plasma and liver lipids and in the proportions of liver fatty acids after ovulation and fertilization (during August  October) are discussed.
23731731|The food selection of the scarlet rosefinch was studied during 8 years at Kariniemi, Lahti (6059'N; 2539'E), southern Finland, where 7  10 pairs bred each summer in a natural park 25 ha in extent. In the majority of pairs the male was over 2 years old. The nests (81) with 4  6 eggs (mean = 5.0, n = 24) were mostly built in broad-leaved trees and bushes. (Prunus Sambucus) at 0.2  5 m height. Red-backed shrikes nesting nearby were observed to frighten away the scarlet rosefinch. Plant material (opening leaf buds, flower buds, fruits and seeds of deciduous trees, bushes and herbs) was the main food of the adult birds throughout the summer. The small proportion of animal matter consisted of Aphids, beetles and insect larvae. Leaf and flower buds of Alnus incana, Populus tremula, Salix caprea, Prunus padus and Sorbus aucuparia were the main items consumed in May and early June, and seeds of Salix and Populus and leaves of Alnus were preferred in early June. From mid-June on, seeds of Taraxacum and aphids were eaten, and then a succession of fruits and seeds of herbs of the field layer (Ranunculus, Stellaria, Geranium, Anthriscus) in increasing proportions. Seeds of Milium and Melica were preferred throughout July and in early August. The birds seek their food in an area extending from the crowns of the trees to the ground, usually singly or in pairs in early summer, but increasingly in broods and even larger flocks in July. Most of the birds leave very early, in late July and early August, the old birds mainly in July. The early departure may be connected with the feeding ecology of the species and the great distance to the wintering range.
23736936|Over the last 50 years, ecological experiments under field conditions have exploded in number, type and scope. They remain complex because of intrinsic variability in ecological measures from place to place and time to time, requiring care in their design and implementation. An experiment and its design can only be sensibly considered after thought and knowledge are used to make clear the logical basis for doing the experiment, so that its results can be interpreted in a robust and reliable manner. There are different approaches to any sequence of components of an experiment. Here, a falsificationist methodology is considered, which relates observations (things we know) to models (what we think explain the observations) to hypotheses (predictions about what will happen under novel circumstances if the model(s) is (are) correct). Experiments are then designed to create the novel circumstances in order to test the predictions. How an explicit framework influences the design of experiments is discussed, including the nature of replication and of controls for artefacts. Improving the match between natural historical and ecological knowledge and the interpretation of results of experiments will always help advance the discipline of ecology.
23737216|The mating success of female spruce budworms was evaluated using the presenceabsence of spermatophore in genitalia. Sampling was conducted in the 1970s in Atlantic Canada at 21 locations/years characterized by high budworm densities. More than 99.8% of in-flight females (captured at light or malaise traps) and migrant females (collected while ascending above tree canopies or in the airspace) were mated, which may reflect physiological constraints restricting flight in gravid females. About 85% of resident females (collected using sweep nets or by fogging trees with insecticide) were mated; mating success was low among young females collected early in the season and increased over time to reach a level similar (98%) to that of females that died from natural causes. These findings highlight the importance of unbiased estimates of mating success to evaluate the efficacy of mating disruption and the role of mate-encounter Allee effects on population dynamics.
23736818|We assessed the presence/absence and population size of a threatened beetle, Osmoderma eremita, inhabiting hollow oaks (Quercus robur). Population sizes varied widely between trees (10% of the hollow trees hosted two thirds of the individuals), and increased with the volume of wood mould (= loose material of dead wood) and the height of the entrances. Population density (number of adult beetles per litre of wood mould) increased with decreasing growth rate of the trees. Trees with the largest O. eremita populations were 300400 years old. Among hollow trees, the population sizes increased with tree age. This is at least partly due to the fact that the volume of wood mould increased with tree age. Both the size of the largest entrance hole and tree diameter were positively correlated with the estimated wood mould volume, and could thus be used as easily measured proxies for wood mould volume.
23736112|A quick way to distinguish between percids at the early yolk sac stage is to count the myomeres from yolk to anus, 2 to 3 for ruffe, 4 to 6 for perch and 7 to 9 for pikeperch. Reliable identification of later larvae involves more laborious myomere counting. Ruffe has only 13 to 16 preanal myomeres whereas perch and pikeperch have at least 17. The number of postanal myomeres is higher in pikeperch (2731) than in perch (2326) and ruffe (2224). In perch less than 15 to 20 mm in size, the most useful feature is the characteristic line-shaped melanophore pattern between the myomeres. The melanophores may, however, be weak or lacking in perch from turbid waters, and in clear waters thin melanophores may also exist in pikeperch. The position of the mouth and the length of jaws can be used for identifying percids after they have attained a total length of 12 mm. The number of fin rays in the anal and second dorsal fin can be counted by the time the fish are 1618 mm in size.
23735479|Based on studies of vaginal smears from wild-caught Swedish wood mice, females with three types of estrous cycles were identified: females with a continuous estrus; females with an estrous cycle between 6 and 11 days in length; and females that only rarely showed signs of estrus. We tested the pregnancy rates and how stable the estrus patterns were among the females. Ninety-one percent of the females with a continuous estrus pattern became pregnant, 50% of the females showing a cyclic estrus pattern, and 60% of the females showing an infrequent estrus. However, pregnancy occurred about 2 weeks later in females with an infrequent estrus pattern. Some females changed their estrus pattern after pregnancy, indicating that estrus patterns are not fixed.
23734084|The postnatal development of two Sorex isodon litters born in captivity and the behaviour of the parents were observed during 197980. The nursing female was very aggressive and did not allow the male to approach the nestlings. The male was subordinate even in his own cage. Mutual aggression in siblings broke out at the age of about 2.5 months and separation of the subadults was finally necessary. Body weight averaged 0.9 g at birth and excess weight gain was noted from day 10 on as compared to subadult specimens just after weaning. The newborn young were almost silent, but later they emitted short chirps to call the mother and squeaks while fighting. Escape behaviour broke out by day 14, the eyes opened and the subadult coat was fully developed by day 16. Stability in walking was not evident until day 19. Weaning occurred at about 3 weeks and the young lost some weight just after becoming independent.
23736193|A number of sexual selection models predict that reproductive success in the wild is positively linked to heritable viability (e.g. the "good genes" models). Here we explore whether there is information about heritable viability that could potentially be used in the hatchery management of Alpine lake whitefish (Coregonus sp.). We drew 20 wild-caught individuals out of a breeding program, crossed them in a fully balanced 10 females  10 males mating design, and incubated each sibship in several replicates until hatching. We then compared egg survival with parental characteristics. Egg number or milt volume were not significantly correlated with egg survival, nor was egg size. However, female size and age, and male quality indicators such as condition factor, breeding ornamentation, and fluctuating asymmetry, were useful predictors of egg survival. We discuss the possibility that a promotion of heritable viability could be carefully balanced with the maintenance of genetic variation in order to maximize the survival prospects of a population.
23731715|Fourhorn sculpin from brackish water (6 0/00 S) at 4.5 C were kept at this temperature and acclimated to  0.1 C and 10 C. Blood samples were taken at  0.1 C after 20, 35 and 55 days and at 10 C after 7, 14 and 21 days. The fish were fed ad libitum with living specimens of Mesidotea entomon. At  0.1 C plasma osmolality, and sodium, chloride and magnesium concentrations reached a constant level in five weeks, but inorganic phosphate was constant in three weeks. At 10 C the acclimation process took three weeks, but inorganic phosphate only one week. The thermal acclimation in teleosts and the cold response in marine species, including the fourhorn sculpin living in hypotonic brackish water, are discussed. An organic "antifreeze" substance developing in the cold has been detected even in fourhorn sculpin.
23734492|Ecological biogeographers study biogeographical patterns in relation to ecological processes causing these patterns. While introducing the special issue "Trends in Ecological Biogeography" of Annales Zoologici Fennici, the history of Finnish ecological biogeography is also briefly reviewed. Instead of exhausting the pool of potential references the discussion is delimited to studies that serve as relevant landmarks even at present. Issues in ecological zoogeography related to concepts such as environmental heterogeneity, dispersal and interspecific interactions are discussed more thoroughly. Another typical feature of Finnish biogeography is an emphasis on quantitative data.
23737129|We examined the demographic structure and mortality rate of the Baltic grey seal (Halichoerus grypus) population from the early 2000s when the population increased rapidly to the late 2000s when the growth rate slowed down. We calculated life tables based on the age structure of hunted grey seals in the Finnish sea area. The catch was treated as a sample of the dying part of the population. The catch was male biased and the proportions of female pups and mature males in the catch increased from the early to late 2000s. Annual mortality rate of the youngest age classes was high and higher among males than females, which resulted in low sex ratio (males to females) of the population. Sex ratio was, however, higher in the latter years due to the increased mortality rate of females, especially those < 10 years of age. Accordingly, the proportion of mature females in the population decreased and relatively fewer pups were produced during the late 2000s than in the early 2000s.
23735925|Black-backed woodpeckers (Picoides arcticus) may depend on recently burned forest patches to maintain viable population levels. We wanted to determine how these habitats are colonized by this species and by which age classes. Data collected at the Observatoire d'oiseaux de Tadoussac (situated on the north shore of the St. Lawrence River (Qubec, Canada)) suggest that an important movement of juveniles occurs during the autumn. It was therefore hypothesized that in the year following fire, burned forest sites would be colonized by a higher percentage of juvenile birds than intact mature stands. In accordance to this hypothesis, there was a difference in woodpecker age structure between the two habitat types (2 = 9.43, df = 2, P = 0.0186). 088, n = However, differences are mainly explained by the higher number of third calendar year birds at burned forest sites, suggesting that a part of the colonization occurs in the same year as the fire by second year birds, rather than by juveniles during the autumn.
23736554|Finnish starling populations have declined, a phenomenon first noted towards the end of the 1970s. Here we use national ringing totals to estimate changes in the starling population. However, the numbers ringed depend not only on the population size but also on yearly variations in ringing activities. Thus, it was necessary to correct these totals based on the records of other ringed passerines. In this study, we used a Monte Carlo simulation based on time series regressions for the estimation of confidence of indices. The results suggest that the population size from the early 1970s to the 1990s was significantly smaller than in the 1950s and 1960s. It was concluded that (i) the population was fairly stable in the period 19521970, (ii) the population started a consistent decline around 1970, and (iii) the population declined by approximately 90% in the period 19701985.
23736725|Over a 3-year period, we equipped 115 newly hatched capercaillie chicks in 29 broods with small radio transmitters in southeast Norway. Besides monitoring the fate of the chicks, we measured the abundance of microtine rodents and insect food and, together with weather records, we examined the observed mortality in relation to these factors. On average, 57% of the chicks died within the first month of life. Mortality was highest during the first 3 weeks, coinciding with the period when chicks feed almost exclusively on insects, depend heavily on their mother for maintaining body warmth, and cannot fly well. Predation was by far the most important proximate cause of mortality, accounting for 90% of all observed losses. Only 7% of the losses could be ascribed to direct effects of cold and wet weather, all recorded during the first 8 days of life. However, because predation losses were also quite high during and immediately after heavy rainfalls, adverse weather probably predisposed the chicks to mammalian predation. Most chicks were killed by mustelids, mainly pine martens; low numbers of red fox due to sarcoptic mange probably explains the low proportion taken by this predator. Among known predation losses (N = 40), goshawks accounted for a minimum of 25%. Chick mortality during the first month varied markedly (29%83%) among the three years. It was highest in the year when June weather was exceptionally wet and cold; the same year when the density of microtine rodents and food abundance in terms of insect larvae were highest. Net production in late August was poorly related to chick loss during the first month posthatch.
23733717|Temperature, relative humidity, and CO2 content were recorded experimentally in artifical snow burrows of penned willow grouse in northern Finland. The rapidity of warming was inversely proportional to the temperature and original density of the snow. At air temperatures below 35C the burrow temperature might rise continuously for as long as 8 h, but usually it reached a constant level within 23 h. The final temperature of closed burrows was not essentially affected by snow density, and was nearly always higher than the lower critical temperature for the willow grouse (6 C). CO2 did not accumulate in the burrows, and the relative humidity was always 100 %.
23731775|Samples of Oligochaeta from seashore habitats in the southwestern archipelago of Finland and from Ask, Sweden, comprised 3 species of Aelosomatidae, 4 Naididae, 10 Enchytraeidae, and 2 Tubificidae, some of them first records for the area. Their occurrence and abundance in relation to the habitat conditions are discussed. Brackish-water and euryhaline limnic species are the dominating oligochaetes in this area of the Baltic. Taxonomic features of some species are discussed.
23733683|Sexual dimorphism is conspicuous in Mesidotea entomon. In size mature males exceed females by about 130140 %. During development the genital papillae lengthen in relation to the copulatory stylets, pointing ventrally until maturity but thereafter caudally. Males retain their mature appearance for the rest of their lives. In females sexual maturation culminates in the formation of a ventral brood pouch. This comprises five pairs of oostegites, which develop as outgrowths from the base of the pereiopods. After giving birth to the young, the femals moult, like females of some other Isopods. The oostegites are shed and the females revert to the appearance of young immature females. The terminology for defining maturity in male and female Isopods like M. entomon is discussed.
23735760|The timing of moult in birds is thought to be constrained by physiological trade-offs. We studied barn swallows in central Spain to assess whether (a) body moult tends to be temporally separated from migration in adult and first-year birds, (b) it is related to an impaired fattening, and (c) its overlap with migration may involve adverse energetic effects. First-year swallows tended to moult early in the post-breeding period: the proportion of first-year birds in active moult was highest in July, and it decreased progressively until September. On the other hand, adult swallows tended to avoid moulting both in the post-breeding (July) and the migratory period (September), concentrating their moulting period in August. In all periods, swallows in active moult stored less fat than non-moulting ones, suggesting a faster depletion of energy resources by moulting birds. Swallows in active moult showed a better body condition  measured as body mass relative to body size and fat content  than non-moulting ones before migration (coinciding with the periods of highest frequency of moulting individuals), but the opposite was found during autumn migration. Our results support the existence of a physiological trade-off between body moult and migration, which could have fitness consequences; thus, if these activities overlap it would impair migration performance of swallows.
23736912|Constant re-evaluation of social affiliation is known to cause populations of individuals with different predetermined affiliation preferences to diverge into different network structures. In this study, rather than assigning to each individual a fixed affiliation preference, held throughout the duration of the dynamic network evolution, individuals were allowed an initial "learning period" during which they compared their own relative success, using each of three strategies, at maximizing their social status under three different metrics. Based on the outcomes from this learning period, individuals then chose one particular strategy. The organizational success and stability of the resulting populations was seen to be higher than those of the populations of individuals whose behaviors were predetermined. This indicates that individual-level evaluation and strategy choice in social affiliation preferences can yield strong benefits to the organizational success of the population as a whole.
23734105|The habitat and spatial relations of 762 territories of willow warblers Phylloscopus trochilus, chiffchaffs Ph. collybita, wood warblers Ph. sibilatrix, and goldcrests Regulus regulus, as well as the intraspecific and interspecific effects on the habitat selection, were studied in two large forest areas in southern Finland. The occurrence of the species in 12 subareas depended on the forest fragmentedness, and the amount of spruce forests and forest edges. The habitat distribution of all four species differed significantly from the availability of different habitat types. When the habitats were classified according to the characteristics of vegetation, the preferences of different species were different, although chiffchaff and goldcrest resembled each other. However, all the species preferred habitats which were characterised by a high density of birds. The habitat amplitude of the abundant willow warbler did not vary much between subareas, but in the other species, an increase in the population density seemed to lead to acceptance of less preferred habitats. There was a possible effect of the goldcrest on the habitat amplitude of the chiffchaff. Association indices, which take the availability of different habitat types into account, revealed that the greatest differences in habitat utilisation patterns were between the willow warbler and both the chiffchaff and goldcrest, as well as between the goldcrest and wood warbler. However, a nearest neighbour analysis showed a slight association between the willow warbler and chiffchaff, which was due to differences in their territory size.
23731703|Nineteen species of Enchytraeids were extracted from soil samples collected from 15 localities in southern Iceland on 4  10 July 1972. Six of them are recorded for the first time from Iceland  Henlea glandulifera, Bryodrilus parvus, Fridericia leydigi, Enchytraeus minutus, E. norvegicus and Marionina argentea.
23734854|On biostratigraphical grounds it has been suggested (De Vos et al. 1982) that the Trinil fauna antedates the Kedungbrubus fauna in Java. This opinion, however, is at variance with evidence from stratigraphic superposition, which must take precedence, and also with magnetostratigraphic-radiometric dating. A reconsideration of the biostratigraphic analysis indicates that the Trinil fauna s.str. postdates the Kedungbrubus fauna s.str. The problem is complicated by the fact that the Kedungbrubus material in the Dubois collection comes from a wide complex of strata and that Dubois or his assistants purchased fossils from the local people, which has been denied by De Vos et al. A consideration of the faunal turnover confirms these conclusions. The Trinil fauna includes the species Rhinoceros kendengindicus, Epileptobos groeneveldtii and Elephas celebensis, and three temporal subspecies of Hippopotamus sivalensis are present at Kedungbrubus, although this has been denied.
23736801|The ground parrot (Pezoporus wallicus) is a vulnerable species that occurs in isolated pockets of heathland and sedgeland of Australia. This study used randomly amplified DNA fingerprinting (RAF) to examine genetic diversity in the eastern population of the ground parrot. The seven primers used produced an average of 68 markers per primer, and the number of unambiguous polymorphic markers per primer averaged 6.3 (9.2%). Overall genetic similarity was 0.978  0.03. The low level of genetic diversity revealed by RAF is comparable to the lower end of diversity found in species that are declared endangered.
23736793|In mate choice copying, a male is more likely to be chosen by other females simply by being observed mating. A recent finding is that women are influenced in their assessments of men by the phenotypic quality of males' sexual partners. We recently proposed that the term 'mate quality bias' should be used to differentiate this phenomenon from 'mate choice copying'. Here, under the guise of a dating preferences survey we replicated and extended some earlier results. We found that when presented to female raters, men are more desirable dates when they are depicted as having had relatively attractive (versus relatively unattractive) former partners, an effect that appears to be moderated by a second variable, namely the former partner's age. We did not find evidence for this bias effect when men rate women whose profiles have been similarly manipulated. These findings suggest the operation of a sex-specific mate choice mechanism.
23736123|The benthic copepod assemblages in an oligotrophic lake were studied from quantitative samples collected from 57 sites at depths of 0.265 m. Numerical classification and ordination of sites resulted in six site groups: stony shores, emergent macrophyte (Equisetum) stands, and depth zones of 1  2 m (littoral), 25 m (littoriprofundal), 5 10 m (upper profundal) and below 10 m (lower profundal). Classification and ordination of species showed that the stony shores and the lower profundal had characteristic species assemblages. The total number of benthic copepod species decreased from the littoral (23 species) to the profundal (1416 species); in the littoral it was lowest among Equisetum. Both the harpacticoid and omnivorous cyclopoid guilds showed parallel trends. Several other diversity measures (Hill's numbers, Kempton & Taylor's mid-range statistic and rarefied species numbers) showed approximately similar patterns. Dominance was inversely related to diversity: it was lowest on littoral soft bottoms, and increased with depth and towards the shoreline; it was higher among emergent macrophytes than on stony shores. The benthic copepod diversity in the Equisetum stands, the most productive area in the lake, was probably restricted by poor oxygen conditions in the sediment, which excluded burrowing forms, mainly harpacticoids. The stony shores, the most diverse littoral area relative to productivity, probably offered the most varied microhabitats. The decreasing species diversity pattern on the soft bottoms from the open littoral towards the depths probably reflected partly the decreasing productivity of the benthic subsystem and partly the abundance of two main faunal components: littoral, warm-water species decreased with depth, and a group of cold-water adapted species favoured the deep profundal. The fluctuating summer temperatures around the thermocline depth perhaps contributed to this faunal turnover, restricting the reproduction of cold-adapted species.
23736755|Kin selection theory has been used to generate several useful frameworks in the field of evolutionary ecology. We briefly review the research on two main theoretical predictions for sex ratio variation among colonies, and for worker policing, using a relatedness framework in paper wasps. Contrary to the studies of advanced eusocial wasps, conclusive evidence showing worker control of sex ratio has not been shown in primitively eusocial Polistes, which suggests that collective worker control is not active at the primitively eusocial stage when colony size is small. Worker control of colony investment might be facilitated in an advanced eusocial system when colony size is large. Therefore, a relatedness-based theoretical framework does not seem to be important in explaining the sex ratio variation among colonies of Polistes wasps. Worker policing, however, has been observed in monogynous and monandrous colonies of Polistes and Dolichovespula, in which relatedness benefits for workers do not exist. The observed policing behavior seems to be termed as 'selfish policing'. Fertility signals and egg marking pheromones by queens are the likely proximate factors that determine the fate of workers' eggs. We also discuss the influence dominance order among workers may play in regulating worker reproduction. This is a form of decentralized regulation, which may be associated with larger colony size.
23735641|A non-exhaustive literature search revealed that samples often show heterogeneity in the underlying developmental instability. As a consequence, the distribution of the signed asymmetry is leptocurtic. Simulations presented in this paper showed that a recently developed method to test heterogeneity in FA (likelihood ratio test of REML mixed regression models) has inflated type I error rates, whereas Levene's test suffered power reduction. The latter appeared to be the result of a lower accuracy of the estimation of population level FA. These effects became stronger with increasing leptokurtisis. In contrast, the estimation of R became more accurate and precise with increasing heterogeneity (and thus expected value of R). The estimation of small values of R is subject to extremely large sampling variation and were biased towards lower values. Implications for the analysis of FA at the individual and population level are discussed.
23737024|We studied roost switching and habitat selection of 16 P. pygmaeus females tagged in two nursery colonies. There were differences in overnight roosting and flying. The highest foraging activity was observed over water bodies, at forest edges and near street lamps. During each night, each female visited at least one night-roost, and five females regularly visited two roosts. On average, the females visited a roost 3.7 times per night. After parturition, the distances between night roosts and day roosts increased. The number of night roosts used declined as pups neared weaning. Five females changed day roosts after two nights. Based on the observation of flightless young in new roosts a conclusion was reached that some females transported their offspring to new roosts at night. After lactation began, some females visited roosts occupied by vocalizing males of P. pygmaeus and P. nathusii.
23734218|Populations of bank voles (Clethrionomys glareolus) in Northern Sweden have larger body size and larger litters than populations in Southern Sweden. These differences were maintained on a laboratory diet, which suggests that they are genetic, but voles might respond differently to natural diets. In the experiment reported here, we fed voles with different origins (Ammarns in the north and Revinge in the south) each of two diets, one mimicking the northern diet and one mimicking the southern diet. Northern animals grew better on the northern diet, suggesting an effect of diet quality, but litter sizes differed with origin of the animals and not with diet. High mortality of the young on both diets indicated that the test diets were not entirely satisfactory. Until a more definitive experiment can be done, our results suggest that differences in body size of the two populations may be linked to nutritional factors, but differences in litter size probably reflect different genotypes.
23737027|We explored the interspecific variation patterns in the limb skeleton of four crested newts that underwent an extensive evolutionary diversification. All studied species shared the same basipodial pattern, within which the carpus exhibited much more variation than the tarsus. Morphometric analysis of stylopodium, zeugopodium, and the third metapodial element showed that the species differed in the size of skeletal elements, but they shared common allometric slopes. In comparison to the other crested newts, T. dobrogicus appeared as the outlier due to (1) significantly shorter stylopodium and zeugopodium relative to body size and (2) rather different anatomical designs regarding ossification level of the basipodium. Based on these results, it is suggested that the observed T. dobrogicus uniqueness originates from allometric heterochrony paralleled by a profound switch in habitat preference.
23737092|We compared trapping and kill efficiency, and by-catch rate of a new reverse-bait trigger rat trap (Ka Mate) with conventional snap traps (Ezeset and Victor), and assessed methods for calculating abundance indices, over 2879 trap nights on Wallis & Futuna and New Caledonia. Ka Mate traps were most effective at killing larger (> 100 g) rats whereas Ezeset traps had the best capture rates of smaller (< 100 g) rodents. Victor mouse traps caught rodents up to 50 g, but were no more efficient than rat traps. Proportions of live captures were similar for Ka Mate and Ezeset traps, but the mass threshold for live rats in Ezeset traps was much lower than that of the Ka Mate traps. Ka Mate traps had much lower non-target by-catch rates than Ezeset traps in habitats free of land crabs. We developed a new rodent abundance index to standardise results of different trap systems.
23736106|Hot branding methods used for adult fish are generally considered harmful to juveniles. Use of a very thin electrically heated metal (nichrome) wire to impress a mark on the scales of the fish is a fairly gentle procedure compared with the traditional method of branding. The thin metal filament can easily be shaped to form code symbols. About 200 000 one-summer-old pikeperch (Stizostedion lucioperca) juveniles (mean weight 2.55.5 g) were branded with this method during 19861995 and stocked in two lakes in southern Finland. No mortality or physiological responses caused by the branding were observed and the marks were readily identified on adult fish several years after application. This method is very economical. Branding instruments cost about FIM 600 and one person can mark up to 5001 000 fish per hour. The method is suitable for pikeperch and other species with fairly small and firmly attached scales.
23735401|Three sympatric forms have been found within the morphospecies Ceroglossus chilensis Esch. through karyotype analysis and characterization of repetitive DNA families. The male chromosome number of these forms is 2n = 28 + XY (form A), 2n = 40 + XY (form B), and 2n = 38 + trivalent (form C). Restriction enzyme analysis of total genomic DNA of form B using EcoRI produces several conspicuous bands corresponding to monomers and dimers of two repetitive DNA families, of about 575 bp and 200 bp respectively; form C has, after total digestion, only one band of 625 bp corresponding to the monomer of a different repetitive DNA family; and form A has no conspicuous band after this treatment. In situ hybridization experiments show that repetitive DNAs are specific for each form and no crossed hybridization is observed. The results suggest that these Ceroglossus forms are actually a complex of sibling species evolving as separate evolutionary and phylogenetic units, whose characterization at the morphological, ecological and geographical levels should be the subject of further investigation.
23735687|Seasonal changes in the detoxification, hormone levels, energy metabolism and water content were measured in juvenile 2-year-old brown trout held in two environmentally different test conditions. In spite of the different test conditions, the course of seasonal changes in the measured biomarkers was quite similar in both test group fish. However, the measured values of these biomarkers differed significantly between the groups, and also between sexes. Although the fish were juveniles, seasonal changes similar to adults were observed in male gonadal growth and plasma testosterone concentration. Also, only in males, during the spawning period, the liver ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase activity was negatively correlated with the plasma testosterone concentration, which was at its highest at that time. The liver detoxification activity reached maximum in winter. Plasma osmotic concentration was also higher in winter than summer. During the entire year, the tissue-water content of the "laboratory" fish was significantly higher than that of the fish farm group. Energy resources of the fish increased during summer, and were high in autumn and early winter. Between the groups notable differences were observed only in winter.
23733710|Audiospectrographic analysis of male stridulatory signals of A. carinata from geographically more or less isolated populations in Iceland, the British Isles, northern Finland, central Sweden, the east and west coasts of Sweden, the south coast of Finland, and the Swiss Alps revealed a certain degree of population specificity. The differences lay mainly in the proportion and consistency of the loud pulse-trains; the loudest signals appeared in the populations living near the extreme limits of survival of the species, and apparently reflect adaptation to low population densities at the breeding season. Combinations of the signal characteristics grouped the populations into both ecological and geographical sets, thus indicating both environmental adaptation and kinship.
23736118|In the sample of 83 specimens of the perch (Perca fluviatilis L., 1758), caught on eight different sampling sites at the Vlasinsko Lake reservoir, in AprilOctober 1993, 25 infested specimens were found. They were infested with the following species of parasitic ciliates: Trichodinella epizootica, Apiosoma robustum, Apiosoma piscicolum ssp. perci, Ichthyophthirius multifiliis, Chilodonella cyprini and Chilodonella hexasticha. The most intensive infestation with all quoted parasitic ciliates was registered in April. Only Ichthyophthirius multifiliis infested the perch intensively in July. Trichodinella epizootica and Apiosoma robustum revealed both the highest prevalence and intensity of infestation. Regarding the localization of the parasitic species, Trichodinella epizootica and Apiosoma robustum had a much stronger affinity for the gills than for the skin of the perch.
23731647|The postlarval young of Porcellio scaber, when taken out of the marsupium of the female, are able to react to environmental humidities. Their preference is for high humidities and the reaction intensity is related to the steepness of the gradient. A low temperature (12 C) does not interfere with this ability. If the female is desiccated in dry air, the young which have been lying against the ostegites and were thus desiccated showed stronger preference for the humid side than those which had been located next to the body wall of the female and were thus protected against water loss. The young of both P. scaber and Tracheoniscus rathkei after their first molt show an about equal preference for high humidities. It is assumed that all developmental stages of these two species are able to react to external humidities, which may be a factor in their success in colonization of dry land. The role and origin of the marsupial fluid in terrestrial isopods is discussed.
23736183|We studied mtDNA phylogeography of Palearctic and Nearctic Coregonus, including four species of ciscoes (C. sardinella, C. autumnalis, C. artedi, C. laurettae), Baikal omul (C. migratorius) and related taxa. The C. sardinella complex, which includes C. peled, is distantly related to the other cisco species. Eurasian C. sardinella haplotypes are the most basal in this lineage. C. autumnalis and C. laurettae are well-differentiated species and belong to a clade that also includes C. artedi. This clade likely originated from Baikal omul which is intermediate between the C. autumnalis complex and the rest of the network. Haplotypes from Siberian populations of C. autumnalis occupy the basal positions of the C. autumalis complex. We conclude Siberia is the place of origin for the C. autumnalis and C. sardinella complexes. Two routes of invasion, along the northern and southern coasts of the Pleistocene Bering land bridge, explain the origin of the North American populations of C. sardinella (north), C. autumnalis (north), C. laurettae (south) and C. artedi (probably south).
23734543|In 1977, the types of activity and food-seeking behaviour of mainly surface feeding ducks was studied in relation to the abundance of potential food resources in Kalalahti, a sheltered, shallow, brackish-water bay in the northernmost part of the Bothnian Bay. Because of the exposure to waves, emergent hydrophytes are generally poorly developed along the shores of this type of habitat, and, together with the low productivity of invertebrates in the depth zone 00.5 m due to the action of waves and ice, water-level fluctuations etc., long stretches of the northern coast of the Bothnian Bay are largely unsuitable as nesting and brood-rearing habitats for dabbling ducks. Moreover, large areas of the foraging grounds are accessible to dabbling ducks at rather irregular intervals, namely when the water-level is low, due to changes in atmospheric pressure and wind direction. Coastal habitats of the type represented by the Kalalahti bay, therefore, contribute only to a minor extent to the production of broods of dabbling ducks. However, these habitats are utilized whenever possible by adult ducks and fledged juveniles, especially at the end of the breeding season. They are also utilized by migrant ducks while they are building up an energy reserve prior to, and during, the autumn migration southwards. The irregular utilization of the Kalalahti bay by ducks indicates a high degree of flexibility and opportunism in their habitat selection.
23736088|We believe that the population dynamics of walleye (Stizostedion vitreum vitreum) and yellow perch (Perca flavescens) are strongly affected by biotic interactions: abundant walleye populations limit perch recruitment, resulting in fast perch and slow walleye growth rates; sparse walleye populations allow for strong perch recruitment resulting in slow yellow perch and fast walleye growth rates. If these mechanisms are important, we would expect a negative correlation between perch and walleye growth rates. Mean length at age 4 for walleye and yellow perch in 23 New York waters were negatively correlated. Further, changes over time in length at age of both species as walleye populations increased in Canadarago and Silver Lakes follow the regression from the whole data set. This indicates a strong interaction between these two percid species in New York waters. The residuals were affected by lake productivity, but not lake area or mean depth. Waters with very low productivity had smaller walleye and yellow perch than expected from the regression.
23731820|Energy requirements of voles were estimated from the food consumption of animals kept for 10 days singly, in pairs and in groups of four at two different temperatures (around 19 and 4 C). In every treatment, only half the total number of animals was provided with cotton-wool for nest construction. In the animals with a nest, the energy consumption at room temperature was independent of group numbers. On the other hand, in those without a nest, heat losses were smaller in larger groups. At low temperature, the energy requirements of voles provided with nests depend only slightly on group size, while in those without nests, some degree of dependence is observed. This is related to social temperature regulation. Hence nest utilization differs and is partially dependent on ambient temperature.
23731366|The influence of temperature upon the overwintering, swarming and other phases of activity as well as reproduction and development of the spruce bark beetle (Ips typographus L.) was studied in 1964  1967 in south Finland, where the species is univoltine. Detailed microclimatic measurements were made and thermal sums required for different phases of the life history were calculated on the basis of the data obtained. Lethal temperature limits of the larvae, pupae and adults are presented, and the effect of extreme winter and summer temperatures upon the survival of the spruce bark beetle are discussed.
23735647|The distribution of bumblebees (Bombus) and cuckoo bumblebees (Psithyrus) in the British Isles and Fennoscandia was plotted on 100 km squares. A relatively low decrease of species number is seen from the south to the north and about 20 (or more) species have been recorded in many areas of the northern boreal zone. The areal distribution of different bumblebee species and the similarity of the bumblebee fauna in different squares was studied by cluster analysis, two-way indicator species analysis and detrended correspondence analysis. Eleven distribution clusters of bumblebees were separated. Distributions of various Bombus species and their inquiline Psithyrus species show an incomplete overlap. Numbers of species recorded from various islands were correlated with the size and distance of the islands from the nearest continent. In Fennoscandia, the areal distribution groups obtained follow fairly closely the bioclimatic vegetation zones, which are largely correlated by effective temperature sums during the vegetative period. Also, in the British Isles the effective temperature sums are important determinants of the distribution groups obtained. Zonations observed in other insects, birds and mammals in northwestern Europe are compared with those of bumblebees. The distributional history of bumblebee species in northern Europe is discussed in the light of their present distribution patterns.
23731576|The changes in the qualitative and quantitative composition of the plankton of the oligotrophic and mesohumic lake Pjrvi, south Finland, are described on the basis of regular sampling carried out in 1963  1965. Observations of the specific conductivity, pH, water colour, KMnO4 consumption and transparency are given. The effect of environmental factors upon 41 species of zooplankton, as well as the correlations between the changes in abundance of phytoplankton and zooplankton are discussed. It is suggested that seasonal fluctuations in water temperature and in the numbers of the nannoplanktonic phytoplankters are the main factors affecting the zooplankton species composition and the biomass fluctuations in lake Pjrvi.
23737085|We compared the diet of adult Pampas foxes (Lycalopex gymnocercus) and their cubs in a Pampas grassland area of Argentina by analysing 152 scats (adults: 92, cubs: 60). We used an Index of Relative Importance (IRI) to determine the contribution of prey items to the diet. IRI scores for rodents, hares and birds were higher for cubs, whereas adults consumed grasshoppers and larvae more often than cubs did. Fruits and carrion of ungulates were consumed only by adults. Both the number of items per scat and diet diversity were smaller for cubs than adults. We conclude that the Pampas fox behaves as a typical central place forager, with fruits and insects being probably consumed on the spot (with low foraging costs) and rodents, birds and hares being brought to the den for the cubs.
23737096|Seven old-growth, mostly spruce- and pine-dominated, protected forests rich in dead wood were inventoried for polypores and polypore-associated beetles in Finland in 20012007. A total of 198 polypore species (86% of the Finnish species list) were examined for associated Coleoptera. Of these, 116 species (59% of the studied species, or 50% of the Finnish polypore mycota) were found to host adults and/or larvae of 176 beetle species. Fifty-six polypore species were utilized by larvae of 21 beetle species. Many new fungusbeetle associations were discovered among 544 species pairs, including 421 polypore fruit bodyadult Coleoptera species co-occurrences, and 123 fruit bodylarva associations. Eight-two species of fungi (41% of the studied species, or 36% of the Finnish polypores) were neither visited nor colonized by Coleoptera.
23736214|Two whitefish morphs have been identified in lakes in northern Norway from a bimodal distribution of gill raker numbers: a sparsely- and a densely-rakered. Habitat choice and feeding ecology of whitefish were studied in five lakes with the two morphs living in sympatry, and in five lakes harbouring only the sparsely-rakered morph. In sympatry, the two whitefish morphs exhibited a strict niche segregation, the sparsely-rakered morph mainly residing in the littoral zone feeding on zoobenthos, whereas the densely-rakered morph predominantly fed on zooplankton and dominated in the pelagic zone. In allopatry, however, the densely-rakered morph exhibited a larger niche width, utilising both the benthic and pelagic habitats and having a diet that included both zoobenthos and zooplankton. Thus, in sympatry with densely-rakered whitefish, the sparsely-rakered morph appears to be relegated from the pelagic zone, resulting in an interactive segregation due to resource competition between the two morphs.
23736710|The sea migration of two sea trout stocks was examined in a tagging and transplantation experiment. The two different stocks, which originated from the rivers Isojoki (Gulf of Bothnia) and Ingarskilanjoki (Gulf of Finland), were released in 19941996 as smolts (3991 and 3996 smolts) at two nearby sites in the Gulf of Finland. The tag recovery data received 519 months after release (Sep.Nov.) from the Gulf of Finland were analysed. The recovery rate was about 8%. Multi-way contingency analysis showed that the origin of the stock affected the spatial and temporal sea distribution. The majority (63%) of the Ingarskilanjoki sea trout, but a smaller proportion (49%) of the Isojoki sea trout, were caught in coastal waters, near the release site. The stock-specific spatial sea distributions were not affected by the gear types used. The genetic threats of stocking are discussed.
23734171|Bird communities were censused by the territory mapping method in three oak-dominated woodlands in S. Sweden in spring 1982. The study plots (1117 ha) were on poor, heterogenous and rich soils respectively. Total abundance of breeding birds and species diversity followed the poor-to-rich soil gradient, while species number was the same in all three plots. Among the bird species, densities of thrushes, some warblers and the Chaffinch (Fringilla coelebs) were also positively correlated with soil fertility, while supply of natural cavities seemed to be more important to hole-nesters. The results are discussed in comparison with some other bird studies in deciduous woodlands.
23733645|Crossbreeding experiments between eight geographically more or less isolated populations of Arctocorisa carinata indicated that the populations of Lapland and the Scandinavian Range are rather closely related to the coastal populations of southern Finland and eastern Sweden. The population of the Swedish west coast, in contrast, seems to be genetically remote from the other Fennoscandian populations, and may have had more recent connections with the British population. Both the British and Icelandic populations seemed rather distant from the population of southern Finland. The most drastically different of the populations tested, however, was the population of the Swiss Alps, which, when crossed with the populations of Iceland and southern Finland, produced mainly inviable larvae.
23736842|Andrena humilis is an endangered oligolectic solitary bee and has declined in recent decades throughout western Europe. The aim of this study was to explore the pollen harvesting pattern and to determine the reproductive rate in specialized andrenid bees. We measured the amount of pollen required to produce one brood-cell, the pollen harvesting rate and compared our results with data for other specialized andrenid bee species. Pollen-foraging trips were registered and the activity events (entering, leaving or digging) recorded at the nests. The mean number of pollen-foraging trips per day was 5.3 and an average bee nest was active (and open) 88 min day-1. The bees were highly efficient in harvesting pollen and spent on average 10.7 min to complete one pollen-foraging trip. Most pollen-foraging trips (77%) were completed in less than 15 min. The duration of pollen-foraging trips increased over the day, presumably because pollen became more costly to harvest. Based on pollen counts (pollen loads on bees and pollen provisions) an average bee required 3.85 foraging trips to complete one brood cell and one bee managed to accomplish 1.37 brood cells in one day with suitable weather. In the literature we found data on an additional 19 specialized andrenid bee species. Andrena humilis seems to be extremely efficient compared with most other species, with an average trip for pollen lasting almost one hour (average for andrenid bees = 46 min). An extremely low reproductive rate seems to be a common trait among specialized bees in the family Andrenidae with an average 0.9 offspring produced per day and less than ten offspring produced during the whole lifetime. The high degree of specialisation and the low reproductive rate among andrenid bees can explain the severe decline in many species today.
23731793|The flower visits of southern Finnish bumblebees were observed during one summer in an uncultivated field. The bumblebees visited altogether 59 plant species, those most often visited being Salix spp. in May, Geum rivale, Vicia sepium, and Rubus idaeus in June, Vicia cracca and Trifolium pratense in July and early August, and Solidago virgaurea at the end of August. Different species visited different flowers, their choice depending mainly on the length of the corolla tube in relation to the length of the tongue. The males of both Bombus and Psithyrus species (cuckoo bumblebees) preferred tall composites. Foraging was comparatively rare in the morning, but lively at noon, the activity slowing down towards the evening. Most plant species received a peak of visits at noon, but Rubus idaeus had a clear evening maximum. About 75 % of the Bombus spp. visited only one plant species during a single foraging trip. The flight activity of bumblebees decreased during heavy rain, high wind, and low temperature (below + 10C).
23731610|In 1968 and 1969, 2 078 specimens of fleas were collected from 501 live-trapped field voles, Microtus agrestis (L.) on an estate in southern Finland. The fleas belonged to 12 species, the dominant species being Megabothris walkeri (Rothsch.) (44.2 %) and Ctenophthalmus agyrtes fennicus Peus (37.1 %). Seasonal changes in the percentage infestation and mean infestation per host were observed: one maximum occurred in spring and another in autumn. Examination of the species composition of the fleas at different seasons revealed some species with a restricted seasonal occurrence and others occurring throughout the year. An excess of females was observed in Ctenophthalmus agyrtes fennicus and C. uncinatus uncinatus (Wagner). In Megabothris walkeri the total sex ratio was roughly 1:1. Reproductive males were the host group most heavily infested. Reproductive females were more heavily infested than subadult and juvenile hosts. Among the non-reproductive animals there was no difference in numbers of fleas between the sexes. Data on seasonal fluctuations in the infestation of these different host categories are presented. The infestation level and species composition of the fleas in two subpopulations of the field voles were studied in two different habitats. In the drier habitat there was a slightly heavier infestation than in the moist habitat. A few differences in species composition were observed, too.
23737161|Geographical gradients of patterns of species associations in ecological communities are largely unknown. Previous evidence indicated nested community assembly  caused mainly by unequal colonization probabilities and habitat capacity  and a tendency towards negative species associations in arid and tropical plant and animal communities. Patterns of community assembly in arctic environments are poorly studied. Here we use a data set on arctic plant and animal species obtained from arctic islands of the Kandalaksha Bay (White Sea), to infer patterns of species association across taxa and trophic groups. We performed co-occurrence and nestedness analyses to study patterns of community assembly and diversity of 1109 plant and animal species grouped according to taxa, dispersal ability, and ecological guild membership. Twelve out of 50 (24%) sufficiently species-rich families and orders on the environmentally relatively stable forested islands showed significantly negative species associations (segregation), while this proportion decreased to less than 13% on less stable heath, rocky, and sea-shore islands. Segregation was not linked to spatial species turnover across islands. Species richness of plants and animals decreased at higher levels of disturbance. We detected evidence for a gradient in species richness and ecological interactions from the most disturbed sea-shore and rocky islands to more stable forested islands. Species spatial distributions appeared to be largely random, in contrast to previous meta-analyses that used mainly communities at lower latitudes. We speculate that in arctic environments spatial turnover of species (vicariant segregation) is of less importance than turnover-independent (checkerboard) segregation. Our data support the view that ecological assemblages in high-latitude environments are less structured by ecological interactions than comparable assemblages in lower latitudes. We also add to the evidence that environmental disturbance regimes work against stable community structures. We notice the need for a formal meta-analysis on latitudinal trends in community structure.
23732256|Three species of Oligochaeta, viz. Amynthas (Pheretima s.l.) rodericensis (Grube 1879), Pithemera bicincta (Perrier 1875) (Megascolecidae) and Pontoscolex corethrurus (Mller 1875) (Glossoscolecidae), were recorded in a greenhouse of the Botanical Garden of the University of Helsinki. These are the first records of these species and families in Scandinavia, P. bicincta being recorded from Europe for the first time. The great number of specimens, both mature and immature, indicates that the species have been living and reproducing for quite a long time in this greenhouse. The orgin of these anthropochores is unknown.
23736517|The term extinction threshold refers to a critical value of some attribute, such as the amount of habitat in the landscape, below which a population, a metapopulation, or a species does not persist. In this paper we discuss the existence and behavior of extinction thresholds in the context of metapopulation models. We review and extend recent developments in the theory and application of patch occupancy models, which have been developed for assessing the dynamics of species inhabiting highly fragmented landscapes. We discuss the relationship between deterministic and stochastic models, the possibility of alternative equilibria, transient dynamics following perturbations from the equilibrium state, and the effect of spatially correlated and temporally varying environmental conditions. We illustrate the theory with an empirical exampled based on the Glanville fritillary butterfly (Melitaea cinxia) metapopulation in the land Islands in southwest Finland.
23736980|Understanding the dynamics of a disease spread requires information on various aspects of the ecology of vector species. The habitat selection and habitat use of raccoon dogs (Nyctereutes procyonoides), badgers (Meles meles), red foxes (Vulpes vulpes) and domestic cats (Felis silvestris catus) were studied in southeastern Finland between 2000 and 2004. The aim was to find out the habitats where these species are most likely to come into contact and possibly transmit diseases, such as rabies, to each other. Raccoon dogs and badgers showed preference for fields and deciduous forests in all scales studied. Raccoon dogs favoured also watersides in summer and young mixed forests in autumn. Foxes and cats showed more individual variation in their habitat selection/use. Analysis of the overlapping areas of seasonal home ranges further demonstrated the significance of deciduous forests and fields. These, and also young mixed forests and open areas, could be called the risky habitats in terms of rabies spread.
23734488|Ameronothrus dubinini Sitnikova 1977 (Acarina, Ameronothridae) is reported for the first time in Finland. The mite was found most abundantly on Norwegian spruces in the Oulu area, but it also occurred in the inland areas of northern Finland. A possible connection with air pollution is discussed. SEM pictures of the dorsal and ventral side of one female are presented.
23732248|The structure and function of the guinea-pig's mouth and throat are described on the basis of cinematic and X-ray pictures. In some cases, vocalization and respiratory activity were recorded simultaneously. The intensity, duration, rhythm and frequency of the various types of vocalization are described from sonagrams based on tape-recordings. The vocalizations are classified into voiceless (tooth chattering) and voiced sounds (nasal, naso-oral and oral vocalizations), which include subsounds, rumbles (rut rumble and alarm rumble), squels (sociable, agitating and distress squeals), squeaks, squeak-squeals, shrieks (rut shriek, shrieks of hunger and thirst, and after-shriek) and song. The signal effect of the sounds was ascertained by analysing the behavioural situations in which each sound was emitted.
23735409|The use of small radio-transmitters (0.60.7 g) for tracing movements of Carabus coriaceus L. in the field is described. Compared to more established methods such as recapture experiments or the use of harmonic radar systems the main advantage of this method is the possibility of using different frequencies to trace and identify several specimens in the same area and at the same time. Transmissions ranges of up to 400 m make it possible to detect beetles even when dispersed over a large area. However, the use of this method is currently restricted to very large carabid species which are able to carry these still relatively heavy radio-transmitters. In 1993 and 1994, behaviour and habitat use of C. coriaceus was studied both in a larger forest area and in a small river valley with wet meadows, smaller alder forests and semi-natural brook banks. C. coriaceus showed both diurnal and nocturnal activity, but activity was more frequent at night. In the study area this species has a clear habitat preference for ecotone habitats like forest edges. River near stripes of alder forest can serve as a guide-line for dispersal or for orientation within a habitat pattern.
23733736|Methods for determining age from tooth wear were studied in muskrats in southern Finland. For separating age classes the use of a molar index based on crown height and total molar height (M1) was superior to the mere measurement of crown height, for with the latter there was greater variation between individuals. A formual is proposed for the ageing of muskrats in Finland, based on the curvilinear decrease in the molar index as a function of age. Molar wear was greater in males than in females, possibly owing to greater energy needs of males, which are heavier. Body weight is a poor criterion of age in muskrats.
23731773|The accumulation of linolenate was studied in insects reared on lipid-free diets containing trilinolenin and cholesterol as the only added lipids. The larvae receiving vitamin E (alpha-tocopherol) accumulated more linolenate in fat body, midgut, and other tissue lipids than control larvae receiving no tocopherol. With 0.26 % trilinolenin in the diet, a dietary level of 0.1 % tocopherol allowed normal adult emergence of both sexes. Synthesis of tissue palmitoleate decreased when the level of dietary tocopherol was increased. Although linolenate is an essential fatty acid for normal metamorphosis, both linolenate and linoleate are required to avoid abnormal synthesis and storage of monounsaturated acids, especially palmitoleate.
23735747|In this paper, we consider the attentional demands associated with detecting and responding to predators, or 'apprehension', and the within-patch search of Allenby's gerbils, Gerbillus andersoni allenbyi. We, thus, present a first empirical investigation of the indirect, informational consequences of perceived predation risk. Specifically, we focus on the ability to track the quality of seed patches in sandy habitats. There are two potential effects here; since instantaneous intake rate (or some proxy) is the key parameter of interest to an optimal forager, apprehension can interfere with the estimation of: (1) the number of food items captured, and/or (2) the time taken to capture them (the ability to locate food items). Only (2) will have a consistent effect on patch quality, and we test the hypothesis that increased predation risk reduces gerbil search efficiency. We therefore quantified gerbil search paths in patches of uniform seed distribution that differed in their associated risks of predation by manipulating the presence of barn owls, Tyto alba, and light in an aviary. Gerbil search was more random under risky conditions. We discuss the implications of this result for information processing and patch use under predation risk, and the foraging games between gerbils and owls in the Negev Desert.
23735339|Seven study plots (16.921.0 ha) were established in representative forest habitats in the northern part of the Valdai Uplands. The breeding birds were censuses by the mapping method during four to five years, from 1985 to 1989. Forty-six pigeon, woodpecker and passerine species were found to have at least half a territory in the total plots during the study period. Anthus trivialis was the only species that nested in sphagnum bog pine forest. In other plots, Fringilla coelebs was the most numerous species. The average total densities ranged from 33 territories/km2 (bog pine forest) to 1027 territories/km2 (mesic grey alder forest). The average species richness and average total density were strongly positively correlated. Grey alder forest specialists were most closely associated. Spruce forest species formed a very distinct group, but the association among them was fairly low. There was a positive correlation between habitat amplitude and total sample size across 23 common species for the period 19861989. Turdus pilaris, T. iliacus, Hippolais icterina, Sylvia borin, S. atricapilla and Anthus trivialis had much narrower habitat amplitudes than could be expected on the basis of their sample sizes, whereas Turdus philomelos, Parus cristatus and P. montanus had much broader amplitudes. The expected number of habitats in a standard sample of 14 territorial pairs was highest in Turdus philomelos, Erithacus rubecula and Fringilla coelebs. Species which could be expected to be found in many habitats tended to occupy them more evenly.
23735389|Adult signal crayfish were used to examine the significance of body size in affecting possession of shelters. When there was a shortage of shelters, the likelihood that an intruder would take over increased as a function of body weight ratio between the contestants. In females a smaller difference was needed to achieve a given likelihood to win than in males. For example, a probability of 80% for the heavier individual to win requires a weight ratio of about 1.5 in females, while the ratio should be close to 2 in males. Shelter occupants were able to resist eviction by intruders rather well, yet takeovers were frequent. Removal of the shelter from a previous smaller owner proved that they were able to evict the larger one in 20% of cases tested. When larger owners were left without a shelter, the smaller shelter-holders could resist the larger intruders in 43% of the cases tested. These results support the conclusion that not only correlated asymmetries (i.e. body size) affect the outcome of shelter ownership conflicts, but also uncorrelated asymmetries (i.e. prior ownership) are in effect.
23733742|The species studied were Haematopus ostralegus, Charadrius hiaticula, Arenaria interpres, Capella gallinago, Tringa totanus, Calidris temminckii, C. alpina and Phalaropus lobatus. About 7 200 clutches from NW Europe were examined, most of them in egg collections. The mean volume of the eggs of a clutch was used as a measure of egg size, a trait with a highly heritable component. The "main laying period" (MLP) of a population is defined as the shortest group of 5-day class intervals in which about 80 % of the clutches are started. MLP usually reflects the timing of breeding more accurately than does the range between the first and last clutches or the mean and standard deviation for the date of laying. In the northern species (Calidris temminckii and Phalaropus lobatus) the MLP is 20 days, increasing southwards to 3140 days (in Haem topus ostralegus, Capella gallinago); in Charadrius hiaticula the MLP ranges from 20 days in N Scandinavia to 55 days in the British Isles. Within a species, egg size increases as the climate becomes more maritime. The mean is usually lowest at high arctic latitudes or in the interior of Fennoscandia, and highest in Iceland, the Faroes or Scotland. In most of the species studied egg size corresponds to taxonomic differences between populations.
23734201|Taxonomic problems cover a wide range of genetic divergence. At the population level and up to closely related genera, standard gel electrophoresis has proved to be a valuable taxonomic tool. Higher category systematics, however, is often difficult to analyse using biochemical methods. Thin layer isoelectric focusing of tissue proteins has been suggested as a taxonomic tool. We have analyzed 21 species from two orders of birds using heart and breast muscle proteins. Between 80 and 110 protein bands can be identified and the relative frequency of identical bands between species can be calculated. The low degree of intraspecies variation in tissue proteins demonstrated by electrofocusing is an advantage for higher category classification and makes it possible to use only a few individuals. It has been shown that the relative frequency of identical protein bands between different taxonomical levels is in agreement with a classification based on anatomical and morphological characters.
23735623|Animals live in environments with many types of predators, yet studies of animal behavior under the risk of predation focus almost exclusively on single-predator environments. This is especially true in an important area of study: anti-predatory vigilance. A simple exploration of vigilance shows that several "single-predator" expectations may not apply in a multi-predator environment. Two cases of vigilance are identified: predator-specific vigilance, in which the detection of a given predator requires a particular mode of vigilance, and non-specific vigilance, in which one mode of vigilance suffices for all predators. In both cases, and contrary to the single-predator situation, vigilance in a multi-predator environment may respond little or even negatively to increasing attack rates. Furthermore, predator-specific vigilance may be directed exclusively towards the most abundant predator in the environment; the "ignored" predators are nonetheless important determinants of vigilance. Finally, most studies usually focus on the most dangerous predator faced by the animal in question, but in doing so ignore the role of additional, seemingly innocuous predators as important determinants of vigilance. Studies adopting a "multi-predator" perspective promise to shed much light on the study of anti-predator behavior in general.
23731758|A light colour mutant is described in the wood lemming. It appeared in several individuals in a laboratory culture whose wild-type founders were caught in northeastern Finland in 1963. The mutant is pink-eyed, and its coat is light yellowish grey; it thus differs clearly from the dark wild type. On its lower back, however, like the wild type, the mutant has a large, reddish brown spot. Apart from this special feature, its coat colour resembles that of the pink-eyed dilution mutant in the mouse. Crosses have shown that the character is caused by one completely recessive gene.
23735685|Specimens of Dendrobaena attemsi (Michaelsen, 1902) are reported from a relict natural forest habitat in 'Nationalstadsparken', an urban national park within the city of Stockholm, Sweden. They represent the northernmost record of the species and the first from Scandinavia. A morphological comparison of the new material with conspecific samples from Italy and Turkey, and with literature data, shows that the typical traits of the species (small body size, pigmentation pattern, long-stalked spermathecae, hooked nephridial bladders, lack of hearts in xi) remain virtually invariant throughout its geographic range. A constancy is also observed in the regular nephropore alternation between setal levels b and d as well as in several aspects of chaetotaxy, including the relative size distribution of the clitellar genital setae b and their 'grooviness' (mean length of grooves/mean total setal length). Other features, e.g., the relative intersetal distances, the location and number of genital setae in the spermathecal and male areas, show intraspecific variation. Based upon the apomorphic states of the nephridial features and the number of hearts, D. attemsi is tentatively regarded as an early branch of a clade comprising at least also the Balkan D. mahnerti, D. epirotica, D. pindonensis and D. rhodopensis. The superficially similar D. octaedra and D. decipiens do not belong to such a clade. Recent records of D. attemsi in natural habitats of the Czech Republic and Germany suggest the possibility that, as is hypothesized for the western part of its range, also in Central Europe the species re-expanded northwards in postglacial times. Alternatively, the species was introduced to Sweden by man, although a historical association with human settlements seems unlikely.
23736145|All birds propagate sexually and reproduction critically depends on individuals' abilities to secure matings within their own species. Discrimination of conspecifics from heterospecifics may also improve fitness in many additional social contexts, including foraging, roosting, migrating, and antipredator behaviour, that are separate from mating. Understanding the developmental basis of any universal behavioural trait, including avian species recognition, may benefit from the development and use of model systems where genetic, ontogenetic, and environmental variables can be identified and controlled. Indeed, extensive initial progress in the study of social affiliation and preference in birds was made based on laboratory studies of a handful of precocial and altricial species, especially in the context of filial and sexual imprinting. This research helped to establish ontogenetic paradigms and generated testable hypotheses for further laboratory and field studies of both avian and non-avian taxa regarding the importance of imprinting and early experience in the development of social choice. Here, we review and interpret the findings of species recognition studies in the context of ecological variation in avian taxa across gradients of parental care strategies, including "non-parental" megapodes and brood parasites. We highlight the benefits of a recent paradigm shift to describe the importance of non-imprinting based recognition mechanisms in the study of avian recognition systems and argue to include the full range of life history variation that birds exhibit in order to confirm or reject long-standing hypotheses regarding the constraints and flexibilities of avian cognitive architecture and their contributions to species recognition systems.
23736081|Year-class variation of perch (Perca fluviatilis), a potentially important predator of larval and juvenile vendace (Coregonus albula), was assessed in Lake Pyhjrvi, based on a two-stage sampling of the winter seine net catches in 19891995. From these data, we could estimate relative abundances of perch year-classes for the years 19861993. During this period, the year-classes of 1988 and possibly 1992 were strong. The year-class 1988 dominated numerically in catches from 1990 to 1993 and the year-class 1992 in 1994 and 1995. Year-class strength of perch was positively associated with the JuneAugust temperature sum.
23737168|In amphibians, most species are female-biased sexually dimorphic and such dimorphism is often accompanied by intersexual differences in prey composition. While many aspects of foraging ecology have been studied in this group, intersexual differences have rarely been described. We examined dietary composition of male and female Alpine newts (Mesotriton alpestris) from two localities in the Czech Republic during the entire breeding period by stomach flushing. Isopoda, Cladocera, Rana eggs were the most important prey. About 16% of newts did not contain prey items. At studied localities, females were about 15% larger than males. Snoutvent length (SVL) of newts was related to the mass of consumed prey, but not its number and diversity. Analyzing the residuals from the relationships between SVL and prey characteristics, we found the effect of sex on all observed prey variables  the females consumed more prey items, more diverse prey and also in greater mass than did the males.
23736012|In addition to the rough external morphology of the female genital segments the copulatory structures normally invaginated into abdominal segment 8, descriptively called the copulatory pocket, were examined. Without dissecting any part the copulatory pocket can be inverted and extruded from segment 8 so that all of its interior surface is exposed. This kind of preparation lends itself to stereoscopical examination and permits the mutual relationships of different structures to be easily observed and understood. In Syrphidae the copulatory pocket is variable in its dimensions and in many structural details. It is either membranous, submembranous, or includes various sclerotizations which often are true interarticulating sclerites. In all cases the detailed structure of the copulatory pocket is complicated. Species can be distinguished by the structural details of the copulatory pocket and characters for supraspecific taxonomy can be demonstrated. A short review of the morphology and taxonomic value of all the female external genital structures of Syrphidae is presented and documented by illustrating the genitalia of 26 species. The applicability of the inverted copulatory pocket method was also tested in other families of Diptera. It was found useful in a number of cases and a structural variation similar to Syrphidae is apparent in many groups. Examples of female genitalia from the following families are illustrated: Conopidae, Sciomyzidae, Muscidae, Asilidae, Therevidae, Stratiomyiidae, Psychodidae and Sciaridae.
23734135|In two small forest lakes total fish biomass was 73 kg/ha and 32 kg/ha, and fish production 30 and 16 kg/ha, respectively. The fish of the first lake were perch, pike and introduced whitefish, of the second perch and whitefish. The main reasons for the differences in fish biomass and production were probably light and oxygen conditions. The diet segregation between perch and whitefish, which reduced interspecific competition, and predation by pike on perch, which reduced intraspecific competition for food among perch, also resulted in improved fish production in the first lake.
23737051|Carnivore teeth, especially the carnassials, are subjects to selection in the presence of dietary competition. We compared several craniodental characters in the Finnish foxes before and after arrival of an invasive species, the raccoon dog. The female foxes displayed increased adaptation to carnivory, whereas we found no significant change in the male foxes after the arrival of the raccoon dog. We suggest that the presence of a new competitor may be driving the Finnish female foxes towards more carnivorous diet.
23734233|This paper discusses how space use (home range size, home range dispersion and spacing behaviour) of small mammal populations and the habitat patterns within which they find themselves affect dispersal. Home range is defined as a tight cluster of an animal's life time track over a period of time: natal, breeding and non-breeding home ranges are considered. Mainly two patterns of home range dispersion are considered: female "territoriality" with much overlap among males (e.g., Clethrionomys) and male "territoriality" with much overlap among females (e.g, some Microtus). Habitat types are defined as areas on which animals perform equally well demographically. Habitat patch size is measured in terms of dispersal distance of the species. Dispersal is defined as movement in a random direction by an individual out of one home range for the purpose of establishing a new home range. Dispersal is affected by space use, and by habitat quality and configuration. If animals are territorial, then when there is no more space available in a patch, subadults if they wish to breed must necessarily disperse. If animals are not territorial, dispersal should respond in a more gradual density-dependent manner. It is argued that inbreeding depression and instability of habitat patches could cause the evolution of dispersal. However, for territorial species, dispersal may mainly be a consequence of spacing behaviour. It is cautioned against using "removal grids" for quantifying, and especially for identifying dispersers. Appropriate grid size should be used and correction for edge effect in live trapping studies should, in general, be made. In future studies of dispersal particular attention should be given to habitat configuration and quality. A new method for marking infant voles is presented, the application of which may advance our understanding of dispersal in a population dynamical context.
23732265|Pieris brassicae larvae were reared on lipid-free diets supplemented with cholesterol and either trilinolein or trilinolenin as the only lipids. Up to the 4th  5th ecdysis growth was comparable on the two diets. From the 5th instar trilinolenin proved to be more effective. None of the insects on the trilinolein diet emerged from the pupal cuticle. Of those on the trilinolenin diet all females appeared normal, but 69 % of males were normal, 21 % had some degree of wing deformity, and 10 % died during emergence. Analysis of fatty acids revealed that on both diets synthesis of palmitoleate and oleate was greatly enhanced. In both cases the added polyunsaturated acid was accumulated in phospholipids.
23731799|In four different habitats bait of three different colours was spread on trapping areas during the prebaiting period. By analysis of the traces of coloured bait found in the digestive tracts of the captured rodents, the width of the external zone influencing the trapping results within the grid was estimated. For C. glareolus the average width of this zone was 83 m in the spring and 38 m in the autumn. For A. flavicollis, the corresponding value was 121 m. Estimates of density were obtained by adding the area of this external zone to the grid area and dividing this total area from which animals had been removed by the standing crop. Different methods of estimating density are compared.
23735887|Landscape structure influences local diversity and ecosystem processes, including cross-habitat fluxes of organisms coupling the dynamics of different habitats. The flow of organisms across system boundaries is known to occur between different natural habitats as well as across the cropnoncrop interface. Several studies show how field boundaries can enhance predator populations invading arable crops and controlling pest populations. However, generalist arthropods may also spill over from land-use systems to natural areas (mainly grassland) modifying interactions therein. A view of land-use systems as sources and natural habitats as sinks is consistent with the idea that the direction of the organisms' fluxes is from high to low productivity systems, while noncrop habitats are important sources for recolonization of arable fields after they are cleared for harvest. From the perspective of landscape management, enhancement of population exchanges between crop and noncrop areas may include beneficial as well as unwelcome interactions.
23735808|This paper describes song structure and repertoire variation in ortolan buntings (Emberiza hortulana) from an isolated and declining Norwegian population, analysed by using the minimal unit of production approach. Males from the studied population sang strophes similar to both dialects found in geographically closest populations in Sweden. We did not observe any simplification of song structure, which is typical for isolated populations of birds. On the contrary, the studied population was characterised by a greater song variation. Song type repertoires were larger both at the individual level and if we considered numbers of different syllables and song types found within the population. This variation seems to reflect the influence of habitat fragmentation and female deficiency at the boundary of the species range on song learning processes and males' dispersion. We also found a remarkable within-song-type variation, which seems to be independent of song type variation level of song production, but its function is unexplained.
23734157|The wings and tail of most postjuvenile large birds of prey present a blend of very differently worn quills. By carefully recording the state of wear and fading of every quill in a large number of specimens, whether actively moulting or not, it is possible to reconstruct the details of the underlying moult process. The pattern is serially continuous, with several moult waves proceeding simultaneously but slowly through seven separate moult units in each wing, including the bastard wing; and somewhat irregularly alternating within two moult units in each half of the tail. A key to the determination of age in the immature bird is provided by the periodic generation of new moult waves and by the stepping of wear and fading within each moult wave due to seasonal moult pauses. This, in turn, offers a more reliable guide to the sequence of immature plumages than has hitherto been available for most large raptors.
23735592|It has been established for a long time that rigorous statistical analyses of fluctuating asymmetry (FA) requires great caution. The reason for this is twofold. Firstly, the magnitude of FA is often small and measurement error (ME) may substantially bias asymmetry estimates, and secondly, there are other forms of asymmetry that are sometimes difficult to distinguish from real FA. To avoid bias due to ME, within-subject repeats and mixed model analysis are required. The model assumptions, however, are that both FA and ME are normally distributed. In this paper I show that in many cases these assumptions are not met. In particular, available data in the literature and these presented here suggests that FA (signed) often has a leptokurtic distribution, as indicated by relative high coefficients of variation of the absolute value of the signed FA. This may be due to patterns of antisymmetry and/or heterogeneity of FA within the sample.
23734154|The paper reviews, on the basis of ring recoveries, the general patterns of seasonal movements in different age-classes of Herring Gulls ringed on the south coast of Finland. The Herring Gulls studied are true migrants which shift in winter into a survival area essentially non-overlapping with the breeding area. All age-classes utilize the same survival area in winter but the length of the utilization period varies. No differences seem to exist in area use between two populations studied. The area utilized in the breeding season by non-breeding gulls is large, comprising the winter survival area and also areas north of the main breeding concentrations. With increasing age, the total area used in summer decreases. Newly fledged Herring Gulls disperse in various directions in early autumn and probably move more than adults. The shift into the winter survival area is very late both in adults and first year birds, but very early in second year gulls. Post-nesting movements of adults is difficult to detect since c. 20 % of the adults recovered during the breeding season are recovered > 100 km from their natal site.
23735486|Oviposition site characteristics, clutch size, and hatching success were studied in a population of nocturnal silk moths (Imbrasia belina Westwood) in arid northwestern Namibia. There was little evidence of oviposition site choice based on host-tree (Colophospermum mopane) characteristics, although trees with eggs were closer to neighboring conspecific trees and small (< 1 m) trees rarely received clutches. Clutch size and hatching success were positively correlated, but neither was influenced by any of the measured tree characteristics. Similarly, neither clutch size nor hatching success was related to oviposition orientation on the leaf surface (i.e., inner or outer leaf surface). The apparent lack of host discrimination in this species may be due to a series of ecological constraints, including limited nocturnal flight periods and an unusually short adult lifespan.
23731565|Specimens of Milax gagates (Drap.) (Gastropoda) were found in a greenhouse in Vaasa, western Finland. This is the first record of this species and this genus in Finland. It is suggested that specimens may have been introduced with ornamental plants from Holland. The genitalia of M. gagates are described and some features of its ecology and distribution are discussed.
23731620|The composition and succession of dumping-ground arthropods was studied at Turku (6030'N), Wilhelmshaven (5330'N) and Mainz (5000') in three years. In the youngest deposits predators were dominant, and later they were followed first by saprophages and then by phytophages. During the succession a clear reduction was observed in the quotient numbers of individuals/numbers of species. The species were dominantly silvicolous at Turku, hygrophilous at Wilhelmshaven, and xerophilous at Mainz. As a whole, in regions with a maritime climate the dumping-ground fauna showed greater similarity to that of the surrounding area than in regions with a continental climate. In all cases, however, most species were confined to the dumps, whilst in many cases congeneric species were observed in the surroundings. Even within small areas the horizontal pattern varied greatly according to the microclimate, substratum and interaction of the different organisms. Active life was observed to a depth of 70 cm. In summer most species were concentrated on the surface. In winter there were 1) species with overwintering stages, active only in the warmer months, 2) species active throughout the year, 3) species from the surroundings invading the dumping-grounds and remaining active there throughout the winter, and 4) species mainly active in winter. At least 75 % of the fauna originates from littoral habitats. Forest and grassland elements were in the minority. Many species become established in the dumping-grounds. There is an increasing tendency towards synanthropic life in many species towards the north.
23736781|Partial filial cannibalism by parental males in fish has been regarded as an adaptive behaviour that compensates for the toll that parental care exacts on their body condition, which is supported by empirical evidence. Here we report that parental males of a nest breeding fish enhance their initial body condition and sustain growth through partial filial cannibalism. Males of the long-snout clingfish (Diademichthys lineatus) use scarcely available empty shells as nests, which limit the number of breeding males. Males continuously breed up to 4 months, during which they hardly leave the nests. Soon after breeding starts, all care-giving males exclusively and frequently consume some of their own eggs. In contrast to previous reports on fish cannibalism, almost all care-giving males grew and enhanced their initial body condition from the early days of care, where males with larger and better-conditioned bodies cannibalised more eggs. Malemale fights for nests were frequently observed: males with larger and more robust bodies won and sometimes took over breeding nests, and it is likely that defeated males could not breed unless they occupy a nest again. These observations indicate that in this fish, partial filial cannibalism produces cannibals of large and robust bodies, and may be advantageous to care-giving males in defending nests against rival males. We suggest that the ability to defend a nest will ensure a longer care-period, and thus, a higher reproductive output. This is the first documented evidence that filial cannibalism enhances the initial body condition of cannibals.
23736774|The short-toed eagle (Circaetus gallicus) is a trophic specialist with a diet based almost exclusively on ophidians. In this work, the distribution of this eagle in southeastern Spain taken from national atlases, is analysed in relation to environmental variables. The results show that the short-toed eagle is distributed primarily in shrublands, probably because there it can easily locate and capture its prey. It also prefers an intermediate cover of forest, because it needs trees for nesting. Lastly, there was a correlation, after statistically controlling for other variables, between snake species richness and eagle presence. It is possible that snake species richness favours the presence of this raptor, as it preys on different species. Alternatively, because this raptor preys preferentially on dominant ophidians in the study area, it is also possible that the presence of this eagle favours snake diversity by a top-down regulation on the ophidian community.
23736707|This essay is about the role of ecologists in policy-determining and decision-making processes in the society in which research results may play, and are expected to play, a constructive role. The incentive for writing this essay came from my involvement, over the past several years, in the research and conservation-planning of boreal forest biodiversity in Finland. Forest biodiversity is a much debated issue in Finland, where forest industry represents an important sector of the economy and has become so advanced technologically and in terms of the infrastructure that the ever-diminishing work force can manage the entire area of 20 million ha of forests  practically down to single big trees. Biodiversity has become a fundamental concern in boreal forestry, because this is an industry that is based on the use of just a few species, but in a manner that will influence thousands of non-target species living in the same area. Arguably, current boreal forestry as practiced in e.g. Finland is sustainable from the perspective of the dynamics of the target tree species, but not from the perspective of the forest communities as a whole.
23735440|Remains of the middle Pleistocene cave bear, Ursus deningeri Reichenau, recovered from the cave deposits at Westbury-sub-Mendip near Bristol, England, are described. The age structure of the samples, based on evidence of dental eruption and wear stages, indicates that females both gave birth in the cave and sought shelter there with yearling cubs. The presence of two size classes in the permanent teeth also points to use of the cave by adults of both sexes. Wear stages on the deciduous teeth suggest that neonates were able to feed at times outside the cave during their first spring, while still using the cave as a den.
23734083|The swarming behaviour of Ophyra leucostoma males consists of stationary hovering below branches of trees and tall bushes. The stationary flight is often interrupted by short chases made towards small flying insects. Rapid circling flights and short chases with no apparent target are performed when other males are present in the close vicinity. Long chases extending several metres from the swarming site are made after flying insects the size of Ophyra. In swarms, a regular occurrence is the momentary formation of a pair of males showing a common flight pattern. The inter-male reactions are interpreted as displays advertising the occupancy of a subarea in the swarming site. The swarming behaviour thus closely resembles territorial behaviour.
23737034|Range expansion of ectoparasites can cause parasites to attack new host species. In these cases it is important for the parasite to be able to adapt to the new environment and to reproduce on the host. For the host, it is crucial to hinder successfully the development of long-lasting parasitic relationship. The deer ked (Lipoptena cervi) is a novel ectoparasite for northern cervids. We investigated if the deer ked can use the reindeer (Rangifer tarandus) as a host and, if it can, whether antiparasitic treatment against this parasite would be available. Three groups of reindeer were monitored: two groups of 6 reindeer were infected with 300 flies per each individual; a control group comprised 6 animals. One of the infected groups was treated with subcutaneous ivermectin. At the end of the experiment the infestation rate of the infected animals was low. The reindeer in the non-treated group had both live and dead deer keds and also a single pupa while the ivermectin-treated reindeer had only dead deer keds. As some deer keds survived and reproduced, the deer ked can potentially use the reindeer as a host but antiparasitic treatment may be effective against this parasite.
23736984|Competition among species with similar ecological requirements may preclude species coexistence. However, species with similar requirements may coexist under determinate environmental conditions. Major effort is being dedicated to conserve the golden eagle (Aquila chrysaetos) and Bonelli's eagle (Hieraaetus fasciatus) in Spain, two raptors with similar ecological requirements. This work analyses how some key ecological factors correlate with the coexistence of the two eagles, which may help to optimize the conservation plannings of the two species. Findings show that low human population density favours eagle coexistence, because human presence is harmful for both eagles. Temperature is an important factor affecting the segregation of the two eagles, with Bonelli's eagle dwelling in warmer zones than the golden eagle, but overlapping in squares with intermediate temperature. High prey diversity facilitates the coexistence of the two eagles, possibly because it encourages trophic segregation. Conservation planning for both species would be enhanced by the protection of zones with low human population density, intermediate temperature, and high prey diversity, which seem to favour the coexistence of the two eagles.
23734599|Comparison of computer-stored bird atlas data with environmental variables such as rainfall and altitude is relatively simple, and particularly useful where observers are sparse, as in most of the tropics. In East Africa there already exists a detailed data set for Kenya, whilst work is progressing in Uganda and Tanzania. In all three countries, atlas mapping is based upon squares of 1/2 side. The examples selected here, using data from Uganda and Kenya, illustrate some ways of using such information. The distribution of the stonechat in relation to altitude provides a simple instance of making a quantitative statement rather than a qualitative one. But  unexpectedly  it also raises a question about the species' dispersal. Analyses of data for two species of ravens illustrate the interest of comparing close relatives. Overall, their distributions overlap widely, but much less so when only breeding records are considered. Ravens are only one of many superspecies in tropical Africa. Typically member species are allopatric or almost so; this is seen clearly in two species of sunbirds which are shown to differ significantly in their ecology. The analysis of atlas data has wide potential, for example in framing useful ecological questions. And, where the mapping grid is finer, more precise analyses become possible.
23734076|Typhlorhynchus nanus, ectoparasite on the polychaet Nephthys scolopendroides, is shown to be a kalyptorhynch turbellarian without proboscis. Sister group of the monotypic genus Typhlorhynchus is Proschizorhynchus, both within fam. Schizorhynchidae. The proboscis of T. nanus has been lost concomitant with the transformation of the pharynx to a sucker.  The systematic rank of sister groups is briefly discussed.
23731670|A redescription is presented of H. georgei Michael, 1903, which has erroneously been regarded as a synonym of H. fermentationis Vitzthum, 1931. A male neotype is designated and a tabulation of characters separating the two species is presented. Large numbers of specimens of this species were observed on moths collected from Finland, France and the U.S.S.R.
23735709|We studied the impact of wood ants on the structure and functioning of the invertebrate food web of boreal forest during a three-year period. Special emphasis was put on the detritus-based food web. The density of wood ants was reduced > 90% by eliminating whole wood ant colonies from five areas in Central Finland, and leaving five areas as controls. We monitored the growth of spruce, pine and birch seedlings planted on homogenised plots, and development of the invertebrate community in soil and vegetation. The ant removal had little effects on the structure of the invertebrate food web. However, biomasses of predators caught in pitfall traps were 60% smaller under high ant density than under low ant density. Also, at the end of the experiment the biomass of the lumbricid earthworm Dendrobaena octaedra was reduced by 54% in the homogenised plots without ant nests. Removal of wood ants had no influence on soil microbial biomass, concentration of soil mineral nitrogen, plant N uptake, or plant growth.
23734588|Seven species of warbler have been monitored in British farmland annually since 1962 by the Common Birds Census. The sedge warbler has shown fluctuations in numbers with a decrease in the early 1970s. It was commonest on the arable farms of eastern England. The blackcap has shown a steady increase through the period. It occurred especially in small woodlands although it also occurred along tall hedges especially those with trees. The garden warbler has shown fluctuations very similar to those of the sedge warbler. It was commoner in the western half of the country, and was largely restricted to scrub and copses. The lesser whitethroat has shown a steady though slight increase. It occurred mainly in the southeast of Britain along larger hedges. The common whitethroat also occurred mainly along hedges. Numbers crashed in 1969 and have remained fairly constant since though with some fluctuations. The willow warbler has become the commonest warbler in farmland having shown a steady increase through the period. It was commonest in patches of woodland particularly on pasture farms. The chiffchaff also occurred predominantly in small patches of woodland. It increased till 1969 since when there has been a significant decline. The population trends of the warblers do not show any general association with any factors occurring in their breeding grounds. However, the trends are strongly associated with where the species spend the winter and it is suggested that it is the winter which is the major influence on the numbers of these species.
23734180|Since about 1960 the inshore archipelago of SW Finland has been colonized by the Pochard Aythya ferina, the Reed Bunting Emberiza schoeniclus, and the Reed Warbler Acrocephalus scirpaceus. The Pochard has also, to some extent, penetrated into the middle and fjrd archipelago. In the two passerines, in particular, the invasion has coincided with the growth of dense reed vegetation around the shores, which is a consequence of eutrophication of the waters. The population increase started earlier in the shallow, eutrophic coastal bays than on the islands. The immigration of the Pochard into the archipelago has probably also been preceded by an increase of the population in lakes and coastal bays, though evidence is lacking. Some of the archipelago Pochards breed, however, on treeless rocky islets or rocky NW points of wooded islands, and about half of the females have unusual nest sites resembling those used by the Tufted Duck Aythya fuligula, whose invasion of the archipelago took place much earlier.
23736153|Animals in natural environments usually face different types of predators, and conflicting prey defenses can increase risk of predation if prey responses to one predator result in a greater risk from another predator. Wall lizards (Podarcis muralis) respond to predators in the open, such as birds or mammals, by hiding inside rock crevices, where they may be exposed to predation by ambushing saurophagous smooth snakes (Coronella austriaca). This offers an excellent system to study how prey behave to avoid multiple predators acting simultaneously. We first performed a field study to examine the escape behavior and refuge use of wall lizards. Lizards mainly responded to the simulated attack by fleeing to hide in the nearest refuge. However, lizards that were far from known refuges sometimes used an alternative escape behavior; lizards fled for longer while passing potential refuges without hiding, thus, presumably avoiding hiding when their reliance in refuge safety was low. This was supported by a further analysis of movement patterns of wall lizards. Spontaneous locomotor patterns could be described as an amount of bursts of locomotion separated by short and long pauses. Lizards stopped near refuges more often, but previously they spent more time in short pauses when moving in or close to refuges exploring them by tongue flicking, than in open rocks. This agreed with a laboratory experiment where we analyzed responses of lizards to substrate scent deposits of smooth snakes. Lizards detected the snake's scent, and responded by increasing their movement rate in an effort to leave the risky area. However, in the field, after a simulated attack in the open, lizards emerged from the refuge and left the area quickly, decreasing the frequency of short pauses, probably to avoid a new attack in the open. Flexibility in antipredatory behavior may help wall lizards to avoid the risk enhancing effect of two types of predators requiring conflicting prey defenses.
23731648|Fridericia nielseni sp. n. and F. canadensis sp. n. from the Penny Forest soil of British Columbia, Canada, are described.
23731637|A revision is presented of the Palaearctic Linyphiid genus Maro, which consists of six species, viz.: M. minutus O. P.-Cambridge, 1906, M. sublestus Falconer, 1915, M. flavescens (O. P.-Cambridge, 1873) comb. n. (= Erigone flavescens), M. lehtineni sp. n., M. lepidus Casemir, 1961, and M. thaleri sp. n. M. flavescens, which is known from Siberia, is the only species so far found outside Europe. The taxonomic position of Pseudomaro Denis, 1966, and Haplomaro Miller, 1970 is discussed briefly. Some preliminary notes about the structure of the genital organs of the Linyphiids are also presented.
23731662|The numbers of larval and adult corixids in small rock pools were estimated by a removal method. Standardized net sweeps were used as units of catch, each removing 8  20 % of the numbers remaining; the total catch comprised 50  85 % of the total numbers. Estimates based directly on daily catches varied greatly, but acceptable results were obtained by using parameters estimated from pooled data of three years. Significant differences in catchability were found between earlier and later developmental stages. By pooling the information for different stages and for different rock pools, 95 % confidence limits differing by 10  50 % from point estimates of total numbers were obtained.
23736164|We studied brood-rearing lake selection of the common goldeneye Buchephal clangula in relation to food abundance, vegetation structure, brood mortality and predation risk by northern pike Esox lucius. Movements of radio-tagged females and their broods were followed and duckling survival was determined until fledging or until the young had died. Food was more abundant in rearing lakes than in reference lakes. On the contrary, no difference was found between rearing and reference lakes with respect to the structure of shore vegetation. During the brood rearing period the mortality of young (123 days) ducklings increased with the increased predation risk by pike. Mortality of old (> 23 days) ducklings was not associated with the predation risk by pike. These results suggest that pike predation is an important source of mortality in young common goldeneye ducklings, and that females may be imperfect in predicting pike predation risk when selecting the brood rearing lake.
23735658|The distribution and abundance of carabid beetles was studied in a large patch of farmland of 150 fields. If the species pool is supposed to be the same over the study area, differences between the occurrence of beetles on the fields are probably due to habitat choice. We investigated the carabid communities of 27 fields by pitfall trapping. The community composition of the green set-asides differed from those of the tilled fields. In the set-asides, the proportion of the autumn-breeding individuals was almost 70% at the beginning of June, while the potato fields and bare set-aside field supported mostly spring breeders. Morisita's index indicated that there was a relationship between the similarity of the communities and the distance between them. However, the distance was found to be an important factor in explaining dissimilarity only in barley fields. This may be because colonization of tilled fields occurs early in spring and is dependent on the species pool of neighbouring fields and field margins.
23734513|One adult male and seven juvenile eiders (Somateria mollissima) were studied for acanthocephalan parasites in order to evaluate the role of the parasites in the high mortality of juvenile birds in the archipelago of southwestern Finland in the summers of 19761979. Six of the juvenile birds were found dead. In two of them the infestation by Polymorphus minutus (Goeze) was as high as 2200 and 3500 specimens. The acanthocephalans were attached to the intestinal wall. It is suggested that in these cases death was caused by this parasite. In the other cases the number of parasites did not exceed 50 exx. The sex ratio and the developmental stages of the female worms were studied. According to these criteria, the infestations by P. minutus in all the studied eiders were fresh.
23733634|During the years 19681979 2113 spiders belonging to 102 species were collected on snow, mainly in two localities, Kiiminki and Kuusamo. A systematic set of samples was taken in Kiiminki in 197677. Linyphiidae s. lat. constituted 80 % of the total numbers (69 species). Numbers and species diversity were highest in November, decreased to practically zero in February, and increased again in late winter, the bulk of the catch then consisting of Bolyphantes index. Spiders were found almost exclusively in mild weather (down to -4C).
23734557|Temporal and spatial variation in populations of insects and birds was analysed with published data on aphids, moths, and birds from Britain, on carabid beetles from the Netherlands, and on moths from Finland. In carabid beetles, temporal variation was affected by some environmental factors, but not by several characteristics of the species; spatial variation was negatively correlated with the intensity of between-site movements and, in moths, with niche width. Environmental stochasticity was sufficient to explain temporal variation in a Finnish moth community, with the exception of added Poisson variance in the rarest species (abundances and trap-catches are integers). A comparison is made between the slopes of (log) variance to mean abundance regressions in intraspecific and interspecific analyses; the latter was calculated from average means and variances for each species. In spatial variation, intraspecific slopes were generally greater than the interspecific slope, suggesting that regionally abundant species are generalists: abundance and niche width are positively correlated. In temporal variation, intraspecific slopes were smaller than the interspecific slope in abundant moths, suggesting a slight density dependence in their population dynamics. This becomes apparent when data from many sites for each species are analysed. No density-dependence was detected in aphids using this method. The results indicate that in the most favourable sites for the species, bird populations tend to be closer to their carrying capacity than do insect populations. Several of the results here do not agree with the model suggested by L. R. Taylor for regional dynamics in abundance and distribution, although the British data are from his studies. A new interpretation is suggested for the slope of the variance to mean regression.
23735814|Research in ecology and evolutionary biology (evo-eco) often tries to emulate the "hard" sciences such as physics and chemistry, but to many of its practitioners feels more like the "soft" sciences of psychology and sociology. I argue that this schizophrenic attitude is the result of lack of appreciation of the full consequences of the peculiarity of the evo-eco sciences as lying in between a-historical disciplines such as physics and completely historical ones as like paleontology. Furthermore, evo-eco researchers have gotten stuck on mathematically appealing but philosophically simplistic concepts such as null hypotheses and p-values defined according to the frequentist approach in statistics, with the consequence of having been unable to fully embrace the complexity and subtlety of the problems with which ecologists and evolutionary biologists deal with. I review and discuss some literature in ecology, philosophy of science and psychology to show that a more critical methodological attitude can be liberating for the evo-eco scientist and can lead to a more fecund and enjoyable practice of ecology and evolutionary biology. With this aim, I briefly cover concepts such as the method of multiple hypotheses, Bayesian analysis, and strong inference.
23736173|In avian hostbrood parasite co-evolution, hosts develop antiparasite defence mechanisms against the brood parasite. Great reed warblers (Acrocephalus arundinaceus) exhibit intensive nest defence against common cuckoos (Cuculus canorus) and moderate egg rejection. Rejection of model cuckoo eggs is about two times greater than real eggs. Great reed warblers attacked a mounted cuckoo at nests in similarly high frequencies over the breeding cycle (86%93%), but rejection rates of non-mimetic model cuckoo eggs increased from laying until early incubation from 69% to 92%, then decreased to 44% in late incubation. Temporal changes in the risk of parasitism were followed by the changes in egg rejection suggesting that egg rejection behaviour is primarily a risk-sensitive adaptation to brood parasitism, although hosts were not able to switch off egg rejection totally in the risk-free periods. In contrast, nest defence seems to be the compound effect of antiparasite defence and predator avoidance.
23734417|Sigara striata (L.) and S. dorsalis (Leach) are morphologically very close. In both species mating behaviour involves exchange of acoustic signals, which enable the males to locate the females. The males produce two structurally different signals, a rubbing call and a broken call; receptive females respond more readily to the latter. The corresponding calls of the two species, though differing in many details, sound much alike. In playback experiments between specimens of S. striata from Finland and S. dorsalis from Scotland, the species failed to discriminate between each other's calls, and interspecific matings occurred without much difficulty. In reciprocal crosses, however, only a few of the hybrid larvae survived long enough to emerge as adults. Backcrosses showed that the hybrid males were sterile or had very low fertility; the hybrid females had low fertility in backcrosses to S. striata males, but almost normal fertility in backcrosses to S. dorsalis males. In mixed culture S. striata survived better than S. dorsalis. The progeny of this culture showed that under laboratory conditions hybridization occurred in spite of free mate selection. Thus, in areas of sympatric distribution isolation of the species must be ensured by other mechanisms besides behavioural differences.
23733653|The applicability of the equilibrium theory of island biogeography to freshwater snail populations was tested in an area on the margin of gastropod distribution in the Finnish lake district. The study concerned 20 small lakes and ponds (mean area about 0.1 km2) treated as "habitat islands", and a system of 21 large lakes (mean area about 40 km2) regarded as a "mainland analogy". The species-area relations agreed with those found in other studies of habitat islands. The slope of the log-log line was a little steeper for the small lakes (z = 0.163) than for the lakes as a whole (z = 0.149). In the large lakes the area effect was almost non-existent (z = 0.061). Water quality was also taken into consideration in the analysis. The existence of a dynamic equilibrium was tested with the variance-to-mean ratios of the numbers of species. These ratios gave strong support to the MacArthur-Wilson equilibrium theory. They also showed that the rates of extinction and immigration are modified by a further variable, water quality. Thus, in the small lakes the presence of gastropod species is determined simultaneously by water composition and spatial variables (area, distances).
23734709|It has been suggested that dispersal among local populations ("cells") may allow many predator-prey interactions to persist despite unstable local dynamics; this paper reviews the theoretical, laboratory, and field evidence for this hypothesis. The possibility of regional persistence through dispersal has been shown repeatedly in two sorts of models: those describing within-cell densities explicitly and those ("cell-occupancy" models) which classify cells into a few density categories. Persistence in these models, when within-cell dynamics are unstable, requires: (1) a source of asynchrony among cells, which may be fixed differences among cells or some stochastic factor affecting them independently; (2) some within-population density dependence; (3) a large enough number of cells; (4) dispersal rates which are not high enough to synchronize the system; and (5) in cell-occupancy models, sufficient dispersal to offset the rate of extinctions. Important unanswered questions concern spatial heterogeneity, density-dependent dispersal, and the interaction of dispersal with within-cell density dependence. Empirically, several laboratory predator-prey studies have shown a correlation between persistence and environmental complexity, and others have also suggested this. At least one natural plant-herbivore system (Opuntia and Cactoblastis in Australia) apparently persisted, despite local extinction, by dispersal. There is, however, little evidence concerning the role of dispersal in any natural predator-prey interactions; this can probably best be obtained through direct manipulation of dispersal itself.
23731362|Populations of Clethrionomys gapperi, C. rutilus and Peromyscus maniculatus were measured for four summers on eight (originally six) 1-acre plots south of Great Slave Lake, N.W.T., Canada. All species were low in 1964 and increased on 1965 and 1966. C. gapperi and P. maniculatus declined in 1967 when they showed delayed spring wieght gain, delayed sexual maturation, smaller and later first litters, fewer sexually mature young in the year of their birth and an earlier cessation of breeding. The proximate cause of the declines was reduced recruitment as a result of the syndrome described. The ultimate cause is considered to be an unusually late spring with subzero temperatures and snow cover through the first half of May. There is no indication that population density or winter mortality played any part in the observed decline. C. rutilus, on the other hand, gained weight and bred normally in 1967 and showed a 50 % increase in numbers by late summer. A physiological difference in cold tolerance is postulated to account for the different response of C. rutilus to the spring weather in 1967.
23734282|The condition of Macoma balthica (L.), taken from a soft bottom at a depth of 7-8 m, in 6  S, was highest in the summer months of June-August and lowest in spring during March-April. The condition rose rapidly soon after spawning in May. The tissue water content (%) and "shell component index" were lowest at the time of the best condition. Shell growth began in May and slowed down in August when the winter ring began to form. In September, medium-sized Macoma, of 12-16 mm shell length, showed the best condition but the histogram was quite level from 6 to 20 mm. Smaller animals (6-12 mm), kept in the laboratory at 6-12C from July to September, had a better condition and greater dry weight than freshly collected animals of similar size. The water content of the soft part (%) increased from the categories of smaller shell length to larger animals. About 100 % of Macoma used in the seasonal studies from this sampling station, which can be assumed free from pollutants, were infected by trematode matacercariae in the extrapallial space. 11-55 % of animals analysed monthly carried 20 metacercariae per shell half. This heavy infection did not obviously affect the condition of the host bivalve. The lipid level of the soft part (14-24 % of dry weight) was much higher than in Macoma in the Wadden Sea, Netherlands, and conversely the protein level (40-58 %) was lower. The glycogen level was the same (9-32 % of dry weight). The seasonal variation in these levels was very similar to that found in the Netherlands, but the onset of the most prominent changes in spring, increase in glycogen and lipid levels and decrease of proteins, took place in the Tvrminne brackish water area one month later than in the Wadden Sea. Also, the maximum value of lipids was later here than in the Netherlands. In May Macoma lost about 25 % of the weight at their soft part during spawning, but in February-March, after being kept for 2 weeks at 10-12C in the laboratory, the loss due to spawning was smaller. Keeping M. balthica in the laboratory on a minimal diet for 6 months from late winter to early autumn (4-6) decreased their condition to one third of that found in the wild state. Their water content was greater, while the glycogen level remained very much lower than in the wild. The lipid level did not differ so markedly. The effects caused by keeping M. balthica in the laboratory depend on the initial condition of the molluscs, the season and stage of their reproductive cycle, the temperature in comparison to their natural ambient temperature, and the nutritional conditions in the aquarium.
23734106|The daily and cumulative allocation of energy to biomass production, maintenance, and faecal output was studied in nestling willow warblers Phylloscopus torchilus L. from hatching to fledging. The daily energy consumption of a willow warbler nestling increases from a minimum of 3.3 kJ on the first day of life to a maximum of about 39 kJ during the last six days of the nestling period. At the same time, the daily gross production efficiency declines from 0.77 to 0.08, the net production efficiency from 0.77 to 0.13, and the assimilation efficiency from over 0.90 to 0.61. Correspondingly, the cumulative energy consumption increases from the initial 3.3 kJ to about 370 kJ at the time of fledging. The gross production efficiency of the cumulative energy budget of a fledgling willow warbler is 0.17, the net production efficiency 0.26, and the assimilation efficiency 0.67. Some comparative data on the wood warbler Ph. sibilatrix L. suggest that the assimilation efficiency of this species may be slightly lower than that of the willow warbler. Physiological thermoregulation is fully developed in willow warbler nestlings at the age of 7 days, but effective thermoregulation is already developing at the age of 4 days. Only males fed the nestlings of two nests before they became able to thermoregulate, the females being concerned with brooding at this time. Later both parents fed the nestlings.
23735548|Foxes were measured in a small (75 by 52 km) area of Central Italy. Males were larger and heavier than females, while age variation was unsignificant. Males were both longer and heavier in the northern than in the southern part of the study area, whereas females were slightly longer, but not heavier in the north than in the south. The difference cannot be attributed to either cooler climate or larger food supply, and may be related to lower population density. Body mass, head and body length, and tail length are sufficient to separate fox populations studied worldwide in three clusters corresponding to geographical origin (North American, British, and Continental European). External morphology appears therefore to reflect phylogenetic distance more than global ecological conditions.
23734451|A histopathological examination of a mussel sample (Mytilus edulis L.) from a polluted bottom in the Bothnian Sea, off the town of Pori, was made. The sampling station is situated near the outlet tube of a titanium dioxide plant. A control sample was collected from an unpolluted area from the Bothnian Sea. The mussels in the Pori sample had histopathological changes in their gonads and digestive diverticulas. Stomachs, intestines and kidneys showed an extensive physiological response to their environment. Mussels in the Pori sample were in the breeding stage, though the date of sampling (September) is outside the breeding period. The control mussels were not spawning. The spawning of the Pori mussels was abnormal. In the male follicles ripe sperm was cytolysed. The female follicles contained anomalous ova, granulocytes and cellular debris. The plasma membranes of the ova loosened from the vitelline membranes. In the digestive diverticula there was no striated border against the lumen of the tubules. The tubules were filled with exudate and the digestive cells had erosion of the cytoplasm. The stomach and intestine epitheliums contained macrophages and granulocytes. The kidney tubules of some mussels stained dark due to metal sequestration. There was excretion of macrophages in the kidney tubules. The changes in the tissues of the mussels are considered to be responses to an acid and heavy metal stress.
23736009|We studied the spatial occurrence of carabid beetles in four uniform forest areas on the land Islands, SW Finland. In each of the forest areas we took samples in five sampling sites with fifteen pitfall traps. The spatial dispersion of carabids was examined on both the community and the species level and in three spatial scales: (1) among the traps in each sampling site, (2) among the sampling sites within each forest area, and (3) among the forest areas. An ordination analysis did not reveal any systematic differences in the floristic characteristics among the sites. Within the sampling sites, Trechus secalis showed an aggregated dispersion pattern in six out of 12 sites analyzed. The two other species analyzed (Pterostichus melanarius, P. niger) both differed from random dispersion in one site. Out of the six species studied only T. secalis showed an aggregated dispersion pattern among the sites in every forest area. A one-way analysis of variance indicated that none of the abundant species had an aggregated dispersion among the forest areas. In small spatial scales, aggregated dispersion pattern of forest carabids seems to be the rule, but the pattern has no obvious explanation in habitat variability.
23735906|Genetic organization of colonies and populations of the ant Formica aquilonia were studied at the edge of the urban area of the city of Helsinki within an area of about 400 km2. Over six thousand old queens and workers were sampled from a total of 288 nest mounds from 14 populations (patches of forest) for an allozyme study, and workers from 1315 nests in each of three populations were also characterized by microsatellite genotyping. Genetic relatedness among nest mates within populations was close to zero for both queens (estimates ranging from 0.02 to 0.13) and workers (from 0.01 to 0.22), with some of the estimates being significantly greater than zero. These results supported the view of a high level of polygyny within the nests. The populations showed significant genetic differences both at the allozyme loci (overall FST = 0.17) and at the microsatellites (FST = 0.24). The estimates of FST between pairs of populations varied from 0.01 to 0.61, the largest values being associated to reduced genetic variation and an apparent bottleneck within one population. The results showed that the local populations of this highly polygynous (multiple queens in a nest) and polydomous (multiple nests in a colony) ant can be differentiated genetically within potential dispersal distances, suggesting restricted dispersal and possible bottlenecks when colonizing new patches of forest.
23734066|Long-term changes in the macrozoobenthos of Vanajavesi are described over 50 years from 1926, when the first benthic survey was made. This lake was then rather oligotrophic, but has become eutrophicated and polluted during the last two or three decades. Monitoring was started in 1965. The survey was repeated in 1971 and 1977 using identical methods. Some benthic stations were checked in 19661967 and 1974. Between 1926 and 1965 the Monodiamesa-Pontoporeia community was replaced by a Chironomus anthracinus community in the profundal of the central basin of Vanajavesi. Regressive species were still present, especially in the sublittoral. Between 1965 and 1977 succession towards a Chironomus plumosus community was detected. Pontoporeia and Monodiamesa almost totally vanished. C. plumosus and oligochaetes became more abundant. Changes in the macrozoobenthos of the other basins, which are heavily polluted by industrial or municipal effluents, were rather small during the period 1965 1977. A slight improvement was detected in 1977. This was indicated by a change in the bathymetric distribution of benthos. The profundal areas near the pollution outfall, which were totally desolate, were colonized by C. plumosus in 1977. In general, the bottom faunal lake type system proposed by Brundin seems to be applicable in the large polluted lakes of the Finnish lake district. Besides the chironomid fauna Pontoporeia affinis, in particular, is one of the most useful organisms for analysing the degree of pollution in the lakes studied.
23735615|Sperm competition has been demonstrated in a variety of insects and is, in addition to ecological resource distribution and sex ratios, generally believed to play a major role in the evolution of insect reproductive strategies and mating systems. In this paper, I review the main theories and some of the empirical evidence regarding sperm competition in insects. Sperm utilization is shaped by selection on both males and females, sometimes in opposite directions. Here I focus mainly on adaptive mechanisms for sperm priority and paternity assurance, and consequences of such adaptations for females. I also evaluate the importance of the conflicts between the sexes for the evolution of mating behaviour from existing theory and available empirical evidence. Some urgent research areas for future workers are suggested. An explanation for the large intraspecific variation in last male sperm priority is still lacking. To this end, we need detailed studies of the mechanisms of sperm usage within the female, and to what extent females influence postcopulatory fertilization processes.
23737067|The past two decades have witnessed an explosion of interest in nonindependent mate choice, i.e. female choice that is influenced by the choices of other females. This research has focused overwhelmingly on mate choice copying, which occurs when a female is more likely to mate with a previously mated male and reject a previously rejected male. I review the theoretical constructs of nonindependent mate choice and mate choice copying, and evaluate the general hypotheses that have been proposed to account for the adaptive significance of mate choice copying, namely that it serves to bypass the costs of mate choice or improve the discrimination accuracy of females. I discuss the standard experimental protocols that are employed in the study of mate choice copying and review empirical studies that have been conducted to date. Strengths and weaknesses of the mate choice copying research program are highlighted, as well as possible directions for future research.
23736550|The comparative approach is important in investigating the evolution of reproductive isolation. Yet this method has not been extended to teleost fish, the most diverse vertebrate lineage. Many experimental interspecific crosses have been performed in aquacultural research, and some of the resultant data is analysed in relation to mitochondrial cytochrome b divergence to investigate the evolution of intrinsic postzygotic isolation. Such isolation was found to increase gradually, suggesting that hybrid unfitness is usually due to the gradual accumulation of deleterious epistatic interactions among species. Hybrid sterility evolved more rapidly than inviability, although both forms of hybrid fitness are probably important in isolating natural populations. Because of general difficulties in characterising fish genetic sex-determination systems, and because of the plethora of systems potentially represented in any given cross, too few crosses are currently available to evaluate the generality of Haldane's rule in fish.
23736927|Mate choice is often considered independent, but recently attention has been paid to social influences on mate preference, i.e. non-independent mate choice. Especially in humans, mate preference may be influenced by reactions and opinions of other individuals. One type of non-independent mate choice documented in a wide variety of taxa is copying the choice of other females. Although humans may not be a species in which mate choice copying is most likely to occur, many aspects of the human mating system may have favored mate choice copying, and the possibility of copying in humans has been suggested. Apart from other women's choice, women can use evaluations by other men as a mate choice criterion, because a man's friends can reveal a lot about his social skills and status. We used image processed photographs to study the effect of male friends and the occurrence of mate choice copying in teenage females. We tested if male or female company affected the attractiveness of men in photos or influenced the respondent's willingness to date the men. A positive effect of male company was detected, but no indication of mate choice copying was found. During the evolution of human social skills, a support group and recognized status within it may have been important resources for raising offspring. Although no indication of mate choice copying was found, copying in humans may be a complicated process, and it may appear in circumstances different from our test arrangement.
23736089|In order to create a new equilibrium fish community, in which fish consumption by piscivorous fish equals the production of prey fish, mass removal of unwanted fish and intensified stocking of young-of-the-year pikeperch has been performed in Lake Kylinjrvi. A revised bioenergetics model of walleye (Stizostedion vitreum vitreum) was used for pikeperch to calculate consumption rates from the growth rate, fish population size and ambient temperature. According to model calculations, food consumption of pikeperch alone is insufficient to control production of prey fish in Lake Kylinjrvi. Combinations of fishing restrictions, removal of unwanted fish and intensified stocking are needed to enhance the pikeperch population and its predatory effect.
23735500|Threatened species have received a lot of attention in northern Europe, while little is known about the biogeography of biodiversity. We investigated the species diversity of Saltatoria, Sesiidae, Buprestidae and Cerambycidae to try to discover hot-spots for conservation among the 101 biogeographical provinces of Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland and the adjacent parts of Russia using presence/absence data from the literature. In each insect group examined the number of species was generally highest in the southern provinces, declining to the north and northwest. Critical fauna analysis showed that 7080% of the species were recorded from the most species-rich province and 311 provinces covered the whole fauna. The use of different rarity indices to compensate biases caused by unequal collecting gave variable results and indicated that there are considerable differences between insect groups. No relation was found between species richness and the geographical size of the province. The rarity values were more or less indifferent as regards longitude and even the relation with latitude was relatively indistinct. There was a clear difference between the ranking of provinces on the basis of the number of threatened species and the indices based on species richness or (biogeographical) rarity.
23735422|A simple random-movement diffusion model was used to simulate the recovery of ground beetles following their suppression by exposure to the organophosphorus insecticide dimethoate in a field of winter wheat at flowering. The output from the model was compared to a linear model of the recovery process that was derived from field collected data and also to published data on the daily rates of movement of ground beetles. The diffusion model gave the best fit to the field collected data at beetle movement rates that were similar to published values. The results of our approach show how the recovery process may be simulated on a computer in addition to demonstrating how the recovery of ground beetles may be mediated by their random movement.
23735510|Variation in assemblages of birds and carabid beetles in southern Finnish coniferous forest is described (1) within forest stands, (2) across the successional gradient from recently cut sites to mature forest, and (3) over a period of years. For birds, variation within a mature forest area was mainly due to nonsynchronous fluctuations of species and stochasticity in the site selection of individual breeding pairs. For carabid beetles, small-scale aggregations within a forest presumably reflected movement patterns of individuals. Both birds and carabids included some old-growth specialists and species inhabiting mainly, or exclusively, open habitats in young forest stages. The grain-patterning of silvicultural mosaics differ: birds put together their home ranges in a small-grained fashion, whereas for carabids the environment is coarse-grained. Maintenance of ecological heterogeneity at various scales relevant to different organisms in the taiga depends on how human-induced change and natural change compare with each other. The observed patterns are related to natural disturbance dynamics, and ecologically sound management approaches are discussed.
23733651|Individuals of A. carinata from Iceland, the British Isles, northern Finland, central Sweden, the Swedish west and east coasts, the Finnish south coast and the Swiss Alps were compared morphometrically by canonical variable analysis on samples of about 50 males and 50 females from each population. Separate analyses were performed on the two sexes for wing and leg measurements, and an additional set of data was analysed for male genital characters. The first analyses showed that the populations formed distinct sets corresponding to their habitats, while the additional analysis placed the populations rather according to their geographic distribution and presumed genetic closeness. The first analyses gave as the most coherent set the rock pool populations of southern Finland and eastern and western Sweden. In certain characters, however, the western Swedish population diverged from the two others, and the male genital characters confirmed this divergence. The first analyses indicated another set comprising the northern Finnish, central Swedish and Swiss populations, but the genital characters showed that the Swiss population is distinct. The British and Icelandic populations were quite separate in the analyses for wing and leg measurements, but the genital characters indicated the closeness of the two. A sample of eight males from the Pyrenees allowed a preliminary comparison with the other populations. Although both analyses placed the sample as a clearly separate unit, they revealed certain affinities with the Swiss, northern Finnish and British populations.
23731828|The population dynamics of a free-living population of Mus musculus in a loft was studied during a period of about 8 months. Trapping was performed monthly with the aid of live traps. In one part of the loft about 32 % of the standing crop was killed every month. In the part of the population influenced by this interference production of biomass was higher than in the intact part. Since no differences were observed in the number of young born or the number of immigrants entering the two parts of the loft, it is concluded that compensation for the levying was due to a higher survival rate of the newborn and an increase in the time of residence of the mice in the loft.
23736763|Despite widespread interest in quality signals, a broad understanding of quality that incorporates information about signals used in a variety of contexts remains elusive. For example, relatively little is known about arbitrary signals of quality used during aggressive competition (badges of status). Recently, a new badge of status was found: black facial patterns in Polistes dominulus wasps. Previous work on P. dominulus facial patterns focused on queens, finding that facial patterns predict body size and social dominance. Here, I examine worker facial patterns for the first time. Worker facial patterns provide an interesting comparison with queens and help shed light on two unresolved issues: (1) Is there pre-imaginal caste bias in these primitively eusocial insects? (2) Is badge-of-status elaboration influenced by developmental environment? I show that worker and gyne (future queen) facial patterns are correlated with body size. Larger individuals have a larger proportion of their clypeus pigmented black, corroborating the relationship between body size and facial pattern found previously in queens. Independent of the size relationship, workers and gynes have different facial patterns. Gynes have the disrupted, black facial patterns that signal a high level of quality, while workers have yellow facial patterns associated with a low level of quality. The differences between worker and gyne facial patterns suggest that there is some pre-imaginal caste bias in these eusocial wasps. Workers and gynes are genetically similar but experience different developmental environments, so the differences between worker and gyne facial patterns suggests that badge development is influenced by environmental factors.
23735405|Since 1990, populations of carabid beetles are continuously monitored in five coastal dune habitats in Belgium, situated along a transect from seaside marram dunes to inland moss dunes. In five complete year cycles about 14000 carabids belonging to 76 species have been obtained. At most 50% of the species are continuously present in reproducing populations. The remaining species are only rarely caught, mostly outside of their normal reproductive season, and thus are presumably non-residents or vagrants. Furthermore, observations on wing and flight muscle development and on possible source areas support the hypothesis of accidental immigration rather than of local populations passing through bottlenecks. Many well-established and typical dune indicator species show strong fluctuations in their population dynamics, significantly concordant between different sampling stations and largely explained by climatological variables, either directly or indirectly. This study shows that the use of terrestrial invertebrates as bio-indicators in conservation ecology requires a population level approach.
23732255|Marked individuals of Bufo bufo were observed to move within a small area during a summer. 75 % of the individuals were recaptured within 10 m. The median distance between the points of two successive captures was 4 m. There is no difference between 1-year-old and older toads in this respect. After hibernation and spawning migrations toads do not necessarily return to their former summer territory, although usually to a site within some dozens of metres from it. The median distance was 15 m.
23737151|Diet reconstruction using mesowear analysis has mainly been applied to extinct species and their paleoenvironments. Little is known regarding the effects of dietary differences on sympatric environments using this analysis and the limited existing knowledge from extant species may introduce errors when applied to fossil assemblages. I aimed to determine the sensitivity of mesowear analysis using extant ungulates with known diets. An interspecific comparison was conducted using wild populations of Japanese serow (Capricornis crispus, n = 37) and sika deer (Cervus nippon, n = 55) living in deciduous broad-leaved forest of the Nikko National Park, central Japan. One of the mesowear variables differed significantly between the two species (Fisher's exact test: p < 0.05). According to hierarchical cluster and principal component analyses, Japanese serow were classified as browsers, while sika deer as mixed feeders. Previous studies support these results; therefore, mesowear analysis can be used to detect dietary differences in sympatric species.
23734146|The mean clutch size of the Pied Flycatcher in South Sweden was invariably, but not significantly, smaller in coniferous than in deciduous forest, which agrees with previously published information. Egg laying usually started a few days later in coniferous than in deciduous forest. Furthermore, females averaged slightly smaller and the age composition was biased in favour of one year old females in a coniferous compared with a deciduous study plot. The latter results are consistent with the view that the birds' habitat distribution is partly determined by dominance interactions. Since both the size and the age of the female, as well as the timing of laying, have been shown to influence clutch size in the Pied Flycatcher, all three factors may exert a direct influence on clutch size, but habitat productivity is likely to add to the differences observed.
23736041|Two species of glacial relict amphipods have been stocked as fish-food organisms in impounded lakes in Sweden since the 1970s. Pallasea quadrispinosa now populates at least ten lakes in the River Umelven and Gammaracanthus lacustris has established sparse populations in two lakes in the River Indalslven. The distribution of P. quadrispinosa in reservoirs was similar to that in the donor lake, with adults moving to deeper, cooler water in summer. The amphipods had an omnivorous diet, with a preference for zooplankton. They were in turn consumed by the major fish species. They were most important as prey in autumn and winter. Brown trout and Arctic char have become more numerous in the reservoirs, but the mean size of these fish has decreased. Introductions of P. quadrispinosa have spread the fish parasite Cystidicola sp. G. lacustris was found in small numbers on deep bottoms in the Hckren reservoir. This species seems to have a two-year life cycle, with the reproductive period starting in summer and ending in winter when the young are released. The adults of this species preyed on zooplankton, chironomid larvae and P. quadrispinosa. The only fish species to prey regularly on G. lacustris was burbot.
23734507|The isopod Mesidotea entomon (L.) was exposed to various concentrations of phenol (5C and 10C) and 4-chlorophenol (5C) in continuous-flow experiments in brackish water (salinity ca. 6 ) and the effects of the two phenols on the ion content of the haemolymph were studied. At phenol concentrations exceeding the LTC (lethal threshold concentration) in this hypo-osmotic medium surviving animals had significantly increased calcium and magnesium concentrations in their haemolymph. Sodium and chloride concentrations were found to be decreased, the changes being steeper at the lower temperature.
23736779|We present an example of background statistics in studies of fluctuating asymmetry (FA); calculations of asymmetry, measurement error (ME), and repeatability. Nine bilateral metric traits in skulls and lower jaws of 691 East Greenland and Svalbard polar bears (Ursus maritimus) were measured twice, and examined for asymmetry. The skulls were collected in the period 18922004. In this study, 2.0% of the FA data were identified and treated as outliers, which is less than in comparable studies. FA for each trait amounted to 0.1%3% of the average size of the corresponding trait. The magnitude of FA generally increased with trait size. For every trait measured, ME was found to be smaller than FA. The repeatability of the traits was inversely proportional to ME. Five of the nine traits had a repeatability of 90% or more, which is similar to what has been reported in other studies.
23735560|The present status of 11 small and medium-sized carnivores found in Latvia was estimated as part of the Latvian and European mammal atlas work. The main sources of information for the period since 1970 were questionnaires to amateur mammal observers and game statistics of the Latvian Forest Service. Data on estimated numbers and annual kill were available for game speciesracoon dog (Nyctereutes procyonoides Gray), red fox (Vulpes vulpes L.), European badger (Meles meles L.), pine marten (Martes martes L.), polecat (Mustela putorius L.), American mink (Mustela vison Briss.)  and for non-game species that are caught as bycatches, especially otter (Lutra lutra L.). For these the population trends since 1920 were estimated. The reliability of game statistics is evaluated. The main factors influencing the status of the populations are suggested to be hunting, interspecific competition and habitat destruction. Four of the species, i.e. otter, stone marten (Martes foina Erxl.), stoat (Mustela erminea L.) and European mink (Mustela lutreola L.), are included in the up-dated Red Data list 1992, but the European mink is the only highly endangered species in Latvia at present.
23735926|The three-toed woodpecker Picoides tridactylus favours structurally complex forest biotopes that are also preferred by its predators and competitors. Among them, the goshawk Accipiter gentilis is a top predator that may have a positive indirect effect on the woodpecker by its negative impact on other predators. We studied this predatorprey community in a forest-dominated area of 470 km2 in southern Finland in 19872005 by controlling goshawk occupancy and habitat changes. Goshawk affected densities of bird predators and hole-nesting species and locations of the nest sites of woodpeckers. Goshawk (+) and great spotted woodpecker Dendrocopos major () were significantly associated with density changes and breeding success of three-toed woodpecker. Positive influence of goshawk was correlated with landscape fragmentation that indicates that goshawk could decrease mammalian nest predation on three-toed woodpecker. Territory quality of three-toed woodpecker may be substantially modified by species interactions and be mediated to its population development.
23733660|Estimates of breeding density (pairs/km2) can be obtained in point counts (Swedish type) if the decrease in detectability with increasing distance from the counting point is described by some mathematical function. Assuming a linear relation, a simple formula is derived for computing densities. The accuracy of the method proposed should be sufficient for detecting major differences in bird densities between two areas censused with different methods. Point counts are contrasted to line transects, and the evidence available suggests that, for various reasons, line transect densities are more accurate than those obtained from point counts.
23736972|The aim of this study was to analyze the system of arteries in the brain of the giraffe, including the arterial circle of the brain, its branches and junctions, as well as individual variation of the vessels. Analyses were performed on postmortem material of 12 heads of giraffes obtained from Polish zoological gardens. The age of the examined animals ranged from 1.5 to 12 years. Moreover, arteries of one fetus aged approximately 10 months were also analyzed. Arteries of the heads were injected with latex and vinyl superchloride dissolved in acetone. In the giraffe, similarly as in other ruminant species, obliteration of the intracranial segment of the internal carotid artery was observed, together with the presence in the cranial cavity of the rostral epidural rete mirabile, from which the preserved intracranial segment of the internal carotid artery exteriorizes. The rostral cerebral artery of the brain and the caudal communicating artery, participating in the formation of the arterial circle of the brain, are formed by segments of the terminal intracranial part of the internal carotid artery. In the giraffe branches of the arterial circle of the brain included: the internal ethmoidal artery, the middle cerebral artery, the rostral choroid artery, the caudal cerebral artery, the rostral cerebellar artery and the caudal cerebellar artery. It was shown that the basilar artery was thin and could not participate in the blood supply for the brain. On the basis of the conducted analysis it was found that in the giraffe the arterial circle of the brain is supplied with blood mainly by the maxillary artery.
23734634|The scelionid wasp Tiphodytes gerriphagus parasitizes the eggs of at least four Finnish waterstrider species: Gerris lacustris, G. odontogaster, G. paludum, and Limnoporus rufoscutellatus. Observed rates of parasitism were lowest (35%) for G. odontogaster and highest in one population of G. lacustris (84%) (although no evidence of parasitoids was found in another population). In general, gerrid species that lay their eggs on floating vegetation were affected more than those that oviposit in rotting vegetation. Early in the season egg parasitoids were less abundant in temporary habitats, and none were found associated with gerrid populations in the Baltic archipelago.
23736895|We studied the epigenetic variability and epigenetic distance of raccoon dogs from seven European localities and the species' Amursk area of origin. The studies were based on 24 non-metric traits in 1046 skulls. Native raccoon dogs from the Amursk region showed the same low level of epigenetic variability as the European populations, giving no indication of a founder effect or inbreeding. Epigenetic distances between raccoon-dog populations were generally high. The German regions formed a separate cluster with a rather high epigenetic distance to the Finnish-Polish group. This indicates different migration lines of the species. The native raccoon dogs of the Amursk region were completely separate from the European populations as a consequence of the distinct reproductive isolation of about 60 years, as well as an effect of the colonisation and migration history of the species.
23735437|Bjrn Kurtn, the eminent Finnish paleontologist and author died 28 December 1988. He will be remembered for his innovative studies on fossil, especially Pleistocene, mammals and for popularizing science.
23736052|Time-series analysis of zoobenthos in Sweden's great lakes showed that the predominant macroinvertebrates seemed to exhibit long-term population trends. Though the causal mechanisms are not known, it is suggested that food availability and competitive interactions may be important factors. For example, P. affinis density and biomass were significantly correlated (positively) with variables representing food quality and quantity. During years with high abundances of amphipods, interactions between the predominant zoobenthic components may be important structuring forces. Profundal populations of Oligochaeta and Pisidium spp. in Lake Vnern exhibited long-term oscillations "in phase" with Pontoporeia (r=+0.85 and r=+0.90, respectively). In contrast, the abundances of P. affinis and Chironomidae in Lake Mlaren were "out of phase" with one another (r=-0.80). Differences in foraging behavior may be an important mechanism lowering encounter rates and exploitative interactions between coexisting populations. It is suggested that meteorological cycles may influence pelagic production and allochthonous inputs (food availability), and, with time-lags, affect zoobenthic populations. However, interactions between the predominant zoobenthic populations, such as competition for food (exploitative) and physical disturbance (interference), may be equally important in forming the long-term trends.
23735631|The responses of foraging common shrews Sorex araneus to the presence of a potential predator, the weasel Mustela nivalis, was studied on an experimental arena. The weasel was allowed to visit an enclosed part of the arena at will. A significant short-term (5 to 15 min) decrease of activity was observed after a visit by the weasel during both low and high level weasel activity. Individual variation in the shrews' responses was great. Some individuals decreased their foraging activity to a very low level following the weasel's visits while others did not show any change in activity at all. The magnitude of the shrew's response was positively correlated with its weight at the beginning of the experiment. The results demonstrate that, under risk of predation, large individuals could afford to decrease their foraging activity at the cost of weight loss but smaller individuals, with smaller body energy reserves, apparently could not do so.
23736093|Diet and prey selection of piscivorous pikeperch (Stizostedion lucioperca (L.)) was studied with a multicategory logit model. Statistically significant (log-likelihood statistics, p < 0.05) differences were found in the proportions of pikeperch feeding on different fish species at different seasons and at various weights. The differences among the two sampling years were found non-significant. The proportion of pikeperch feeding on perch (Perca fluviatilis L.) increased as the abundance of perch increased in the sampling area. It can be concluded that pikeperch are positively selective for perch. The logistic approach was found useful in order to analyse the feeding pattern of pikeperch.
23736065|Three mandibles of Hyaena brevirostris Aymard were found in a bone breccia by the village of Manastirec in Macedonia, Yugoslavia. They serve to increase the data base of this comparatively rare species in Europe. The fauna as a whole indicates an early mid-Pleistocene (Galerian) date.
23733635|The spider and staphylinid populations of the forest floor in a coniferous forest in the primeval state were studied by sieving, and with dry funnels and pitfall traps. The results for spiders are compared with Palmgren's studies on spider populations in forests of spruce and pine in other parts of Mntyharju. The forestry methods hitherto employed have apparently not altered the spider community. The dry funnel technique gives much higher values for the population density of spiders than sieving. The two methods catch adult and subadult spiders with equal efficiency, however, and the youngest stages that escape sieving form only a small part of the biomass. Although the majority of staphylinid beetles are predators, the population density does not correlate with that of the spiders. This implies that spiders (chiefly small Linyphiidae) and staphylinids occupy different niches.
23735786|Predators of small mammals may selectively kill either large individuals, usually male or the old, or small individuals, often females and young. We studied the prey choice of breeding male Tengmalm's owls (Aegolius funereus) in western Finland. The owls fed mainly on sibling voles (Microtus rossiaemeridionalis), field voles (M. agrestis), bank voles (Clethrionomys glareolus) and common shrews (Sorex araneus). We identified, sexed and weighed prey items cached by the owls in their nest-boxes, and compared characteristics of these prey to small mammals trapped in the same study area during 19851992. For each of the three vole species, owls captured more males than females, but we did not find that owls preferred one sex of common shrews. Our long-term data indicated that male-bias of two Microtus species in the diet of owls was highest in the low phase of the vole cycle, and decreased through the increase and peak phases. This suggests that the two sexes of voles behave differently, but that these differences change over the course of the 3-yr cycle. The proportion of prey individuals with a small body mass was greater in owl caches compared to trapping censuses, irrespective of species or sex. Large dominant individuals may occupy safe habitats with dense vegetation cover, where avian predation risk is minimal.
23734144|The spatial distribution of nests of the Pied Flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca was studied in a 23-ha forest area in southern Finland in 19691983. The study area was supplied with about 500 nest-boxes. The number of nests varied between 28 and 93. The distribution broadened with increasing population size, but at the same time the density also increased in areas already occupied; the distribution was broader than expected on a random basis. Density-dependent processes, most probably territoriality, restricted clumping at short distances, but on a larger scale the distribution was aggregated. Population size declined significantly in four subareas from 19691976 to 19771983, but not in one subarea. At the same time density relations between the subareas changed so that differences between subareas were diminished. There were also less differences in the variabilities of population sizes in different subareas in the latter half of the study period than in the first half. These changes were assigned to differential habitat development and changes in attractiveness of subareas for the Pied Flycatcher (changes in the illumination and spruce density).
23736921|Eurasian woodcock (Scolopax rusticola) over-wintering in northern Spain follows a pattern of daily movement from diurnal sites in woodlands to nighttime sites in grazed fields, congruent with previous reports on other European populations. Fields have a much higher abundance and biomass of earthworms, the main prey of woodcock, than woodlands, but are only used by birds at night, when they emerge about 30 minutes after sunset. Emergence time was quite uniform among fortnightly periods except for the second half of November when it was earlier, probably reflecting extended activity resulting from the higher energy requirements of migrating birds. Woodcock emergence time relative to sunset was negatively related to illumination, so that birds moved earlier when the sky was overcast. Also, birds tended to move earlier at low air temperatures, a pattern which is to be predicted since woodcock have higher energy requirements at low temperatures because of the increased cost of thermoregulation. Emerging late, at low light intensity, avoids exposure to raptors but results in reduced energy gains and therefore the timing of moving to feeding fields may be modified by energy considerations. We discuss the idea that there is a divergent spatio-temporal gradient of food and safety between woodlands and fields and, therefore, that predation risk is an important determinant of the timing of evening emergence of over-wintering woodcock. Thus, their daily activity cycle would reflect a trade-off between feeding and predator avoidance. Special features of the visual fields of the woodcock, allowing detection of predators at long distances, and chemoreceptors in the bill enabling detection and capture of prey by probing using non visual cues, comprise adaptations that facilitate successful feeding at night with reduced predation risk.
23736931|Lyciasalamandra helverseni (Caudata, Salamandridae) is the only exclusively insular representative of the genus recently defined as Lyciasalamandra. The species is endemic to a three-island group in the southeast Aegean Sea: Kasos, Karpathos, and Saria (Greece). Tissue samples of Lyciasalamandra helverseni were collected from specimens at six localities on three islands, along with several outgroups. Sequences of two mitochondrial genes (cytochrome b and 16S rRNA), as well as frequencies of 18 allozyme loci, were used to describe levels and patterns of genetic variation, identify possible evolutionary units, and investigate issues of their conservation status. Two major clades of L. helverseni, displaying considerable amount of genetic differences, were found in both analyses. These clades, which have been separated since the late Pliocene, constitute separate evolutionary units and correspond to populations from the islands of Kasos and Karpathos, respectively. The particularly high interpopulation differentiation within relatively short geographical distances, especially in the island of Kasos, implies long-term isolation in fragmented habitats. Severe bottlenecking is proposed to have resulted in the observed low levels of polymorphism of local populations, while inbreeding and low population size might explain the observed lack of heterozygotes. Conservation implications are discussed, particularly in the case of Kasos, where extensive overgrazing of pasturelands has contributed to degradation of the habitat.
23736937|Behavioural ecology is the study of the ecological and evolutionary bases for variation in animal behaviour, answering proximate and ultimate questions of why animals behave the way they do. The laboratory setting enables the isolation and control of specific variables, the removal or randomisation of confounding factors and simplifies the tracking of an individual's behaviour. Laboratory experiments, in parallel and in comparison with field studies, are valuable for answering specific questions and certainly most ecological investigations can benefit from a combined experimental approach. Here we focus on four model areas of behavioural ecological research: mate selection, nepotism, foraging and dominance. Using both vertebrate and invertebrate examples we consider the advantages and disadvantages of laboratory experiments and the unique information they can provide, including a comparison of three laboratory research contexts; neutral, natural and contrived. We conclude by discribing how laboratory studies can help us to understand the contexts in which behavioural variation occurs in the natural environment.
23734422|The properties of coniform pitfall traps (35 cm deep, 11.5 cm ; smaller than the types previously used) in trapping small mammals were studied in field experiments in southern Finland. The traps are sheet-iron cones standing on their peaks in the ground and partly filled with water to kill the animals caught. They are fitted with an inner cone of aluminium for easy removal of the catch, including invertebrates. The maximum small mammal catch was 6 ind./night/cone. Cone traps are more effective than live or snap traps for catching small mammals, particularly shrews. Trapping with cone traps has several advantages when permanent trap points are used and the traps are uncovered only during trapping periods. For monitoring changes in the relative population densities of small mammals the "small quadrat method" (SQM) is recommended, supplemented by one cone trap per trap station.
23735381|We studied the vulnerability of mature, overwintered field voles Microtus agrestis to predation by the Ural owl Strix uralensis by comparing helminth parasitism and other characteristics of prey individuals collected from nests and field. The vulnerability of field voles was affected by the sex of voles, males being the most vulnerable prey. The probability of individual voles being captured by owls was not increased either by infections of the common helminth species or by high overall infection levels. By contrast, the prevalence of the nematode Syphacia nigeriana in female hosts was lower in nest samples than in field. This indicates that owls hunted preferentially or had high hunting success in open habitats with sparse vegetation, where S. nigeriana was rare. Alternatively, females with low foraging activity had simultaneously a low risk of being captured by owls and a high risk of being infected with S. nigeriana.
23736202|Vashozero is a lake located in the southern part of the Republic of Karelia (6210'N, 3427'E) in the Lake Onega basin. The fish community had few species before 1933. In 19331935, coregonid fishes (1.29  106 larvae of Lake Onega whitefish Coregonus lavaretus (L.), 0.94  106 larvae of Lake Ladoga ripus  a large form of vendace C. albula (L.), and 0.37  106 larvae of Lake Onega vendace C. albula (L.)) were introduced into the lake. The current study, conducted in 20002001, provided positive results for the status of European vendace in Vashozero. The vendace population in Vashozero has reached a level at which the biological indices of the species agree with the abiotic and biotic conditions of the environment. The species has reached equilibrium in the lake and a European vendace population has been formed.
23734167|The breeding birds of two square kilometres of alpine heaths and mires (800-940 m. a.s.l.) were censused during twenty years, 1964-1983, at c. 66 N, 16 E, south Swedish Lapland. The territory mapping technique with 5-10 visits was applied. The average number of species was 14, and 27 species bred at least once during the 20 years. The community was dominated by passerines and waders, which were represented by an equal number of species. Few other species occurred. The average density was 70 pairs/km2. The three most abundant species (75% of all pairs) were passerines. Average species turnover between adjacent years was 16%. Over the census period the number of species increased slightly with no change in total density and so the community became more diverse. The variability of the whole community was (coefficient of variation) 19%, of the passerines 21% and of the waders 22%. The variability of species populations could be described by a Poisson distribution, so they behaved as if they constituted random samples from stable source populations. The dominance sequence of the species was closely described by a geometric series, especially if dominance was based on biomass.
23733662|The type sample of teeth and bones of Hipparion primigenium (v. Meyer) from the Rhine valley, FGR, is analysed. Other known Vallesian / Middle-Late Sarmatian forms are discussed, as are the ecological implications of the morphology of these early hipparions and the associated fauna.
23734567|The pH of a small (0.13 ha), natural forest pond in eastern Finland decreased from > 6.0 to 4.0 during a dry summer. The cause of the acidification is unknown, but may have been localized groundwater acidification due to oxidation of sulfide compounds in the soil. The species composition and biomass of the phyto- and zooplankton during this period are reported and compared to those of a larger, connected pond, located ca. 20 m away, which retained its normal pH (> 6.0). The acidic pond had lower values for the species richness of phytoplankton, the mean chlorophyll a content (7.0 vs 10.4 g/l) and the mean phytoplankton biomass (372 vs 928 mg/m3). The lower biomass was probably partly due to the lower nutrient content of the acidic pond. In the larger pond, green algae predominated in the phytoplankton (e.g., Koliella spiculiformis), whereas the acidic pond supported a virtual monoculture of Peridinium inconspicuum (Dinophyceae) in July-August, and Dinobryon sertularia (Chrysophyceae) in September. The mean biomass of the zooplankton was also lower in the acidic pond (23.4 vs 53.0 mg/m3), which was mainly due to the small numbers of Crustacea in late summer, when the pH values were lowest. The low zooplankton biomass was probably caused directly by the low pH or indirectly by a shortage of food.
23734565|Species lists of Saltatoria, Sesiidae, Buprestidae and Cerambycidae from 101 provinces in Fennoscandia and Denmark were classified by two-way indicator species analysis and ordinated by detrended correspondence analysis and canonical correspondence analysis. The distributional patterns obtained agreed roughly with the vegetation zones presented earlier, especially in Finland and Sweden, but the extension of southern vegetation zones northwards along the Atlantic coast can hardly be discerned in the present results. Group-specific differences in details were apparent. The most important determinants of the biogeographical variation were temperature variables associated with latitude; in comparison with these annual precipitation and longitude were poor determinants. The application of multivariate analyses to province records of insects showed that even the limited species lists now existing can be used in quantitative biogeography. This approach is also discussed in relation to global climatic change.
23735800|The movement patterns of free-living lynx, Lynx lynx, were studied by radiotelemetry in Biaowiea Primeval Forest, Poland. Eighteen lynx were fitted with radio-collars and their movements were recorded by continuous 24-h sequences and daily relocations. On average, lynx moved 7.2 km per day, and males covered longer distances than females (9.0 and 6.8 km, respectively). In males, the daily movement distances were 56% longer during the mating season (JanuaryMarch) than during the rest of the year. Females moved 43% longer distances during the period of intensive care for kittens (MayAugust) than in other periods. Males covered longer routes than females and stayed far from the location of the previous day. Females' movements were more concentrated as they moved intensively but stayed close to the previous day's location. The lynx travelled with an average speed of 1.2 km h-1 with males moving faster than females (1.5 and 1.0 km h-1, respectively). Males travelled even faster (on average 1.9 km h-1) during the mating season. During a day lynx utilised an area comprising only 1.7%2.6% of their annual home range. The home ranges were used with rather low intensity (31 to 50 m of lynx route per 1 km2 of home range), still lower in males than in females. The lynx moved the longest distances (14 km day-1, on average) on days when they failed to kill large prey, and the shortest ones (2.8 km day-1) on the first day after making a kill. The results suggest that males tend to maximise their reproductive success by increasing an opportunity to meet receptive females, whereas females increase their reproductive success via adjusting their behaviour to the needs of kittens.
23735657|The impact of predator removal on predator and mountain hare (Lepus timidus) populations was studied in southern, eastern and northern Finland in 19931998. In predator removal areas predators were intensively hunted, and in predator protection areas hunting was prohibited. Both predator (red fox Vulpes vulpes, pine marten Martes martes, stoat Mustela erminea and raccoon dog Nyctereutes procyonoides) and mountain hare populations were monitored in the study areas. Fox and marten populations were affected by predator removal/protection in eastern and northern Finland but the effect was not as evident in southern Finland. The stoat population was not affected by removal, but the raccoon dog population was to some extent. Trends in hare populations were similar in the removal and protection areas, indicating that localized control/protection of predators did not affect hare numbers. Hare population even increased in the protection area of northern Finland although predator numbers increased and vole numbers declined.
23735517|The effects of fin damage, size at release, coloration and precocious maturation on the survival of hatchery reared salmon (Salmo salar L.) smolt were evaluated on the basis of recaptures of Carlin-tagged stockings. Colouring of skin and moderate fin erosion was of little or no consequence for determining the value of the fish for stocking. Precocious males have a lower survival rate than immature fish. Larger fish give more returns compared to smaller ones, but this may also be due to selective fishing or size selective tagging mortality rather than better survival among larger fish.
23734088|The development times of egg sacs, nauplii and copepodids of Eurytemora hirundoides during laboratory cultivation are presented. Egg sac development is a function of temperature in the range 7 to 18C according to the least squares regression equation: De = 34.6T-1.296 (r2 = 0.69), the duration of the nauplius stage is also a function of temperature, in the range 7 to 20C: Dn = 278T-1.289 (r2 = 0.85) and copepodid development is a function of temperatures from 12 to 8C: Dc = 272T-1.249 (r2 = 0.69).
23735688|Using a set of 10 randomly allocated populations in a coordinate space we subjected them to population renewal after the Ricker model and the Turchin model. Parameter values were selected so that the Ricker model yielded oscillations with Period 2 and the Turchin model with Period 10. The subpopulations were subjected to global disturbance (the Moran effect) with varying probability of occurrence and intensity. The populations were initially set out of phase, and the population renewal and the Moran effect was let to act for 1 500 generations, the final 1 000 were used to score the level of synchrony in dynamics among the 10 subpopulations. From these data we also estimated the parameter values of the Ricker and Turchin models. The Moran effect is capable of synchronising dynamics of the subpopulations regardless of the population renewal model. However, frequent enough disturbances do not yield synchronous dynamics. Also, the Moran effect, when frequent enough, or when strong enough, has a feature to alter the characteristics of the population dynamics.
23731759|In the unpolluted Bromarv area of the Baltic the mean mercury content was 0.03 ppm in invertebrates, 0.10 ppm in the flesh of fishes that feed on invertebrates, 0.29 ppm in the flesh of piscivorous fishes, 0.35 ppm in sarcophagous flies reared on invertebrate-eating fishes and more than 2 ppm in the flesh of fish-eating migratory birds. The mercury content of the stenothermal fish Myoxocephalus quadricornis increased with size to a maximum value of 0.47 ppm. Observations from an area moderately polluted with mercury showed a notably accelerated accumulation of mercury, which was evident from the increased slope of the line illustrating the regression of mercury content on body size. This and earlier observations indicate that the balanced natural condition of mercury circulation is characterized by regression coefficients near zero. The mercury contents of other invertebrate-eating fishes living in the same environment at Bromarv were below the suggested maximum background level of 0.2 ppm. The exceptionally strong bioaccumulation of mercury in M. quadricornis is probably a result of its feeding on mysidaceans which have a higher mercury content (0.06 0.09 ppm) than other invertebrates (0.01  0.03 ppm). The transfer of such peak concentrations along the food chain is possible only in oligotrophic conditions, where there are relatively few species and each predator has a limited spectrum of prey animals.
23735447|The entire fossil material of Mammuthus primigenius, Coelodonta antiquitatis and Bison priscus from the "intraglacial" area in Fennoscandia, Estonia and Latvia is reviewed for the first time. The finds can be referred to three age groups, partly on the basis of radiocarbon dates: Eemian / Early Weichselian (very rare), Weichselian interstadials, and Late Weichselian. The sedimentology and taphonomy of the finds suggest that the interstadial material was preserved within blocks of frozen sediment or ice, and perhaps transported by the moving ice sheet over short distances. There is no evidence of specimens surviving long-distance transport by the ice sheet, which probably destroyed a large proportion of the material originally preserved. The late-glacial (Weichselian deglaciation) material is better preserved and includes relatively more non-dental material. These later finds are confined to Scania, Finland south of the Salpausselk and the Baltic Republics.
23736851|In this paper, we used a multidisciplinary approach to investigate the present conservation status of the Alpine newt in central Italy, particularly of the relict population from the Laga Mts. With respect to other European populations studied, those from peninsular Italy show a degree of genetic differentiation (using mitochondrial cytochrome-b gene sequences and 23 allozyme loci) resembling that found among several species of salamanders (p distance = 5.6%; DNei = 0.30), clearly individuating these populations as a distinct Evolutionary Significant Unit, thus in need of separate conservation efforts. From both the genetic and the demographic point of view, the population from the Laga Mts. appears to be under serious threat of disappearance, showing the lowest levels of genetic diversity observed for the species and an adult population size well below the estimated threshold value for a Minimum Viable Population. Finally, the analysis of habitat correlates of newt abundance suggest that human activities in the area (tree-cutting and grazing) may be important causal factors. Therefore, possible ways in which these activities could have an impact on the Alpine newt populations are also discussed.
23736186|The coregonine fishes from Isle Royale National Park represent a unique group that has escaped the successional changes observed elsewhere in North America. Analysis of microsatellite DNA loci revealed significant genetic differences among samples of lake whitefish (Coregonus clupeaformis) from Isle Royale, Lake Superior, and Lake Huron. The amount of genetic variation observed is consistent with that seen in other studies of whitefishes from North America. The lake whitefish from Isle Royale had previously been assigned sub-species status, but no evidence was found to support this. The effects of common ancestry and demographics both play a role in determining the relatedness of the populations. As with other fish species from Isle Royale and the upper Great Lakes, the lake whitefish have their origins in the Mississippi refugium.
23736798|Twenty-eight polymorphic microsatellite markers for Japanese sea urchin (Strongylocentrotus intermedius) were developed from the EST database of a related species purple sea urchin (S. purpuratus). The characterization results showed the moderate polymorphisms at these loci. The number of alleles ranged from 2 to 5, and the values of Ho and He varied from 0.0667 to 0.9655 and 0.0655 to 0.7350, respectively. No significant linkage disequilibrium (LD) between pairs of loci was found and 21 loci conformed to the Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium (HWE). The results in this study well demonstrated the feasibility of microsatellite marker development via mining EST database of a genetically related species.
23733675|The activity of a family of the eastern flying squirrel was recorded automatically under natural conditions for 1 1/2 years. The start and end of nocturnal activity coincided with sunset and sunrise except in winter, when the squirrels became active 12 h after sunset and inactive 12 h before sunrise, and in summer, when nocturnal activity slightly exceeded the length of the night. In the latter half of the year the total daily activity of an individual lasted longer than in the first half. In April and August the squirrels were unimodally nocturnal, in SeptemberFebruary bimodally nocturnal, and in MayJuly nocturnal and diurnal. The different patterns are assumed to result from variation in the length of the night, different energy demands at different times, and the tendency to keep in contact with the zeitgeber.
23735342|The use of flooded water bodies by duck broods was studied in one simulated beaverpond and eight beaver-influenced ponds. Brood censuses were made both before and during inundation in these areas, and eight unaffected ponds were used as controls. In the man-made flowage, the distribution and biomass of wetland plants and the density of available aquatic invertebrates were studied. In the beaver-influenced ponds, the use by waterfowl broods was significantly greater during flooding than before inundation; no changes occurred in the control areas. In the first year of inundation, the simulated flowage produced a great amount of duck food in the water column  mainly large cladocerans. The density of benthic invertebrates increased during the second year of flooding and remained high during the third. The number of emergent insects was highest in the second year of inundation. The results of the study suggest that in barren regions beaver ponds, with their prosperous food regime, provide important habitats for rearing waterfowl broods.
23731569|The shapes of the spiniform squamoid structures or prickles of seven Palearctic species of the family Cottidae (Cottus gobio, C. spinulosus, C. sibiricus, C. poecilopus, Mesocottus haitej, Paracottus kneri and P. kessleri) are described. The value of these prickles as a taxonomic character is discussed.
23736127|I compare the bird community dynamics of the virgin conifer forests of the Oulanka National Park (northern Finland) with those in the surrounding areas characterised by clear cuts, seedling stands and other types of managed forests. The Oulanka Forest had a lower breeding bird density (54 vs. 75 pairs/km2), a considerably higher species diversity (2.74 vs. 2.29, Shannon index), a higher density of sedentary species, and a lower density of long-distance migrants, than the adjacent forestry area. I compared bird population changes between the early 1970s and the early 1980s in the Oulanka Forest with the changes reported from the whole of northern Finland in recent decades. 16 of the 24 most numerous species at Oulanka had undergone population changes going in the same direction (increase or decrease) as the national trends, while for the remaining eight species changes had occurred in the opposite direction. Between 1980 and 1985 the population levels of the most abundant breeding species in the Oulanka Forest and in the adjacent managed forest areas varied in parallel. These results suggest that even an area of protected virgin forest as large as 70 km2 is not a 'closed' unit for bird populations. The populations of such areas are influenced by large-scale changes in source populations on a regional scale (northern Finland), where the impact of forestry on natural habitats is considerable. I discuss these results in relation to nature conservation and the theory of ecological succession./
23736981|Postglacial northward expansions from distinct southern European refugia have lead to the formation of several secondary contact zones between species. These zones are providing growing insights into the relevance of introgressive hybridization in shaping patterns of genetic diversity, and into the evolutionary processes involved in the completion of reproductive isolation barriers. Using both nuclear (9 allozyme loci) and mitochondrial (PCR-RFLP of a cytochrome b gene fragment) diagnostic markers we investigated the genetic patterns of variation across a zone of parapatry between the two European treefrogs Hyla arborea and H. intermedia. Neither F1 and F2 hybrids nor backcrosses were identified, indicating the lack of current gene exchange between the two species. However, introgressed alleles were observed in both species and in all markers analysed, which testifies to the occurrence of past events of introgressive hybridization. A wide variation in the frequencies of introgressed alleles was observed between loci and between the two species, suggesting the action of differential selective filtering. The historical context for the occurrence of secondary contact between the two species and its evolutionary implications are discussed, together with the possible role of human disturbance and/or reinforcing selection in leading to the observed absence of ongoing gene flow between them.
23735659|The knowledge of demography and abundance of the hazel dormouse Muscardinus avellanarius in Sweden in different habitats is poor. The hazel dormouse is classified as care-demanding on the national Red List in Sweden. In this study, dormice were live-trapped in a temporary mixed high shrub habitat in South-central Sweden, in order to estimate density and survival, and to evaluate a trap-based capture-mark-recapture method. Data on different trapping efforts suggested that 175 trap nights per ha were required for trapping most adults. The method seemed to be applicable for studies of dormice under natural conditions. The density of dormice was estimated at seven individuals per hectare. The average adult year-to-year survival rate was 56%74%, which is higher than previously reported for this species. In our study, the trapping area should preferably be larger than 3.2 ha to avoid edge effects on density and survival estimates. To conclude, factors related to the survival of adult dormice might be important for the viability of populations.
23732260|The structure of the kidney of rainbow trout (Salmo gairdneri Richardson) was studied. Three different fixation procedures were used; perfusion of fixative in situ, the usual histological method, and heat coagulation in situ preceding the usual method. The blood volume in the sinusoids could best be demonstrated in preparations made by the last-mentioned procedure. In the normal fish, erythrocytes are distributed fairly evenly in the capillaries and sinusoids, whereas in the asphyctic and anaesthetized fish the erythrocytes form larger, more or less compact groups. The preparations give the impression that the kidney in a stressed fish is in a state resembling oedema.
23731676|In the genus Cenocorixa both males and females are able to produce acoustic signals by rubbing specialized stridulatory pegs, located anterobasally on the fore femora (pars stridens), against the sharp edges of the maxillary plates (plectrum). The loudness of these signals correlates both with the morphology of the apparatus and the speed of the movements. The signals are important in the premating behavior and reproductive isolation of species. Both sexes also produce faint sounds by rubbing the hind tibiae against the folded fore wings or abdominal venter. No specialized sound producing apparatus exist in these areas and the sounds apparently are side-products of cleaning movements or the like. In two species some faint signals were always recorded when a male mounted a female. The signals are produced by the males, but the mechanism of sound production was not detected. The signals may have a function in maintaining the two sexes together during the introduction of the genital contact.
23734868|Integrating interspecific competition with other factors that affect ecological communities can be regarded as the theoretical core of the competition controversy. Prevailing competition theories are built on the extrapolation of the analytic principle of competitive exclusion to the community level, but ecological realism is lost in the process. The basic methodological problem in the dispute is to unite analysis with synthesis, i.e. to achieve a synthetic view of communities. The hypothetico-deductive ideal of science, often considered in ecological contexts to be the method of doing science. has had a paradoxical role in the controversy, while both adherents and critics of the "theory of competition" have sought support from the ideal. A solution to the apparent contradiction recognizes that the domain of the hypothetico-deductive procedure comprises only specific tests under strictly defined conditions, but this alone is insufficient in determining the fate of ecological theories. With respect to interspecific competition, broad, synthetic hypotheses are needed that try to integrate competition with other ecological factors. Specific tests are a necessary link in the research strategy, but theories should be regarded also as synthetic hypotheses that are tested in the course of a long cognitive process.
23735338|The grey-sided vole Clethrionomys rufocanus shows more pronounced fluctuations (cycles) in northern Fennoscandia than in Hokkaido. The interacting fauna of Hokkaido is palearctic and the climate temperate while in northern Fennoscandia the fauna is palearctic and the climate boreal-subarctic. The predator-prey community in northern Fennoscandia is dominated by resident specialist predators with few species of alternative prey, whereas a multitude of alternative prey for numerous generalist predators exists in Hokkaido. This suggests population regulation by generalist predators in Hokkaido in accordance with recent conceptual and mathematical models. The more diverse community and more stable vole dynamics in Hokkaido appear to be related to shorter duration of snow cover but not to the maximum snow depth.
23734114|The pH tolerance of perch eggs from small lakes in southern Finland was tested under laboratory und field conditions. There was no egg mortality at control pH 6.4. At pH 5.0 the mortality was less than 10 %. The development time of the eggs was 11 % longer than at the control pH. At pH 4.0 the mortality was 59 % and development time 29 % longer than at the control pH. No eggs hatched at pH 3.5, but when transferred to pH 6.4 after 125 day degrees, 50 % of the transferred eggs hatched. The pH of water affected the volume of the eggs. At pH 3.5 and 4.0 the volume decreased at first, and was clearly lower than at pH 5.0 and 6.4.
23736035|Malacostracan glacial relict species have been found in a total of 48 Polish lakes. All these lakes were inhabited by Pallasea quadrispinosa Sars, seven of them by Mysis relicta Loven, and two by Pontoporeia affinis Lindstrm. At present, because of pollution of the water, the number of lakes inhabited by the first two species has decreased significantly, while P. affinis Lindstrm has completely disappeared from Poland. In the western part of Poland, which has the highest degree of air pollution, two cases of the vanishing of some of the above species have been observed in recent years, i.e. during the 1980s.
23731805|Removal rates and age group distributions were studied in a total of 2 184 small mammals caught during five modified SM trapping periods, each lasting 9  16 days and made in one season and in the same habitat (Tilio  Carpinetum). A rapid decrease of the daily catch was observed only during the first three days. The rate of removal of A. flavicollis was higher than that of C. glareolus, but if the latter was dominant, a reverse relation was observed. Removal rates for the central and peripheral parts of the SM plot were very similar, neither were significant differences observed between removal rates of individuals of the two species or sexes caught in different parts of the SM plot. Removal rates were higher among individuals marked before trapping started than among those unmarked. Of the marked A. flavicollis 91 % were retrapped within 4 days and 98 % within 10 days. In another case, only 40 % of the mice and 60 % of the voles marked during the time of prebaiting were trapped during 9 days. During the entire trapping period there were no real differences in the age group distributions for samples taken from different parts of the study area. So if immigration into the study area occurs, it involves individuals of all the age categories in the population.
23731754|Numbers, biomass and community respiration of soil animals were investigated in 1970  1972 in three spruce forest sites at latitudes 61 00 N and 66 20 N. Each animal group was extracted from samples taken at 3- to 4-week intervals during the summer half of the year. The efficiency of alternative extraction methods is discussed. The biomass was estimated with the aid of body length/weight regressions calculated for each group. Community respiration was estimated from field measurements of temperature and body weight/oxygen consumption/temperature regressions derived from the literature. In northern Finland, the densities and biomasses of the different soil animal groups are generally lower or at least not higher than in a corresponding forest type in the south. The most striking feature is the almost total lack of Lumbricidae in the north. The total biomass in southern Finland was 13  15.5 g fresh weight/m2. Lumbricidae occupy the dominant position (> 50 %) in the total biomass, while Oribatei and Enchytraeidae share the next position. In the northern study site the total biomass was only one fourth of that in southern Finland; this is mainly due to the scarcity of Lumbricidae. Consequently, other groups are relatively more important in the north, Oribatei and Enchytraeidae occupying the first place (ca. 30 % each). The total community respiration during the growing period in southern Finland was estimated to range from ca. 7 to 10 litres O2/m2. The respiration is contributed more evenly by the different groups than the biomass, but Lumbricidae, Enchytraeidae and Oribatei head the list for oxygen uptake also. In the northern study site total community respiration was estimated at less than 2 litres O2/m2. A discussion is presented on the relative importance of soil animals in the spruce forest ecosystem.
23735527|In Microtus spp. sex ratio is not important as a determinant of dispersal unlike in the grey-sided vole Clethrionomys rufocanus where females that disperse tend to come from male biased litters. In male biased litters the probability that females are exposed to testosterone in utero is high and it is thought that the testosterone exposure mediates dispersal. Here we test whether a single dose of testosterone proprionate mediates dispersal in meadow voles, Microtus pennsylvanicus. Females exposed to testosterone proprionate at birth are more active than females not exposed to testosterone but their dispersal tendency measured in large outdoor enclosures is probably not increased. Dispersal tendency of female meadow voles is thus more flexible than that of female grey-sided voles.
23736148|Recognition is a prerequisite for non-random association amongst individuals. We explore how non-random association patterns (i.e. who spends time with whom) affect disease dynamics. We estimated the amount of time individuals spent together per month using radio-tracking data from African buffalo and incorporated these data into a dynamic social network model. The dynamic nature of the network has a strong influence on simulated disease dynamics particularly for diseases with shorter infectious periods. Cluster analyses of the association data demonstrated that buffalo herds were not as well defined as previously thought. Associations were more tightly clustered in 2002 than 2003, perhaps due to drier conditions in 2003. As a result, diseases may spread faster during drought conditions due to increased population mixing. Association data are often collected but this is the first use of empirical data in a network disease model in a wildlife population.
23735507|In Finland, Pseudophilotes baton schiffermuelleri is an endangered blue butterfly associated with open and dry esker habitats. During this century P. baton has been recorded from about twenty sites, but only one population is known to have survived, at Skyl, SW Finland. Forest fires and from 1963 onwards the military rifle and grenade shooting ranges have kept the southwestern slopes of the sandy esker open and suitable for the butterfly. The population size and movements of P. baton were investigated by mark-recapture method and its habitat preferences were studied. The total adult population size was estimated in 1990 at about 850 individuals. The number of males increased as the tree cover of the habitat decreased. The proportion of bare mineral soil and the coverage of the host plant Thymus serpyllum also contributed to the habitat preferences of the butterfly. Individuals flew on average more than 100 m, and females flew longer distances than males. A conservation programme is proposed for P. baton, including active habitat management and a reintroduction plan.
23731757|The weights of muscle and hepatopancreas were measured in crayfish (Astacus astacus L.) sampled from a lake in central Finland in August 1974. In each size class the weight of the tail muscle was about the same in both sexes. Males over 100 mm in body length manifested sexual dimorphism, having relatively larger chelipeds and cheliped muscles than smaller males and all females. In females the relative weight of total muscle was independent of body weight, but in males there was a positive correlation, mostly due to the larger size of the chelipeds. The mean muscle weight in hard-shelled crayfish of the legal size ( 10 cm) was 19.6 % in males and 17.5 % in females. The mean relative hepatopancreas weights were 4.3 % for males and 4.2 % for females; the relative hepatopancreas weight was independent of body weight in males, but inversely correlated with body weight in females. The difference is probably due to the maturation of gonads at this time of year. The mean ovarian egg count was 248, which is about three times the number of pleopodal eggs recorded for A. astacus.
23734691|The ecology of Sorex shrews was studied in two localities of North-East Siberia with continental and maritime climates (Kolyma river and the coast of the Sea of Okhotsk). During 19721988, 4608 shrews of 8 species were caught. Sorex caecutiens was the dominant species, accounting for 79% of all individuals. The dominant and sub-dominant species tended to be spatially segregated. An important feature of food selection is frequent consumption of larch seeds (when the harvest is abundant). The litter size of S. caecutiens was 8.60.3 in the Kolyma river basin and 7.50.3 on the north coast of the Sea of Okhotsk. Females may give birth to up to four litters during the breeding season. In the years of low spring density, young females of the first litters take part in reproduction, greatly contributing to the rapid recovery of populations after low density. Winter mortality was generally higher in the continental than in the maritime region, but between-year variation in winter mortality mostly depends on food availability.
23735549|The heavy metal concentrations of the liver and kidneys of free-living male common shrews of three chromosome races (Ulm, Stobnica (II), gucki Myn (IV)) and hybrids II/IV were determined. The concentrations of zinc, iron, manganese and cadmium as well as their distribution between liver and kidneys were not affected by the karyotype. Adult shrews of the Ulm race displayed a significantly lower liver copper concentration than that of the other shrews, whereas the kidney copper concentrations of the four groups did not differ significantly. These results suggest that the Ulm race is a discrepant one in terms of copper metabolism; the possible involvement of genetic basis in this phenomenon is discussed.
23735474|I examined the relative importance of colour pattern, body size and shape for thermo-regulation by experimentally subjecting adult female Tetrix subulata belonging to four different colour morphs (black, striped, brown, and white) to augmented irradiation levels. The results revealed significant variation in temperature excess (i.e., the difference between ambient and body temperature) among colour morphs, with black individuals having a mean temperature excess 49% greater than that of white individuals. Temperature excess was not significantly influenced by overall body size (measured as principal component 1 (PC1)) but increased with increasing values of PC2, suggesting that stout bodied individuals attained higher body temperatures than did individuals with low body mass relative to surface area. These results show that coloration may play an important role in determining body temperatures of grasshoppers exposed to direct irradiation, and suggest that reproductive females may be able to maintain higher body temperatures than non-reproductive females and males.
23736509|Breeding by young-of-the-year females comprised 12.7% of 479 breeding cases of the common dormouse (Muscardinus avellanarius), recorded in two Lithuanian populations during 19812002. These females were born in late Mayearly July, and their age was 6080 days at their first parturition. Average litter size of young-of-the-year females was smaller than of adult females (3.6 and 4.1 juveniles, respectively). A significant negative correlation between dormouse population density in spring and the percentage of breeding cases involving young-of-the-year females was established (r = -0.76; p < 0.001). When population density is low, young-of-the-year females have a greater possibility of finding free territories in which to breed. Overwinter survival of breeding and non-breeding young-of-the-year females from the same cohort did not differ in either of the populations. Early born females can breed in the year of their birth and do not reduce their chances of surviving the winter, but adult established females suppress their breeding at moderate population density.
23735785|The distributional history of the American mink (Mustela vison) in Finland in 195193 was studied by means of game inquiries and compared to the trends in otter (Lutra lutra) populations. Minks were brought to fur farms in the late 1920s and the first minks were observed in the wild in 1932. In the early 1950s minks occurred mainly in the western and southwestern coast of Finland, but two decades later minks were found in most parts of the country. Today minks are found almost everywhere in Finland; only few observers report that minks are not found in their area. The relative density of the mink is now highest in eastern Finland, rather high in southern Finland and quite low in Lapland. The data from the archipelago are, however, sparce. Otter density declined in the 1970s, but increased again in some areas in the 1980s, is now highest in the provinces of Kymi, Mikkeli and Central Finland, and almost lacking from SW Finland, especially from the coast. Among the reasons behind the decline in the otter populations may have been environmental pollutants, like dieldrin in inland areas and PCBs in the coast and archipelago. Human disturbance may also have had an effect, especially in the archipelago. The role of the mink is not clear; it seems probable that if there is competition between these species, the otter is the stronger one.
23735509|The occurrence of 15 hole-nesting species was studied in 39 nature reserves in southern Finland. The densities of species in forests of nature reserves (size range 0.955 km2) were compared to the species' regional densities outside the protected areas. The two most abundant hole-nesters, Parus major and P. montanus, did not prefer nature reserves. The density of six other species (Dendrocopos major, Picoides tridactylus, Phoenicurus phoenicurus, Ficedula hypoleuca, Parus cristatus and Certhia familiaris) correlated positively with the proportion of forests over 100 years old in the reserves. The density of this species group increased as the area of old-growth forests increased, suggesting that hole-nesters of old-growth forests prefer large forest areas (>5 km2). Hole-nesters of lush and deciduous forests are poorly represented in the nature reserve network, although several of these species have declined. Thus far, dry pine-dominated forests in particular have been protected. The present reserve network should be enlarged to include more lush forests in order to better preserve the hole-nesting avifauna.
23735416|The effect of isolation by forest on carabid beetle communities was studied in small patches of farmland in Southern Finland. We divided the studied patches into three categories by isolation and area of farmland in their surroundings. Less individuals and species were caught in small and isolated patches than in non-isolated ones of similar size. The positive correlation between species number in the patch and farmland area in the surrounding matrix was significant in buffers larger than 1 000 m. The proportions of scarce, medium and abundant species in local communities did not depend on isolation. Short-winged open land species were found both in isolated and non-isolated patches. Winged morphs of the dimorphic species Pterostichus melanarius (Ill.) were found in isolated patches in a somewhat greater frequency than in non-isolated fields. Though dispersal by air is possibly the most important way of colonization, we do not exclude the possibility that especially brachypterous individuals may have dispersed anthropocorously, or actively along narrow road verges. On the other hand, the populations may be relicts from times when the forests were more open.
23736886|Different species in a community can be ranked according to the strength of their effect on the dynamics of the entire community. Despite a considerable research effort on community structure and the "keystone" species concept, there are still unresolved issues in this area. This work addresses the suitability of different methods of characterising community members, either by relative abundance, or different measures of competitive ability. Multi-species competitive communities were simulated to allow comparison of methods that rank community members by either their abundance or competitive ability. Results indicate that characterising species according to their relative density, rather than competitive ability, provides a more refined measure of the importance of each community member. The analysis is extended by assessing which species are most likely to be involved with cascading extinction events, showing that the species with the lowest abundance is most likely to face extinction. Here it is also shown that removal of the most abundant species, i.e. that with the greatest relative density within the community, leads to the highest probability of community collapse, with further loss of community members through cascading extinctions. The asymmetry and non-linearity of between species interactions mean that species' ranking can change unexpectedly following species loss. These results can lead to practical recommendations in management decisions for conservation and other species management problems, e.g. harvesting in marine food-webs, where it may be difficult to assess relative competitive ability between species in the ecosystem.
23736724|Finnish nestling ringing data were used to index regional starling Sturnus vulgaris population trends from 1951 to 2001 using log-linear models. A population model with a similar pattern of decline to the actual one was initialised using a resource selection function, which related presenceabsence observations of ringed broods to environmental covariates. A data correction was necessary because uncorrected missing counts (indistinguishable in the source data from zero counts) seriously underestimated the population decline. On the basis of the corrected estimate, starlings declined by 80% between the early 1970s and mid-1980s. The decline was greatest in northern Finland. Extinctions were common among local populations during the decline; their frequency increased towards the north, resulting in overall range contraction.
23736006|A live-trapping study was conducted near Lesser Slave Lake, Alberta, Canada to examine space use and spacing behaviour of female Clethrionomys gapperi. Voles were censused over three breeding periods in 1980 to 1982 on three 4-ha grids in different habitat types. The home ranges of females were exclusive at low density but overlapped slightly at high density and home range size was larger in the coniferous habitat than in deciduous vegetation. Sexually mature females, once settled on a home range, appeared to show only minor shifts. Further, the home range size of females was not a function of density. In 1982, in deciduous habitat the number of mature females remained constant for the last six weeks of the breeding season at the density predicted from home range size and effective sampling area of the grid. Spacing behaviour appeared to limit the breeding density of females in this species. However, in order to test this, experiments will have to be performed.
23733729|The microscopic kidney structure and some renal function variables were studied in Baltic specimens of Myoxocephalus scorpius and M. quadricornis. The glomerular malformations commonly seen in sea-living M. scorpius were relatively rare in the Baltic. Aglomerular tubules were observed in M. quadricornis. The glomerular filtration surface was estimated to be three to four times as great in M. scorpius as in M. quadricornis. The ionic composition of the urine of M. quadricornis is similar to that generally found in freshwater teleosts, except for its high Mg2+ level. In M. scorpius high Na+ and Cl- contents make the urine nearly iso-osmotic to the plasma. Acclimation to low temperature raised ionic concentrations of urine in M. scorpius, but this was less distinct in M. quadricornis. The urine flow, glomerular filtration rate, and filtered loads of Na+, K+, Ca2+ and Mg2+ were two to four times as high in M. scorpius as in M. quadricornis. The latter species showed net aglomerular water excretion and effective reabsorption of Na+. In both species tubular secretion of urine Ca2+ and Mg2+ was predominant and K+ revealed net reabsorption.
23734712|The theories on the maintenance of genetic variation in a heterogeneous environment are reviewed. The genetic response of a population to the pattern of the environment can be divided into direct and indirect effects. The direct effects refer to adaptive responses due to selective differences between the genotypes. The indirect effects result from the fact that environmental variation affects the population demography (size, subdivision etc.) and this affects the stochastic processes which shape genetic variation. Although the deterministic models show that environmental heterogeneity can help to maintain genetic polymorphism of specific characters, the parameter space leading to a stable polymorphism is heavily constrained, for example due to stochastic changes. Genotype-specific habitat selection and the reversal of genetic dominance in different environmental patches help the maintenance of polymorphism considerably. The theories concerning single characters have been extended to explain the overall gene diversity detected by studies of proteins and DNA. The theoretical basis for this extension is unclear and the experimental evidence for it is equivocal. It seems likely that the indirect effects of the environment are more important in determining the levels of multilocus genic variation and differentiation. Selection in a heterogeneous environment can, in some circumstances, even act as a factor reducing genetic variation below the level expected under a completely neutral model. Genetic variation in quantitative characters depends both on the pattern of environmental variation and on the genetic correlation of the character states expressed in different habitats.
23731685|The holarctic-circumpolar Chironomid species Tanytarsus gracilentus Holmgr. swarms abundantlu in May  June and in August in Valassaaret, a group of islands in the Gulf of Bothnia. A description of the adult, exuviae and larva is given. The wing length, the number of dl and sc bristles and anal point spinules, and the antennal ratio were found to decrease and the leg ratios to increase with increasing temperature of the larval and pupal environment. The effects of environmental factors upon the morphological characters are discussed. In the population of the study area the variation of the characters measured was found to be as wide as in other populations studied. In order to separate variation caused by genetic and environmental factors it is thus necessary to study the temporal and spatial variation in each population. In the study area the larvae of T. gracilentus occur only in the gently sloping oozebeds of bays and ponds and most abundantly in beds frozen in winter. The seasonal and diel emergence, sex ratio and accompanying Chironomid species were studied with the aid of emergence traps. The swarming, mating and egg-laying flight are described. It is suggested that T. gracilentus is a pioneer species in the arctic regions. It can tolerate interspecific competition in southern areas in waters which are wholly frozen in winter and have a tendency to high conductivity.
23734857|The fresh weight of the liver was determined in 199 willow grouse (Lagopus lagopus) shot in the far north of Finland within three years. There were no age-related differences in the fresh weights of the livers. They showed remarkable seasonal variation, the highest values being recorded in summer and the smallest in late winter. The fresh weights of the female livers increased from FebruaryMarch to AprilMay, but those of the males did not, whereas those of the male livers were higher than those of the females in November-March. The liver/net body weight ratio of adult birds was highest in summer and lowest in FebruaryMarch, while that of young males was higher than that of adult males in SeptemberOctober. The glycogen content was higher in September-October than in any other periods. No differences in water and protein content were found between the livers of the willow grouse killed in autumn and winter.
23736966|The distribution of otter and American mink tracks in the Mazurian Lakeland during winter, characterised by low temperatures and thick ice cover, was used to analyse competition between the two species for access to the limited area of foraging sites. The study was carried out in February and March, 2006 and comprised 12 lakes and sections of three rivers and two canals. Tracking was conducted along a total of 98.25 km of the shoreline, which was divided into 393 study sections, 250-m-long each. Otter tracks were recorded at all the lakes and canals under study and at two rivers. Mink tracks were recorded along all the watercourses and on eleven lakes. The otter was recorded in 25.9% of the sections, whereas American mink in 28.8% of the sections. Co-occurrence of the otter and mink was observed in 8.8% of the sections. In sections with unfrozen stretches (12.3% of all the study sections), the frequency of otter and mink tracks was significantly higher than in totally frozen sections. Co-occurrence of the otter and mink was found in 28.3% of the sections with access to open water. In unfrozen sections the frequency of co-occurrence of the two species was four times higher than in totally frozen sections. Only 20% of the sections with air holes were not visited by any of the two species. The study showed that during periods of low temperatures, when accessibility to open water and aquatic prey was limited, both species clearly preferred those parts of the water bodies where unfrozen places remained. A high rate of co-occurrence of the two species in such places indicates mutual tolerance between the otter and mink in the sections offering aquatic food resources.
23734495|This paper, with field data on ground beetles, describes results of various analyses performed at different spatio-temporal scales of resolution to indicate that different phenomena emerge at each of these scales. First, spatial distribution patterns are described, beginning at a fine, local scale of a 40 ha Dutch polder meadow and ending at the geographical range structure of carabids. Similarly, description of temporal variation in species occurrence starts with seasonal variation and ends with a geological scale covering millions of years. As part of the temporal variation concerns factors determining dietary composition, the ecological implications of variation at different scales are considered in the context of optimal foraging.
23736013|The monophyletic O. rauda group includes the following species (distribution in parentheses): O. rauda Simon = O. septentrionalium Koch = O. obsoleta Kulczynski = O. terrea Kulczynski, n. syn. (southern Central Europe, Siberia), O. arctica Kulczynski, n. stat. (Fennoscandia, Siberia, northern North America), O. pullata (Thorell) = O. kotulai Kulczynski, n. syn. (southern Central Europe, southern Russia), O. balkarica Ovcharenko (Caucasus), O. orientalis Kulczynski (Kamtchatka), O. yosemitica Schick (western USA) and O. conostyla sp. n. (Turkey). O. rauda ( ), O. arctica ( ), O. pullata ( ) and O. orientalis () are redescribed. The following phylogeneny of the group is suggested: O. pullata and O. arctica are sister species, the others forming sister groups in the sequence O. rauda, O. balkarica, O. yosemitica + O. orientalis and O. conostyla.
23734468|Histopathological examinations were performed on eight mussel (Mytilus edulis L.) samples from the Tvrminne area, on the southern coast of Finland. Three of the samples were from relatively unpolluted benthic sites and five samples composed a cline from an iron and steel factory to the open sea. Seventy per cent of the animals from the entire study area had an inflammatory reaction. About one-third of these inflammatory reactions were of parasitic origin. Fifty per cent of the animals in the harbour of the factory had gill lesions, where the gill filaments were fused, ciliary interfilamentar junctions were replaced by metaplastic cellular junctions, epithelium was hyperplastic, and there was a chronic inflammatory reaction in the gills. The sample from Lerns, at a distance of three kilometres from the factory, had a high prevalence of degenerative changes: atrophy of muscle bundles and vacuolation of digestive cells. There was a high prevalence of benign tumours, rhabdomyomas, in the auricles of this sample. One animal with an undifferentiated sarcoma was found near the island of Furuskr. Mussels in all samples exhibited excessive mucous production and had dark granules in the kidney cells. Although the condition of the mussels was poorer in the vicinity of the factory, none of the samples represented healthy mussels from an area without anthropogenic stress.
23735843|A social behavior continuum from simple to complex is argued to be a basis for evolutionary categorization of species. I propose a complimentary view that compares similar life history decisions because social complexity varies in many species across their lifetimes. I specifically concentrate on the evolution of reproductive skew in cooperative breeding, which I define relative to the ability of group members to live solitarily or move easily between groups (i.e., facultative versus obligate eusociality). Facultative cooperation can arise through social contracts based either on conventions (arbitrary asymmetries determines status), or transactions (individuals cede benefits for group stability). These mechanisms predict different within-group dynamics. An analysis of transactional models predicts eusocial evolution requires large asymmetries between dominants and subordinates in ability to succeed independently. The only major exception appears to be cooperative colony initiation by polistine wasps. Their behavior, however, may have evolved due to a unique combination of reproductive gains through sex ratio conflicts with workers and factors that select for reproductive plasticity in offspring. Examining eusocial evolution as a specific life history trait also suggests that facultative versus obligate cooperation correlates with assumptions about dominant control over skew within groups. 'Concession' type models tend to predict behavior in facultative situations, while 'Tug-of-war' models do better in obligate situations.
43923434|Long-term changes in the structure of land bird populations were studied on a typical peatland and forest area (65 km, 60 % covered by mires) in Simo (65N, 25E) in northern Finland. Sixty kilometres of line transects were censused in 1959 and a total of 86 km, mostly retracing the old routes, were censused in 1977 and 1981. Seventy-nine land bird species were observed in the censuses and classified into seven groups: newcomers (9 mostly southern species), increased species (11), stable (5), fluctuating (14), decreased (10), cultivation dependent (8) and rare (22). About 20 additional rare species bred in the study area, so the total land bird fauna comprised of about 100 species. Although total density (about 125 pairs/km) remained rather stable from 1959 to 1981, there was a large turnover, because the density of the decreased species diminished by about 30 %. The turnover was similar to that found in the wide mid-boreal transition zone which stretches through Finland. Changes in the population structure of the birds were mainly a result of habitat alterations caused by man. During the study period, about quarter of the area was ditched for forestry and the age structure of forests was made younger by timber felling (25 % of area). Of the dominant bird species the largest increases were found in Phylloscopus trochilus, Fringilla coelebs and Turdus iliacus (the three most frequent birds in Finland), and in Motacilla flava, Emberiza rustica and E. schoeniclus. The most important reason for increase was the succession of ditched pine bogs into transformations with dense birch thickets. In these, the density of the increased species group was about 70 pairs/km (130 %) greater than on the virgin mires. Anthus trivialis, Phoenicurus phoenicurus, viscivorus, Ficedula hypoleuca, Parus cristatus, Fringilla montifringilla and several less hole-nesters belonged to the decreased species. The reduction of the area of mature forests and the decrease in holes suitable for nesting due to forest improvements was concluded to be the main cause of the decreasing trend within this species group. The further development of bird fauna with the succession of mire transformations into spruce or pine dominated mixed forests is described.
23736194|The sex ratio, age at maturation, fecundity, and seasonal development of gonads of pollan (Coregonus autumnalis) in Lough Neagh are described from samples collected between November 1997 and December 1999. Pollan reproductive ecology in the 1990s was similar to that found in the 1970s. Pollan egg size and fecundity differed between years but there were no long-term trends in fecundity despite considerable subsequent eutrophication of the lough and changes in the fish community.
23734045|The reproduction of female ringed seals, Pusa hispida (Schreber), was studied in 225 specimens trapped with seal nets in October-November at Simo, on the northern Bothnian Bay (6535'N, 2500'E), and 28 specimens shot on the ice of the Bothnian Bay in April-May, 197379. The ovulation frequency in mature specimens was 0.984. The sizes of the corpora lutea and c. albicantia were not dependent on maternal age. The c. luteum of the pregnant females was larger on average than the regressing c. luteum or c. albicans of the non-pregnant females in October-November, some 4 months after implantation. The proportion of normal pregnant females averaged 28 %, decreasing from a maximum of 52 % in the group aged 78 years to 8 % in the females over 25 years of age. Females with normal ovulation but no macroscopic uterine signs of pregnancy, i.e. a missed pregnancy, were almost as common, reaching a maximum of 68 % among the newly matured females aged 56 years, and averaging 23 % thereafter. An average of 42 % had an occlusion in one or both of the uterine horns, the proportion of both single (26 %) and bilateral occlusions (16 %) increasing with age. This membranous occlusion sealed up the uterine tract, forming a closed chamber with varying amounts and types of fluid. The average position of the occlusion was just over 60 mm from the tip of the horn, ranging from near the tip to the bifurcation. Other reproductive failures averaged 5 %. Major changes took place in the reproductive status even during the period 197479, with the proportion of pregnant females dropping from over 30 % to under 20 % and cases of occlusion increasing from 35 % to 59 %. The numerous reproductive failures, possibly linked with hormonal imbalance and/or severe infections, at present form the most serious threat to the future of the Baltic seal populations.
23737063|Natural selection affects emotional and behavioural patterns, such as anti-predator adaptations, that enhance human survival. Fear is a basic emotion that activates behavioural responses upon encountering a predator, being consistently higher in females than in males. In this study, we investigated associations between fear of a large carnivore predator and perceived physical condition in a sample of Slovakian participants (n = 943). When testing evolutionary hypotheses explaining gender differences in fear of predators, we found partial support for the "physical condition" hypothesis, because females either reported lower perceived body condition than males and their perceived body condition showed significant correlation with fear of brown bear, Ursus arctos. The negative association between fear and perceived body condition was stronger in males suggesting that fear evolved as a response to higher predation pressures on males in our evolutionary past, indirectly supporting the "predation pressure" hypothesis. Males and participants with higher fear of bears wanted to exterminate bears by shooting more than others, suggesting that future management strategies should be oriented on elimination of fear of predators, as primary predictor of extremely negative attitudes toward bears.
23734420|Assimilation of a Mysis relicta population was studied in the light of the previous population and respiration studies on this species in the oligotrophic lake Pjrvi. Background information was obtained from a study of the variation in the organic carbon content of the mysids during 1 year. The amount of organic carbon in the animals was measured by a new technique based on the infrared gas analyser and converted to the energy equivalent. The organic carbon content varied seasonally from about 50 to 63 %. The values were highest in the young embroys and lowest in young mysids about 2 months after liberation, in males after copulation and in females liberating their embryos in the spring after the winter starvation period. In mature animals carbon contents were high just before the breeding season, in the second cohort in AugustSeptember, when about 1315 months old, and in the first cohort in NovemberDecember, when about 7 months old. The former cohort attained 6263 % and the latter 5759 % organic carbon. The males accumulated carbon faster and earlier, but lost it almost totally in copulation. The females lost about 8 % of their stored carbon in egg-laying, but still had a reserve for the winter. Active feeding was necessary during the winter because the stored carbon was sufficient for only 2 weeks' respiration. A male maturing in the first year assimilated 426.4 Joules and a female 628.0 A male maturing in the second year assimilated 858.4 Joules and a female 1287.6 Joules. The corresponding production efficiencies were 34.3, 23.6 and 15.7. The mysid population produced 1.016107 kJ, respired 2.670107 kJ and assimilated 3.684107 kJ in Pjrvi. The production efficiency of the population was 27.58.
23736901|Addition of eggs to nests of conspecifics is a common avian alternative breeding strategy, called conspecific brood parasitism. The consequences of this breeding strategy on recipient breeding success have seldom been quantified, while taking into account environmental factors and host female characteristics. We study the occurrence of nest parasitism and, using an information theoretic approach, the most important factors responsible for nest desertion in female Barrow's goldeneyes (Bucephala islandica). Nest parasitism is common in the study populationpopulation, and 58% of the nests contained non-natal eggs, representing 20% of all eggs. A prime factor explaining nest desertion was the number of non-natal eggs. There were also significant effects of year and own clutch size. By contrast, ambient temperature and female laying date did not influence nest desertion. These results provide one of the first demonstrations that non-natal eggs can have substantial negative effects also in precocial species.
23736752|How complex biological diversity can arise from seemingly simple strands of DNA is one of the most pertinent of questions confronting 21st century biologists. With the increasing availability and cost effectiveness of genomic techniques, there has been a rapid expansion in the taxonomic breadth of species that can now be studied at the molecular level of the genes. Consequently, behavioural ecologists are now able to examine the behaviours of their study organisms at an entirely new level. Here I review the current progress made in sociogenomics  the study of the molecular basis of sociality  with particular emphasis on what genome-level studies can reveal about social evolution. First I discuss the evolutionary interactions that occur between the genome and sociality. Next I review the current literature on how genes underlie queen and worker caste evolution: I identify 19 genes that are likely to be of importance in the evolution of caste systems across eusocial taxa; I make predictions on how gene expression patterns might orchestrate the evolution of social complexity, and make preliminary tests using the available data. Finally, I outline major questions in social evolution that can be addressed for the first time using a sociogenomic approach, highlight practical considerations in sociogenomics and discuss suitable model systems for future research on the molecular basis of sociality.
23737038|The great grey shrike Lanius excubitor is declining in western Europe but relatively stable, or even increasing populations still exist in central and eastern Europe. It is a medium-sized passerine living in diverse, low-intensity farmland. Being a predatory bird, it is especially susceptible to any changes in farming practices that affect its prey. In this paper, we provide estimates of density, national population size and trends and generate a habitat-use model; information which is all necessary for effective conservation. We used data gathered during 71 censuses made in the years 19782005 to document the past and present status of the great grey shrike population in Poland. The mean population density has more than doubled from 4.5 in the early period of the study (19781995) to 11.3 pairs/100 km2 in the later period (19962005). The habitat use model shows that the great grey shrike avoids intensive arable fields and coniferous forests and prefers areas of extensively used farmland. We estimate the current size of the Polish breeding population to be 22 00025 000 breeding pairs. Our results show that the Polish breeding population of the great grey shrike is still healthy. This can be attributed to high habitat heterogeneity and fragmentation, a slow rate of change in agricultural landscapes and recent mild winters which have had a positive effect on survival. We believe that our results can help to establish an effective conservation strategy for the species.
23734636|The morphological and morphometric variability of the parthenogenetic earthworm D. octaedra was surveyed in relation to environmental and geographical variables by inspecting worms according to sets of biotopes in different parts of eastern Fennoscandia where the species lives at the northern edge of its range. The number of segments ranged widely (56108) but populations were homogeneous as to mean and median numbers of segments in all biotopes and regions. Since adults and small juveniles ( 15mm) possess the same number of segments, the individuals grow by increase in size rather than in the number of segments. Characters related to body size, viz., circumference and size of post-clitellar segments, body length and weight increased northwards; this cline was also observed within each biotope. In southern adults the clitellum and tubercula pubertatis were more protruding than in northern ones. The relative intersetal distances in the post-clitellar segments were constant in all age groups, biotopes and areas. In 38% of D. octaedra adults and in 40% of subadults male pores were lacking. Populations were homogeneous in this respect; no seasonal or geographical variation was observed. D. octaedra adults representing common clones (= overall allozyme phenotypes) and clone groups (= overall allozyme phenotypes deviating with respect to one to four enzyme variants from those of the most abundant clone) were inspected to relate morphological and morphometric variability to genotypic differences between the worms. The genotypes did not correlate with the cline: post-clitellar segment size varied greatly but the northward increase was observable within the clones and clone groups irrespective of the biotope. The cline was thus interpreted as a probable general adaptation to the climate. The number of segments, presence of male pores and protuberance of the clitellum and tubercula pubertatis did not correlate with the genotype, either.
23736104|Savanne Lake, Ontario is one of five lakes that have been closed to public fishing since 1969 to study the effects of exploitation on walleye. The study has four phases: pre-harvest (197279), harvest phase I (198085) simulating an angling fishery at an annual mean harvest level approximating 1.78 kg/ha, as recommended by the Ontario Provincial Guidelines, harvest phase II (198689) where the recommended mean harvest level was exceeded (1.95 kg/ha) in conjunction with a protected slot of 45 to 55 cm total length, and a recovery phase 1990 to the present. Prior to exploitation the adult walleye population density was averaging about 15/ha, then reduced to 10.5/ha in phase I, and 9.1/ha after phase II. Production and biomass also decreased. There was little change in the mean age of the population, declining slightly from 7 to 6.2 years. There were no significant changes in growth rates but condition factor and fecundity increased. Strong year classes were evident about every 4 to 6 years. About 78 percent of the strongest year-classes occurred in even-numbered years. We hypothesized that the pulse production of the mayfly (Hexagenia limbata), a major food item for walleye in Savanne, in even-numbered years enhances year-class strength of walleye. Year-class strength was positively correlated to young-of-the-year (YOY) abundance. The protected slot appeared to be ineffective in protecting the walleye biomass and production. Northern pike abundance was also reduced, although no cause-effect relationship has been established, considering that northern pike were not harvested. We suggest that an annual harvest of about 1.0 kg/ha, which is below the annual production of 1.39 kg/ha calculated for the unexploited population, can be sustained while providing a fishing experience approximating a remote unexploited lake. Harvest levels exceeding those recommended by our guidelines can quickly reduce population density, biomass and production, and have de-stabilizing effects on the community. This study shows that fish populations in small unproductive lakes can be impacted very quickly when harvest exceeds allowable levels. This study reaffirms the importance of long-term research to assess impacts of regulations on fish populations.
23735799|Hatching success, brood survival and predation rates of red grouse chicks were examined at four sites in north-east Scotland over two years (19941995). Two of these sites have previously been the focus of a large-scale population study on grouse during the late 1950s enabling a comparison to be made. A total of 85 hens were radio-tracked and their breeding success monitored over the two years. Compared with studies undertaken in the 1950s, mean clutch size had risen from 7.2 to 8.6 eggs. Of the 76 nests monitored, 17 (22.4%) broods were lost either through egg or chick predation or by the adult being taken by a predator during incubation. Stoats appeared to be responsible for the largest amount of egg predation. There was a significant increase in predation levels, although hatching success was not significantly different from the 1950s. Chick mortality was highest within the first ten days, a similar result to that found in the 1950s. Overall, mean brood survival from hatching to 20 days was 55.1%. Possible reasons for larger clutch sizes, and the apparent increase in predation levels, are discussed.
23734475|The effects of forest thinning and fragmentation on bird species were studied in northern Finland in 19821985. Based on line transect censuses bird communities of virgin and thinned pine forests, and contiguous and fragmented spruce forests were compared. There were no statistically significant differences in total bird densities in virgin and thinned pine forests, nor in uniform and fragmented spruce forests. The structure of bird communities was, however, different both in pine and spruce forests. The densities of the generalist species Phylloscopus trochilus, Carduelis flammea and Turdus iliacus and the marsh-nesting Motacilla flava were higher, and those of Parus cinctus, Perisoreus infaustus and Phoenicurus phoenicurus were lower in thinned forests than in virgin pine forests. Forest fragmentation had a positive effect on the densities of Ph. trochilus, T. iliacus and C. flammea, and a negative effect on the group of northern taiga species (Tetrao urogallus, Picoides tridactylus, Parus cinctus, Perisoreus infaustus, Pinicola enucleator and Emberiza rustica). Line transect censuses had been carried out in the vicinity of the study area already in the 1940s and 1950s. Densities of the most common species in virgin forests were compared using the 194050 censuses and the present results. Fringilla montifringilla had increased fivefold from the 194050 period to the 1980s, but this was probably due to a collapse, caused by several cold winters, in the 1940s. Densities of species preferring old forests, such as P. cinctus, Ph. phoenicurus and P. infaustus, had remained nearly the same in the study area from the 194050s to the 1980s, although these species have drastically declined in the whole of northern Finland due to silvicultural practices. In my study area the densities probably remained almost unchanged as, even today, there are large, virgin forests left. The importance of these forests in the conservation of declining northern bird species is emphasized.
23735671|In stable and declining brown bear (Ursus arctos) populations, female dispersal is uncommon and female dispersal distances are short while in increasing populations the distance is not necessarily dependent on sex. The number of brown bears has strongly increased in Finland during recent decades, and the species has recently colonized the central and southern parts of the country. We examined changes in the sex ratio of hunter-killed bears and, from observational data, the proportion of cubs, litter size and proportion of cubs and litter size and proportion of adult males with distance from the Finnish-Russian border. Our results provided evidence that indicated the presence of male-biased dispersal, while no sex difference was noted in dispersal distance, thereby supporting the hypothesis of presaturation female dispersal in an expanding bear population. Small litters in the most peripheral area may result from recent dispersal by females that had not yet attained prime breeding age in the new area.
23735848|We employ a stochastic model of helminth transmission to explore the persistence properties of sexual versus asexual parasites in the face of a host population that develops immunity. We assume that this immunity is specific to the parasite strain, such that different parasite strains express unique antigens which in turn elicit specific host immune responses. Sexual parasites are inherently disadvantaged by a fecundity that is only half that of asexual parasites, given that males do not produce offspring. However, we demonstrate that sexual parasites benefit from the greater production and maintenance of antigenic genotypes than mutation alone in asexuals. The ability of sexual parasites to produce antigenic diversity enhances population persistence of the parasites, given that enhanced antigenic diversity permits evasion of host immunity. Therefore, we argue that sexual reproduction for parasites under intense negative frequency dependent selection induced by host immunity is associated with advantages that may be sufficient to compensate for lower intrinsic reproductive potential.
23736787|Predation on selected individuals from a population may have consequences for the prey population. We studied predation of breeding Ural owls (Strix uralensis) in southern Finland on their two main prey species, field voles (Microtus agrestis) and bank voles (Myodes glareolus), which fluctuate in abundance between years. We identified sex, body mass and reproductive state of the voles in Ural owl nests and of voles caught by snap-trapping in the study area. Our results showed that Ural owls preyed proportionally more upon reproductively active field voles than expected, whereas no such bias was found for predation on bank voles. There was no difference in sex ratio between preyed upon and trapped field voles or bank voles. Ural owls captured heavier individuals of both field voles and bank voles than expected, and in field voles, but not bank voles, reproductively active individuals were heavier than reproductively inactive individuals. We discuss how differences in social organisation, dispersal and reproductive behaviour may differently affect predation vulnerability of field voles and bank voles. In contrast to the pattern documented in other owl species, we find that Ural owls select larger and reproductively active voles, and may thereby exert a higher population-dynamical impact on vole populations than expected solely from the numbers of voles preyed upon.
23734174|The Finnish line transect method was tested on breeding waders in 1981 at 3 different times of the season (3 June, 5 July, 24 July) in a 6km2 study area where the number of wader nests were known on the basis of previous studies. The study area was located on Hardangervidda, S. Norway, in the middle alpine zone. The species involved were Golden Plover Pluvialis apricaria, Dotterel Charadrius morinellus, Purple Sandpiper Calidris maritima, and Dunlin Calidris alpina. The line transect method gave in general too high density estimates (line transects/nests totally = 0.8-5.6) and the variation in relation to the time of the season was extensive (max line trans./min line trans. = 2.4-5.1). We consider the method, however, useful, provided the "1000k" values are specificially calculated for the different stages in the breeding cycle. The census efficiency is evaluated in relation to each species' breeding phenology and variation in behaviour through the breeding season. For Golden Plover, Purple Sandpiper and Dunlin we consider the time between territory establishment and onset of incubation the best period for censusing. Also in Dotterel the best results may be obtained before egg-laying, but polyandry and an extremely long egg-laying season in Dotterel populations limit the usefulness of the line transect method in estimating breeding numbers.
23735602|We examined habitat composition of territories, habitat use during foraging, and nest-site selection in the curlew Numenius arquata in two arable farmland areas in western Finland 19961997. Tall vegetation types, especially grassland, occurred more frequently within territories than expected by their availability. Habitat utilisation during foraging was significantly non-random in one of the two study areas where tillage was preferred to taller vegetation while in the other area curlews appeared to prefer tall vegetation. In both areas curlews showed a marked preference for taller vegetation types and avoided short vegetation (tillage) when selecting their nest-sites. Individuals also appeared to avoid nesting close to forest edges and ditches although this pattern was not significantly consistent between years. Breeding dispersal (the extent of movements between years) was high in the study area where curlew density was low and nest predation was frequent. In this area, breeding dispersal was higher among pairs that had failed in their previous breeding attempts than among successful pairs. Curlews preferred habitats which are relatively uncommon in an intensive agricultural regime, and we suggest that lack of suitable habitats in intensively cultivated farmland areas may be one reason for poor reproductive success and decline of curlew populations in Finland.
23731810|Examination of 145 specimens of Spalax microphthalmus and S. leucodon revealed marked differences in the stratification of the periosteal zone of the lower jaw and in the morphological structure of the enamel pattern of the teeth. It is suggested that these differences, in combination with certain external characters of the teeth may be useful in working out indices for age determination.
23736051|Saduria entomon (Crustacea: Isopoda) occurs as a stenothermal glacial relict in the Baltic. The temperature for the loss of the righting reflex (= critical thermal maximum, CTMax) of the animals collected in winter and kept at 4C was about 26C and that for the cessation of pleopod beating about 31 C. When the animals were kept for 1 to 2 weeks at 14C (warm acclimation), the CTMax did not change but the temperature for the cessation of pleopod beating increased about 12 degrees compared to the values for animals kept at 4C. The onset of locomotory inactivity was observed at around 15C with continuously increasing temperature; this temperature was not changed by warm acclimation of the animals. Saduria collected at the end of the summer (warm acclimatization) exhibited adaptive changes in all of the motor functions mentioned above. When measured at 4 and 14C, the rate of the pleopod beating of Saduria kept previously at 4 and 14C exhibited an inverse acclimation at 14C. In order to test the thermal orientation behaviour of Saduria, a toroidal temperature gradient apparatus with gradients of 217C and 924C was used. The animals kept previously at 4C selected a temperature of about 15C and came to rest at this temperature in both of the gradients.
23737104|In monogyne (single queen) ant colonies, worker aggression against intruders, including newly-mated sister queens (gynes) seeking readoption, prevents the development of multi-queen colonies. Some ant species, however, produce multiple queen colonies (polygyny) via the adoption of new gynes in response to ecological, genetic and social parameters. Cuticular chemistry mediates nestmate recognition as well as plays a role in intra-colonial regulation of reproduction. Although aggression against intruders is diminished in some polygyne species, apparently due to depauperate allelic diversity at loci that code for recognition cues or a loss of receptor sites, the mechanism underlying the development of polygyny is largely unknown. Here, we examine the cuticular chemical profiles of new gynes at several stages post-emergence, males and workers from monogyne and polygyne colonies in the facultatively polygyne ant Formica truncorum. Individuals from the two colony types were chemically distinguishable, as were gynes according to developmental stage post-emergence (callow versus mature) and with respect to wing presence and mating status. Overall profile complexity did not differ between populations. These results suggest an association of cuticular hydrocarbon profiles with dispersal tendencies and that the disparate tendency of workers from monogyne and polygyne colonies to adopt new gynes is due to a complex interaction between gyne cuticular chemistry and differential worker sensitivity to those cues.
23734149|The Pied Flycatcher males in the Ammarns area show lower frequency of polygyny (0-2 %) than has been reported from more central parts of the species range. During experimental conditions, however, which were supposed to favour polygyny, 9 % was reached. Thirty percent of the males showed polyterritorial behaviour, which is a lower incidence of polyterritoriality than reported from other studies. It is suggested that polygyny is infrequent as the females arrive early, the latest ones at the very start of the laying period of the population. The lack of "free" females may also reduce the inclination of males to show the polyterritorial behaviour; about one third of the territory holding males of the study area remained unmated.
23731825|In a population of Clethrionomys glareolus living on an island 4 ha in area, the number of individuals born per year, the annual production of biomass and the number of mature females were very constant from year to year, despite the great variation in maximum numbers, mortality, peak period, etc. Overwintered animals, together with the early spring cohort, contributed more than 90 % of total births: the late spring cohort usually and the summer and autumn cohorts never reproduced in the year of their birth. Mortality was higher among sucklings than among weaned young, and increased from spring to autumn among both weaned and unweaned animals. During the winter and the following year mortality was the same in all cohorts, regardless of age. Mechanisms preventing the exponential growth of the population evidently exist.
23731537|On the basis of a detailed revision of the entire material available, 46 species of Siphonaptera are recorded from Finland, three of them (Amphipsylla sibirica, Myodopsylla trisellis and Megabothris calcarifer) for the first time. Distribution maps are presented for all Fennoscandian species, and they are divided into distributional types. Flea/host associations are discussed and an index of the flea species of different hosts is presented. A detailed bibliography of the Siphonaptera of Finland and adjacent areas is included.
23734849|The profundal chironomid associations in 9 Finnish lakes were analyzed using a hierarchial cluster analysis technique in order to test the usefulness of the lake typology of Brundin in the study area. The classification results were evaluated by analyzing the corresponding physico-chemical water quality data with discriminant analysis. The same procedure was also applied with the shallow water associations. The results showed that the lake typology of Brundin is a valid basis for monitoring stratified lakes. They supported the thesis holding that the availability of food is the primary controlling mechanism in the profundal chironomid communities. In the shallow water region the difficulties in creating benthic lake typologies are apparent. The best classification results in relation to the water quality and trophic status were achieved at a depth of 35 m. It is necessary to divide the littoral and sublittoral into subzones and to compare lakes separately in them. The results showed that it is possible to find characteristic benthic types in shallow lakes as well, these being typical to Finland. Further supporting taxonomic research on quantitatively important lake chironomids is required before a useful lake typology can be established for the shallow water region.
23736872|Non-lethal energetic and physiological costs of severe predation risk in aquatic prey are poorly understood. Knowledge of this matter would be especially valuable in life-skills training programs for hatchery-reared fish, where long-term predator conditioning is one potential method to improve the antipredator skills of nave fish. In this study I examined the effects of long-term (72 days) predator exposure on the body composition (whole-body lipid and water content) and body condition of hatchery-bred Arctic charr (Salvelinus alpinus) young. The chemical cues from charr-fed pikeperch (Sander lucioperca) were used as the exposure stimuli. My results revealed that the predatorexposed charr had a lower body condition and water content but higher lipid content than the non-exposed conspecifics, demonstrating that long-term predation risk causes serious physiological changes. Since predator conditioning can evidently result in marked physiological changes in prey fish, future studies should take into further consideration not only behavioural but also physiological effects of life-skills training.
23735505|We studied the variation in carabid assemblages on mature Finnish taiga on three spatial scales: (1) among eight geographical areas in southern and central Finland, (2) on a regional scale among sampling sites within a 450-km2 study area, and (3) on a local scale among sampling sites within a 4-km2 study area. The total carabid sample included 21079 individuals of 49 species. Significantly more individuals and species were captured in the southern study areas than in the more northern ones. A positive correlation existed between species distribution and their abundance among study areas. Five species (ranked in descending order: Calathus micropterus, Pterostichus oblongopunctatus, Amara brunnea, Notiophilus biguttatus, Cychrus caraboides) were found in all the eight study areas. C. micropterus was the numerically dominant species, consisting 883% of the sample in the study areas. The second most abundant species, P. oblongopunctatus, constituted 636% of the sample. Our study provides baseline information about the composition of carabid assemblages in mature, coniferous boreal forest. This knowledge can be used in assessing effects of forestry practices upon the boreal biota.
23737072|Species with highly restricted distributions are vulnerable to extinction, and modification of natural habitats within their small ranges is a primary threat to their persistence. Expansion of urban development significantly impacts natural habitats and, therefore, threatens local diversity. The Mexican axolotl, Ambystoma mexicanum, is a strictly aquatic species that persists currently in two highly threatened and isolated populations. The current habitat remaining for these species are remnants of a historically extensive lacustrine system that occupied the entire Valley of Mexico, but has been destroyed by the growth of Mexico City. Unexpectedly, a third viable population of axolotls has been found in Chapultepec Park, a public recreational area in the heart of Mexico City. Phylogenetic and haplotype network analyses of mitochondrial DNA sequences confirmed low genetic differentiation and a recurrent lack of monophyly in many of the taxa belonging to the Ambystoma tigrinum species group, including A. mexicanum, but clustered the Chapultepec samples with other A. mexicanum samples. Our data revealed higher haplotypic diversity in A. mexicanum populations than previously recorded, due to new haplotypes from Chapultepec Park. We found high incidence of parasites and deformities among individuals in this population, which could negatively impact their viability. Our results emphasize the important role that artificial or semi-natural urban habitats can play in the conservation of highly threatened species.
23734645|Laboratory tests for accumulation of zinc were made in brackish water. Three weeks after a 24 h exposure to zinc (015 mg/l) the concentrations in common mussels (Mytilus edulis) varied from 233 to 340 g/g DW. Six weeks after the exposure (24 h, 0100 mg Zn/1) the concentrations varied between 302 and 550 g/g DW. The concentrations of zinc increased during the 24 h exposure to 1 mg/l in the foot from 101 to 236 g/g DW; in the mantle from 116 to 193 g/g; in the visceral mass from 158 to 268 g/g and in the gills from 171 to 390 g/g. The total change, summed over these components, was from 150 to 250 g/g DW. The greatest change occurred between the first and second hour of exposure. Small changes in the exposure concentration had no influence on accumulation, but could be observed in physiological tests.
23731613|Values are presented for the water content of various tissues, freezing point depression ( T C) of the plasma and haematocrit of the blood of golden hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus Waterh.) after exposure to an ambient temperature of +4.20.5C and during hibernation (when hypothermic and when spontaneously aroused) at the same temperature. The results indicate that: 1) During short-term exposure to cold the water content of the heart, liver and kidney decreases. 2) During hibernation the brown fat, hindlimb muscle and heart of the hypothermic animal and the brown fat and liver of the active animal become dehydrated. 3) During hibernation the water content of the kidney is higher when the animal is hypothermic than when it is awake. 4) The haematocrit values are higher in hypothermia than in normothermia.
23736036|During the last decade, mechanistic approaches to understanding population/community processes have formed a significant trend in fish ecology and in ecology in general. Unlike more traditional models, mechanistic models are characterized by a high degree of lower level derivability. This means that population/community properties are derived from behavioural, physiological and/or morphological properties of individual organisms. Mechanistic approaches will introduce explicit constraints on the foraging and metabolic capacities of organisms. In taxa of size-structured populations, such as fish, additional constraints are set by ontogenetic covariance between different size stages. Theoretical studies show that one mechanistic element, the inclusion of active predator choice with respect to diet and patch use, has a stabilizing effect on predatorprey dynamics. However, the qualitative discrepancies in predictions are small between predator-prey models with optimally foraging predators, and the more traditional predator-prey models with switching and predator aggregation. Experimental studies on fish show that active predator choice is generally present, but deviations from predictions of the basic diet model are frequently observed. Both theoretical and experimental studies suggest that the restriction of classical foraging models to the predator's diet and habitat choice, and the assumption of behaviourally inflexible encounter rates are major limitations. Flexible predator foraging mode and flexible prey avoidance behaviour have substantial effects on predator-prey dynamics. In many cases, prey behaviour may be more important in determining the predator's diet than the predator's decision after encounter. Inclusion of mechanistic details of foraging and antipredator behaviour in population/community models tends to make models less general and more system-specific. We also suggest that the hierarchy community-population-individual is incomplete in many respects, necessitating an integrated mechanistic research strategy including studies at different levels. Although a mechanistic research program is expected to form a productive trend in ecology in the future, there will still be a need for less mechanistic but more general theories.
23737060|Daily defecation rate is an important variable in density estimation of African (Loxodonta africana) and Asian (Elephas maximus) elephants. However, there has been no attempt to construct a general model that predicts defecation rates. By comparing 16 published studies, we found that annual and seasonal daily defecation rates increased with annual rainfall following a power regression model. We recommend calculating defecation rates based on the regressions from our meta-analysis, rather than using a defecation rate from any single study.
23734591|Fluctuations in the breeding density of the great tit and the willow tit was studied in the Oulu area, northern Finland, in 196987. Comparison was made with the winter bird census data from Raahe, 60 km to the southwest. The aim was to investigate the effect of spatial scale on population patterns. Local great tit populations in two 50 ha plots fluctuated in synchrony (r=0.73), but winter predation in 4 winters in one of the areas weakened the correlation between the areas. It seems that spring migration does not fill vacancies left by winter predation. The agreement between the population fluctuations in the nest box areas and winter bird population indices obtained in late January censuses at Raahe was good. The annual variation of the breeding density in the two study plots was pronounced (CV=43%). This variation seems to mask the possible effects of stochastic variance and errors affected by small samples. Therefore, a 50 ha study plot seems to give reliable data in estimating population fluctuations, even on the regional scale for the great tit. The breeding density of the willow tit did not correlate significantly with winter bird census results at Raahe. The population of this species was less variable (CV=20%) compared with the great tit. I suggest that because the willow tit population studied lives in the most preferred habitats of the species, annual variation in the breeding density is dampened. In such a case, stochastic effects may efficiently contribute to the population size in a local plot.
23731800|The efficiency of trapping points was compared in quadrats of 2  2, 4  4, 8  8 and 16  16 points (spacing 15 m) set in Querceto  Carpinetum stands. The standard removal trapping procedure was used in all quadrats after prebaiting with bait containing coloured woollen threads for marking. With increasing size of the quadrat the number of trapping points not visited rose during the prebaiting period (from 17 to 65 % of points). The average catch of marked animals per trapping point was approximately the same with all quadrats. By contrast, the average catch of all animals per point decreased with increasing quadrat size. This was due to the decreasing proportion of unmarked animals in the catch. To obtain reliable data on these proportions a quadrat of 8 by 8 trapping points appears to be sufficient.
23737177|Adult birds are frequently observed consuming nestling feces. However, fecal sac ingestion has received little attention, including a lack of experimental tests to understand such behavior. Traditionally, it has been explained by the "parental nutrition hypothesis" (parents acquire nutrients and energy) or the "economic disposal hypothesis" (parents save time to do other tasks). Here, we propose a third explanation, the "nest predation hypothesis": parents ingest fecal sacs to reduce nest detectability in the presence of a nest predator. We experimentally manipulated the nest-predation risk perceived by adult common blackbirds (Turdus merula). We detected an effect of brood size in the removed and ingested feces while our experiment did not increase fecal sac comsumption. However, we found other evidences supporting that nest predation could play a more subtle role in this parental care behavior: (1) both sexes contributed equally to fecal ingestion; (2) adults ingested more feces in the population with the highest nest-predation risk; and (3) parents that ate fecal sacs increased their permanence at the nest.
23735957|For organisms with complex life cycles, hatching represents a crucial life history switch point that is often associated with high mortality rates due to predation. Not surprisingly, embryos and hatchlings of many species develop predator-induced behavioural and/or morphological responses to reduce the likelihood of mortality. Using laboratory experiments, we examined the effects of constant exposure to predator chemical cues (brown trout, Salmo trutta) on the hatching characteristics and hatchling morphology of four newt species (genus Triturus). Exposure to predator cues did not affect the timing of hatching, but led to an earlier development stage at hatching and smaller hatchling size. Furthermore, hatchlings exposed to predator chemical cues during embryonic development had shorter and shallower heads, shorter tails, and shallower tail muscles and tail fins relative to their body size than control animals. According to information available from previous studies, these morphological responses are unlikely to enhance the probability of larval survival under elevated predation risk. Hence, these morphological responses might represent non-adaptive developmental costs associated with the presence of predators.
23731540|A survey of the species composition and the numbers of the aquatic Oligochaeta in the brackish water near Tvrminne, South Finland, is given on the basis of 113 samples from 15 stations. Data are given about the distribution of the species, and their relation to depth, substratum and salinity are discussed. The following species are recorded for the first time from Finland: Amphichaeta sannio, Paranais frici, Peloscolex heterochaetus, Euilyodrilus heuscheri, E. bavaricus, Aulodrilus pigueti and Limnodriloides prostatus.
23734695|This paper reviews the foraging behaviour of temperate shrews, including the ecological and physiological constraints on foraging decisions. Ecological constraints limit food availability through resource competition and predation. The physiological constraints include the sensory capabilities of shrews, their energy requirements and their physiological capacity for food processing. Several kinds of foraging situations have been studied with shrews. This paper reviews experiments on prey selection and factors affecting it, risk-sensitive foraging, and the effects of temporal and spatial variation in prey availability on foraging decisions.
23731822|The effect of meteorological factors on fluctuations in the numbers of voles was studied in Bulgaria in 1961  1969. The fluctuations do not exhibit a single trned, and are dissimilar in the different parts of the country. In optimal conditions the effect of climatic factors is reduced to a minimum, and the fluctuations follow the normal three-year cycle. In the areas with a markedly continental climate there is a strong correlation between the fluctuations and the rainfall during the period when the over-wintering populations is being formed. The importance of winter temperatures of the soil also increase. Near the southern limit of the range of the species the density of the voles is relatively low and the fluctuations are small.
23736216|Feeding ecology of piscivorous brown trout was studied in the Pasvik watercourse, Norway and Russia. The watercourse is heavily regulated for hydroelectric purposes, and 5000 brown trout > 25 cm are stocked annually to compensate the negative impacts of the impoundments. Stocked and wild trout had almost identical diets consisting mainly of vendace Coregonus albula and partly of whitefish Coregonus lavaretus. Vendace has recently invaded the watercourse, and totally dominated the brown trout diet in the upstream part, where it has become the dominant species in the pelagic habitat. In the downstream part, where vendace were less prevalent, whitefish contributed to a larger extent to the trout diet. No correlation between predator (brown trout) and prey (vendace) lengths was found in the upstream part, and only a weak positive correlation was found in the downstream part. The length of whitefish eaten by brown trout, in contrast, showed a positive correlation with predator length in both the upstream and downstream part. The prey selection of brown trout was, to a large extent, explained by the differences in density and size-structure of coregonids in the two sampling areas.
23736955|Ecological factors affecting the diel activity of rodents in a sedgeland habitat within Biaowiea Primeval Forest were examined by live trapping. The results of a short-term but intensive trapping scheme, with checks every 3 hours, confirmed known differences in activity patterns between voles and mice. We observed an even distribution of vole activity around the 24-h cycle, rather than a marked preference for nocturnal activity in summer. Ten-year data from trapping of the same rodent assemblage dominated by Microtus oeconomus showed that an increase in population density of the dominant species resulted in more diurnal activity of those voles and the co-occurring bank voles. This shift of activity seemed to result from social tensions in a crowded habitat that mostly affected young root voles, as well as individuals of subordinated species. On the other hand, increased predation pressure exerted by weasels Mustela nivalis encouraged more nocturnal activity of voles. The shift was either a direct response of local prey to increased activity of the local diurnal predator, or the ancient anti-predatory response of mammals seeking safety in darkness.
23731682|Pike were acclimated to water temperatures of 6 C and 16 C for 16 days without food. The temperatures were then reversed for 12 hours. Blood and tissue samples were taken at both temperatures after acclimation, and 2 days, 1 week and 2 weeks after the temperature change. These temperature changes of 10 C did not affect Hb, Hcr, or plasma total protein concentrations. A clear change was seen in plasma potassium and inorganic phosphate levels at both temperatures and in plasma and muscle tissue water contents of pike transferred from 6 C to 16 C. A transitory decrease in plasma sodium and chloride values, and increase of plasma water content were found in pike after 1 week at 6 C.
23735538|Demography and space use were compared between an enclosed and an open bank vole population during a peak year breeding season in Central Finland. A metal fence confined the enclosed population. The enclosed population grew faster and reached a higher and earlier annual peak density. The pooled monthly persistence probabilities and the number of recruits per female did not differ between the populations. More females matured in the open population than in the enclosed one. The difference was likely caused by lower density of breeding females in the open population. Female home range sizes did not differ between the populations. The breeding females in the open population were at times more territorial than those in the enclosure. No fence effect, expressed as overexploitation of food resources as previously documented in genus Microtus, was observed supporting the ideas of differences in population regulation between these genera.
23734152|Polyterritorial behaviour in male Wood Warblers (Phylloscopus sibilatrix) might occur either because 1) behaving as unpaired in a secondary territory will facilitate the attraction of a second female, and/or 2) the primary territories are not of sufficient quality to support two broods. Both these hypotheses build upon the assumption that vacant areas suitable for territory establishment are available. To determine the relevance of these hypotheses the polyterritorial behaviour of Wood Warbler males was studied in three different areas. The areas differed in quality (i.e. abundance of potential food). No differences were noted in polyterritorial behaviour in the different areas. An attempt was made to determine whether empty "potential territories" were available closer to the primary territory than the secondary. The results indicate that this was the case.
23735419|The effects of two pesticide regimes (conventional, reduced) and two types of cultivation systems (customary, integrated farming practice) on ground beetles were studied in a large-scale field experiment. Plots on conventional pesticide regime were sprayed with herbicide, insecticide, fungicide and growth regulator annually. The plots on reduced pesticide regime were treated only when the control threshold was exceeded, i.e. in 1992 with a selective insecticide (pirimicarb) and in 1994 with a herbicide. The numbers of ground beetles in pitfalls differed between years and pesticide use regimes. In 1992, the broad-spectrum insecticide, dimethoate, reduced the number of Carabidae more than pirimicarb, but the effect was short, and the trend was opposite in late summer and in total catches. The number of Carabidae in pitfalls was significantly lower in the dimethoate-treated plots than in the non-treated plots in 1993 and 1994. The difference was obvious for four weeks after spraying. Prophylactic pesticide use decreased the abundance of ground beetles remarkably. However, pesticides affected only the numbers of spring (early season) species, because their active period occurred during application, the numbers returned to normal after three or four weeks, probably due to immigration from untreated areas. Effects on species dominant in autumn were not observed because these species were not exposed directly to pesticide treatments. During a period of three years, no differences were found in the numbers of ground beetles between the two cultivation systems tested.
23736062|Resource partitioning is decribed for seven carabid species, viz. Carabus problematicus, Notiophilus aquaticus, Miscodera arctica, Patrobus septentrionis, P. assimilis, Cymindis vaporariorum, and Amara alpina in a small study area (of radius 500m) from Hardangervidda, southern Norway. All but two species are well segregated by habitat and/or body size (differences in size of food items). Only M. arctica and C. vaporariorum have high habitat overlap and are similar in body size, but these species show the largest segregation in seasonal activity. The observed differences are discussed in relation to the competition hypothesis and a fluctuating and unpredictable environment.
23731602|Laboratory mice, on exposure to cold, show a better thermoregulatory ability at 16.00 hr than at 05.00 hr. The activity of noradrenergic neurones in the brain, measured as noradrenaline depletion, is higher at 16.00 hr than at 05.00 hr. It is suggested that there is a close interaction between the arousal system and the hypothalamic thermoregulatory system, which is reflected in the concomitant diurnal variations in the transmitter mechanisms involved in these control systems.
23736884|Two key life history attributes are temporal reproductive patterns and inter- and intraspecific variation in clutch size. In this work, we collected individuals of Physalaemus gracilis in Espinas stream (Maldonado, Uruguay) to analyze the correlation of activity with environmental variables and to evaluate the influence of reproductive investment on the body size-fecundity (BSF) relationship. In contrast to previous reports, the reproductive activity peaked in spring and was not correlated with temperature or rainfall in either sex. Regression analysis showed that the BSF relationship varied with size, and that larger females had a steeper slope than smaller females. Reproductive investment data indicate that smaller females invested less energy in their offspring than larger females, which is probably due to the imposed cost of continued growth.
23735832|Winter grazing of the Norwegian lemming (Lemmus lemmus) was studied at Kilpisjrvi at the edge of the Scandinavian mountain chain during a moderate population peak and the year after. Signs of lemming grazing were recorded soon after snow melted along elevational and topographic gradients on three mountains. On all mountains in both winters, grazing peaked at the lower part of the alpine zone and then declined both in the forest zone and on the highest summits. Grazing was most intense in snow-protected depressions and slopes, whereas hillocks with thin snow were very little grazed. In the first winter, grazing was most intense in the mountains juxtaposed to the Scandes. In the following winter, grazing had clearly declined on these mountains, but remained unchanged at the most distant mountain from the Scandes. Topography and snow conditions played a key role for over-wintering of lemmings, but no clear link between annual variation in snow conditions and grazing patterns could be detected. The spatio-temporal pattern of lemming grazing conformed to a travelling wave type population dynamics.
23735348|The freshwater mussel Anodonta anatina was exposed for 8 or 10 days in water (3 mg Ca/l) acidified with sulphuric acid to give pH values ranging from 4.8 to 2.3 and 7.3. Exposures at pH 2.3 and 2.6 resulted in a mortality rate of 63% in 8 days but exposure at a higher pH did not affect survival. No statistical differences were detected in the shell index (shell weight / shell length  breadth) or the body condition index (100  dry weight / shell length) between exposure groups. However, dissolution of the shell periostracum layer was observed at all pHs below 3.9. Acidic exposure, in general, caused a decline in the hemolymph sodium and chloride concentrations, and a decrease in the soft tissue sodium. An increase of calcium and potassium concentrations in the hemolymph was also found.
23737097|We compared morphology of Palythoa caribaeorum (number of polyps, area, diameter and height) occupying three sites located at different distances from a harbor area and with different environmental conditions, such as sedimentation. Seasonality was also considered by comparing morphology during the wet and dry seasons. GLM analyses showed significant main and first-order interaction effects between sites and seasons for each of the four morphological variables measured. Only at the site directly in front of the harbor area there was no seasonal variation. At the other two sites, no significant differences were found when the average pairwise distance of each morphological character was compared between seasons for each site. This indicates that these characters vary in a similar way and suggests growth conditions intrinsic to the species. Environmental homogeneity at the harbor area seems to promote homogeneous morphometry, which indicates different biological strategies and suggests that this species adapts to distinct environments.
23736000|In the present study, we focus on the time budgets around feeding behaviour, by observing the behaviour of 24 field voles Microtus agrestis (Linnaeus, 1761) in the laboratory, exposed to no odour, faeces from a least weasel Mustela nivalis Linnaeus, 1766 and a domestic rabbit Oryctolagus cuniculus (Linnaeus, 1758). The voles did show a comprehensive response when exposed to weasel odour, while exposure to rabbit odour caused only a single minor effect. The difference in response to the two odours rules out neophobia as the underlying cause of the behavioural changes. Voles exposed to weasel odour were more inactive, ate less of a high preference food that was placed far from the nest-box, displayed a smaller variation of behaviour types and their activities were overall more interrupted. Our study confirmed that the mere risk of predation affects voles' feeding behaviour. This may explain indirect effects of predation risk on other processes like reproduction.
23732513|Hibernation in Finnish garden dormice was studied in constant and undisturbed conditions at an ambient temperature of 4.2  0.5 C during different phases of the periodic hibernation. A body temperature 0  1 C above the ambient temperature, a heart rate of 2  13 beats/min, and Cheyne-Stokes respiration were characteristic features of deep hibernation. At the beginning of hibernation there was a transition period of about one month. During that time arousals were more frequent, the heart rate higher, apnoeic periods shorter and weight loss per day greater than later. Towards the end of hibernation the hypothermic periods were short, while the normothermic periods lengthened throughout the winter. Clear differences were detected between spontaneous and induced arousals.
23731777|In January 1973, a parous female and at least four winter-born young root voles belonging to three age categories (age maxima 30, 40, and 50 days) were trapped at Kilpisjrvi Biological Station, Finnish Lapland. This is the first observation of winter breeding in the species. The main food plant of the root vole at Kilpisjrvi is Eriophorum angustifolium. The main winter food seems to be the succulent subterranean parts, chiefly first-year rhizomes. These nutrient-rich rhizomes usually produce a new sterile shoot the following spring, but in 1972, after an unusually long and warm summer, new shoots were formed in the autumn. It is suggested that the breeding of root voles that winter was due to the peculiar autumn food conditions of 1972.
23734198|Part of the mandible of the wolverine Plesiogulo crassa from the Lower Turolian continental deposits of the lower Axios valley (Thessaloniki, Greece) is described. Plesiogulo is well known from China, India and Central Europe but is now identified with certainty for the first time from southern Europe. It was previously possibly known from some isolated teeth from Spain and some pieces of bone from Pikermi. Plesiogulo crassa is a medium to large member of the Plesiogulo family, with a protrusion from the cingulum at the posterior end of P3 and P4, a large talonid, and a metaconid on M1. It lived in Eurasia during the TurolianRuscinian.
23735920|On the basis of an opening address given at the 6th International Woodpecker Symposium in Mekrijrvi, Finland, on 2730 August 2005, and papers presented there, a brief introductory review on population biology and habitat requirements of woodpeckers, woodpeckers in changing environments, and woodpeckers as indicators of forest diversity is presented.
23731578|Marked individuals of Rana temporaria and R. arvalis were observed to move within a fairly small area during the same summer. The differences between the first and second captures and the first and third captures of R. temporaria did not differ significantly. The longest distance recorded for this species in the same summer was 60 m and the median distance between the points of capture and recapture was 6.5 m. No differences were observed between the movements of females and males and of one-year-old immatures and adults. In the following years part of the common frogs returned to their earlier territories. The average distance between the captures in successive years was 22 m, and the median 10.6 m. The area of movement of the moor frog seems to be smaller than that of the common frog. The median distance between the points of capture and recapture was 3.8 m.
23734173|Methodological problems of censusing land birds in archipelagoes of habitat fragments on the basis of practical experience from the land archipelago are discussed. Two main conclusions arise: (1) Quantitative data must be used; and (2) the scale of the census work must match the scale of the processes that are studied. Even when peculiar patterns are observed in the distribution of some species in habitat archipelagoes, the importance of habitat fragmentation per se as an ecological factor can be assessed only after competing explanations have been ruled out.
23735624|When caring for offspring several factors influence an animal's decision concerning how much risk to take. The value of the offspring and the parent's probability of future reproduction are, among others, two main determinants of risk-taking, and there is often a trade-off between the two. Here I discuss how predator avoidance influences the outcome of the conflict between parental care and the individual's own survival, using examples from reproducing fish. Factors discussed are offspring age, number and vulnerability, and age of the parent, in relation to the amount of risks taken in order to maximize fitness.
23736759|Inclusive fitness theory explains how helpers reproduce indirectly via the breeders they help. The inclusive fitness helpers get depends on their relatedness to the breeder(s), colony productivity and fertility of the breeder(s). It is therefore critical for workers to assess breeder fertility. There is strong evidence that, in wasps, bees and ants, the cuticular hydrocarbon (CHC) profiles of breeders are a signal of fertility. Chemical and behavioural evidence suggests that linear alkanes are not involved in communication, whereas methyl-branched alkanes and alkenes may constitute, or at least contribute to, the fertility signal. The correlation between CHCs and reproduction is well established, as well as the fact that CHCs are detected and that workers react accordingly. However, whether CHC profiles are honest is yet to be demonstrated. Hormonal and genetic studies, such as inactivating genes regulating the production of alkenes, are promising approaches to investigate the honesty of CHC profiles.
23734075|Temperatures in open or closed snow burrows of the Siberian tit and the redpoll were examined experimentally in northern Finland. In addition, the value of tree holes and snow burrows as shelters for the Siberian tit was compared on the basis of the observed thermal conditions. Both the snow burrows and the tree holes warmed to a constant temperature within half an hour. The difference in temperature between the snow burrows or the tree holes and the ambient air increased as the air became colder. In spite of the higher temperature in the snow burrows the Siberian tit preferred to spend the night in tree holes. Neither redpolls nor Siberian tits could always remain for long in closed snow burrows; some birds died if forced to remain there for more than one hour.
23737100|Sex identification in birds through molecular methods is an important tool for the management and preservation of species. Advances in real-time PCR-based techniques overcome some limitations of the more classical molecular analysis methodologies. Here, we describe a new approach, based on high-resolution melting (HRM) curve analysis of the CHD1 gene, for avian gender identification. This method was successfully applied to carry out sexual differentiation based on melting curve patterns in common quail (Coturnix c. coturnix) and Japanese quail (Coturnix c. japonica). We clearly demonstrate the efficacy of a simple HRM assay for a rapid and efficient gender differentiation of these subspecies and propose this methodology as a valuable addition to expand the applicability of real-time PCR-based technology in avian molecular sexing.
23736723|While habitat use by fallow deer has previously been described on the basis of direct observations, this paper presents similar data on radio-collared individuals. Our data show that annual home ranges of males (at 9.75 km2) appeared much larger than those of females (2.1 km2). Thickets and meadows were the most often used habitats, while mature forests and young plantations were least utilised. Diurnal and nocturnal habitat selection patterns differed significantly. The primary difference was the use of meadows, which was higher at night than during the day. Results on the representativeness of diurnal habitat use to 24-hour data were equivocal. Although daytime and 24-hour habitat use patterns were similar, day vs. night and night vs. 24-hour habitat use patterns differed significantly. Our results suggest that when open habitats are involved, the representativeness of daytime data to 24-hour habitat use may be less than complete. This study also indicates that calculations of habitat use by fallow deer based on direct observations are likely to underestimate the use of closed habitats.
23731808|The Standard Minimum grid is used both for live trapping and removal trapping. Several methods of population estimation are applied to the data. Of those tested, the Jolly procedure gave best estimates based on live trapping, and the Hansson method gave best results from removal trapping. Results are based upon a test of the procedures conducted in two large enclosures with known population densities of rodents.
23734147|The growth of nestling Pied Flycatchers in relation to egg volume was studied in NW Finnish Lapland (69 03 N, 20 50 E) in 1982. The nestlings were divided into two groups, those hatched from small (<1.49 cm3, n = 21) and large eggs (1.49 cm3, n = 41), respectively. Nestlings hatched from large eggs were heavier than nestlings from small eggs throughout the nestling period (15 days), but the weight difference between the groups was not statistically significant after the 10th day. The nestlings hatched from large eggs were larger (in terms of the wing length) at hatching than nestlings from small eggs, and the difference between the groups was significant also at fledging. Partial correlations showed that towards the end of the nestling period the larger reserves of large eggs accelerated the growth of young.
23731762|In the winters (February-early May) of 1972  1974, 1077 willow grouse (Lagopus lagopus) were caught, mainly by snaring, in Enonteki and Utsjoki, Finnish Fjeld Lapland. Among the juvenile birds the sex ratio was even in every case studied; among the adults the sex ratio at Enonteki was even, but at Utsjoki males predominated. There was no evidence of segregation of the sexes. The percentages of juveniles were lowest at both Enonteki (14.6) and Utsjoki (37.1) in the winter of 1972, when these populations were in a cyclic low, and highest (63.0 and 74.0 %, respectively) during the cyclic high in the winter of 1974. The corresponding figures for the winter of 1973 were 43.3 and 41.0 %. Although the age ratios of the two populations followed similar general trends, local populations showed significant variation in the percentages of juvenile birds.
23735391|Spacing behaviour of breeding field voles (Microtus agrestis) was studied by livetrapping wild populations in an abandoned field and a grassy spruce forest in Konnevesi, Central Finland. Spacing behaviour varied between sexes, cohorts, habitats and in time. Females in the field had the most extensive home range overlap. Overwintered females had overlapping home ranges in late spring on the edges of the field, but became more territorial in early summer as they colonized the open field. Later, as females of the year outnumbered overwintered females, the home range overlap correlated positively with population density. In the suboptimal habitat, the spruce forest, the home ranges of females were larger and overlapped less than those in the field. Also the males had overlapping home ranges in late spring but became subsequently more territorial. The overlap between their home ranges responded on the spatial distribution of females in early summer but on temporal distribution of oestrous females later as the breeding was synhcronized. The plasticity of spacing behaviour allows field voles to cope with changing habitats.
23731654|The hot rod technique of Valpas for the extraction of microarthropods is compared with Macfadyen's high-gradient extractor and the standard Tullgren funnel without heating. The hand-sorting and funnel methods for collecting medium-sized Arthropods are compared and criticized, with special reference to spiders. Various heating arrangements have been tested in large Tullgren funnels.
23736964|Using questionnaires completed by 284 national park field workers I evaluated the occurrence and population dynamics of large mammals from 1996 to 2005 in all 23 Polish national parks. A total of 29 species were found: 15 carnivores, 8 even-toed ungulates, 2 lagomorphs and 4 large rodents. The greatest population growth was seen in the beaver Castor fiber, the red fox Vulpes vulpes, and three non-native species (American mink Mustela vison, racccoon Procyon lotor and fallow deer Dama dama) while the greatest population decline occurred in two other non-native species (muskrat Ondatra zibethicus and mouflon Ovis orientalis musimon) and to a lesser degree in the native brown hare Lepus europaeus. The richest and most natural large mammalian fauna occurred in the Carpathian parks (Bieszczady NP, Magura NP, Tatra NP and Pieniny NP) as well as in the eastern part of the country (especially Biaowiea NP and Biebrza NP), and the poorest was found in the Sudeten parks and in the west. There was a statistically significant correlation between mammal species richness and park size, longitude as well as the degree of disturbance in and around the park (negative correlation).
23736098|In the Baltic Sea, there are considerable environmental gradients from north to south and from littoral areas to the open sea. These gradients include both abiotic (e.g. salinity and temperature) and biotic parameters (e.g. prey and predator abundances). The Baltic Sea thus forms a variable, and with respect to salinity, extreme, environment for a typical limnetic and warm water species like pikeperch. It is forced to spawn in shallow inlets, estuaries and bays where salinity is lower and temperature higher than in exposed areas. Pikeperch occur mainly in eutrophicated archipelagoes and bays where the spring and summer temperatures are high. It has expanded its distribution in recent decades, in response to increased coastal eutrophication. Pikeperch is also favoured by high summer temperatures, as shown by a positive correlation between temperature and year-class strength. Pikeperch populations are heavily affected by human disturbances and exploitation. In many areas it is economically the most important species. The effects of intensive fishery on pikeperch populations are largely unknown, as is the ecological significance of pikeperch as a piscivorous predator.
23736856|I studied arrival time, breeding phenology, and breeding success in relation to the age class (second year and older) of male red-breasted flycatchers for six breeding seasons (20002005) in the primaeval Biaowiea Forest, eastern Poland. Older males, i.e. older than two years (ASY), arrived on average five days earlier than younger, second-year (SY) males. Moreover, early-arriving ASY males and experienced males were more likely to pair than were SY males and males that arrived later. Arrival time and age of males also influenced the first egg date of their mates. Arrival time, first egg date and age of male, however, did not influence clutch size, breeding success, or the number of offspring fledged. The richness and abundance of food under natural conditions may reduce the influence of age and experience on feeding effort and, as a consequence, reproductive success. High predation pressure may favour a "no restraint" breeding strategy and young birds should take full advantage of every breeding opportunity.
23731577|The breeding biology and several aspects of the behaviour of the black-throated diver were studied in 1961  1968 on the oligotrophic lake Suonteenjrvi, central Finland. Black-throated divers occupy territories of 100  150 hectares immediately after the spring migration. The first birds arrive around late April, at the time of the melting of the ice, and migration is completed by the end of May. Breeding begins 5  20 days after the territory has been occupied. Most black-throated divers breed every year. The nests are nearly always on small islands, 90 % on the northern shores, usually on sand or turf, dry at the time of laying but not more than 120 cm from the shoreline. In addition to the true nest, the male builds up to 3 false nests. The clutch (2, occasionally 1 or 3 eggs) is laid within 2  7 days. Incubation is mainly performed by the female, and about 90 % of the young hatch in the period between June 7  30. The brood stays with the parent birds until autumn. During the first ten days the young feed on aquatic invertebrates, but later they catch small slender fish, not more than 500 g per day. The hooded crow and man (with dog) cause about 77 % mortality of the eggs; the mortality of the young is of the same order of magnitude. During the whole summer season the adult birds gather in flocks, which the young birds join only in October. In the breeding season the black-throated divers have a complicated signalling system consisting of different calls and display patterns. These signals as well as those connected with the behaviour in the flocks are described. The black-throated diver is active during the whole light period of the day, with definite peaks in the morning and evening. Adult birds were observed to undertake dives lasting up to 3  5 minutes and extending to 29 m depth and 400  600 m in the horizontal plane.
23735707|Reproductive and physiological parameters were studied during the spawning period in perch (Perca fluviatilis L.) and roach (Rutilus rutilus L.) downstream of two pulp and paper mills and reference sites in southern Lake Saimaa, Finland. Plasma 17-estradiol (E2) and testosterone (T) concentrations in female perch and roach decreased during the spawning period. At one of the mill sites, plasma E2 and T concentrations in pre-spawn female and male perch and male roach were significantly higher. As compared with the reference sites, liver ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase (EROD) activity in exposed perch and male roach was 29%91% higher, and for exposed female roach it was 53%79% lower. In contrary to perch, EROD activity in male roach was higher than in females. Resin acids concentration in the bile of exposed fish (0.22.0 g ml-1) was higher than at the reference sites, whereas chlorophenolics concentration was similar (0.40.7 g ml-1). Results indicate that exposure to pulp and paper mill compounds still exists, although much lower than before implementation of ECF bleaching and activated sludge wastewater treatment at the mills. Effects of pulp and paper mill effluent on reproduction of spawning fish were inconclusive.
23735577|In this commentary we summarize mainly our own recent data on mating behaviour and reproduction in cyclic microtines, the bank vole Clethrionomys glareolus and the field vole Microtus agrestis, under increased predation risk by small mustelids. We suggest that breeding delay might be an adaptation to cyclically fluctuating predation risk, with fitness consequuences for the individuals who chose the tactic of delayed reproduction during the population crash. This antipredatory adaptation should be stronger than and possibly additive to the density-mediated behavioural differences between cyclic and non-cyclic voles. Further we suggest that the bank vole and the field vole, cycling synchronously in our study area and forming the main food resource for small mustelids, should exhibit similar behavioural responses to the presence of small mustelids.
23735410|The aim of this study was to compare relative abundance of epigeal arthropods caught with either unfenced pitfall traps, traps within fences or D-Vac suction sampling in arable habitats (two fields and two meadows). From our results we conclude that short-term D-Vac suction sampling is not appropriate for the three taxa Carabidae, Staphylinidae, and Lycosidae because relatively large and heavy individuals are underestimated. Fenced and unfenced traps yielded different estimates of the relative abundance of Carabidae and Staphylinidae: unfenced traps overestimated the percentage of Carabidae present but underestimated the Staphylinidae. The dominance structure of the carabid assemblages at the sampling sites was more similar for the two trapping methods than for the four sites. In arable fields body size seemed to be the main factor in determining the catch, but in meadows the trapping efficiency was possibly influenced by other variables. Additional laboratory experiments were carried out to observe the influence of behaviour on pitfall trap efficiency. Species specific behaviour was shown to bias results even between species of the same genus (Poecilus). We suggest that in arable habitats, fenced pitfall traps should be used at least in addition to unfenced traps. The former allow the standardisation of data to a certain area, whereas the latter are needed to sample large species and to determine activity patterns.
23736702|We tested two hypotheses that assume aspects of host-plant quality restrict the current distribution of Parnassius apollo. The "foreign host-plant hypothesis" states that host plants from outside the current range of P. apollo are, for some reason, unsuitable for the developing larvae. The "heavy-metal hypothesis" specifically attributes this unsuitability to a higher concentration of heavy metals (especially Cd) outside the current species' range than inside. We fed 60 larvae from two populations with host plants from their place of origin (control) or from an area outside the current distribution of the species (treatment). Treatment plants had lower Cd levels, which allowed us to separate between the two hypotheses. Larvae in the treatment group experienced positive effects on fitness-related traits such as weight at pupation, length of the last instar and food consumption. Hence, Cd appears to have a negative effect on developing P. apollo larvae and may therefore restrict the recolonisation of current populations into their former range. However, larvae from one population tolerated a concentration of Cd equally high as what was previously shown to be lethal. Such tolerance undermines the generality of attributing the decline and restrictions of P. apollo populations to high Cd concentrations.
23733684|The genus Equus, as currently accepted, is polyphyletic in origin. Equus, subgenus Dolichohippus, including the living E. grevyi, of Africa, and the extinct E. simplicidens, of the Blancan age of North America, are descendent from Dinohippus, of Hemphillian age. Asinus, including the living Old World Asinus (A.) asinus, Asinus (A.) somaliensis and Asinus (Hemionus) hemionus, as well as the bulk of American Pleistocene horses, are descendent from Hemphillian Astrohippus. True Equus (Equus) may never have occured in the Pleistocene of North America, and was probably derived from a species of Dinohippus or Equus (Dolichohippus) that reached Asia in late Hemphillian or early Blancan time. A key character identifying Hemphillian and post-Hemphillian genera is the depth of the ectoflexid in the lower molar teeth. This criterion aids in the separation of groups of species into genera at almost 100 % level. A summary of Hemphillian, Blancan and Pleistocene horses is included.
23736043|The life history of Mysis oculata was studied in Skerjafjord on the west coast of Iceland in 19851986. The mysid had a one year life cycle. Newly released juveniles were found in May; they grew up and matured during the summer and reached the immature stage by SeptemberOctober. Breeding females occurred in the samples from January to April and the maximum number of larvae carried by a female was 87. The marsupial incubation time was estimated to be about 110120 days. The daily growth rate of juveniles was 0.08 mm during the summer months, while in early winter sexually maturing individuals were growing at a rate of 0.05 mm per day. The maximum size of males and females was 1920 mm and 2223 mm respectively.
23734107|The breeding and late summer densities of the hazel grouse Bonasa bonasia were studied in two southern Finnish forest areas. In Lammi in South Hme the breeding density obtained by the mapping method was clearly higher (8.8 pairs/km2 in 1979, 14.3 pairs/km2 in 1980) than in Kirkkonummi in Uusimaa (5.3 pairs/km2 in 1980). The average efficiency of the line transect method compared to the mapping density was 46 % for the main belt and 54 % for the survey belt. Compared to the brood census densities, the efficiency of this method (survey belt) was 47 % in Lammi but only 11 % in Kirkkonummi. The latter result indicates that sometimes the line transect efficiency for the hazel grouse may be very low. The late summer densities obtained by brood censuses (made on straight compass lines) were of about the same magnitude, or somewhat higher, than the mapping densities, and higher than the densities obtained by route censuses (not compass lines) made in nearby areas. The results suggest that satisfactorily reliable estimates of breeding densities of the hazel grouse may be obtainable with late summer brood censuses.
23734463|Aradus cinnamomeus Panzer, the pine bark bug, is a pest of young Scots pines which exhibits a two-year pattern of periodicity in most parts of Europe. The alternate-year populations live almost exclusively in different geographical areas. Geographical variation in the developmental time, absolute and relative densities of these populations, the densities in environmentally extreme areas and in zones of overlap were studied from the eastern coast of Sweden across the land archipelago and Finland up to the Arctic Circle in the north. The densities of bugs were high everywhere in dry upland forest sites studied in southern Finland and decreased gradually northwards, although spatial variation within localities was great. In the archipelago the absolute densities were low. No decrease in bug density was observed in the narrow transition zone between the altemate-year populations. Both in the north and in the southern archipelago the bug appeared to have a life cycle of three years. The change in the life cycle strategy seems to be correlated with the long-term means of the highest daily temperatures in mid-summer, roughly with the 21C isotherm of July. In the area of the three-year life cycle there does not exist such a distinct numerical dominance of one cohort over another as the parapatry of the alternate-year populations, but the three cohorts usually coexist in relatively low densities. One of them usually slightly predominates, resulting in a temporally changing mosaic-like biogeographical pattern. It is suggested that the change in the life-cycle period itself can cause the breakdown of the dominance of one generation. Computer simulations using a deterministic model lead to a conclusion that in the system of three competitive cohorts the rate of disappearance of a smaller cohort or cohorts is substantially lower than in the system of two competitive cohorts, although the intensity of competition would be the same. A possible breakdown mechanism of the reproductive isolation of sympatric but allochronic bugs is described. Gene exchange between even/odd-year populations is suggested as happening via mutual contact with the three-year life-cycle.
23733703|The habitat preferences of Tardigrades are correlated with the sequence of decay of the substrate. The commonest species are restricted to specific microhabitats in the samples and their presence is mutually exclusive. If two Tardigrade species occupy adjacent microhabitats in a breakdown sequence, they should be found together more frequently than would be expected by chance. On this basis a simple model of the spatial relationships of the eight commonest species in Finland is presented. The model is consistent with the known distribution of the species involved.
23735783|The reproductive output (ovulation rate, fertility, barrenness, productivity, pre-natal mortality) of the red fox Vulpes vulpes (n = 317) has been studied in a Mediterranean region (Pisa province, Central Italy) in 1992 by post-mortem analysis. On average, female foxes shed 5.03  1.27 ova, had 3.95  1.25 placental scars and 3.88  1.55 live embryos. Twenty percent of foxes were barren, and intra-uterine mortality was common: 47% of females lost at least one ovum before implantation; 43.5% of yearlings ( 1 year old) lost at least one foetus, whereas only 16.7% of adults did so. Male yearlings had lower testis mass than adults. The reproductive output was higher for heavier females, but marginally so for those with greater head and body length. Barrenness and intra-uterine mortality were not related to body size. Amount of body fat and age were unrelated to reproductive output, with the exception of post-implantation mortality (higher for yearlings). All these results suggest that the reproduction of the red fox was not limited directly by food availability, but rather by social modulation. The reproductive output in this population was low in comparison with other populations, in spite of faster physical development. A review of the literature suggests compensatory reproduction in the red fox, litter size being larger in areas of higher mortality.
23736119|In order to analyse the intra- and interpopulation homogeneity/heterogeneity of the pikeperch (Stizostedion lucioperca), the phenotypic variability of morphological characters was estimated on the basis of a biometric analysis of 31 morphometric and 10 meristic characters in 284 specimens collected at four different sections along the Yugoslav sector of the Danube, during 19861989. An ANCOVA of morphological characters, with fish size as a covariate, was performed for analysed samples and between males/females and adults/juveniles respectively. Comparison was also made with the pikeperch samples from the Dnepr and the West Dvina (Zhukov 1965). The results were tested with a GT2-method for multiple unplanned comparison of means, or with a t-test where appropriate. The differentiation between populations from three geographically distinct and isolated areas (DanubeDneprDvina) is much greater than between the four samples from the Danube. The results of the variability analysis of morphological characters and known pikeperch habits (first of all having in mind the so-called "homing" effect  returning to the same spawning place from year to year), suggest that the four samples from the Yugoslav part of the Danube most probably represent four distinct populations. The presence of reproductive isolation still has to be proved through experimental marking. Since this analysis takes into account only the phenotypic variation, it would be necessary to study the genetic differentiation between populations, as well, by biochemical or DNA-sequencing methods.
23734452|Larvae of Macoma balthica (L.) developed by chance in the laboratory. Experiments were made to spawn clams in the laboratory and to rear the eggs into larvae. The egg cell cleavage proceeded in an ordinary way typical of bivalves. Trocophore larvae developed at 4C within 23 days. The velum began to form in 5-day-old larvae. Some larvae lived for one week, by which time they had a small membranous larval shell. The results of these experiments were promising; a better yield of larvae and perhaps also larvae in later stages might be obtained if more sophisticated culturing methods were to be used. A note is given on intraovarian egg cleavage in some (diseased?) M. balthica females.
23731724|Hibernation was studied in French garden dormice in constant and undisturbed conditions at an TA of 4.2  0.5 C during 167  194 days. The animals were maintained in constant darkness and were neither fed nor given water. Characteristic features of deep hibernation are a body temperature of 0  1 C above the TA, Cheyne-Stokes respiration, and a heart rate of 6  13 beats per min during apnoeic periods, with higher values during breathing periods in midwinter. The mean duration of hibernation periods was significantly longer in males than in females. Towares the end of the hibernation season only males had a tendency to shorter hibernation periods. At the beginning of the hibernation season there was a transition period of about two months. During that time arousals were more frequent, the mean duration of breathing periods longer, weight loss per day as a percentage of the continuously decreasing body weight greater and the animals more susceptible to small mechanical disturbances than later. A comparison between French and Finnish garden dormice in the same environmental conditions revealed that the mean duration of hibernation periods was significantly longer in the French animals. Susceptibility to small mechanical disturbances was detected in the Finnish animals in the beginning and towards the end of the hibernation season, but in the French animals only in the beginning.
23734538|The effects of short term (24 h) exposure to copper and cadmium on the survival and subsequent physiology of the common mussel Mytilus edulis were studied in brackish water in aquaria. The LC 50 (6 C) for copper was 0.4 ppm and for cadmium 4.0 ppm. Activity was defined as the rate of opening of the valves under exposure (EC 50: Cu 0.06 ppm, Cd 12.5 ppm), the growing capacity of the byssal apparatus, byssogenesis (EC 50: Cu 0.2 ppm, Cd 0.5 ppm), and the beating of the cilia (EC 50: Cu 1.4 ppm, Cd 5.1 ppm). In copper solutions, but not in cadmium, the rate of opening of the valves showed a negative regression with the concentration. The proportion of mussels that opened their valves under cadmium exposure correlated with the survival rate. In copper solutions the correlation was not significant, since already very low concentrations resulted in closure. There were differences between the tolerance of different populations to these metals. Small individuals were more resistant to cadmium and more sensitive to copper than large ones. No changes in histological sections from the digestive glands of exposed bivalves could be observed in light microscope studies. Mucus accumulated on the surface of the siphons of mussels exposed to copper. Cadmium caused loosening of epithelial cells. Gill filaments parted from each other after breaking of the interfilamentar junction.
23731365|Aedes sticticus (Meigen) is a univoltine vernal mosquito that is associated with flood plains of rivers and major streams over much of Holarctica. Its larvae mature in water as the temperature rises with the advancing season. Larvae in instars 1 and 2 withstand cold water better than they do warm water, and larvae in the last instar fare better in warmer water. Larvae grew best at 21 when fed 110 mgm of yeast daily in water where a choice of depth (0  80 mm) was permitted. Alternating temperatures that provided a mean of 20 for larval life prolonged larval life and caused the least mortality.
23737036|The aim of this study was to compare measurement error (ME) between two different methods of measuring cranial traits: manual method, using calipers; and computerized one, using digitalized pictures and specialized software. Three observers measured 10 craniometric characters in 12 skulls of the common house mouse Mus musculus domesticus. Every measurement was repeated three times with each method. Nested ANOVA was used to separate the total variance into within- and among-individual components. Then the effect of trait size on ME was tested. Measuring method was the factor with higher values of ME, followed respectively by observer and replicate. Intra-observer variation was lower than inter-observer variation in both methods. However, repeatabilities were higher in the computerized procedure. Computerized measuring procedure was more precise and less influenced by factors increasing ME than manual method in most assessed traits.
23734098|Rainbow trout were exposed for 3, 11 and 30 days to sulphate soap preparation (KME-Sa), the composition of which resembles that of unbleached kraft pulp mill effluents. Test concentrations of KME-Sa corresponded to 0.3, 0.15 and 0.08 times that of 96h LC50, respectively. An additional experiment was conducted with KME-Sa supplemented with four chlorophenols which occur in bleached kraft pulp mill effluents (KME-Sa+CP). In all experiments high concentrations of resin acids and chlorophenols were detected in the bile. Since, in the 30-day experiments, the concentration of resin acids in the blood plasma was the same as in the bile, the possible concentrating step of free acid across the hepatocytes cannot be very steep. Of the chlorophenols, however, free 2,3,4,6-tetrachlorophenol accumulated to a level 20 times higher in the bile than into the plasma. Residues of resin acids in gill tissues were much lower than those in the brain. Of the different acids, however, dehydroabietic acid seemed to be largely excluded, in comparison with its plasma level, from the central nervous system of trout. Blood analyses revealed the most severe physiological consequences in trout exposed for 11 days at 0.15  96h LC50. Significant decreases in blood haematocrit, plasma protein concentration and condition factor were detected in these fishes whereas their leucocrit value was increased. Of these alterations none was observed in the 3-day experiment to KME-Sa or in the 30-day experiment to KME-Sa+CP, but 30-day exposure to KME-Sa caused a significant decrease in the plasma protein level. The liver activity of UDP-glucuronyltransferase was significantly reduced in all the experiments by an average of 24 to 40 %. Hyperbilirubinaemia was followed only in the 11-day group, but decreased "direct"/total ratios of plasma bilirubin also indicated impaired glucuronidation of this substance in the 30-day experiments. The relative weight of the liver (LSI) was notably increased in the 11-day experiment, whereas in fish exposed for 30 days to KME-Sa+CP the LSI was decreased.
23735518|Seasonal variation in microhabitat use of the predaceous stream insects Diura nanseni (Plecoptera), and Rhyacophila nubila and R. obliterata (Trichoptera) was studied in northern Finland. Samples were taken in May, August and October from a 2nd order forest stream, and in June and July from a lake outlet where R. obliterata was the only predatory species. Prey, especially simuliid and chironomid larvae, were aggregated on all sampling occasions at both sites. D. nanseni aggregated only in August, and prey availability did not affect its microhabitat use. R. nubila was most strongly aggregated in October and May, favouring stones with high numbers of sedentary prey which also formed the major part of its diet on all sampling occasions. R. obliterata aggregated where simuliids, its most important prey, were abundant. Microhabitat selection and aggressive defence by the prey, and mutual interference between the predators, are suggested as reasons for the lack of aggregative response by D. nanseni. In contrast, both rhyacophilid species aggregated strongly to microhabitats with temporarily high availability of semi-sessile prey.
23736090|Although a native of the United Kingdom fish fauna, the distribution of the ruffe (Gymnocephalus cernuus) was, until recently, largely restricted to lowland England. However, it has now been introduced, probably by anglers fishing with ruffe as bait, to numerous localities elsewhere in the UK. This expanion has provoked concern because it has included introductions to lakes containing nationally-rare Coregonus albula or C. lavaretus. This paper documents the history of these introductions to Loch Lomond (Scotland), Llyn Tegid (Wales) and Bassenthwaite Lake (England), describes pertinent aspects of the local ecology of ruffe, and discusses implications for the continued survival of the coregonids.
23734601|Forestry considerably alters the relative proportion of different forest succession stages nearly all over the world. Sedentary and migratory birds do not respond equally to habitat changes, as migrants may benefit or suffer from silviculture on both their breeding and wintering grounds. We examined the abundance of tropical migrants in temperate breeding passerine communities using 30 published (and one unpublished) studies of forest succession from North America, Europe and East Asia. The proportion of tropical migrants is highest in intermediate stages of forest succession in Europe, whereas it increases with increasing stand age in eastern North America. In western North America the proportion is relatively even in intermediate and late phases of succession, after having increased from a low proportion in early successional habitats. In Japan, the proportion of tropical migrants in breeding assemblages is highest in the early stages, it then decreases, and increases again in late successional forests. Density trends of tropical migrants along the succession gradient follow the trends observed in relative proportion, except in Japan, where the density tends to increase. We also studied the relationship between the migratory habit and breeding habitat structure of species using information provided in handbooks. There is a significant negative correlation between the length of migration and closeness of breeding habitat in passerine bird fauna in East Asia and Europe, whereas North America shows no significant relationship. The results support the hypothesis of Bilcke that the habitat use of migrants in the breeding area is affected by the habitat availability in wintering areas. Of the wintering areas concerned, Africa includes the largest proportion of open habitats, whereas the Caribbean area and northern South America include mainly forests. We emphasize that it is impossible to give universally valid recommendations for the conservation of tropical migrant birds; instead we emphasize the greater importance of the specific requirements of each species.
23736764|In some Polistes species, hibernation begins with the formation of clusters. Pre-hibernating aggregations may be evolutionarily favoured because they provide a dilution effect, better active defence from predators, and insulation from cold and/or dryness. Many authors have suggested that the pre-hibernating phase represents a socially inactive period for wasps. This paradigm strongly influenced the direction of research; in fact, most studies on Polistes behaviour focus on the nesting phase. It has been demonstrated, however, that many social interactions occur in aggregations, and that a division of labour is also present in these aggregations. Here, we evaluate the influence of cluster formation and social networks on the main aspects of wasp social behaviour, such as the consequences on kin-assortment (philopatry and tolerance level), variation in chemical recognition, division of labour, and helping behaviour.
23735621|Predator facilitation occurs when prey face two or more predator species and cannot forage and be safe from both types of predators simultaneously: avoiding one predator necessarily leads to increased exposure to the other. Two species of coexisting gerbils (Gerbillus allenbyi and G. pyramidum) which coexist in sandy habitats in the Negev Desert, Israel may face such conflicting demands from vipers and owls. We tested this by subjecting the gerbils to the presence of snakes and owls in a factorial experiment carried out in a large aviary. We also manipulated illumination and microhabitat, two factors which affect the risk of predation. Gerbils responded to owls by reducing foraging activity, avoiding the open microhabitat, and exploiting resource patches less intensively. Also, G. pyramidum showed a significant light  snake  owl interaction indicative of predator facilitation: the gerbils avoided the open entirely when faced with lights and owls, but increased their exposure to owls if vipers were also present. The fangs of the snakes are driving the gerbils into the talons of the owls. Such facilitation may affect the foraging behavior, species interactions, and community structure of the gerbils.
23735932|The white-backed woodpecker (WbW) is a critically endangered species in Europe. The Biaowiea Forest (BF) is of major importance for its conservation. Distribution of WbW in deciduous stands of the BF was studied in relation to habitat resources. In MarchApril 2005 we replicated a 1991 study where the WbW population was estimated using playback drumming techniques. Woodpeckers were recorded in only one-third of its former distribution area. A logistic regression model revealed that one variable (volume of dead wood) correctly classified 69.2% of habitat patches as occupied by the WbW, and 93.8% as missing the WbW. Plots with woodpeckers had six times more dead wood (54.2 m3 ha-1) than plots where WbWs were absent (8.9 m3 ha-1). Our results demonstrate that reduction in the WbW population is causally linked to ongoing logging and consequent removal of dead wood. The only way to prevent further WbW population decline is to protect the entire BF as a national park.
23731743|In pike kept for 8 days in brackish water (about 6  S) containing about 5 ppm phenol at 10 C, the activities of the plasma enzymes lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), glutamate-oxaloacetate transaminase (GOT), and glutamate-pyruvate transaminase (GPT) were found to be significantly elevated. The activity of cholinesterase (ChE) remained unchanged.
23736880|The plesiomorphic breeding system of the large fish family Cichlidae is a monogamous, biparental pair that cares for eggs and extends care to shepherding and protecting tiny fry. Typically, the male is larger than his mate and dominates her. Julidochromis marlieri, an African cichlid from Lake Tanganyika, follows this pattern but with an important difference: the female is larger than her mate; one female was reported mated to two males simultaneously (Yamagishi & Kohda 1996). We asked whether the female also dominates her mate, as in polyandrous, sex-role reversed birds. Additionally, documenting an inherent difference in aggressiveness would clarify the behavioral mechanisms that support pair-bonding in monogamous species. We staged contests between males and females of various relative sizes. When equal in size, females regularly won contests. Females were also more likely to initiate advancement to more aggressive stages of the fight. Thus dominance and aggression are sex-reversed in Julidochromis marlieri.
23732519|The winter food of the rock ptarmigan and its chemical composition in two areas in Finnish Lapland were studied in 1966/67 and 1967/68. A total of 197 crop contents were examined. In late autumn and early spring berries and leaves of Empetrum nigrum, Vaccinium myrtillus, V. vitis-idaea and V. uliginosum were the main food constituents, whilst in winter the ptarmigan's food consisted mainly of Betula tortuosa and B. nana catkins, buds and twigs, E. nigrum leaves, Loiseleuria procumbens leaves, Andromeda polifolia leaves and V. myrtillus stems. Significant regional, seasonal and annual variation in the food composition was found. The consumption of B. tortuosa catkins, in particular, varied greatly. No differences were observed in the food selection of the two sexes and age classes. Individual differences occurred only in the consumption of the clearly subsidiary food items. The B. tortuosa catkins contained more nitrogen (2.8 %), digestible crude protein (8.6 %) and phosphorus (0.28 %) than the other main food constituents studied. These catkins were greatly preferred by the rock ptarmigan when available and the birds were seen feeding in birch trees. The B. tortuosa buds and twigs, B. nana catkins, buds and twigs, Andromeda polifolia leaves, V. myrtillus stems and E. nigrum leaves were also rich in nitrogen. The E. nigrum berries contained only 1.5 % nitrogen but 0.83 % potassium and 0.21 % phosphorus.
23736132|Although the chloride/bicarbonate exchange is present in fish red cells whereby protons are, in most instances, distributed passively across the red cell membrane, changes in organic phosphate metabolism, sodium/proton exchange, and cell volume provide the animals with a means to control red cell pH. In many instances the red cell pH is maintained in exercise despite marked extracellular acidosis, whereas it is increased in hypoxia, in order to maintain or enhance oxygen loading in gills. Often, the control of red cell pH is achieved by hormonal, notably adrenergic, stimulation. Catecholamines affect both the organic phosphate concentrations and cell volume. An important effect of adrenaline is the stimulation of sodium/proton exchange, which in suitable conditions is capable of transporting protons against their electrochemical gradient, and appears to initiate adrenergic cell swelling.
23737167|In Oscine species, changes in songs are age-dependent: some species do not change their singing repertoires after a short sensitive period, whereas others may include new songs throughout their lives. In many cases, changes in singing repertoires are more pronounced between the first and second years of life. I describe changes in song composition from one year to the next in 23 pied-flycatcher males, which differed in breeding plumage coloration. Eight yearling birds showed profound between-season syllable repertoire turnover whereas seven yearlings and eight older males retained their previous song composition. Males with profound changes in their repertoire were significantly paler, arrived later and had smaller first-year repertoires than other males. Although additional studies are needed to clarify the relationship between these factors, it seems plausible that dark- and pale-coloured pied-flycatcher males have different patterns of between-season repertoire turnover: pale males change their syllable repertoire sufficiently between the first and second years of life but not thereafter, whereas dark males develop a rather stabilised repertoire by the first year of life. This agrees with the finding that pale and dark birds exhibit different breeding strategies.
23734163|The growth of Kestrel nestlings was analyzed and modelled on the basis of observations of feeding frequency and measurements of weight and wing length at four nests in southern Finland. An energy budget was then constructed. For this a camera method to observe feeding was tested and found useful. The growth rate of the weight fitted to a logistic curve is higher in Finland than in Central Europe. The weight gain culminated on the eighth day from the hatching of the nestlings. The growth of the wing length fitted to a linear regression. The wing length is about 67 % of its maximum at the time of fledging. Feeding frequency and daily growth rate of the nestlings correlated negatively with the daily rainfall. Relations between nest spacing and feeding of the Kestrel are discussed. It is suggested that the optimal foraging of the Finnish Kestrels is negatively affected by its dependence on the old nests of the Hooded Crow in the agricultural land.
23736714|Using mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase I gene (COI), we established the phylogenetic relationship between two slave-making genera of the tribe Formicini: Polyergus and Rossomyrmex. The resulting phylogenetic tree presents two well-defined groups: Formica + Polyergus, and Proformica + Cataglyphis + Rossomyrmex. Our result contradicts prior classifications which considered Polyergus and Rossomyrmex to be sister genera. These results imply that slave-making in the two taxa evolved independently.
23736219|In northernmost Finland, in lake Inari (1100 km2) and the reservoirs, Lokka and Porttipahta (total 630 km2), commercial fishing is significant for its economical and social aspects. Local European whitefish (Coregonus lavaretus) is the most important catch species. Two new coregonids were introduced: vendace (Coregonus albula) in the Inari area in the 1950s, and peled (Coregonus peled) into the reservoirs in the 1970s. Later these species have naturally succeeded in reproduction. In lake Inari, the commercial fishery originated in the 1930s and in the reservoirs in the 1980s. Essential for the development of the commercial fishery was the modern infrastructure, established in the 1980s, when the stocks of vendace and peled became dense. The commercial fishery took up trap netting and trawling, in addition to gillnetting. The number of commercial fishermen increased and the commercial coregonid catches peaked at 350 tonnes in both areas. After the collapse of the vendace and peled stocks, European whitefish has maintained the commercial fishery. Today, in all about 50 commercial fishermen supply the market with high-quality coregonids.
23735620|An integrative study of predation uses a blend of several approaches in evolutionary biology (conflicting selection pressures, phylogenetic constraints, genetics, development) to explain the proximate mechanisms that control "limiting" traits that influence predator-prey dynamics. Predation often has strong, but variable effects on prey. Variation in predator impacts on prey can often be explained by variation in prey behavior. Many systems have prey that show ineffective antipredator behavior; these prey thus do poorly with predators. Ineffective antipredator behavior can be explained by conflicting demands within or across situations. Alternatively, ineffective behavior might be explained by phylogenetic, genetic or developmental constraints. The study of constraints can yield useful insights; however, there are also important limitations on the value of these approaches for adaptation-oriented evolutionary ecologists. I used an integrative approach to study the responses of streamside salamanders, Ambystoma barbouri, to predatory sunfish. A. barbouri suffers heavy sunfish predation due to relatively high prey activity in fish pools in the day-time. A phylogenetic perspective suggests that this species has actually evolved in the wrong direction with regard to this key "bad" behavior. The apparent explanation for the evolution of ineffective antipredator behavior in this system is conflicting selection pressures generated by behavioral tendencies (high activity levels) that carry over across situations.
23734230|Overwintering of a Clethrionomys glareolus (Schreb.) population was studied in an enclosure of 0.77 ha in Konnevesi in late winter 1983 and during the winter 1983/84. Trap-chimneys were used during the snowy period. The population was started in late September 1982 with six females and eight males and in late 1983 with nine females and seven males. During October before both winters the population aggregated in the parts of the enclosure covered by brush-vegetation. These sites had also the thickest snow cover during mid-winter. In 1983, two overwintered females and one post-breeding summer born female remained on that parts of their summer home ranges, which overlapped brushvegetation; immature animals aggregated with these individuals. Post-breeding females remained significantly heavier in mid-winter than males, which again were significantly heavier than summer-born females remaining immature during the summer of their birth. Food availability is suggested as one reason for the beginning of breeding already in January. Survival of the population was high, especially for females. In late spring of 1983 the population crashed to zero either because of predation or because of some other environmental conditions during the spring thaw.
23734556|Illustrated preliminary keys for the identification of last instar nymphs of the northern European species of Cicadelloidea are presented together with a general description of the morphology of the nymphs of the family Cicadellidae. Two new genera are established: Dryocyba, type species Typhlocyba carri Edwards 1914 and Zonocyba, type species Typhlocyba bifasciata Boheman 1852.
23735451|Growth of corresponding upper and lower teeth was compared, using tooth germs dissected from human foetuses. Length, height and calcified height were measured on the deciduous teeth and first permanent molars. During rapid growth, corresponding upper and lower measurements are highly correlated, with a mean r of 0.976. All the measurements are correlated with crown-rump length of the foetus (mean r, 0.940); when this effect was removed by partial correlation the upper-lower correlations remained highly significant (mean r, 0.814). Later in development growth is inhibited by the spread of calcification and the correlation is reduced. This is especially so on the first deciduous molars, where the buccal cusps unite first on m1 and the mesial cusps on m1. Later growth in length of m1 is correlated with that of the upper canine. The times of starting growth and calcification, calculated from the regression equations against crown-rump length, are also highly correlated (r = 0.96). A common morphogenetic basis for the opposing dentitions is indicated, predetermining their eventual occlusal relationship.
23735947|We present preliminary evidence that local populations may be differentiated among habitat strata also in mobile, sexually reproducing invertebrates. We considered Carabodes labyrinthicus, an oribatid mite species, sampled from the endogeic (below litter layer) and the epigeic stratum in a forest. We found that the endogeion was used by only a few females. Most interestingly, endogeic and epigeic males differed with respect to physiologically relevant traits such as body volume and sensillus shape. Supplementary genetic investigations corroborated this differentiation between strata. Non-parametric tests, jackknife and bootstrap resampling consistently confirmed our findings; indicating that highly robust patterns can be detected even from small samples such as ours. Finally, we found that epigeic males showed a distinctly bimodal distribution of morphology, where one of the two peaks matched the unimodal distribution of endogeic males. We conclude that the population investigated may be gradually differentiated between stratum specialists that are restricted to the epigeion, and stratum generalists.
23736736|A significant positive correlation between braincase size (used as a proxy for brain size) and body size was found in six European newt species, with considerable variation among the species. The observed variation in braincase size, however, could not be solely explained by variation in body size. In spite of female-biased sexual dimorphism in body size, which was especially pronounced in Triturus alpestris, the sexes did not differ in braincase size. We also found that T. dobrogicus had a much smaller braincase than would be expected considering its body size. This in addition to its different morphology and ecology sets it apart from related species of the crested newt group.
23735722|The vast forest ecosystems of Russia are very diverse, but poorly managed. Conservation and management of forest animal populations has three main objectives: pest control, preservation of species diversity, and mainentenance of dense game animal populations. Although forest resources should be managed sustainably, the system suffers from lack of coordination between different sectors of administration, low quality of data received from some sources, and poor financial resources.
23735625|When faced with the presence of a predator, many species of prey initially approach rather than retreat from such a potential threat. Although seemingly paradoxical, this type of approach behaviour has been noted in a wide variety of taxa. We adopt a cost - benefit perspective on the question of why prey approach potential predators, and aim to outline what is known about the putative costs and benefits of such behaviour. We identify five major types of costs associated with approach behaviour: (i) increased risk of mortality to the approacher, (ii) increased risk of mortality to relatives of the approacher, (iii) lost opportunity costs associated with approaching a predator, (iv) energetic costs of approach, and (v) potential costs of the approacher being 'exploited' by other group members. Benefits of approach behaviour are categorized as (i) acquiring information about the nature of the potential threat, (ii) informing others of the potential threat, (iii) deterring predator attack, and (iv) advertising one's quality to mates. After reviewing putative costs and benefits, we present a game theory model of prey approaching potential predators. Based on the costs and benefits of approach behaviour and group size, the model predicts the equilibrial frequency of 'approachers' and 'non-approachers' and the (relative) mean approach distance (as a function of group size). To date, much of the work on prey approaching predators is either anecdotal or non-experimental. We hope that the review of the costs and benefits of approaching predators presented here, in conjunction with our game theory model, will help provide direction for future studies of this interesting, but understudied, behavioural phenomenon.
23731726|Species composition, numbers and biomasses in relation to depth are presented for a lake and a river in southwestern Finland. Species found were Unio tumidus, U. pictorum, Anodonta piscinalis and Pseudanodonta complanata. Unio pictorum was most strictly limited to shallow waters and Pseudanodonta complanata to deeper waters. Anodonta piscinalis evidently had the widest tolerance of depth. Highest densities and biomasses (up to 11.8 kg/m2) were found in 0  1 m depth. From this depth downwards densities decreased sharply and few individuals were found at 5 m. In all species the smaller individuals tended to live in shallower waters. The nature of the bottom was also important; all mussels avoided hard clay and very soft silt.
23735961|Hybridogenesis is a hemiclonal mode of reproduction occurring in several species complexes with various effects on the ecology and genetics of the involved species. The complexity of these systems is illustrated with the example of Western Palearctic waterfrogs. Deviations from original models of hybridogenesis are discussed, proofs for recombination between the parental genomes of the hybrid are reviewed, and the sex ratio disturbance found in many populations is explained. The review shows that benefits deriving from hybridogenesis, such as increased genetic variability and colonization ability, seem to be primarily directed toward R. ridibunda, but also have an impact on the other parental species. It is concluded that, due to mating possibilities and fertilization success, regions with mixed populations of two (or more) parental species and their hybridogenetic associate might be especially of interest in investigating recombination patterns and relating these to the population dynamics of the parental species.
23736982|I studied a dataset of surface sediment samples from 80 lakes with zoological macroremain analysis to assess the potential of fossil ceratopogonids (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae), ephemeropterans (Insecta: Ephemeroptera), trichopterans (Insecta: Trichoptera) and oribatid mites (Acarina: Oribatida) as palaeolimnological indicators in Finland. Results showed that late-winter hypolimnetic oxygen and climatic variables were most important in influencing the occurrence and abundance of these taxa. Of the ceratopogonids, the Bezzia type was an indicator of elevated hypolimnetic oxygen conditions, warm climate and oligotrophy, while the Dasyhelea type indicated low hypolimnetic oxygen conditions, moderately cool climate and mild acidity. Ephemeropterans, trichopterans and oribatids indicated warm climatic conditions and oribatids were also indicative of elevated oxygen conditions and small oligotrophic lakes. Results of this study can be useful in palaeolimnological studies because the fauna examined provides a valuable supplementary data source for multiproxy studies.
23736765|Studies of social insect invasions to date have focused primarily on highly eusocial insects such as ants and yellowjacket wasps. Yet insect societies without fixed, morphological caste systems may be particularly good invaders due to their behavioral flexibility, as demonstrated by the recent invasion of the European paper wasp Polistes dominulus into North America. Here we provide a review of this ongoing invasion in terms of (1) population genetic variation in P. dominulus, and (2) comparative behavior and ecology of P. dominulus vs. the native P. fuscatus. We present new genetic evidence supporting the occurrence of multiple independent introductions of P. dominulus into the USA, confirming previous results demonstrating relatively high genetic variation in introduced populations. We also present behavioral and demographic evidence suggesting that P. dominulus is displacing the native P. fuscatus in at least part of its range, most likely due to the superior productivity and survivorship of P. dominulus colonies. We review data from comparative studies where the two species are sympatric and discuss possible mechanisms contributing to the differences between them. Finally, we discuss the ecological impacts of this invasion and the role of P. dominulus as a model organism for invasion biology.
23734229|The literature on the relationships between social behaviour, population density and the suppression of sexual activity in male microtine rodents, and in particular the genus Clethrionomys, is reviewed. Data from laboratory cages, from laboratory and outdoor enclosures, from islands and from natural populations are considered. Although it has been shown that, in males of many vole and lemming species, social behaviour and/or high population density can suppress sexual maturation of immature individuals, can suppress adult sexual activity, and can shorten the breeding season, the potential that this has for limiting the density of populations of these animals, at least in those species that are polygynous, is slight (compared with females). The evolutionary significance of this widespread phenomenon in male microtine rodents remains to be clarified.
23734447|The oribatid communities of virgin and forest-ameliorated pine bogs were compared when ten years had passed since artificial drainage was commenced and six years had passed since the fertilization of the ameliorated bog. The oribatid communities of the microhabitats of the bogs (hollows and hummocks) were very different. In the virgin bog the oribatid community of the hollows was dominated by Limnozetes sphagni, the community of the hummocks by Oppiella nova and Tectocepheus velatus. The typical peatland species had either decreased following the forest-amelioration (as with L. sphagni) or had shifted their main microhabitat from the hummocks to the hollows (as with Nothrus pratensis). Their place had been taken by the habitat generalists (e.g. Oppiella nova) and by the species preferring a drier environment (e.g. Chamobates borealis). It was concluded that the drying of the soil was the main cause of the faunal response observed. Palaeacarus hystricinus Trg., Trhypochthonius nigrigans Willm., T. badius (Berl.) and Eupelops acromios (Herm.) are here reported for the first time in Finland.
23731774|A preliminary study of drumming sites of the ruffed grouse, Bonasa umbellus, was conducted in the Cedar River watershed southeast of Seattle, Washington, in April and May 1974. Eight activity centres were located. Of the 11 drumming logs found, 10 were under low hanging branches of Tsuga heterophylla and Thuja plicata in otherwise mixed stands, but one log was on the edge of a small opening in an Alnus rubra  Acer circinatum stand, and completely exposed from above. Such openings, some with a dense growth of Rubus spectabilis, seem to be essential parts of the activity centres. The average intervals between successive drummings of individual birds ranged from 2.5 to 4.5 min.
23734043|In 197280 total mercury concentration was determined by activation analysis in 16 addled osprey eggs, in samples of 137 mantle feathers from nestlings, and in tissues of three osprey nestlings that were found dead. The mercury concentration in the addled eggs varied between 0.1 and 0.4 ppm and was probably not the cause of their failure to hatch. High mercury concentrations were found in fish and in osprey nestlings in the same areas of Finland. In Lapland and in the SW archipelago of Finland the mantle feathers contained averages of 3.4 and 4.5 ppm of mercury, whereas by the mercury-polluted rivers Kymijoki and Kokemenjoki and Lake Pijnne the corresponding values were 24.7, 23.8 and 18.3 ppm of mercury, respectively. In 1972 at most 5 % of the Finnish osprey population lived in the mercury-contaminated areas. In the moderately polluted Hmeenkyr area, one young osprey found dead had a highly elevated mercury content. Most of its mercury load was in the plumage, which seems to act as a safety valve against mercury poisoning. In 197078 the reproductive success of ospreys in the mercury-contaminated areas was about the same (1.4 nestlings per occupied nest) as the average for the whole country. After the mercury ban the contamination of nestlings in this area underwent a significant decrease between 1972 and 1978, but there was no resulting improvement in reproductive success.
23735596|Nest site selection of dormice was studied in two different landscapes in southern Sweden: a forest-dominated landscape and an open landscape dominated by farmland, pastures and apple orchards. Randomly selected plots (10  10 m) were searched for dormouse nests and habitat characteristics of plots with and without nests were compared with logistic regression. Number of shrub species, cover of different shrub species and distance to closest forest edge were the main factors that were related to occurrence of dormice. Dormice have earlier been shown to nest in tree hollows, and thus such nests could be overlooked with our method. However, natural cavities are scarce in the habitats investigated here, and it is argued that the observed preferences for shrubby areas close to forests are real, and different shrub species are suggested to be important as sheltered and predator-safe nest sites and as food sources.
23734499|The composition and diversity of phytophagous insect communities associated with various plants are reviewed. Emphasis was placed on variation and anomalies in species-area relationships of insect-plant associations. The extent of variation in the number of phytophagous insect species, as explained by the range and abundance of the plants, was consistently higher for trees and shrubs, polyphagous insect groups and generally and weakly defended plants than for herbs, specialized insect groups and strongly and distinctively defended plants. Good species-area relationships are mainly due to simple mechanical processes, while anomalous or poor species-area relationships evidently reflect intricate ecological and evolutionary interaction between the insects and plants studied. The rate of insect recruitment by introduced plants is highly variable. Chemically isolated and strongly defended plants accrue insects very slowly and mainly through evolutionary processes, while poorly defended plants are quickly colonized by local polyphagous insect species. Old, declining plant taxa, such as ferns and gymnosperms, have impoverished phytophagous faunae as compared with angiosperms, angiosperms presumably being inherently more responsive to coevolutive processes. This leads to the high taxonomic and chemical diversity today apparent among both angiosperms and their herbivores. The coevolutionary history of insects and plants is demonstrated by the fact that even today phylogenetically old phytophagous insect groups tend to be concentrated on old plant taxa while young insect phytophages are associated mainly with angiosperms.
23735490|We studied infanticide in the bank vole (Clethrionomys glareolus), in a species whose social organization is characterized by strict female territoriality during the breeding season. One possible origin of female territoriality could be to protect the nest site and pups from potentially infanticidal conspecifics. However, direct evidence of the occurrence of infanticide, and thus of its possible role in territorial behaviour of the bank vole females, is totally lacking. Observations in the laboratory, but also in the field and small enclosures yielded a proportion of 30% or more of infanticidal cases of both females and males intruding a strange nest. If an individual of either sex was infanticidal it killed all the pups in the nest. In 36 trials in eight 25-m2 enclosures we tested the occurrence of infanticidal behaviour in voles from three female categories: mutually familiar females with neighbouring "territories" and mutually unfamiliar "stranger" females either breeding or non-breeding. In "stranger" females the proportion of infanticidal individuals was 25% in non-breeding and 42% in breeding ones. Mutual familiarity between neighbours decreased the frequency of infanticide significantly to only 6%. In a control group of adult non-familiar males the proportion of infanticide individuals was 67%. Thus, both sexual selection (males) and resource competitions (females) infanticide was observed for the first time in the bank vole or in general in Clethrionomys spp. Territoriality in the bank vole may function to deter potentially infanticide intruders from entering the nesting area and killing pups. It might be that in a breeding system of philopatric females, mutual familiarity between neighbouring females would decrease the frequency of infanticide. This would be reflected in higher survival of young in a breeding population of philopatric females with a high degree of kinship and/or familiarity.
23731609|The development of fluorescence due to the presence of catecholamines and 5-HT in the nuclei of the hypothalamus and median eminence was determined histochemically in embryos and young of the Norwegian lemming. The fluorescence in the eminence region of the young reached the adult level by the age of 21 days. However, bright fluorescent droplets and fibres were already seen in 5-day-old animals. In the hypothalamus fluorescence resembling that seen in adults was emitted by the age of one week. The biochemically determined NA concentration in the diencephalon attained the adult level in one-week-old lemmings. The 5-HT concentration did not reach the adult level until the age of 21 days.
23731629|The haemoglobin, haematocrit, serum total proteins, protein fractions and free amino acids were investigated in brackish-water pike (Esox lucius L.) acclimated to water temperatures of 16 C and 6 C for 4 weeks without food. The mean weight losses in the two groups were 10.3 and 5.3 % of the respective initial weights. Four weeks' fasting at a water temperature of 16 C as well as a sudden drop in temperature to 6 C decreased both Hcr and Hb values. Total proteins remained unchanged in all experimental groups. Changes in serum electrophorograms are described. Significant changes were found in the fastest-moving anodic fraction complex. Free amino acids remained quite stable in all experimental groups except for a significant decrease in some amino acids in the fish suddenly transferred to 6 C.
23736698|The increasing level of fine-scale systematics in insects requires sophisticated morphometric tools for species identification. As a consequence, regional species lists and biogeographic data tend to be ambiguous. We explore the use of DNA techniques in an example of palearctic ants of the myrmicine genus Tetramorium, in which morphology-based determination is difficult and frequently controversial. Several chorological facts are uncovered by the combined use of morphological characters and mitochondrial DNA sequences: Tetramorium moravicum is reported from Bulgaria and Ukraine, T. hungaricum from Austria and Bulgaria, while sequence comparisons question published records of T. semilaeve and T. forte in Eastern Europe. These findings have permitted us to delineate a biogeographic framework for T. forte, T. moravicum, T. semilaeve and T. hungaricum.
23735781|Population density of meadow voles (Microtus pennsylvanicus) and amount of bark removal of conifer and deciduous seedlings were estimated in a young meadow and in an old-field community used as tree plantations. Vole feces were sampled to assess the changes in neutral detergent solubles, total phenolics, total non-structural carbohydrates, and protein from fecal matter. In 1992, voles reached peak densities with similar population characteristics in both meadows. This was followed in the spring 1993 by bark removal on deciduous seedlings in the young meadow and on wild shrubs (not spruce trees) in the old-field community. Chemical components measured in the fall 1992 feces contained significantly more phenolics and carbohydrates than fall samples collected the year after peak density. Fecal matter from voles trapped in the young meadow in the spring of 1993 contained high levels of phenolics and carbohydrates after the winter use of bark tissues. Chemical analyses of fecal matter may be useful in predicting the nutritional status of voles in tree plantations before bark removal, and might be developed as a tool to aid in management of rodent populations.
23735499|Ultimate factors underlying forest bird responses to human caused landscape changes are examined by comparing European and North American avifaunas, their history, taxonomic composition, and present day characteristic. Taxonomically, resident species show stronger affinities between the two continents than migrant birds. European avifauna is by and large of Palaeartic origin with only little Afrotropical or New World influence. By contrast, both Palaearctic and tropical elements are prominent in North American bird fauna. The taxonomical differences can be traced back to the Plio-Pleistocene history, and geographical configuration of the continental land masses. Human impact has also been of earlier origin and more drastic to European than to North American birds. The contemporary avifaunas of the two continents can be roughly grouped into three categories according to 'sensitivity' to human induced landscape changes. The western Palaearctic species group is not particularly sensitive to human impact due to preadaptations to the loss of habitats. For the American species group, the human induced framentation and habitat loss is an unpreceeded event which they have not had possibilities during their Pleistocene history to evolve adaptations to. The Siberian or Siberian-Canadian group of species is adapted to dynamic boreal landscapes but not to large-scale human caused alterations of habitats. Future population trends for the three species groups are outlined given the present trends in land use practices.
23735882|Host search behaviour and population dynamics of butterflies interact with host quality and dispersion to generate spatial distributions of insects at local, metapopulation and regional scales. At a local scale, search behaviour causes isolated plants to be more attacked than well-connected individuals. As scale increases this pattern is reversed and hosts in isolated habitat patches are less attacked than those in well-connected patches. In Melitaea cinxia, spatially variable host preferences generated biased colonization of habitat patches containing different hosts. In Euphydryas editha, a metapopulation in anthropogenic evolutionary disequilibrium used a novel host in disturbed patches and the traditional host in intervening habitat. The novel host was less preferred but supported higher fitness. When habitat patches were small, insects achieved higher densities in patches of the preferred host because of biased migration into those patches. When patches were large, density was higher on the less-preferred host because of high survival. Because biased movement of insects among hosts affects gene flow, it should also affect genetic differentiation among insects using different hosts. We investigate this question by describing host-associated genetic differentiation at local and regional scales.
23736926|Samanda Beach in Turkey is one of the three most important nesting beaches in the eastern Mediterranean for the critically-endangered green turtle (Chelonia mydas), and is also a nesting area for the loggerhead turtle (Caretta caretta). In this study, the nesting characteristics of green and loggerhead turtles on Samanda beach were determined during the nesting season from 2001 to 2005. During the five-year monitoring, the mean green and loggerhead turtle nest numbers were 121 (range = 16325) and 11 (range = 720), respectively. The mean ratio of non-nesting emergence to nesting emergence (1.6) was lower than the ratio reported in previous studies. The green-turtle nest density on Samanda beach (14 km), and eyhhzr beach (4.1 km), was 9.3 (range = 1.123.2) nests/km and 23.5 nest/km (range = 3.464.4), respectively. Loggerhead turtle emergence was randomly distributed, the emergence of green turtles (94.1%), however, was concentrated approx. 3 km north and 3 km south of the Asi River. The emergence of both species took place mainly in July. The average hatching success of green and loggerhead turtles was 70.38% and 71.8%, respectively, with minimum and maximum incubation durations of 4367 and 4461 days, respectively.
23737026|Accurate estimates of population size and distribution are a prerequisite for effective management of populations, but for most species a reliable estimation of the absolute population size is very difficult. In 1998, the Finnish Ministry of Environment set up a working group to plan a national-level survey for estimation and monitoring of the population size of Siberian flying squirrel (Pteromys volans). In 2006, the population size was reported to be 143 000 females. However, evalution of the magnitude of possible biases was not attempted. Our aim was to test the population size estimate by conducting a resampling study with the methods of the national survey on an ear-tagged population of flying squirrels. We found that the methods used in the national survey provide greatly upward biased estimates. Moreover, the magnitude of the bias in the method seems to be sensitive to the true population sizes rendering the method unsuitable for population trend monitoring purposes. Therefore, we caution against using the national survey method in monitoring or in making conclusions about the population size of the Siberian flying squirrel.
23735937|In many plants and animal species, asexuals are more common in marginal habitats such as high latitudes or altitudes than their closely related sexual counterparts. Here we propose a new hypothesis to explain this pattern called "geographic parthenogenesis". In marginal habitats, populations may often exist as metapopulations with high degrees of subdivision and local extinction and recolonization, resulting in genetic bottlenecks during colonization. Our hypothesis states that such dynamics could play a key role in geographic parthenogenesis. Genetic bottlenecks and subsequent drift have stronger negative fitness consequences in sexuals than in asexuals because genetic drift leads to increased homozygosity and inbreeding depression in sexual but not in asexual populations. Migration, leading to inter-population hybridisation, may induce temporary fitness recovery in sexuals. Asexuals arising from such hybrids have an increased likelihood of invading sexual populations because they keep their high fitness, whereas the fitness of sexuals is doomed to decrease due to subsequent inbreeding and inbreeding depression. Therefore, asexuals may replace sexuals in subdivided habitats with local extinction and recolonization while they would not succeed in unstructured habitats without local turnover dynamics.
23734561|Uptake and distribution properties of resin acids, dehydroabietic acid (DHAA) and the eight acids occurring in a wood rosin, were studied by measuring amounts accumulated into different organs of rainbow trout after four and two days' semistatic exposures in approximate concentrations of 1.2 and 1.4 mg/l of water, respectively. In both experiments, liver and posterior kidney were among the organs showing highest uptake. Compared to these, however, even more DHAA was found in blood plasma. In addition, anterior (head) kidney, skin, heart and brain all ranked high in one or both experiments. On the other hand, skeletal muscle tissues and gonads displayed the lowest tendency for bioconcentration. The different resin acids of rosin occurred in liver (the only tissue studied) very close to their ratios in external water.
23737058|Trichoptera and several other insect orders have evolved functional diptery while retaining four wings (morphological tetraptery), which results from the interaction of specialized structures that unite the wings. In this contribution, the comparative and functional morphology of the forewing-hindwing coupling apparatuses and related structures in the suborder Integripalpia are presented. The components of the wing coupling apparatuses have varied and complex morphologies and interaction modes, that result in partial to complete wing coupling. Wing coupling has evolved repeatedly within the infraorders Brevitentoria and Plenitentoria, and the morphologies of the wing coupling apparatuses are synapomorphies for several families. Phylogenetic trends are discussed that relate to the evolution of functional diptery, such as the diminution of forewing jugal lobes and hindwing prehumeral setae, reinforcement of wing veins, changes in vein topology and elaboration of wing surface features. A novel at-rest forewing-forewing coupling apparatus that has also evolved repeatedly is described and related to the evolution of wing coupling.
23733698|The rate of oxygen depletion during the winter and its dependence on water temperature and length of ice cover were studied in two different lake ecosystems in the Lake District of southern Finland during the winters of 19621977. In the non-polluted lake the oxygen concentration in late winter depends primarily on water temperature, although also on how long the lake has been ice-bound, whereas in the system heavily loaded with waste waters the winter loss of dissolved oxygen is dependent primarily on the duration of the ice cover. The reason for the difference is discussed. The results have a practical application to the date of hydrographic measurements. In a non-polluted lake measurements can be made at a fixed date each year. In a polluted lake, however, the yearly hydrographic analyses should preferably be made at a fixed interval after the lake ices over, in attempts to estimate the changes due to the waste water load.
23734205|A new apparatus is described for splitting meiofauna samples into eight equal subsamples. The method allows even the lightest organisms, with a volume of less than 0.5 nl, to be recovered quantitatively and has advantage of an operating time of only a few minutes.
23735403|The evolutionary ecology of chemical defenses in the tiger beetle genus Cicindela has been investigated by Pearson et al. (Am. Nat. 132, 404416, 1988), but not without controversy. We re-evaluate some of the conclusions of this paper and the controversial discussions that followed. Problems with the quality and the interpretation of the data, some of which have been identified by previous authors, are seen in two main areas. First, the historical (phylogenetic) analysis relied on the use of a traditional ("Linnean") classification of the genus Cicindela to infer relationships among taxa. This is insufficient to study transformation of characters involved in defensive strategies such as benzaldehyde production, habitat type, and body coloration. Also, it precludes any studies of covariation and association among these characters during the evolution of Cicindela. Second, the types of ecological data that have been used to make inferences about the evolution of defensive strategies are problematic. In particular, the use of "habitat type" may not be appropriate because the various character states have not been specified in the context of predation, and because the habitat type is of questionable relevance to other traits involved in predator defense and escape. We also question previous approaches which used Pearson et al.'s (1988) data to construe chemical defenses as adaptations to particular environmental conditions. We argue that the first problem can be overcome with specific knowledge of phylogenetic relationships of the taxa under study, while resolution of the second problem requires identifying characters that are more relevant to the selective regime experienced by tiger beetles. We conclude that integrating ecological and phylogenetic data in cicindelid and carabid studies will yield stronger evidence for the patterns and processes underlying character change in these groups.
23734497|Interspecific competition influences the spatial pattern and geographical distribution of plant and animal species. Spatial effects may be present at the scale of one or two habitats, at a regional scale, or at the scale of the entire geographical ranges of one or more species. If interspecific competition has affected or does affect the spatial distribution of organisms then it should be manifested at all spatial scales in "repulsed" interspecific distribution. We review the methods used and results obtained thus far in studies of the spatial consequences of interspecific competition at all spatial scales. We find that spatial effects occur more frequently and are logistically easier to detect at the scale of habitats than at larger spatial scales. Those instances where spatial effects have been documented usually involve interference competition. These instances are dominated by vertebrates, social insects, or other organisms that are essentially sessile or at least occupy feeding or breeding territories for part of their life.
23735846|Stepparents commit child abuse and homicide at much higher rates than genetic parents. Proposed exceptions, including a recent claim that there is no such "Cinderella effect" in Swedish homicides, are shown to be mistaken. The hypothesis that only "mothers' boyfriends" abuse children excessively, whereas married stepfathers do not, is tested and rejected in an analysis of Canadian homicides. De facto marriage and steprelationship are confounded, but each is a major risk factor when the other is controlled. Abuse is a rare and presumably non-adaptive manifestation of discrimination, but recent research confirms that stepchildren are more generally disadvantaged with respect to positive investments. There are no known exceptions to the ubiquitous phenomenon of parents discriminating, on average, against stepchildren, but there is cross-national variation in the magnitude of these effects, and the determinants of this variability warrant investigation.
23735376|Molar wear rates were estimated for nine ruminant species by using least-squares regression of height on age estimated from counts of cementum annuli. The relationships of molar wear rate, body mass, longevity, and new estimates of dental durability were investigated. Browsers, mixed feeders, and grazers had significantly different wear rates, but the pattern of rates was exaggerated by the body size distribution of the species examined. Height estimates divided by wear rate provide estimates of dental durability expressed in time units, and thus bypasses scaling problems. Two such durability estimates were calculated: one based on the y-intercepts of the regression equations and the other on the heights of the lower third molars. Dental durability plotted against known longevity revealed patterns among the species which can be used to evaluate the species in terms of diet and proportions of the molar row. The roe deer (Capreolus capreolus, a browser) has more durable molars than would be expected from its longevity and diet. The grazers have less durable first and second molars than expected, but this is compensated for by their highly durable third molars. The mixed feeders appear to have an overall dental durability in proportion to longevity. Wear rate and durability offer simple but powerful tools to estimate and investigate longevity and other parameters related to life history when longevity data are not available. Wear rate and durability seem to be the only methods presently available that is capable of generating longevity information for extinct species.
23731790|In the Homopteran genus Philaenus the persistent maintenance of visual polymorphism is almost certainly due to persistent visual selection. The relevant literature from western and northern Europe includes reports on 10 species of bird, which take Philaenus but none of them frequently. This indicates an extremely low strength of visual selection. The colour morphs differ in their ecological requirements. Each morph lives in a different subniche, and the frequency of a given morph is dictated by the breadth of the niche that it occupies. The colour genes appear to be linked with the genes governing the subniche-specific polymorphism. As a result of this linkage, colour variability will persist in populations in which the rate of predation is too low to maintain all the morphs.
23735740|Diet, growth, visceral fat accumulation and a consecutive yield of the stocked brown trout (Salmo trutta L.) (four age groups, initial weight range 29373 g) were studied in three small Finnish lakes in 19911996. The average growth rate and visceral lipid content were significantly greater in lakes and years when the trout fed mainly on small fish, such as vendace (Coregonus albula L.), ninespine stickleback (Pungitius pungitius L.) and one-summer-old perch (Percafluviatilis L.) than their insectivorous conspecifics. The stocked trout initially foraging unpreferred food items shifted rapidly to feed on small fish when their stocks became abundant. Piscivorous trout increased their visceral lipids prior to winter whereas in insectivorous fish these decreased gradually during the growth season which probably caused increased overwinter mortality. Therefore, relative yields were significantly higher for piscivorous than insectivorous trout. On the other hand, the largest trout at release showed the poorest performance irrespective of the quality of the foraging environment.
23731740|Larvae of Oporinia (with strong fluctuations in numbers) and Dineura (with weaker fluctuations or non-cyclic) were reared in Finnish Lapland. To gain the last 90 % of their weight the Oporinia larvae, which occur in early summer (mean maximum 102.8 mg, fresh wt.), require 9.7 days, whereas the late-summer Dineura (mean maximum 19.8 mg, fresh wt.), take 42.6 days. In Oporinia the daily food intake increases much more steeply than in Dineura, the total consumption values for a pupating larva being about 150 mg and 40 mg dry weight of Betula, respectively. The faeces contain 84 % of ingested material in Dineura and 63 % in Oporinia. The difference is probably due to a seasonal difference in the digestibility of birch leaves. Of the assimilated material 57 % was transformed to body substance in Dineura and 45 % in Oporinia. The defoliations caused by Oporinia in large areas are discussed in the light of the results.
23734231|This paper reviews social mechanisms of vole species belonging to the genus Clethrionomys and compares them with those of some Microtus and Apodemus species living on similar and different habitats. All Clethrionomys species living in large predictable habitats seem to have mechanisms to regulate the numbers of mature animals in high density situations by territorial behaviour in females and by hierarchy formation in males. The Microtus species living in predictable environments seem to have similar mechanisms to restrict maturation during high population density whereas those species living in unpredictable succession habitats do not restrict maturation. The site tenacity and stability seem to be high in species of predictable environments but they seem to be low in species living in unpredictable habitats. The "regulators" of the predictable habitats have specific marking behaviours usually not found in "non-regulators" of the unpredictable places. The chemistry of the agents involved are still largely unknown except for the hexadecylacetate of preputial gland in male C. glareolus used to signal social dominance. Other agents of that gland affect female attraction and female choice of mate. The two Apodemus species dealt with here are specialized granivores. They often exhibit seasonal change of habitat. They show low juvenal survival and maturation rate during high numbers of overwintered non-tolerant adults. Predictions on social mechanisms in these species on the bases of habitat, food and way of life (e.g. arboreal vs. ground dwelling) have been discussed.
23734226|South and North Swedish bank voles Clethrionomys glareolus have been known to differ with regard to litter sizes and intervals and social behaviour on the one hand and diet and population dynamics on the other hand. Further differences in intestinal length and distribution of various intestinal parts, body sizes and proportions and activity levels and patterns are reported in the paper. The differences in intestinal morphology and function are, as also with other characteristics, hereditary but a great developmental plasticity also exists in this respect. All these differences are related to Bergmann's and Allen's rules, to possible demographic strategies evolved in relation to various patterns of density fluctuations and to various adaptations following different modes of feeding (i.e., more granivorous or more folivorous animals). However, none of these adaptive complexes explains all observed differences: many inconsistencies were indeed observed. The geographic differences may be due to either local adaptations towards independently varying factors or dimorphies or clines in relation to one dominating factor. Many of the characteristics are common to populations in central Europe and South Scandinavia on one hand and in large parts of North Scandinavia on the other. It is suggested that the different patterns of seed-production in deciduous and conifer trees are important primary factors. However, other individual adaptations may follow as response to, for example, resulting changes in population dynamics.
23731817|During a three-year investigation of an island population of bank voles, the CMR method was used. The numbers of adult females was constant and independent of population size and numbers of immature females. It was assumed that a factor stabilizing the numbers of adult females is their tendency towards territoriality. This assumption was verified by checking the spatial distribution and overlapping of home ranges and their utilization by mature and immature females. The number of pregnant females was smaller than that of adult females and varied through the breeding season. The individual-days of pregnancy and the number of young born were nearly constant from year to year. This was the result of an inverse proportionality between the reproduction of overwintered females and of females born in the current year.
23735508|Woodpecker species as a group require several properties (dead wood, old deciduous and large trees) that are characteristic of natural forest, the presence of which are not compatible with intensive forest management. The occurrence of many woodpecker species may thus indicate a high degree naturalness of forests. Using woodpeckers as indicators requires that we understand how these species were distributed in naturally dynamic landscapes, as well as quantitative knowledge of their requirements. We review the basic biology of boreal/hemiboreal woodpeckers and compare the degree of specialization of the different woodpecker species with their population trends and with changes in habitat distribution in the boreal/hemiboreal landscape over the last century. The comparison shows that there is a close connection between the degree of specialization of woodpeckers, the changes in forests and recent population trends. Thus woodpecker species as a group are in conflict with intensive forest management. To keep viable populations of all woodpecker species in a landscape existing values must be preserved and natural features be built into future forests. Future research should include studies of distribution, abundance, habitat niche breadth and fitness of different woodpecker species in landscapes with different degrees of naturalness.
23731630|Mice were exposed to the following cold treatments: 2  1 hour/day at + 3 C for 6 days, and 2  15 minutes/day at - 18 C for 6 days. The relative weight of the interscapular brown adipose tissue (BAT) was significantly increased after repeated cold treatments. Histological examination revealed that the increment in the mass of BAT was due to the growth of the tissue. The activity of the succinic dehydrogenase complex (SDH) was also significantly increased after the treatment. The glycogen concentration in the BAT was not significantly changed after repeated cold treatment. The ultrastructural changes in the cristae of the BAT mitochondria after repeated short-term cold exposure were very similar to those which have been demonstrated in the BAT of animals subjected to a few hours' continuous exposure to cold. The present results suggest that the changes occurring in the BAT in the early phases of cold acclimation and in a series of short exposures to cold may be the same.
23737136|The phenomenon of creating a breeding association by the barred warbler (Sylvia nisoria) and the red-backed shrike (Lanius collurio) was documented relatively long ago by several researchers. Some of the authors suggest that this phenomenon is a result of similar habitat requirements rather than a product of active selection. The main goal of this study was a quantitative analysis of differences and similarities in selection of breeding habitats by both species in the area of their sympatric occurrence. Research was carried out in the years 20092011 in the study plot located in the Middle Vistula Valley (central Poland). The red-backed shrike preferred shrubs and open areas, however, it avoided woods and waters. The only habitat strongly preferred by the barred warbler was bushes, and this species avoided waters, woods and open areas. Neither species nested in places with a thick tree concentration. Because of differences in their feeding strategy, as opposed to barred warblers, red-backed shrikes preferred habitats with low vegetation and a low concentration of shrubs. In nest location selection, the red-backed shrike clearly preferred hawthorns, whereas the barred warbler nested also in other species of bushes. As compared with warblers, shrikes more often preferred to nest in high bushes. The knowledge of the red-backed shrike's and the barred warbler's optimal habitat requirements can provide useful guidelines for future conservation projects involving these vulnerable birds.
23734595|The results of bird censuses carried out during two breeding seasons in eucalyptus plantations in Portugal are presented. In one season two different methods were used (mapping and line transect), and the results were compared with those from pine plantations of the same region. In the other season only the line transect method was used in different places and no comparisons with pine were made. Bird densities were very low in eucalyptus stands, possibly because of factors such as the growth rate and the quick change in the structure and also the few insect attacks. Monitoring the bird communities of woods of this recently introduced and rapidly spreading tree is advisable.
23735418|Recent work on Carabidae of grasslands and cereals in northern Europe is summarised. In cereals, the biology and role of individual carabids in pest management has been studied in some detail. Grassland studies have concentrated more on classifying the assemblages present, and relating the fauna to environmental conditions and vegetation management. This information is used in the ecological evaluation of grassland habitats. Recent works emphasize landscape features and pattern in the agricultural environment. Examples are given of the author's studies on: pitfall trapping for assessing carabid assemblages; management effects on grassland carabids; multivariate analyses of carabids in UK cereals. A prime need is for further work on individual carabid biologies and population dynamics.
23734051|In the hedgehog (Erinaceus europaeus L.) the main fatty acids in the white adipose tissue (WAT) and brown adipose tissue (BAT) are myristic, palmitic, palmitoleic, stearic, oleic and linoleic acids; WAT also contains one unsaturated unknown of the 16-carbon-group and one of the 18-carbon-group, while BAT contains a few percent of eicosenoic and docosahexaenoic acids. The proportion of long-chain acids is higher in BAT than in WAT. Of individual fatty acids, there is a higher proportion of palmitoleic acid in WAT, and of stearic acid in BAT. The fatty acid spectrum shows the greatest changes in autumn and at the onset of hibernation, and in spring when the animal begins to feed again. The even-numbered saturated fatty acids are lowest during the hibernation period, and their proportion increases in spring. The relative amounts of 15:0, 17:0, 17:1 and of the 14- and 16unsaturated fatty acids are highest in autumn and winter. The proportion of 18:1 decreases in early autumn and increases before and during hibernation. The proportion of 18:2 is highest in early summer. In BAT the proportion of 22:6 decreases to a highly significant extent during the spring hibernation, and is lowest in early summer. The changes during the hibernating cycle are more striking in WAT than in BAT, in which several trends apparently compensate each other.
23735345|The paper presents data on the Salticidae (except of the genus Euophrys) of Khabarovsk Province (Russian Far East). Thirty-six species are reported; among them three are described as new (Harmochirus nigriculus, Marpissa dersuuzalai, Marpissa zebra), four are new for Russia (Harmochirus pullus, Marpissa pulchra, Phintella linea, P. parva) and twelve are new for Khabarovsk Province (Harmochirus latens, Evarcha albaria, Heliophanus dubius, Marpissa dybowskii, M. elongata, M. pulla, Myrmarachne formicaria, M. lugubris, Phintella arenicolor, P. popovi, Salticus cingulatus, Sitticus cutleri). Two names are synonimized (Yaginumaella ususudi with Y. striatipes and Phintella mellotei with P. arenicolor). The neotype of Phintella castriesiana is designated. Bianor latens is assigned to the genus Harmochirus, and the first description of the male of this species is provided. The differentiating diagnoses of poorly known Eastern Palaearctic species of the genera Marpissa, Myrmarachne and Phintella are given.
23734869|The study of the ecological morphology of birds requires an integration of information about phylogenetic relationships among taxa and their adaptations to environments. Parallel or convergent morphological evolution can be demonstrated either by comparisons of the size and shape of birds in different lineages that occupy the same microhabitat or by comparisons of taxa that occupy similar but distant environments. The common notion that interspecific constraints affect adaptive radiation in a lineage is probably incorrect because it rests on unsupported evidence of character displacement. At the generic level, wherein differences in morphology between species can be judged against the standard of recent common ancestry, very small differences in the shape of the feeding, wing, and/or leg complexes may be correlated with species-specific differences in foraging behavior. Morphological relationships among species in communities are more difficult to interpret. Many purported regularities in the size ratios of coexisting species cannot be distinguished from randomly distributed arrays of species sizes. Such size ratios are too crude a measure of ecological differences to be very meaningful, and the demonstration of nonrandomly distributed sizes of coexisting species is not sufficient evidence that such patterns are caused by interspecific interactions. The analogy between morphological relationships among species in a community and peaks of fitness in different populations of a single species is unfortunate because it implies that communities evolve in concert. Quantitative studies of morphological relationships among coexisting species should be extended to include consideration of the levels of abundance and rarity of the species over time. At the intraspecific level there are many well documented cases of parallel geographic size variation. Unfortunately, we do not know the extent to which these cases are regulated by natural selection. Recently developed methods of size and shape analysis, and the possibility of field experiments designed to estimate the genetic and nongenetic components of the observed morphological variation, will probably permit new insights into the mechanisms underlying the morphological differentiation of birds in the next few years.
23731634|This dytiscid beetle inhabits small, temporary rain-water rock pools in the outermost archipelago throughout most of the northern Baltic. Several larval cultures were reared during three years, in different periods of the summer. The material comprises some 1 000 larvae. Rates of length growth or the relation between age and length of the reared larvae are described by means of linear regression analysis. Growth can be considered linear only during the first 18 days. The 95 % confidence limits of the regression lines show some overlap between the years and considerable overlap both between various periods and between various cultures.
23736182|The Arctic ichthyofauna is represented by 460 fish species (2.0% of the world fauna), of which 123 (26.7%) are true Arctic species. The macrostructure of the Arctic ichthyofauna differs significantly from the observed ratio of taxa in the world fauna, and the core elements are salmoniforms, scorpaeniforms, and perciforms. Characteristic features of the Arctic fish fauna are a small number of monotypic genera, a low proportion of endemic genera and species, as well as polymorphism and euryphagy. Polymorphic species of coregonids are represented by forms that have various feeding regimes and different spawning seasons. Coregonids play a major role in transferring energy through trophic chains. A major constraint on the reproductive strategy of Arctic fishes is the need for suitable larval and juvenile rearing conditions during the short polar summer. Among the coregonids, mature individuals generally do not spawn annually, but as a rule spawn every one to three years.
23731804|A modification of the Polish Standard Minimum 16  16 grid was used to obtain density estimates. Eight assessment lines were used to evaluate the area of effect around the grid. Mammals were removed out to 98 m from the grid. Theoretical considerations for the density calculations using data from the assessment lines are given along with an example. Density as calculated by the method recommended in the Polish Standard Minimum method was 81 % higher than the comparable figure (15.99 small mammals per ha) calculated by the assessment line method. The discrepancy results from the movement of mammals onto the plot during the removal phase of the study. Future studies must evaluate the area of effect around the grid; the assessment line method is the only known way of efficiently estimating the size of the border zone.
23736022|We examined experimentally factors influencing intraspecific competition for food in crucian carp Carassius carassius, a species prone to stunting under high population densities. Short-terms laboratory experiments quantified and compared foraging performances of small fish (6069.5 mm) in the presence of 1) one similarly-sized small competitor, 2) one large (100109.5 mm) competitor, or 3) four small competitors whose total biomass was equivalent to the single large competitor. Focal fish obtained significantly more food when competing with one small conspecific than when competing with four small or one large crucian carp. Performances did not differ significantly between the latter two treatments, suggesting comparable impacts can result from different competitive scenarios; however, responsible behavioral mechanisms may have differed. Compared with small fish, large crucian carp consumed food more rapidly, suggesting an exploitative advantage, whereas aggression and interference occurred more frequently within groups of five small fish. To examine longer-term effects of intraspecific competition, we conducted a 34-d growth experiment in hatchery basins; 10 individually-marked small crucian carp received a pelleted diet in the presence of either 19 additional small fish or six large fish of equal total biomass. Consistent with behavioral experiments, crucian carp held with the two types of competitors did not differ significantly in mass gained or hepatic glycogen stores; however, fish held with large competitors had relatively larger livers. Our results suggest that the total biomass of competitors is a better predictor of the impact of competition on food intake and growth of crucian carp than is either the size or number of competitors alone. The overall outcome of competition among size-classes is not always predictable from measurements of single factors, e.g., foraging efficiency, but results from complex interactions involving both behavioral mechanisms and population-level phenomena.
23732252|One can compare populations with different age structures by graphing age versus the proportion of the population with at least that age (relative cumulative frequency). A technique is presented for finding the equation of a smooth curve that fits such a graph of a sample from the population. The relative cumulative frequency is chosen in the form $1-{\int }_{\mathrm{o}}^{\mathrm{t}}\mathrm{p}\left(\mathrm{x}\right){\mathrm{e}}^{-\mathrm{h}\mathrm{x}}\mathrm{d}\mathrm{x}$, where h is a positive number to be determined and p(x) is a polynomial in x with p (x) > 0 if x > 0 also to be determined. Zeroes of p(x) correspond to flat areas on the graph of the relative cumulative frequency. If a flat area occurs near a positive number xi, then (x - xi)2 is a factor of p(x).
23734530|No echinoderm tissue was found in any of the eight fish recovered from coelomic cavities of cushion starfish, but the intestine of the fish contained well-digested traces of crustacean material. Of the seven fish collected from a holothurian host species, five had empty stomachs, but two contained semi-digested parts of a small brachyuran crab and a small carapid fish, whose position in the stomach indicated that it had entered tail first. The guts of all specimens contained fragments of crustacean material, bristles (probably of polychaete origin) and an amorphous orange substance. Although the results do not completely rule out parasitism for C. mourlani, it seems likely that both nocturnal foraging and the habit of residing inside echinoderms and other suitable hosts have evolved primarily as means for obtaining protection from diurnal predators and that any possible parasitic activity of the fish has evolved secondarily.
23736080|The year-class strengths of four perch populations (Perca fluviatilis L.) in the Northern Quark of the Baltic Sea were compared using a relative year-class strength index. As a result of this it was found that, of the four coastal populations, the three that were reproducing in rivers or estuaries tended to have coinciding year-class fluctuations. Concerning the river and estuary spawning populations, it was discovered that acidification overrules the temperature conditions normally affecting the year-class formation of perch. In the estuaries of the Northern Quark the year-class strengths were more extreme and diverged from the general pattern in the Baltic Sea. In recent years of less acidified conditions, the year-class strength of estuarine perch corresponded more closely to the general pattern in the Baltic Sea.
23736948|The objective of this study is to investigate whether presence/absence models can be used as surrogates of arthropod abundance, and eventually under which circumstances such surrogacy is guaranteed. Presence/absence data for 48 arthropod species from Terceira Island were modelled using artificial neural networks. Probabilities of occurrence were correlated with abundance data from a standardized arthropod survey programme. Although a tendency was found for vagile species to show relationships, only nine species showed significant positive correlations between probability of presence and abundance. Five of these were exotic spider species with high abundances and wide distributions in several human-modified habitats. The patchy distribution of pristine habitats, the capacity to reach them and the probable low dependence on limiting resources, other than food, enhance the relationship. A lack of significant correlations for the majority of the species may be due to historical events, inappropriate scale, demographic controls of density, or the incapacity of presence/absence models to account for environmental suitability. The difficulty to identify a priori the species for which the relationship will hold advises against the use of species distribution models as surrogates of arthropod abundance.
23736792|Parental care is one of the crucial factors affecting breeding success in birds. The level of parent investment can differ between males and females. We studied the sex-specific nestling-feeding effort by parents of the red-breasted flycatcher. Our study was carried out in the old-growth oaklimehornbeam stands in the Biaowiea National Park (NE Poland). The frequency of nestling-feeding and relative nestling-feeding effort (number of visits by male or female expressed a percentage of all visits by both sexes at the nest) depended on sex of parents and age of nestlings but not on their number. Both sexes increased their feeding frequency as the nestlings became older. Sex differences in nestling-feeding have been found in a number of biparental-care bird species. There are many hypotheses to explain this phenomenon. In the red-breasted flycatcher, the most likely reason for differences in feeding efforts are differences in roles the parents play at different stages of brood develompent.
23735811|Habitat use patterns by sympatric bank (Clethrionomys glareolus) and grey-sided (Clethrionomys rufocanus) voles indicate interspecific competition between the two species, with grey-sided voles being the superior competitor. Data from a four-year study of two populations of bank and grey-sided voles were analysed with capture-recapture models to investigate the effects of competition on winter and summer demographic parameters. In summer survival of bank voles was positively correlated with bank vole density, whereas recruitment was negatively correlated to bank vole density. No evidence was found for intraspecific density-dependence in the demographic parameters of grey-sided voles, although there was a tendency towards a negative intraspecific effect on winter survival. There were no detected effects of interspecific competition on the demography of either vole species.
23737091|This study examines the structure and composition of landscapes surrounding ponds with and without great crested newts (Triturus cristatus)  a species that needs an aquatic and a terrestrial environment. We related presence and absence data to 31 local and landscape variables, in a total of 143 areas in south-central Sweden. Land-use variables were measured within the radii of 100 m (local scale) and 500 m (landscape scale) surrounding the ponds. To find drivers of the distribution of great crested newts we used a principal component analysis (PCA) and a logistic regression analysis. Higher amounts of deciduous forest and pasture, together with proximity to deciduous forest seem to be positive for presence of great crested newts. Coniferous forest and mire appear to have a negative effect on the habitat quality for the species. We argue that management of the great crested newt should to a greater extent include the terrestrial habitat. Special attention should also be given to identifying and securing older, deciduous-rich forest in the vicinity of breeding ponds.
23734074|Up-to-date provisional dot maps of the amphibian and reptile species of Finland have been drawn. The records, totalling 11831, are located in the 10  10 km squares of the uniform grid (27E) system and the species recorded comprise the great crested newt (Triturus cristatus), smooth newt (T. vulgaris), common toad (Bufo bufo), common frog (Rana temporaria), moor frog (R. arvalis), marsh frog (R. ridibunda), common lizard (Lacerta vivipara), slow-worm (Anguis fragilis), grass snake (Natrix natrix), smooth snake (Coronella austriaca), and adder (Vipera berus). The data indicate the disappearance of the marsh frog from the Finnish herpetofauna in the 1960s, and the slow-worm was no longer found in the main-land of land despite having been recorded there about fifty to sixty years ago. The adder and the smooth newt were reported from further north than earlier and the great crested newt was collected both in the land archipelago, southwestern Finland, and near the southeastern border of Finland. Old, probably dubious records of the grass snake and the slow-worm near or north of the Arctic Circle, inland records of the smooth snake and records of the great crested newt from the southern and southwestern coastal area of the Finnish mainland could not be verified and they should be excluded from the herpetological literature referring to the up-to-date ranges of the species in northern Europe. Moreover, a great number of supplementary records of the moor frog were received from different parts of Finland. Maps indicating the provisional abundances of eight Finnish amphibian and reptile species were prepared on the basis of 2677 reports with estimations of the state of local populations in the 1960s and '70s. Many local populations, especially those of the adder and the common toad, were reported as having been declining during the past ten to twenty years. Possible reasons for the trend are discussed. Data concerning the amphibians and reptiles killed by traffic in southern Finland are presented. The northern European ranges of the Finnish amphibian and reptile species are reviewed in relation to the geographical, historical and climatic factors of that area.
23734873|Superficial community data allow only weak inferences on the existence of interspecific competition among tit guilds. Only some of the many "niche" studies allow sound tests of null hypotheses that have relevance for interspecific competition. Foraging site shifts of northern European coniferous forest tits between geographical areas and flocks containing different species are strong evidence of interspecific competition. In particular, the avoidance of foraging sites of putative competitors when these are present in flocks is exceptionally strong non-experimental evidence. In one study these shifts have been confirmed experimentally. The effects of competition on populations are well established, also experimentally, for Parus caeruleus and P. major in Belgium, England and the Federal Republic of Germany. Three studies give evidence for competition as a factor affecting evolution of morphological characters. Taken together, the evidence for interspecific competition is already extensive, but it is still difficult to draw firm conclusions about the importance of interspecific competition in structuring tit communities.
23736730|Special one-visit censuses (OVC) for monitoring and estimating of abundances of otters based on snow tracks was carried out in 19951998. The monitoring network included 16 areas, in total 37 000 km2. The number of investigated sites was 12131589 per year. Ages, sizes and directions of otter tracks were examined to estimate how many otters had visited each site, and the entire study areas. We found otter tracks in every study area during all winters. Otters were most abundant in the central part of the country, and the number of all otters in Finland was estimated at 20002550 individuals. This study showed that OVC-snow tracking method works well, and that it could be a useful tool for monitoring otter populations on the national scale in Finland.
23734128|Factors, such as temperature, humidity, food, light, which are difficult to control, affect the duration of metamorphosis in the blowfly (Calliphora erythrocephala). To avoid errors of timing in development caused by these factors we define the age of the pupae by using morphological criteria. These definitions are used as references for electrophysiological experiments. The scanning electron microscope pictures with descriptions of light microscopical observations of pupae at different developmental ages were organized in the form of a series according to the external signs relevant to pupal development. Attention was paid to the eye colouration, the colouration of hairs, antennae and aristae, the shape of facets, the interfacetal hairs, the corneal surface, the pigmentation of the cuticle, the nymphal membranes and tissue pulsation. To show the relevance of this staging a series of histological sections was made. The comparison of light microscopical findings and electrophysiological recordings show that the staging is relevant. The pupae were divided into eight different stages from the third stage larva up to the adult fly. The stages were: I first-second-third instar larva, II pupating larva, III histolytic pupa, IV juvenile pupa, V histogenetic pupa, VI premature pupa, VII mature pupa, VIII adult fly. Thus, the histolytic pupa is quite pale and does not show any detectable organs. The juvenile pupa has colourless eyes and some organs which are visible through the nymphal membrane. The histogenetic pupa has yellow or orange eyes and the face organs can be seen formed under the membrane. The premature pupa has pigmented hairs, antennae and aristae. The mature pupa is fully developed and pigmented and the ptilinum area is soft and pulsating. Stages IV to VI (juvenile, histogenetic and premature pupa) were examined histologically and electrophysiological recordings were made from stages V to VII (histogenetic, premature and mature pupa). The histological and electrophysiological development closely follows the development of surface morphology. These definitions also match well with other physiological processes in the developing fly.
23735927|I studied the breeding biology of the three-toed woodpecker Picoides tridactylus in order to determine factors that influence annual and seasonal variations. Data from 37 pairs showed that 79% of nests produced at least one fledgling. The median laying date was not affected by elevation, and annual clutch and brood sizes did not differ significantly across the years. Seasonal trends supported the advantage of early breeding. More than 70% of clutches were laid within the span of 9 calendar days. Clutch and brood sizes declined with later laying dates and earlier breeders were more successful. Females paired with older males laid eggs earlier than those that were paired with younger males. Woodpeckers showed nest site fidelity across the years. Laying date relative to the rest of the local population, rather than the absolute laying date, should be regarded as an important determinant for breeding success in three-toed woodpeckers.
23734519|The growth and food consumption of the aquatic isopod Idotea baltica was studied in the laboratory. The sexual dimorphism in size developed very early during the immature stage. Males and females also showed different patterns during maturation. The relative weight gain of females was continuously higher during maturation, whereas males had higher total food consumption than females. At the beginning of maturation males allocated a larger proportion of ingested material to the production of new biomass. However this situation later changed as the production efficiency of males declined towards the breeding season. It is suggested that these differences may be consequences of different ecological selection pressures. Males are likely selected for larger size and higher activity influencing mating success, while females are selected for a higher production efficiency before breeding and for minimizing the costs of reproduction. Gravid females were observed to have a lower weight gain than non-ovigerous mature females. This may not, however, present a strict trade-off between reproduction and growth since their feeding rate was also reduced. Consequently, gravid and non-ovigerous females allocated about the same proportion of ingested material to the production of new biomass. The reduced food consumption of gravid females may be a mechanical consequence of incubation and/or it may reflect a decline in the mobility and activity of gravid females.
23735699|Chlorophenols are of environmental interest because of their widespread distribution in freshwater habitats. All these compounds are toxic to aquatic species, but to varying degrees depending on the number and the position of the chlorine substituents on the benzene ring. Structurally, chlorophenols fit the requirements for receptor producing-respiratory uncoupling. However, QSAR-based modelling studies indicate that polar narcosis is a mode of toxic action through which many of the chlorophenols elicit their toxicity. Further, the sublethal effects of chlorophenols on respiratory physiology have been linked to their mechanism of toxicity. In this paper, the mechanisms of toxic action for chlorophenols, the structural activity characteristics of chlorophenols, and the sublethal physiological responses are reviewed.
23733735|Since 1950 Finland has received two expansions of the wolf (Canis l. lupus) from the east, mainly from Soviet Karelia into Finnish Northern Karelia and Kainuu, the first in 195963 and the second beginning in 1975. Before and during both expansions most of the wolves wandering in Finland were males, but as the breeding population approached the frontier the excess of males decreased. Groups reaching western and southern Finland (mainly along certain specific migration routes) usually consisted of one to four wolves, but in eastern Finland some packs were larger, and in 196979 pups aged 410 months were also seen. From studies carried out in Soviet Karelia and records of wolves crossing the Fenno-Soviet border it appears that under present-day conditions the saturation point of the Soviet Karelian wolf population is roughly five to seven individuals per 1000 km2. Continuous hunting of a wolf population disturbs its self-regulation mechanism and enables it to attain its potential maximum productivity, which explains the rapid growth of populations in Soviet Karelia and the Leningrad Region of the USSR in the 1970s. In January 1979 there were about 100 wolves in Finland.
23735763|Brown bear (Ursus arctos) can be predicted to have larger autumn body mass in the north than south because the duration of winter dormancy lengthens towards the north. We examined variation of body size among hunter-killed female and male brown bears within a latitudal range of 60 and 68N in Finland. The body size of males (mass, contour length) decreased towards the north while our data did not indicate such a trend in females. Our results do not coincide with Bergmann's rule suggesting increasing body size with decreasing ambient temperature, probably owing to energy-saving winter dormancy during which brown bear is not overtly exposed to weather conditions. Secondly, possible differences in the quality of green forage might not largely influence the nutrition of an omnivorous mammal.
23735566|Interactions between lemmings and stoats were documented over 6 years through systematic and comprehensive surveys of lemming winter nests in a 1 000 ha study area located in North East Greenland. The surveys revealed a cyclic pattern in the lemming population. The response of stoats to the increase of the lemming population was delayed by about 18 months. The increase phase of lemmings was featured by very low stoat densities. The collapse of the lemming population in late summer 1990 happened when, as a result of an increase in the in stoat population, young stoats dispersed to their own territories and occupied the whole area. Following the crash, stoats seem to have kept the lemming population at a low level until 1992, with the subsequent local extinction of stoat during winter 1992/93. The clear-cut patterns observed in NE Greenland are probably due to the simplicity of the community and may also be related to the very deep snow cover in this part of the High Arctic. As a result, the due to vertebrate predator/prey community is simply composed of stoats, lemmings and ptarmigans over more than 2/3 of the year.
23734050|A breeding experiment was started in a semi-woodland habitat in mid-August. Only a few adults (45) emerged the same year, but large numbers (over 1000) were collected from the culture pots the following summer. More than half of these were Sarcophaga scoparia Pand., a species that was uncommon in experiments started earlier in the season. Three species of Muscidae, which were abundant in an experiment started in June, were now rare or absent. It is therefore suggested that among carrion flies reproductive effort or reproductive success, or both, show seasonal differences which may contribute to local species diversity in this community. These differences are less clear in open habitats, possibly because of the smaller number of species breeding in open (13) than in shaded (20) habitats. Among the flies emerging in individual cultures a negative correlation was found between the numbers of S. scoparia and of other species, which supports the above conjectures in showing that competition is probably one factor determining the structure of the community.
23734145|The difference between the date of arrival of the first Pied Flycatcher female to Tauvo bird observatory and that of the first egg of the season in the nearby Oulu area was 7.0  3.2 (SD) days, the respective difference in the median days being only 1.6  3.2 days. The small difference between arrival and onset of breeding is considered to reflect the shortage of time in the summer schedule of this species, although some of the migrants at Tauvo may be birds breeding north of the Oulu area. At arrival, female Pied Flycatchers have lipid reserves of 14% of body weight (excluding ovaries and oviducts). The reserves decreased during the phases of nest-building and laying, lipids comprizing only 7 % of the body weight at the latest phase.
23731791|Tests made on the ovarian tissue at different stages of the reproductive cycle showed that steroid metabolism in Zoarces viviparus follows the same pathways as in oviparous teleosts. Minced ovarian tissue incubations with pregnenolone yielded mainly 17-hydroxypregnenolone. Incubations with 17 -hydroxyprogesterone yielded androstenedione, 11-hydroxytestosterone and some unidentified polar compounds. Incubations with progesterone yielded 17 -hydroxyprogesterone and some unidentified apolar and polar compounds. It is concluded that biosynthesis of 11-hydroxytestosterone follows the -5-pathway. Activities of desmolase and/or 3-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 4-5 isomerase in ovarian tissue samples were considerably lower in fish in a late stage of pregnancy than in non-ovulated fish.
23735912|To clarify the association of the occurrence and density of ant mounds (Formica rufa group and other mound-building ants) with forest habitat attributes, such as stand structure and successional stage, we reanalyzed the data of the third Finnish National Forest Inventory from 19511953. Mound occurrence (presence vs. absence) on the sample plots was highest in medium-rich and medium-dense spruce- and birch-dominated forests. In southern Finland, mounds occurred more frequently in older than in younger forest development classes. Mound density (numbers counted on 0.1 ha circular sample plots) was best associated with latitude, with decreasing density towards the north, and averaged 0.25 mounds per 0.1 ha. In addition, density was highest on fine sandy soils. In sum, the habitat attributes related to climate, productivity, light conditions and food resource availability seemed to be key factors determining the distribution of ant mounds. For future surveys, we suggest that additional information on ant species, mound size and colony vitality should be included to explain mound distribution in more detail.
23734457|Daughter-sporocysts containing cercariae of Lacunovermis macomae occurred in 1-11% of Macoma balthica, with a shell length of over 10 mm, at a sampling site on the southwestern coast of Finland. The cercaria and daughter-sporocyst are described, based on light microscopy, TEM and SEM. Some histochemical results are included. The cercaria has two pairs of penetration glands and 2  12 flame cells. The flame cell formula is 2{[(2 + 2) + (2 + 2)] + (2 + 2)} = 24, differing slightly from a usual gymnophallid flame cell formula, viz. 2[(2 + 2 + 2) + (2 + 2 + 2)] = 24. The cercaria is compared with other cercariae, described by various authors, from M. balthica. The effects of ageing on behaviour, invasiveness and size of cercariae, obtained from daughter-sporocysts and kept in Petri dishes in natural brackish water (at 48C), are reported. The cercariae lived for up to four weeks. Some invasive behaviour persisted for two weeks. Penetration into the mantle of M. balthica (with a shell length of 910 mm) lasted for about an hour at room temperature. The penetration is two-phasic, with a period of breakage of the surface layers and another period during which the cercaria pushes itself into the mantle.
23737068|The diet of the golden jackal (Canis aureus) was studied in 2002 and 2003 in Park Britannia (ca. 4000 ha) in central Israel. The aim of the study was to understand the kinds of anthropogenic food that allow jackals to be present at a high density. The scats (396 in total) were classified by season: summer (JuneSeptember) or autumn (OctoberNovember) as well as by origin from either the southern or northern part of the study area, which experience different levels of human pressure. The main food category was ungulates (39.4% frequency of occurrence), 80% of which were domestic animals  which we assume were mostly consumed as carrion. Other common food types included fruit (31.3%), birds (30%), small mammals (23.5%) and invertebrates (21.2%), while garbage was found in only 9.1% of the scats. Biomass of the jackal diet was dominated by ungulates (67.3%), with domestic ungulates consumed mostly as carrion, comprising 84% of the total. Jackal diet did not differ by season or level of human pressure. However, there was remarkable micro-scale variability in food composition as the summer jackal diet differed significantly among the dens. Our results suggest that the high availability of domestic animal carcasses due to the local carrion disposal system may be responsible for the present jackal density in Israel.
23735480|The spionid polychaete Marenzelleria viridis (Verrill 1873) was for the first time observed in the Finnish coastal waters at the entrance of the Gulf of Finland in 1990. During 19901993 M. viridis expanded its distribution into the eastern parts of the Gulf of Finland and into the southern part of the Gulf of Bothnia. Its introduction into the Baltic Sea has probably occurred through ship transport, as all the first findings are connected to harbour areas. Although the abundance and biomass of M. viridis is comparatively low the species seems to have become a permanent member of the macrozoobenthos in the northern Baltic.
23735884|The Glanville fritillary (Melitaea cinxia) has been studied in Finland within an area of 50 by 70 km since 1993. We analyse 11-yr time series for aggregate populations in 20 squares of 4 by 4 km. Different aggregate populations exhibit dissimilar long-term trends, including significant increasing and decreasing trends as well as stable population sizes, and their average size is significantly related to the amount of habitat but not of host plants. Precipitation shows spatially correlated variation in the study area, recorded with high-resolution weather radar. Spatial variation in August and June precipitation explains a significant amount of spatial variation in the dynamics of aggregate populations. Many processes operating in local populations have strong effects, but these effects are not consistent in time and space and they often counter each other, making it less likely that one would detect a signal of local processes in large-scale data for aggregate populations.
23736920|Seed dispersal by vertebrates is one of the main plantanimal interactions, especially in the Mediterranean region where fleshy fruits are, at least seasonally, one of the main food resources for birds and carnivores. To effectively assess the role of these predators as seed dispersers, we need to demonstrate the viability of ingested seeds. We therefore compared germination rates of seeds from freshly collected fruits with those of seeds collected from carnivore scats. We detected that several species (e.g. badgers, foxes, genets) had a significant positive effect on germination rates of seed of at least one fruit pland and one species (stone marten) had deleterious effects on most seeds. Seed size (e.g. weight, width, etc.) was correlated with seed survival, germination time and germination rate.
23735564|Arctic fox populations fluctuate widely with the abundance of prey, i.e. lemmings and voles (Arvicolinae). We have investigated the patterns and mechanisms of these fluctuations in arctic fox numbers through den inventories during 20 years (19741993) in Sweden. Time series analyses confirmed a four-year cyclicity in both arctic fox numbers and litter size. However, the different geographical regions were not in synchrony. The fox population in the southern parts of the distribution range has shown regular peaks during the whole period, whereas those in the northern and middle parts of Sweden have declined since 1982. In the northernmost county, also litter sizes have decreased. These differences coincided with an absence of vole and lemming peaks in the north. Experimental feeding confirmed that food availability had a direct impact on breeding success and litter size, thereby limiting the population. We conclude that the total number of arctic foxes in Sweden in 1994 is as low as 4080 animals.
23736925|A markrecapture study of a snake assemblage using pitfall traps with drift fences was carried out in a disturbed grassland environment (e.g. cattle breeding and cultivations), located in the Pampa Biome, in the central region of the Rio Grande do Sul State, southern Brazil. From February 2001 to January 2004 we caught 272 snakes belonging to 20 species from the following families: Elapidae (5%), Viperidae (10%), and Colubridae (85%). The assemblage had a unimodal seasonal pattern of activity, and the highest number of captures occurred between September and May. There was a positive and significant correlation between the number of captures and monthly minimum and maximum average temperatures. Recruitment was observed from January to April. During the study, the area was affected by human activities, which altered the community structure: Pseudablabes agassizii was negatively affected by habitat devastation while Liophis poecilogyrus took advantage of this. Our results reinforced the impression that Pseudablabes agassizii is a habitat specialist species. We extend the understanding of the susceptibility of this species to environmental destruction in open natural environments of South America, and propose its use as a potential bio-indicator of the Pampa biome. We also discuss the importance of conservation strategies for snakes in grasslands of southern Brazil.
23736819|Chrysomelid beetles inhabiting the herb, shrub and tree layers of two mixed forest ecosystems dominated by pineoakhawthorn were studied during AprilOctober in 2005 and 2006 in Isparta province, Turkey. The leaf beetles of both sites were investigated in terms of species composition, dominance structure and vegetation preference. Frequency values and host plants were also provided for some species. A total of 127 Chrysomelidae species belonging to ten subfamilies were collected. Species composition similarity between the herb and tree layers was 3% at both sites, while similarity between the shrub and tree layers was 25% at site I and 44% at site II. In terms of vegetation structure, the herb layers of the two sites shared 60% of their chrysomelid species, the shrub layers shared 44% and the tree layers shared 50%, a result also reflected in a PCA analysis. The herb layer was the most diverse vegetation stratum in terms of leaf beetle diversity, and it appears that vegetation cover is the main factor influencing leaf beetle species composition at both forest stands studied.
23732518|The dental conditions of 75 red foxes (Vulpes vulpes L.) killed during the period 15. IX. 1967  7. IV. 1969 in N. E. Finnish Lapland are described. The teeth and their occlusion were extremely well developed. The dental enamel had an extra fine surface appearance throughout the sample. No hypoplastic teeth, nor diminutives, nor other abnormal tooth forms were found. Some cases of supernumerary or congenitally missing teeth, a few local cases of parodontal damage and one pathological hard palate perforation are described. Dental caries was absent. The most frequent findings were fractured teeth, retained roots and missing teeth.
23736903|Among cyclic populations of herbivores, inter-specific temporal synchrony has been attributed to both climatic factors and trophic interactions. In northern Europe, winter and autumnal moths undergo regular 911 year population cycles. The winter moth cycle has typically been phase-locked with that of the autumnal moth, but with a 13-year phase lag. We examined potential effects of natural enemies on this phase lag using field experiments and observational data. We found that larval parasitism was significantly higher in autumnal than in winter moths. Conversely, pupal predation by generalist invertebrates was clearly greater in winter than in autumnal moths. The difference in parasitism rates may contribute to the earlier collapse of the autumnal moth cycle. In addition, the phase lag may be strengthened by higher pupal mortality in winter moths in the early increase phase of the cycles. As a consequence, we put forward a hypothesis on reversed effects of natural enemies, providing a potential explanation for phase-lagged population cycles of these moth species.
23736024|Studies of mating systems of fishes provide important insights into the types of male traits affected by sexual selection and the interaction of sexual and natural selection in the elaboration of male secondary sexual traits. Here I examine studies which test predictions of current models of sexual selection, document common trends in sexually selected traits, and show how models of adaptive female choice provide insights into the evolution of complex, multi-function male traits.
23735905|Human impact on boreal forests has been extensive during a fairly short evolutionary time scale. Character species of boreal forests, such as Formica ants, may face loss of genetic diversity, increasing inbreeding, and decreasing gene flow among extant habitat fragments owing to habitat loss and fragmentation. Here we review the genetic data on old-world boreal species of the genus Formica. In Formica ants colonies can have one or several queens (mono- and polygyny respectively) and this trait is often assumed to be linked with dispersal propensity, such that monogyne species disperse well and polygyne species disperse less well. Our analysis of the available data reveals three important aspects of the social and dispersal biology of Formica. First, the traditional division in mono- and polygyne species is too simple and we propose a population-based division into highly polygyne, weakly or moderately polygyne, and monogyne populations. Second, there is indeed an association between colony kin structure and dispersal in the predicted direction, i.e. restricted dispersal in polygyne species. However, this only holds for between-population differentiation, not within population genetic viscosity. When genetic viscosity within populations was examined most species nevertheless showed a negative relationship between FIS and relatedness, indicating that low relatedness (many queens) is associated with reduced dispersal also locally. Only one species (F. exsecta) showed a significant positive relationship. Finally, we predict that sex-biased dispersal may be a common trait in Formica species, although data on more species are needed to confirm this.
23734419|The numbers of duck pairs and broods present within a 56 km2 study area, predominantly pine and spruce forest, in the coastal region of northern Sweden were estimated during 1977. The study area contained 95 relatively small, shallow lakes, covering 3.6 per cent of the total area. In May, three counts showed a total of 108 duck pairs, and during July 91 broods were recorded. The duck species observed were: mallard (Anas platyrhynchos), teal (A. crecca), wigeon (A. penelope), pochard (Aythya ferina), tufted duck (A. fuligula), velvet scoter (Melanitta fusca), goldeneye (Bucephala clangula), smew (Mergus albellus), red-breasted merganser (M. serrator) and goosander (M. merganser). The mean values for the whole survey period were 2.2 pairs and 1.9 broods per km of lake shoreline, or 54 pairs and 46 broods per 100 hectares of the entire area covered by lakes.
23736109|Mass rearing performances and body composition of perch Perca fluviatilis (25 g) fed on a pellet diet in floating cages were studied during July to September 1993. At the end of this period, they weighed 48 to 49 g and the survival rates were 70 to 79%. The feeding rates (3 or 4%) had no direct influence on the zootechnical potentialities or body composition. In September the gonadosomatic index increased, particularly for males. Sexual maturity triggered a regression of hepatosomatic index and a modification of fish body composition. In comparison with perch bred in a closed system at 22.0C, the fish in cages had a higher protein and a lower lipid and energy content. Triacylglycerol fractions and phospholipids evolve reversely as function of the rearing system.
23734600|The distribution patterns within qualitative presence/absence and quantitative census data were compared in an R-mode analysis of birds breeding in coniferous forests of the western Palearctic. R-mode analysis groups species with similar distributions into faunal types. Both data sets were collected from the literature and analysed by detrended correspondence analysis (DCA). The proportions of Siberian and European faunal types in single study areas were also calculated. The DCA-ordination of the presence/absence data showed a clear gradient from north to south, species of Siberian and European faunal types forming their own groups in the ordination. The ordination of the census data did not group species belonging to the same faunal type as clearly as the analysis of qualitative data. Instead, there was considerable overlap between the distributions of Siberian and European faunal types. Palearctic and Holarctic species were distributed all over the study area in both analyses. The presence/absence data tended to overestimate the proportions of Siberian faunal type and underestimate the proportions of European faunal type in regional bird communities compared with the quantitative data. The concept of faunal type is discussed in relation to qualitative and quantitative data, as well as to different scales of investigation.
23735506|The structure of ant communities was studied by sampling with pitfall traps in 24 mixed coniferous old-growth fragments (>140 yrs old), their edges, and managed surroundings of different ages in southern Finland. The old-forest ant community consisted of only three common shade-tolerant species, Formica aquilonia, Myrmica ruginodis and Camponotus herculeanus, whereas most of the ant species inhabited the early stages of forest succession. The size of the fragment affected only slightly the ant community. The most common territorial wood ant, F. aquilonia, structured the ant community by suppressing other species, although not equally so. The ant-community structure in the context of forest succession and landscape structure is discussed, and the successions in managed forests compared to those occurring after more natural disturbances. Forestry has changed the dynamics of succession and structural characteristics of the forest stands. Important changes of the landscape affecting forest-ant species are age-distribution of the forests and the fragmentation of old-growth forests accompanied by an increased proportion of edge habitats: open-country species have gained a greater inhabitable area and the relative abundances of the territorial wood-ant species (Formica s. str.) have changed. The multinest supercolonies of F. aquilonia have decreased, whereas species such as F. lugubris, which in our study area tend to be monodomous, have benefitted.
23736874|The "design features" of a signal are strictly shaped by selective forces since they affect the optimality of the signal form. In Lemur catta urine deposition can be combined with the following tail configurations: (1) tail held up in an evident display (Urine Marking, UM); (2) tail slightly raised to avoid its impregnation with urine (Urinating, UR). It has recently been demonstrated that only UM has marking functions and the visual tail display is only one of the features facilitating detection of the signal by the receiver. Other features help senders to increase the probability of signal detection (e.g. site of deposition and association with other scent depositions). In this paper, we ranked using a multivariate general linear model and logistic regression the relative importance of such features in shaping the two kinds of depositions. Furthermore, we demonstrated that both UM and UR have constant depositional features probably in order to improve the detectability of the urine marking and the animals' safety during urine excretion.
23736861|In northern Finland, reindeer-herd management has experienced two major transitions: extensification of intensive herding, and development of supplementary/corral feeding in winter. The transitions were studied in six herding associations in different parts of the Finnish reindeer management area. It was suggested that intensive herding turns into more extensive forms as the reasons for intensive herding (predation, reindeer disappearing to foreign areas, protection of agricultural fields) gradually ceased to exist. The results of the study, based on interviews of elderly reindeer herders, were variable. In the three southern areas intensive herding changed to the free ranging system at the latest during WWII, whilst in the northern areas intensive herding was replaced by extensive herding with the aid of snowmobiles in the 1960s. In the southern herding associations, especially, supplementary/corral feeding in winter was considered necessary, from the 1970s onwards, to compensate for the loss of arboreal lichens associated with forest regeneration.
23736520|The current high rate of population declines and attempts to 'manage' their recovery, call for a better understanding of recovery dynamics of populations. In many cases, recovery of a population may primarily be determined by a single life history property or ecological interaction, allowing for straightforward management actions. For example, a generalist predator may prevent the recovery of its prey, and populations with sex-biased dispersal are particularly vulnerable to demographic stochasticity. However, linking life history with intra- and interspecific population dynamics is needed to assess the relative importance of these factors. A clear example is depensatory dynamics that can be caused either by e.g., mutual predation or cooperative breeding. Moreover, dynamics of a recovering population can alter both its physiological and behavioural traits, affecting its interspecific interactions. Here we review life histories (reproduction, resource use and dispersal) and species interactions affecting recovery processes, and discuss their implications for management.
23735662|The duration of the period comprised between mating and the onset of laying and its correlates and consequences for aspects of female breeding performance are investigated in a population of pied flycatchers studied for 5 years. That duration may represent a compromise between the selective pressure on females to breed as early as possible and the need for females attempting to breed to be in prime nutritional condition. It is shown that the duration of the prelaying period is shorter for late breeders, but is apparently unrelated to subsequent condition of the female and indices of breeding performance. A low, significant between-year repeatability (R = 0.16) in the duration of female prelaying period was detected. However, there was a large component of environmental, as opossed to genetic, variation which may reflect stochasticity affecting timing of breeding and age factors. Overall, the evidence supports models of strategic adjustment of breeding date to offspring prospects, rather than those based on condition-constrained breeding date.
23734464|Enzyme gene differentiation was studied in 21 Bombus and five Psithyrus species from northern Europe. With the exception of the species pair Subterraneobombus subterraneus and S. distinguendus, all species can be distinguished from each other on the basis of the eleven loci examined. Species-specific staining patterns of two enzymes in Pyrobombus lapponicus (Fabricius) and P. monticola (Smith) from sympatric populations confirm the specific status of the two forms. Four algorithms were used to reconstruct the phylogenetic tree from the electrophoretic data: UPGMA, Fitch-Margoliash, Wagner parsimony and restricted maximum likelihood methods. The reliability of the UPGMA tree was evaluated by estimating variances of the branch lengths and branching points. The main results are: (1) Psithyrus species form a single cluster, supporting the monophyletic origin of the group. (2) The species of the conventional subgenera cluster together, except in the subgenus Pyrobombus. (3) The clustering of the genus Bombus does not follow the division into sections Odontobombus and Anodontobombus. The results support the previous suggestion that the subgenus Bombus is divergent from the other subgenera and indicate a phyletic relationship of the subgenera Alpigenobombus, Alpinobombus and Kallobombus with the subgenera of the section Odontobombus. Further studies are required to establish statistical significance of the emerging patterns.
23737139|During human evolution, finding an intelligent mate could have resulted in more high-quality offspring via better access to resources or via "good genes". Considering that the choice of a mate is an important issue, one would expect that intelligence could be accurately judged by human observers at the beginning of sexual maturity when women of primitive tribes generally establish pair bonds. Male facial photographs and IQs were used to study how well adolescent versus older women can judge intelligence from a picture. There was no correlation between men's IQ and the perceived intelligence rankings given by female adolescent judges, nor did these judges perceive men of higher IQ as more attractive. Interestingly, however, there was a significant correlation between the measured IQ and the intelligence ranking by older female respondents. The ability to readily judge intelligence seems to be learned, or it matures later. As surprising as the inability of adolescent women to correctly evaluate intelligence is, it in any case may partly explain why they did not find intelligent men attractive: they could not estimate whether they were intelligent or not. Evaluation of human intelligence could, indeed, represent a case where it can be worthwhile for young or inexperienced individuals to copy more experienced ones, at least in cases where only limited information exist.
23734724|The morphology of the fibularis brevis muscle was analysed in 29 passerine species. As expected, most of them showed only one point of origin, the head arising cranially from the fibula and the adjacent tibiotarsus. However, Panurus biarmicus, Regulus regulus, Parus ater, P. caeruleus, Certhia familiaris and C. brachydactyla showed an extra point of origin, with fleshy fibres arising from the outer cnemial crest of the tibiotarsus. The occurrence of such a tibial head was compared with the foraging postures of the species and a correlation was found between the presence of two fully developed heads in fibularis brevis and a greater propensity in the species for hanging and/or creeping. The muscular requirement important to these actions is for flexing of the leg joints. Hence, the results seem to indicate that the presence of a tibial head in fibularis brevis might be related to tarsometatarsal flexion. The mechanics of the situation seems to support this interpretation, as the torque of the muscular force is increased, which enhances the effectiveness of the flexing action of the muscle. This adaptive hypothesis is tested by the outgroup comparison method.
23735559|The raccoon (Procyon lotor) is distributed over the whole area of Germany. Stable populations already exist in the states of Hessia, Lower Saxony and Northrhine-Westphalia, and the species further continues to build up its inhabitation. In 13 out of the 16 states hunting of the raccoon is allowed. The body and skull of full-grown raccoons in Germany measured on average as follows (sexes separated): body weight (kg), male 5.38, female 4.62, standard body length (mm) 586 and 547, tail length 236 and 239, ear length 60 and 56, hind foot length 103 and 99, condylobasal length 110 and 106, and zygomatic breadth 72 and 67. Morphometric measurements for body and skull of the raccoon in Germany correspond to those from the American continent. In the area of introduction in 1934 in North-Hessia an accumulation of dental anomaly is observed, 32% of the skulls showing the oligodontie of the first premolar.
23734187|The subtossil remains of chironomids, chaoborids and ceratopogonids were analyzed from four short sediment profiles with the object of using them as palaeolimnological indicators of the development of Lake Vanajavesi during the industrial period of its history in the 19th and 20th Centuries. The present midge fauna (117 species) was sampled and the results were used as a reference material. 19 species new to Lake Vanajavesi were found only in the sediment profiles. Many of them were typical of oligotrophic lakes. A succession from an oligotrophic Microspectra - Monodiamesa community, through a eutrophic Chironomus anthracinus community, to a Chironomus plumosus community, was detected. The final stage of succession was the disappearance of the stationary bottom fauna, when the formation of annually laminated sediment became possible. The results showed that a redeposition of shallow-water fauna on the deepwater bottoms was the most important factor affecting the composition and abundance of the subfossil fauna in the profiles. In the case of annually laminated sediment, plenty of midge remains were found, all of them redeposited. In this case the midge analysis indicates conditions in the littoral zone. The increase in numbers of littoral chironomids such as Limnophyes spp. was connected with the artificial lowering of lake water levels in the 18th and 19th Centuries. Midge analysis was found to be a useful palaeolimnological technique for indicating not only the typological development of the lake but also the past water level changes in the lake basin.
23733702|The following recommendations are given when shell rings are used in a growth study of Anodonta piscinalis: 1) The regularity of ring formation has to be checked, especially where stunted populations are studied. 2) When methods of measuring are standardized, it is possible to use measurements made by more than one person. 3) Sexes can be pooled unless the aim is to detect small differences in growth. 4) Account must be taken of the differential growth of mussels at different depths. 5) The most suitable single measure of growth is the length of the third annulus. 6) To eliminate interpopulation differences between good and bad years for growth and reproduction, it is best in comparisons to use the length (i.e. longest diameter) of the third annulus in the age class that has just passed its third winter. This also minimizes the effects of growth-rate-dependent mortality.
23736077|The preconditions for the ontogenetic diet shift from planktivory to piscivory in age-0 perch and age-0 zander were examined in the long-term biomanipulated Bautzen reservoir (Germany). Early piscivory already was observed in age-0 zander of approximately 20 mm total length, but occurred only in the largest (> 40 mm TL) perch specimens during early summer. The onset of piscivory was triggered by high water temperatures in late spring which enhanced the growth rates of the predators relative to their prey, and by the drastic decline in zooplankton abundances during that time. Due to the lack of other prey fish, cannibalism and mutual intraguild predation dominated in piscivorous zander and perch. Early piscivory in both species was additionally favoured by the biomanipulation experiment in Bautzen reservoir due to (1) an abundant Daphnia population in spring which increased the growth rates of the predators, and (2) the coexistence of perch and zander in high densities which is uncommon in naturally-structured waters.
23734643|The toxicity of zinc to the common mussel, Mytilus edulis L. (Bivalvia), was tested in aquaria in brackish water (7). Elevated concentrations of zinc were put into the aquaria for an exposure period of 24 h (12C). Survival rates and the effects of sublethal concentrations on the activity of the mussels were observed for six weeks. Samples were taken from the gills for histopathological analysis. The LC 50 (lethal concentration) was 20.8 mg Zn/l. The exposure affected the byssal attachment of the mussels. The EC 50 (effective concentration) for the byssogenesis test was 0.64 mg/l. The EC 50 for the opening response was 1.35 mg/l. The exposure resulted in an acute inflammatory reaction in the gills of the mussels. The branchial veins were dilated, and the postlateral cells were swollen. In high concentrations hydropic degeneration of mucus secretory cells and necrosis of hemocytes were found.
23736037|Data lists of benthos monitoring and cod gut analyses were used to check the recent distribution of Mysis relicta, Saduria entomon, Pontoporeia affinis and P.femorata in the western and southern Baltic. Specimens of Mysis were identified, all of them proving to belong to M. mixta. The limit of distribution was established for the western and southern Baltic.
23734217|The demography of red-backed voles was monitored in boreal forest in southeastern Manitoba, Canada from 1967 to 1982. Catches on spring index lines and summer removal grids revealed only modest fluctuations in density with no evidence of a typical microtine population cycle. Beginning in 1973, four summer removal grids were exposed to an approximately exponentially decreasing field of gamma radiation from an artificial 137Cs source. Three grids located a few km from the irradiated area served as controls. Voles living in the irradiated area with very high dose rates were more likely to be immature and were smaller than voles living in areas exposed to lower dose rates. No other radiation-specific trends were detected. Major demographic differences occurred from year to year rather than between the irradiated and control area. Features characteristic of Clethrionomys species, such as inhibition of sexual maturity in young of the year at high density, were characteristic of all populations. Chronic exposure to radiation was insufficient to produce a depression in vole numbers. Radiation-induced death or sterility over an area of about 2-5 ha was presumably balanced by recruitment from surrounding areas exposed to lower levels of radiation. The inability of both the snap-trapping program and the radiation manipulation to affect demography suggests that Clethrionomys populations are insensitive to additional, random mortality. These results argue against the role of an established social structure in the regulation of population density.
23736084|The size of the mature perch females were estimated from the width of the egg strands that were laid on their spawning grounds. By separately sampling egg strands and mature females in 19921995, general relationships were established for perch in Lake Geneva. Because of the high variability in the ova content of smallest perch, this relationship could be applied to perch with a total length 150350 mm.
23736156|We investigated species diversity and evolution of parthenogenesis among bagworm moth species of Dahlica and Siederia using mitochondrial DNA sequencing. Parthenogenesis is rare among Lepidoptera other than Psychidae. Genera Dahlica and Siederia form a confusing group with controversial species boundaries and widely overlapping morphological features that make species determination difficult. We evaluated the reliability of species determination based on wing scale morphology by comparing it with a phylogenetic tree obtained using mtDNA. Species determination based on morphological characteristics did not correspond to species determination based on mtDNA markers. On the basis of the molecular phylogeny, the status of these two genera is questionable. Our results indicate that parthenogenetic D. fennicella, D. triquetrella and D. lichenella evolved independently from different sexual ancestors suggesting that asexual reproduction is favoured in this group.
23731694|The effect of phenol on pike (Esox lucius L.) living in brackish water of relatively stable salinity, 5  6 , was studied in continuous-flow aquarium experiments. The highest concentration for survival for at least one week was found to be 5 ppm of phenol at a water temperature of 10 C. Longer periods were not tested. This concentration produced the typical effects of phenol on activity, which lasted for the first 2  3 days. After one week's exposure the test fish were still in good condition, as judged from their external appearance. No differences could be demonstrated between the control and phenol-affected groups in blood haemoglobin, haematocrit, total plasma protein, Na+, K+, Ca2+, Mg2+ or Cl- values. The total amount of plasma free amino acids was slightly increased in the phenol-affected group. Significant changes in individual amino acids are reported but their value as indicators of phenol action remains obscure. No clearly destructive histopathological changes in the gill lamellae or liver structures of the phenol-affected group could be detected.
23737114|With some raptors showing widespread declines, management of grassland to enhance access to their small mammal prey may be an important conservation tool. Many small mammal species prefer long grass as a habitat that offers protection from predation, and past studies on the consequences of grass cutting to small mammals have yielded mixed results. Using live trapping, we show that although mowing grass causes a rapid decline in small mammal captures, a small proportion of captures (20%27%) still occurred in patches of mown grass immediately after cutting. This proportion more than halved again when the cut grass that was initially left in situ was removed. We conclude that some small mammals may remain in mown areas provided some form of cover  i.e. the cut grass  is present. These findings are discussed in light of agrienvironment scheme options (e.g. grass margins) that could be improved to benefit birds of prey.
23734433|Autumn predation of great and willow tits upon two leaf-mining species of Lithocolletis was studied in 19751976 near Oulu, northern Finland. Of 21145 leaves examined 5211 were infested with 10591 mines. During a short period in autumn tits opened 18.9 % of mines in 1975 and 13.7 % in 1976. Both the number of mines and the intensity of predation showed strong local fluctuations. However, the predation showed signs of density dependence.
23734477|Vertical migration in Pontoporeia affinis Lindstrm was studied during the years 19741978 and 1980 on a location north of the Hanko Peninsula, Gulf of Finland, at a depth of 30 metres. The study was carried out using traps standing on the bottom, with a funnel directed upwards to catch animals descending after excursions from the bottom. The traps were used from the beginning of May to the middle of December. With this method, it was found that vertical migration mainly occurs from the middle of July to the beginning of October. The onset corresponds to the time when cessation of growth occurs, and it may thus be related to a depletion of the locally available food supply. During the main period of vertical migration, large week-to-week fluctuations occur that appear related to out- and inward movements of the water caused by changes in the sea level. In many cases, the results indicate that the whole population takes part in the migration.
23731586|Specimens of Boettgerilla vermiformis Wiktor (Parmacellidae) were found in the Botanical Garden of the University of Helsinki in 1968 and 1969. These are the first records of the species from Finland. It is supposed that the specimens have been introduced with ornamental plants from Central Europe. The genitalia of B. vermiformis are described and some features of its ecology and distribution are discussed.
23734156|We present data from 15 years' study on breeding success and mortality in females and young of the Ural Owl in central Sweden. Mean reproductive was 1.03 young per pair per annum which should be sufficient to compensate for mortality (first year 62 %, breeding females 10.5 %) and theoretically the population should be able to increase with 4 % per year. However, the potential increase is thwarted by increasing scarcity of natural nest sites, this deficit being only partially compensated by the erection of nest boxes, on which a growing portion of the local population is dependent for breeding.
23731611|The chemical composition of Cladonia alpestris, C. rangiferina, Stereocaulon sp., Alectoria jubata coll. and A. sarmentosa collected in late October  early April in northeastern Lapland was studied. The C. alpestris samples studied originated both from ground continuously grazed by the reindeer and from ungrazed ground. The upper parts of the podetia contained more crude protein, digestible crude protein, crude fat, phosphorus and potassium than the lower parts. C. alpestris growing on continuously grazed ground contained more crude protein, digestible crude protein, crude fat, phosphorus and calcium than the podetia of the same lichen growing on ungrazed ground. Analyses of C. alpestris and C. rangiferina growing in similar conditions differed from each other only in the crude fat content. Stereocaulon sp. contained more crude protein and potassium than C. alpestris growing in similar conditions, whereas C. alpestris contained more calcium than Stereocaulon sp. A. jubata contained more crude protein, crude fibre, phosphorus and potassium than A. sarmentosa. The crude fat content of A. sarmentosa was much greater than that of A. jubata. Special attention has been paid to the very great difference (about 36 %) in crude fibre content between A. jubata and A. sarmentosa.
23731811|318 specimens of Clethrionomys rufocanus reared in captivity and 963 specimens collected at Kilpisjrvi, Finnish Lapland, were studied in order to examine an ageing method for this species. Age determination was based on measurements of the second upper molar. Up to the age of one month, age can be determined from the growth of the entire tooth to within  2 days in 94 % of cases. The tooth lengthens from 3.0 mm at 15 days to 4.1 mm at 27 days. The best criterion between the ages of 24 and 50 days is the length of the cement layer in the grooves of the tooth, which grows from 1.3 mm at 24 days to 2.8 mm at 50 days. After that, the formation of the neck of the tooth makes it possible to determine the age of the animals. The neck has acquired its full shape by the beginning of the third month of life. After that aging has to be based on the lengthening of the root (= neck + root). The limits of accuracy of this method were determined up to the age of four months. From this material it was impossible to determine any accuracy limits for the ageing of overwintered animals.
23731710|Eleven species of Enchytraeidae are reported and some features of a previously unknown genus are given. The literature on Enchytraeidae in Siberia and Northern Russia is surveyed and descriptions of some of the species are revised.
23731733|The larvae of Pieris brassicae regulate uptake of dietary fatty acids. The major fatty acids synthesized (artificial diet) are oleate, palmitate and palmitoleate. Low tissue linolenate appears to enhance synthesis of palmitoleate and oleate. Relatively more phospholipid (PL) is synthesized before fifth instar than during fifth instar or by pupae. Fat body lipid is over 90 % neutral lipid, whereas flight muscle lipid is mostly PL. Utilization of fat body fatty acids is rapidly compensated by synthesis of new acids. With low tissue linolenate, linolenate and linoleate are incorporated especially in PL, but with high tissue linolenate less linoleate is accumulated in PL. Phosphatidyl cholines (PTC) and ethanolamines (PTE) are the major phosphatides in Pieris. Relatively more of the fatty acids are polyunsaturated in PTE than in PTC. Cardiolipin, with high content of linolenate, is a major phospholipid of flight muscles. PTC appear metabolically more labile than PTE and cardiolipin. Energy in adult flight muscles is provided by oleate, palmitate and palmitoleate. Sexual dimorphism is apparent in the synthesis and utilization of fatty acids in the adults.
23736116|The time (minutes from fertilization) when perch and ruffe embryos reached the 4 and 16 blastomere stage (II and IV, respectively) was recorded, and the duration of one synchronous cell cycle 0 = (IV  II)/2 and the rate of development R = 1/0  10-4 was calculated at different temperatures. R was higher for ruffe than for perch. The range of optimal temperatures for early development (determined from log0-temperature plots according to Mazin and Dettlaff, 1985) was 818C (Ropt = 13C) for perch and 921C (Ropt = 15C) for ruffe. R and Ropt in perch and ruffe are higher than in salmonids and coregonids, and less than in warm-water cyprinids and cobitids.
23737076|Infanticide, the killing of offspring by adult conspecifics, has been demonstrated in many insect, mammal and bird species. In contrast to selective pressures influencing infanticide in other species, egg destruction in birds is thought to primarily represent interference competition for food, nest sites or predator-free nesting space. In the case of the great reed warbler, two opposing hypotheses exist for the explanation of its egg destruction behaviour. Our study tested these hypotheses separately by manipulating the presence of real conspecific, familiar and unfamiliar eggs and nests inside polygynous and monogamous great reed warbler territories. Out of 147 experimental nests placed in the vicinity of 49 active great reed warbler nests, only conspecific eggs were preyed upon by great reed warblers. Furthermore, significantly more great reed warbler nests were destroyed in polygynous than monogamous territories. These results support the hypothesis that egg destruction behaviour in this species is motivated intraspecifically and most probably intrasexually.
23734858|Average daily metabolic rate M (J/h), measured as CO2 production, was related to body fresh weight W(g) as log M= 2.66+0.58 log W in Sorex minutissimus (average wt 2.5 g), S. minutus (2.7 g), S. caecutiens (4.9 g), S. araneus (8.9 g), S. isodon (11.1 g) and Neomys fodiens (17.8 g). The scaling factor 0.58 is significantly different from 0.75. Gravimetric measurements of metabolic rate gave unbiased but inaccurate estimates (experimental period 15 h). Shrews' food utilization efficiency (assimilation minus urine production divided by consumption, all in carbon) is high (70 to 85 %) on ant pupae and sawfly cocoons but low (45 to 60 %) on beetles, which have a high proportion of indigestable chitin. Assimilation efficiency (assimilation/consumption) peaks in medium-sized species and was especially low in S. minutissimus, one of the smallest extant mammals. Body size constrains the size of the digestive tract. The lower size limit of shrews could be set by the maximum food processing rate of the digestive tract, achieved by optimizing between assimilation efficiency and throughput time.
23735895|Avoiding predators spatially or selecting safer habitats can improve survival prospects of potential prey animals. However, in the case of introduced predators, prey populations might lack the behavioural traits to escape predation. We studied responses of native voles to removal of an alien predator, the American mink (Mustela vison), on small islands in the outer archipelago of the Baltic Sea, SW Finland. Voles were live-trapped on 10 manipulation and 10 control islands in a grid of 50 traps per island. Microhabitat characteristics around trap locations were classified to four types reflecting risks of mink predation and suitability for foraging: grassy patches, juniper bushes, berries and open habitats. Microhabitat use of voles was analysed in relation to microhabitat availability. Field voles (Microtus agrestis) responded to the presence of mink with a microhabitat shift from open grassy habitats to juniper bushes. Bank voles (Clethrionomys glareolus), however, avoided juniper in the presence of mink and were significantly more often captured in juniper in removal areas. Use of open habitats by bank voles was also affected by their own density on islands. These divergent results may reflect species-specific differences in the social system, diet selection and escape behaviour of voles, but provide novel evidence for a microhabitat shift of native prey animals induced by an alien predator.
23731631|Brain 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and noradrenaline (NA) levels in infant rats were determined after 3 hours' exposure to different ambient temperatures. It was found that when the animals were exposed for 3 hours to a high or a low ambient temperature, the 5-HT and NA levels both changed significantly as compared with the levels in the thermoneutral environment. The response in the 5-HT level could be elicited at the age of 4 days, but in the NA level not until later.
23735704|The effect of low ambient pH (pH 4.04.5) on the levels of hemolymph gases (pCO2, pO2), the acid-base status and electrolytes in the hemolymph was investigated in two freshwater unionids (Anodonta anatina and Unio tumidus) under moderately hard water (17 mgCa/1) conditions. In order to simulate freshwater acidification during heavy rainfall or spring snow-melt, a continuous 15-day exposure and an intermittent exposure regime (6 hr exposure, 18 hr recovery continued for 48 hr) were introduced. During the 15-day low pH exposure, an initial reaction of both clam species to acid stress was a decrease in blood pO2 concentration after only 3 hr of exposure. At the same time the pH of the hemolymph decreased rapidly. In U. tumidus, the compensation by means of CaCO3 release restored the original hemolymph pH level in 3 days, whereas in A. anatina, full compensation for the acid-base disturbance took more than 8 days. Continuous acid exposure decreased the hemolymph Na+ and Cl- levels in both species, the decrease being more severe in U. tumidus. Intermittent pulses of acid water affected the hemolymph gases and acid-base status, but not the concentration of electrolytes.
23737172|We compared smolt physiology of Atlantic salmon stocks, that migrate from freshwater stream environments to a freshwater lake (Lake Saimaa, Finland), from the Neva River (Russia) to the brackish water of the Baltic Sea, and from the Teno River (Finland/Norway) to the full-strength seawater of the Arctic Ocean. The three fish stocks were reared under common garden conditions, and ion homeostasis, seawater tolerance, activities of gill and kidney Na,K-ATPase and [ 3 H]ouabain binding of gill and kidney tissues were determined at different phases of smoltification. Activity of gill Na,K-ATPase and number of gill [ 3 H]ouabain binding sites reached peak values in May and were strongly suppressed in July. Osmolality and Na + , Cl - , and Mg2 + ion concentrations of blood plasma decreased during smoltification. 1a and 1b isoforms of gill Na,K-ATPase decreased and increased, respectively, during smoltification. Although small differences appeared at some points in time, the seasonal pattern and magnitude of changes in smolt characteristics were generally similar in the Saimaa salmon and in the anadromous stocks of the Neva and Teno salmon. It is suggested that the strong smoltification process of the landlocked Saimaa salmon is somehow necessary for migration of the young salmon from river to lake and therefore has been retained in evolution.
23734111|The lengths of the small intestine and caeca were recorded in 83 willow grouse (Lagopus lagopus) shot in Finnish Lapland in February 1981-January 1982. The length of the combined caeca of the males decreased from April-May to a minimum value in June-July and increased again to the same winter maximum, while the length of the small intestine increased from June-July to August-September and then again decreased until the next winter, no changes taking place during the course of the winter, spring and early summer. Similar trends were shown regardless of age or sex. It is concluded that the length of the caeca depends mainly on the amount of fibrous food eaten. The large absorption surface of the long small intestine is needed when the willow grouse eat considerable quantities of berries in August-September.
23736709|Thermoregulation is particularly important for amphibians under heterothermic high-altitude conditions, but remains largely unstudied in montane frogs. Field body temperatures 7.226.5 C) in a Pyrenean population of the common frog (Rana temporaria) at 2100 m altitude were significantly higher than environmental temperatures (air, substrate, water) during the day. At night, the highest body temperatures were observed in individuals in the pond, which acted as a temperature buffer during the nocturnal drop in air temperature. Our results indicate active thermoregulation in these frogs, which was also verified by the observational data on basking individuals. No influence of the amount of black dorsal pattern on body temperatures was found in the field data, but body temperatures of individuals exposed experimentally to the sun were higher in dark than in lighter individuals. These trends were similar to those found in melanic snakes, and support the hypothesis that the black pattern in montane Rana temporaria may provide benefits in terms of time allocation by enabling frogs to attain their preferred body temperatures more quickly.
23736516|How much do we understand about the ecology of extinction? A review of recent literature, and a recent conference in Helsinki gives a snapshot of the "state of the art"*. This "snapshot" is important as it highlights what we currently know, the tools available for studying the process of extinction, its ecological correlates, and the theory concerning extinction thresholds. It also highlights that insight into the ecology of extinction can come from areas as diverse as the study of culture, the fossil record and epidemiology. Furthermore, it indicates where the gaps in knowledge and understanding exist. Of particular note is the need either to generte experimental data, or to make use of existing empirical data  perhaps through meta-analyses, to test general theory and guide its future development.
23731686|The taxonomic status of Centromerus expertus (O. Pickard-Cambridge, 1871) is revised, and this species is selected as the type-species of a new Linyphiid genus, Tallusia. A new species, T. bicristata, from Turkish Anatolia is also described.
23736151|While many studies have shown that patterns of partial brood loss often differ with offspring sex, food availability or between years, the question of whether family-size adjustment varies between sites has achieved little attention. I investigated this in Finnish northern goshawks Accipiter gentilis, and found that partial brood loss varied considerably between locations. This variation was present both between territories and between two larger regions with different densities of goshawks' main prey, grouse. Partial brood loss was inversely related to natural main-prey densities, but the relationship was far from straightforward: spatial nonlinearities arising from between-territorial differences influenced the results. Brood-loss patterns also differed between years and between initial clutch-size categories. Potential sex-biased post-hatching mortality was not related to grouse density and partial brood loss did not alter the original population-wide egg sex ratio. Between-territory variance in offspring sex ratios was low. The lack of the spatial dimension in earlier studies might have undermined a correct interpretation of the causes and consequences of brood-loss patterns, irrespective of whether sex ratios were biased.
23734138|The pattern of the setae on the costal vein was investigated in 875 species belonging to 128 families of Diptera. The arrangement of the setae was classified into seven basic types but intermediate types and conspicuous variations also occur in this neglected taxonomic character. In the "nematocerous" superfamilies the costal chaetotaxy usually consists of irregularly arranged hairs. In several groups of the "lower" Muscomorpha setae occur in two homomorphous rows. In the Schizophora types with a subdorsal row of spinulae and a subventral row of hairs are also commonly encountered. Again, in some families strong subventral spines occur. In the Muscoidea in the sense used here the basic plan seems to be two heteromorphous rows of hairs alternating with spinulae, the Scathophagidae being an exception, with irregularly inserted hairs, or hairs and spinulae. In the Oestroidea strikingly primitive types resembling those in the "lower" Muscomorpha are met. The present data suggests that the costal chaetotaxy can be successfully used at different levels of Diptera systematics. The costal chaetotaxy can be used as a diagnostic character for several subfamilies and families, and in some extreme cases even for species of a single genus. This character complex also provides significant new material for studies of the macrosystematics of the order Diptera.
23737033|We report the first investigation of nuclear genetic variability in the colony of the spotted seal (Phoca largha) in the Liaodong Gulf, China, where the estimated population size was under 1000 individuals during the study period (20052008). A total of 29 microsatellite loci from five pinniped species were employed in 176 spotted seals. Only 15 were polymorphic, with a maximum of 4 alleles detected in samples, with the mean number of alleles per locus being 2.73. Estimates of expected heterozygosity He for the polymorphic loci ranged from 0.24 ( 0.05 SD) to 0.72 ( 0.02 SD), with a mean He per polymorphic locus of 0.51 ( 0.05 SD). No deviation from the HardyWeinberg equilibrium was detected for any of the loci. No differences were detected for either genic or genotypic frequencies of seals from the different sampling sites and years. Several statistical methods were applied to detect the population reduction and compare it with that in other seal species. The result indicated that the population of the Liaodong Gulf spotted seal has suffered a decrease in genetic variability and population reduction over the last several decades. The present study supports a notion that a decrease in population size is the main factor accounting for the low levels of variability observed. These research results provide useful data for the conservation and management of the Liaodong Gulf colony.
23732275|Specimens of three teleost species, the freshwater Esox lucius L., and the marine Myoxocephalus scorpius (L.) and M. quadricornis (L.), all from the brackish water of the Baltic (about 6  S), were acclimated to zero (- 0.1 C) and some higher temperatures. In winter plasma osmolality and sodium and chloride concentrations increased at - 0.1 C in all three species. These changes were less distinct in pike. In summer the effect of low temperature on the concentrations of Na+ and Cl- was the reverse in pike, but the same in shorthorn sculpin. Representative plasma K+ values for M. quadricornis and E. lucius indicate a slight decrease at low temperatures. In all three species the same is true of plasma inorganic phosphate. Plasma Mg2+ concentration increases in the cold, the change being greatest in the pike. Seasonal changes in females prevent further conclusions about plasma calcium. The water content of white muscle tissue remains relatively stable in both sculpin species, but in the pike increases slightly in the cold. In all three species there was a small but significant decrease in brain tissue water content. The muscle tissue Na+ content reflects the variation in the plasma Na+ content in E. lucius and M. scorpius, and high tissue levels of K+ and Mg2+ are also maintained at zero point. Correlations between many plasma and muscle tissue parameters throughout the temperature range, the small dispersion of the values for water content of tissues, and the changes in the major plasma electrolytes in hypotonic brackish water indicate that, as in marine teleosts, hydromineral balance is well-regulated at near-zero winter temperatures.
23734470|Behaviour of smooth newt females and males foraging on zooplankton was studied. Diel activity patterns of the sexes differed in both movement and feeding activities. Female newts moved slightly more at night and in early morning hours while males had their highest swimming activity around midday. Feeding activities were at greatest around noon for both sexes, lasting longer at a more intense level in females than males. Both sexes clearly preferred larger prey over smaller ones in sizeselectivity experiments. No significant differences in numbers of prey eaten were found between female and male newts. Allowing a female and a male to forage together resulted in clear behavioral differences between the sexes. Females were more interested in foraging while males displayed more interest in courtship. Increasing hunger, however, modified the sequence of male activities. With lengthened food deprivation courtship interests were increasingly followed by feeding, while well fed males almost ignored foraging compared to the response of females. The level of hunger also altered the time sequence of newt activities. With no food deprivation, feedings occurred rather evenly throughout the trials whereas increasing hunger led to most of the feedings taking place at the beginning of the experimental sessions.
23734632|The study is based on three observations: (1) grebes expanding into the archipelagoes of the Baltic Sea experience a straining water regime, as the water level amplitude is higher than in lakes (up to 75 cm during the breeding season in the area studied); (2) grebes breeding in the archipelago seem to build larger nests than in lakes; and (3) larger nests seem to survive better in the archipelago than small nests. Successful and flooded nests seemed to be structurally similar, although on average successful nests were significantly larger. However, among the flooded nests there were more atypical nest types than among the successful nests; this is probably due to a local lack of nest material and suitable nest sites, but could not be related to any differences in nesting habitat. The large nests are probably favourable as they can withstand wave action and rising sea water better. The greater investment in nest-building among grebes in the archipelago is probably not due to a specific "strategy", but to the mechanical reactions to the continuous changes in sea water level.
23737022|Long-term mallard capturerecapture data from Sweden and Finland were analyzed to describe temporal mortality patterns and reasons. We used program MARK and Seber models to estimate annual survival (S) and recovery (r) rates. Survival rates were used in a Monte Carlo simulation to evaluate the correspondence between observed and predicted annual population sizes of a Finnish sub-population. About 90% of recovered birds died from hunting. Most recoveries were from the hunting season, and more males than females were shot. Predation was the most common cause of natural mortality. Finnish capturerecapture data fitted best the global model in which survival and recovery vary with age and sex. Annual survival and recovery rates for adult and juvenile males and females were overlapping, ranging from 0.46 to 0.90 (survival) and 0.07 to 0.17 (recovery), whereas pulli had lower survival rates (0.210.42). Pulli that were successfully sexed at the time of ringing had higher recovery rates (female pulli: 0.23; male pulli: 0.32) than juveniles and adults. Density-dependent fledgling production was detected in the Finnish sub-population and was accounted for in the Monte Carlo simulation, which estimated predicted breeding population size quite well, although one of the observed annual values (2003) fell outside the 95% confidence limits.
23734097|In the southern Finnish rural municipality of Tuulos, which has a low environmental mercury load, the mean mercury contents of the common frog's (Rana temporaria) liver, kidney, muscle, lung and eggs ranged from 0.03 to 0.08 mgHg/kg fresh weight. In two sample localities within the cities of Helsinki and Porvoo the range of the corresponding means was somewhat wider, viz. 0.030.19 mgHg/kg fresh weight, but statistically significant differences were found only between the mean mercury content of the liver in the frogs from Tuulos and those of the frogs from both Helsinki and Porvoo. In Lake Kirkkojrvi in Hmeenkyr, which is badly polluted by phenyl mercury compounds from a paper mill, only a minimal mercury load (less than 0.05 mgHg/ fresh weight) was recorded in the few small specimens studied. In the common toad (Bufo bufo) from the unpolluted Tuulos area the mean mercury content was highest in liver (0.12 ppmHg/kg fresh weight) and lowest in muscle tissue (0.03 ppmHg/kg fresh weight). It was noted that the mean mercury content in the liver of southern Finnish frogs and toads was 3-10 times lower than in that of the same species from unpolluted areas of Yugoslavia and was as much as 110-420 times lower than in those from the mercury mining area of Idrija in Yugoslavia. With regard to the other tissues (kidney, muscle and lung), the corresponding differences were somewhat smaller.
23736940|An important challenge for scientists, especially those early in their careers, is preparing an effective article for submission to a peer-reviewed journal. Here, I present a number of suggestions on how it could be accomplished. This action plan addresses (1) how to approach a topic by developing a story line connected with what is already known in the field, (2) how to most efficiently organize and sequence one's efforts by starting with the descriptive parts of the manuscript and subsequently moving to the more interpretive parts, and (3) the advantages of using bibliographic software to facilitate quick and accurate referencing. I suggest that authors should aim to produce a story that does not overcomplicate the topic under investigation while at the same time presenting a full and accurate coverage and interpretation of the data. Importantly, the preparation of manuscripts becomes easier with time and practice, as individuals hone their own style and approach to this task.
23736877|Trade-off between number and intraovarian growth rate of offspring was studied using 15 samples of females caught at 7 sites in the Baltic Sea and the Skagerrak. The growth of normal embryos appeared to be synchronous within broods, and there was no correlation between the females' size and relative fecundity. Females with higher relative fecundity had significantly smaller average larval length which may suggest existence of offspring competition for maternal energy supplies. Our results also show that reduced offspring size in females with high relative fecundity did not fully compensate for the increase in offspring number: the ratio of embryo mass to female somatic weight was positively correlated with relative fecundity. The negative relationship between female condition and relative fecundity indicates that increased investment in offspring affects the energetic state of the female. However, the last effect was rather moderate.
23731588|Thelohania contejeani, a microsporidian not previously observed in Finland, was found in 1965  1969 in crayfish from four different watercourses. Heavily parasitized crayfish are easy to distinguish on account of the bright white colour of the abdomen, i.e. the white tail disease caused by the white spores accumulated in the muscle tissue and being visible through the ventral surface of the abdomen of the crayfish.
23731572|The seasonal variation in the weight of the interscapular brown adipose tissue (BAT) was measured in the common shrew (Sorex araneus), the bank vole (Clethrionomys glareolus), and the field vole (Microtus agrestis). The relative weight of the BAT was greatest in the common shrew and the seasonal variations of its BAT were also the most marked. Thermal conductance was measured in dead specimens of the common shrew and the bank vole. The conductance of the shrew was higher in winter than in summer. This may due to the smaller body weight in the winter. However, the insulation was observed to be better during winter than summer. In the bank vole the conductance was slightly, but not significantly, higher in winter than in summer.
23734552|Two corixid species (Arctocorisa carinata, Callicorixa producta) and one dytiscid species (Potamonectes griseostriatus) are common and abundant insect predators in rock-pools on islands in the Baltic Sea. Characteristic zooplankton in rock-pools are large Daphnia species, whilst chironomid larvae are common benthic animals. Laboratory experiments were made to disclose the impact potential of these predatory insects on their Daphnia and chironomid prey. When offered 1.7, 2.7 and 3.8 mm D. magna in equal abundance both the number of prey eaten and diet width increased with predator size. All species and instars examined showed higher feeding rates on small-sized Daphnia. When adults of the three insect species were fed in shallow (8 cm) aquaria in separate tests either with 2.2 mm D. magna or with 15 mm chironomid larvae, both prey types were eaten by the corixids with about comparable feeding rates. P. griseostriatus exhibited higher feeding rates on chironomids. The feeding rates of over-wintered corixids were considerably lower than those of non-over-wintered adults. When the two prey types were offered together in shallow (8 cm) aquaria all species ate significantly more chironomids than Daphnia. The experiment was repeated with corixids in 25 cm deep aquaria. The feeding rates on Daphnia were now higher in both corixid species, but the differences between Daphnia and chironomid feeding rates were small.
23731614|Inbred mouse strains CBA/Ca and C57BL, and derived generations F1, F2, B1 and B2 were used. Their alcohol consumption was tested during a normal free choice situation, and during a following period of motivated choice. In the free choice situation, tap water, 10 % (v/v) alcohol solution, and standard food, were available ad libitum for three weeks. The values obtained in the third week were employed in the analysis. In the motivated choice situation, 0.0034 % (w/w) of crystalline saccharine was added to the alcohol solution, and 0.002 % of quinine sulphate to the water. The motivated choice period followed a period of normal free choice, and lasted one week. These data were subjected to a genetic analysis, the mean alcohol consumption (ml/100 g) per day being used as a measure of the phenotype. Different biometric methods were employed for estimation of the heritability. The estimates of heritability ranged from 0.28 to 0.45. Almost complete dominance,  0.87 to  0.90, in the non-drinking (CBA) direction was observable in the males, and partial dominance,  0.53 to  0.78, in the females. The two methods for determination of the phenotype provided rather similar estimates in genetic analysis.
23735933|Presenceabsence data is often used to determine the preferred habitat of a given organism. However, with presenceabsence datasets there is a problem associated with the comparison between habitats when there is an inter-habitat variation in the proportion of false zeros. Using conspecific playbacks and time of reaction of black-backed woodpeckers in burned and unburned forests, the present study determined whether detection probabilities were similar. The period of time required to detect this species was shorter in recently burned sites than in mature forest stands (F2,235 = 22.1, df = 2, P < 0.0001). To accurately compare these habitats it is important to assure the same proportion of presence and false zeros in each habitat during the census. To achieve this, we propose a time corrected method. Because inter-habitat differences in detectability exist for black-backed woodpeckers, and probably many other organisms, caution is needed when interpreting presenceabsence data in the context of habitat comparisons or when monitoring biodiversity in different habitats.
23734238|Two small (<2 ha), natural and seasonally anoxic ponds in eastern Finland were emptied of fish. The only fish species present was crucian carp, with population densities of 29300 ind./ha in one pond (Hermanninlampi) and 3000 ind./ha in the other (Kuikkalampi). The corresponding values for biomass were 87 kg/ha and 10 kg/ha. The production of crucian carp in Hermanninlampi was estimated as 93 kg/ha/year, yielding a P/B ratio of 1.1. The fish in both ponds were very small, with those shorter than 10 cm dominating. The growth of fish differed between the ponds; the increase in length during their first summer was 34 cm in both but subsequent growth was slower in the smaller pond (Kuikkalampi). The growth of fish introduced into the empty Hermanninlampi was much faster in the first summer than that of the original stock. In Hermanninlampi sexual maturity was reached in 34 years and the total number of eggs in a 10-cm-long female was approx. 600 and in a 20-cm female approx. 7000. A height index and Fulton's coefficient of condition are calculated for several populations and causes of variation are discussed.
23731633|Adrenalectomized and sham-operated male mice were kept at 24 C for 3, 7, 15 and 20 days or at 32 C for 20 days. The relative weight of the interscapular brown adipose tissue (BAT) and its succinic dehydrogenase (SDH) activity were then determined. In the adrenalectomized mice the relative weight of the BAT decreased significantly in the animals housed at 24 C, but no decrease occurred in those kept at 32 C. The SDH activity increased significantly after adrenalectomy in the mice kept at 24 C, but did not differ from that of the controls in the adrenalectomized animals kept at 32 C. These observations and some earlier studies suggest that the changes in the BAT after adrenalectomy are caused by increased production of noradrenaline, which in turn is due to decreased thermoregulatory capacity.
23737120|To date the studies that link community structure of benthic invertebrates with fish feeding are rare as well as factors that are behind this feeding selectivity are poorly known. In this study, we related invertebrate species composition, their dominance structure and fish biological characteristics to the feeding selectivity and overlap of the native flounder, perch and the invasive round goby in Muuga Bay, the Baltic Sea. Species composition and proportion of benthic invertebrates in the diet of fishes differed from what was available in the field. Except for the round goby, the studied fishes preferred small and mobile invertebrates over large bivalves. However, diet of the studied species, namely the round goby and flounder overlapped. Besides, perch preyed on young stages of the round goby indicating that the introduction of round goby may negatively affect flounder but positively perch.
23735611|The object of this study was to obtain quantitative information about the seasonal changes in plasma amino acids and other nitrogen compounds of the captive European brown bears (Ursus arctos arctos) studied between May 1993 and May 1997. Altogether 56 blood samples were analyzed by ion-exchange chromatography. Analysis of plasma revealed that the urea concentration during the denning period was only half of that measured in summer, whereas ammonia and -amino-butyrate concentrations did not change. The concentrations of taurine and arginine were significantly (p < 0.001 and p  0.003, respectively) lower, while ornithine significantly (p < 0.001) and citrulline somewhat higher in winter as compared with the other seasons. These changes indicate active urea recycling, and the synthesis of non-essential amino acids with ammonium and glycerol as precursors. Of essential amino acids, the levels of phenylalanine, lysine and methionine and of non-essential ones, alanine and histidine were significantly elevated during the denning period. No consistent changes occurred in other amino acids. One indication of the degradation of muscle protein as a source of amino acids in winter was the significant increase of 3-methylhistidine concentration in plasma. However, the degradation of type I collagen also increased, since the concentration of the cross-linked carboxyterminal telopeptide of type I collagen (ICTP) was about 3.5-fold higher in winter than in summer. These changes indicate that de novo synthesis of essential amino acids is not necessary in winter sleeping bears.
23735456|Bjornkurtenia, a new genus of primitive Arvicolidae is described. Its type species is B. canterranens (Michaux, 1976), known from the early Pliocene fauna of Terrats in France. New, more complete material of this species from a Polish Lower Pliocene locality Podlesice is described and shows that the species, originally described as Trilophomys canterranensis, does not belong to Trilophomys but represents a new genus, one of the most primitive in the family Arvicolidae.
23737062|The fur of mammals serves many functions, including thermoregulation, camouflage or visual signaling to conspecifics. Fine-scale features of fur, such as hair morphology are often examined by researchers, especially in animals where pelage is of economic importance. Certain studies from this literature body show that males of many species appear to have thicker guard hair than females. Here, we examined this possibility in coyote (Canis latrans) and white tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) from captive populations in Utah and Georgia, USA. We used image analysis procedures to examine 402 guard hairs from 24 captive coyotes and 568 guard hairs from 29 captive deer, measuring the length and diameter of each hair. In both species, males had significantly thicker hairs than females; in coyotes, male hairs were 17% thicker, in deer, male hairs were 15% thicker. These differences are comparable to other species, where male hair is between 7%20% thicker than those of females (in all species the average difference is 13%). Considering that there are hundreds of thousands of hairs on any given animal, this difference per unit hair could translate into considerable differences in overall pelt characteristics between sexes. The reason for this difference could relate to the sensitivity of mammalian hair to androgens, such as testosterone, which are more abundant in males of all species. Experimental studies and population surveys demonstrate that high levels of androgens stimulate body hair to grow thicker in diameter. Thus, the greater levels of testosterone in males would act to promote thicker hair. By this same mechanism, within any given collection of males, those with greater levels of androgens should also display greater hair thickness. While further research would be needed to verify this, results from this study nevertheless emphasize the knowledge gaps that yet remain in our understanding of the basic nature of mammalian fur.
23735665|The reasons for sex role reversal in the pipefish Syngnathus typhle are reviewed. In this species, females compete for males, which are choosier than females. Before mating, females display a sexual ornament, a cross-wise striped pattern along their body sides. This ornament is here shown to be an amplifier that facilitates for males to tell females of different sizes apart (males prefer larger females). When students were asked to compare bar sizes, where bars differed in "ornamentation", accuracy in estimating size was highest with "heavy ornamented" as compared with "intermediate" or "not ornamented" bars. Moreover, bar size was more accurately judged with crosswise than with lengthwise striped bars, explaining why stripes run cross- rather than lengthwise in females. The ornament is probably costly (it reduces crypsis and may be socially provocative), and it is also attractive to males. Thus, the ornament is best described as an amplifying handicap.
23736218|Vendace (Coregonus albula) is the main fish caught in commercial lake fishery in Finland. It is also important in the diet of landlocked salmon (Salmo salar m. sebago). The vendace stock in lake Paasivesi has not recovered from a 10-year recession, and the number of stocked salmon has risen to a level where predation can contribute to the mortality of vendace. We constructed a model of the influence of salmon predation and commercial trawling on the mortality of 0+ vendace in this lake. Our analysis revealed that predation by salmon alone could cause a year-class failure with the present low level of vendace larvae in spring. With a high spring density, only a high trawling effort could thin the year-class to a low level. We recommended that in order to guarantee a high number of larvae in spring, the spawning stock biomass of vendace should be raised.
23731619|Collections made with the aid of an electric fishing device revealed that during the open water season the stone loach occurs near the shore-line, at 0  1 m depth, and chiefly on gravelly bottoms with rocks that were devoid of higher vegetation. The greatest abundance observed was 4  5 specimens/m2 in Pijnne, but only 0.3/m2 in Plknevesi. Maturation occurs at the age of 2 years. During one spawning the female lays 700  5000 eggs, depending on the size of the fish. The food of the stone loach consists of bottom and shore animals and zooplankton, but also of aerial food and eggs of other fish. Detailed data on food items are given. Age determinations of the fish were made from otoliths, and data on the mean lengths and weights of fish of different ages are given on the basis of these data. No significant differences in growth rate were observed between the stone loach of the two lakes studied.
23734564|Various theoretical models have been put forward to describe and explain species abundance patterns in ecological communities. Causal models present these as a result of a competitive niche structure, while statistical models emphasize the interplay of many more or less independent factors. The theoretical premises of causal models are tested using data on niche and competitive relationships in ground beetles. The total 4-year catch in pitfalls was shown to be a good predictor of mean biomass, and was consequently used as a measure of the quantitative importance of species. The first premise of causal models, i.e. the quantitative importance of species should be closely correlated with their niche breadth, was found to be valid for the dominant species, but not for the other species. This was also the case for the second premise, i.e. dominance relations are governed by competition. A more unified view of community structure is discussed, which integrates both deterministic and statistical aspects of previous models.
23735679|Theoretically parents should be able improve their fitness by adjusting the offspring sex ratio. Trivers & Willard (1973) predicted that in polygynous mammals mothers in superior condition should produce more males than weaker females. Rangifer tarandus (reindeer and caribou) is one of the most polygynous large mammals. However, we did not find any differences in body size, fat reserves or age between semi-domesticated reindeer (R. t. tarandus) females carrying male or female fetuses. Our results challenge Trivers & Willard's model, and one hypothetical reason for the lack of firm supportive evidence is the variability in winter foraging conditions that may weaken the link between parental investment and offspring sex ratio.
23735958|We tested whether the temporal parameters of corncrake (Crex crex) call change seasonally and/or individually. We defined a new, compound variable called RHYTHM, which quantitatively describes how corncrake call is perceived. Temporal parameters of calls, including RHYTHM, were significantly associated with both the time within the breeding season and body size. The most striking variation of call production was related to between-call intervals, which define a range of calls from monotonous (low values of RHYTHM) to intermittent (high values of RHYTHM). We found very clear, seasonally repeatable patterns of corncrake call with respect to syllable length, interval duration, and RHYTHM. Intermittent rhythm was more frequent in the beginning of the season, and to some extent before the second breeding attempt. While males sometimes changed call rhythm within a season, in general males with larger body size produced more intermittent calls. Simultaneously, intermittent rhythm was associated with less continuous and slower calling, leading to presumably lower energy expenditures. Building on previous results, we suggest that call rhythm is a conventional signal of aggressive motivation, with receiver retaliation as a possible stabilizing cost.
23736011|Worms were collected during the summer of 1984 around the city of Oulu, northern Finland (65N, 2530E) for the analysis of lead and cadmium by direct current plasma atomic emission spectrometry. The cadmium concentrations remained between 0.5 and 1.8 mg/kg/fresh weight, the average being 1.01, while lead values varied greatly (from 1.1 to 22.5 mg/kg), in the actual city area. All samples with a high lead content were situated near highways, where, however, low figures were also obtained.
23736721|Outbreaking populations of the autumnal moth, Epirrita autumnata, are regularly facing a shortage of food and starvation. We found that starvation led to a prolonged larval development and a marked reduction in pupal weights. A decrease in female pupal weight caused a 50% decrease in the realized fecundity. Due to starvation the melanotic encapsulation rate decreased but the activity of PO  a key enzyme in the melanotic pathway that may indicate scarcity of PO substrates due to starvation  increased. Our results suggested that the shortage of food during high-density years reduce markedly the fecundity of E. autumnata, and may also reduce the ability of the autumnal moth to resist parasitoids and pathogens. Altogether, starvation may potentially destabilize the pathogen dynamics of insects and may be a proximate reason for moth population crashes.
23733730|Forty-five species were identified. Three of them, Hypsibius (Diphascon) bullatus, H. (s.str.) oberhaeuseri and H. (Isohypsibius) sattleri, were found in the southern parts only, whereas H. (Diphascon) oculatus seems to be confined to the north of Finland. In H. (Diphascon) scoticus and H. (D.) spitzbergensis a new structure was discovered and named the pseudobulbus. It is a muscular node surrounding the anterior part of the prolonged pharyngeal tube. Dentation of the leg bar was seen in H. (Isohypsibius) prosostomus. The double connection between the claw bases in Macrobiotus dispar is illustrated. The fungus Ballocephala verrucospora was found in Macrobiotus hufelandii.
23734480|Mating behaviour and mate choice were studied in Mystacides azureus L. (Trichoptera, Leptoceridae). Males formed swarms over the water surface and chased approaching females. One male grasped a female and a tandem was formed. Males in tandem flight and newly emerged males had, on average, a greater wing load and dry/wet weight ratio than swarming males. This might indicate that younger males had a higher mating success than older males. In addition, males have larger eyes than females, which suggests that male mating success is due to their ability in detecting females as well. The mating system of M. azureus is driven primarily by scramble competition among males, since it seems unlikely that females actively choose among males; a receptive female always accepted the male which first caught up with her. More than half of the females in tandem flight were found to be inseminated and also to carry fewer eggs than unmated females.
23737158|We examined the abundances of three small-mammal species, Korean field mice (Apodemus peninsulae), Korean red-backed voles (Myodes regulus), and striped field mice (A. agrarius), and a stand structure of unburned and burned stands resulting from two different post-fire silvicultural management practices within a pine forest in South Korea. The habitat structure changed dramatically depending on the post-fire silvicultural practices. Most measured variables of the stand structure and downed trees were significantly different among the differently-managed stands. We captured 776 animals of five species (1114 captures in total) in nine stands, each trapped during the two-year study period. The total abundances of captured small mammals did not differ significantly among the differently-managed stands. Mean JollySeber estimates of the population density of M. regulus were 79%291% higher in the post-burned untreated stand, whereas those of A. agrarius were 214%491% higher in the post-burned Japanese red pine (Pinus densiflora) planted stand. The preferred stands for small mammal species were generated by forest fire and post-fire silvicultural practices. The values of understory vegetation, coarse woody debris, and downed trees were most strongly related to small-mammal abundance following post-fire silvicultural practices. Therefore, the effects of post-fire silvicultural practices on small-mammal populations should be considered in the post-fire management of a burned pine forest.
23731660|The abundance of the bottom fauna of this lake is lowest around the thermocline and in the greatest depths (> 35 m). The dominant species of the profundal zone is Pisidium conventus, and larvae of Chironomids dominate in the sublittoral. The abundances of the dominant species, the total numbers of individuals and the biomasses were practically the same in the different parts of the lake. The glacial relicts Gammaracanthus lacustris, Pallasea quadrispinosa, Pontoporeia affinis, and Mysis relicta are new records for lake Konnevesi. Diversity indices were calculated to compare the different sub-areas. The values of these indices and the factors affecting them are discussed. It is suggested that the low abundances observed for the greatest depths are chiefly due to the low oxygen content in winter. It is difficult to classify this lake on the basis of its bottom fauna into any one of the conventional limnological lake types.
23734168|This paper attempts to adjust the previous distribution maps given for breeding waders in Nord-Trndelag county, and discusses the existing estimates of breeding population sizes. Information is obtained by reviewing newer relevant literature, the local faunal card files and the maps of the Atlas-project in Nord-Trndelag county. According to the Atlas maps Haematopus ostralegus, Vanellus vanellus, Calidris maritima, Philomachus pugnax and Numenius arquata have expanded their distribution, whereas Eudromias morinellus, Calidris alpina and C. temminckii demonstrate a far more scattered distribution in the eastern alpine areas than previous supposed. Some of the previous estimates are based upon insufficient knowledge of the distribution and abundance of the waders' occurrence in this county, and these will be pointed out in this paper. The following species are considered to have greater population sizes than previously estimated: Vanellus vanellus, Philomachus pugnax, Tringa totanus, T. glareola, Numenius phaeopus and Phalaropus lobatus. The populations of Charadrius hiaticula, Eudromias morinellus, Calidris temminckii and C. alpina are considered to be overestimated in Nord-Trndelag county. Some of the problems concerning estimating a population size are shown for Pluvialis apricaria. The great variations in habitat amplitude and crowd density that this species shows in Nord-Trndelag county, give an example of the difficulties of estimating a population size for greater geographic regions. It must therefore be stressed that the existing estimates can only be considered as very rough appraisements of the populations of the breeding waders in Norway, where the numbers estimated may be several times higher or lower than the true population size.
23736873|The mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) control region I (CR1) of 138 wild and 36 captive grey partridges (Perdix perdix) was sequenced. Representing two major mitochondrial DNA lineages that differed by 15 nucleotide substitutions (3.7%), the Finnish lineage dominated in the wild, whereas the European lineage dominated in the captive stock. Most individuals represented a single haplotype in each lineage. Nucleotide and haplotype diversitites were high in mixed subpopulations with individuals of both lineages. Analysis of molecular variance (AMOVA) showed that when the captive stock was excluded, about 80% of the total variation could be explained by the variation within subpopulations. When captive stock was included, 67% of the variation was explained by the variation between subpopulations. According to ST values, captive stock differed from the wild subpopulations. These results clearly show that the native stock in Finland differs in mtDNA CR1 from the farm stock. In the area of large-scale captive rearing and releasing, only one bird represented the same mitochondrial lineage as the farm stock. It is evident that released farm birds have left only minor marks in the native population in Finland.
23734202|The article reviews and compares different systems in the primary classification of the order Diptera, including the traditional ones and those of recent catalogues, the cladistic works by Hennig, Griffiths and Steyskal, and Rohdendorf's evolutionary system as well as the ecological classification by Oldroyd. In addition, cytological evidence is considered. As a synthesis of these conflicting points of view a new higher classification of the Diptera is provisionally suggested.
23735534|In the laboratory we investigated the effects of weed cover on the activity, growth and survial of juvenile signal crayfish (Pacifastacus leniusculus Dana) exposed to adult signal crayfish and white aspe (Leucaspius delineatus Heckel), a non-predatory cyprinid. Juvenile crayfish showed no preference for habitats containing weed cover as opposed to habitats with no weed. However, real weed (Elodia sp.) improved juvenile growth and also reduced juvenile mortality. Both adult crayfish and white aspe reduced juvenile activity and survival. Juveniles in control tanks were more active at night. Juveniles became increasingly nocturnal in response to white aspe but were diurnal in response to adult crayfish. This suggests that non-predatory fish may affect juvenile crayfish activity and distribution in a similar way as do predatory fish. The results also suggest that adult crayfish influence juvenile survival indirectly by altering juvenile activity and growth as well as directly via cannibalism.
23735455|An adult female walrus skeleton from Early Wisconsin glaciomarine clay near Qualicum Beach, Vancouver Island is the best preserved Pleistocene walrus specimen recorded from the west coast of North America. Paleoenvironmental, stratigraphic and geochronological data on the Qualicum walrus are in accord with known habits and habitat of modern walruses, as well as with knowledge of the species' past distribution  suggesting southerly advances during Pleistocene glaciations and northward withdrawals during interglacials.
23734070|Hibernation in garden dormice originating from a French population has been followed in the laboratory in constant undisturbed conditions at a TA of 4 C for 10 years (196979). The mean duration of the hibernation periods of the females has shortened by about half and that of the males by more than half, the original difference between the sexes disappearing. These changes in the hibernation pattern are ascribed to ageing and to the long rearing of the stock in laboratory conditions. In spite of the great changes in periodicity, the relative weight loss during the hibernation seasons has remained about the same.
23735838|Polistes dominulus females that adopt nests are less cooperative and may expend less energy than nest founding wasps. In an enclosure, 14 nests were adopted by individuals previously unassociated with any nest. No preference for enclosure or non-enclosure nests was detected, suggesting that adopters do not preferentially secure nests containing non-descendent kin. Instead, adopters  who were significantly less likely cooperate than nest constructing wasps  maximized direct fitness benefits by adopting nests most likely to produce reproductives. Preliminary data comparing body weights of adopters to nest constructors suggests that, relative to nest constructors, adopters gain weight during the nest founding period. Combined, these results indicate that adopters are less cooperative than nest initiators, prefer mature nests to nests with a higher likelihood of kinship, and may conserve energy during the nest founding period. Several additional reproductive tactics were observed and a preliminary flow diagram of these options is provided.
23735553|We studied experimentally male distribution in relation to key resources, food and females, during winter and at the onset of breeding in eight enclosure populations of the bank vole Clethrionomys glareolus. In the experiment we manipulated the social environment of individuals under thick snow cover. After we had determined the male movements in a mixed population of both sexes all females of each enclosure were captured and kept in a cage at one end of the enclosure while food was offered in the opposite end. Male movements between these two patches were monitored by life-trapping under the snow. We found a seasonal pattern in the distribution of males in relation to key resources. 1) During the non-breeding season the manipulation of female and food distribution did not affect the male movements significantly, but 2) as expected, at the onset of breeding females were the preferred resource for the males. The results are discussed in the light of survival and mating strategies of males.
23736184|Four sympatric forms of Lake Ladoga European whitefish (Coregonus lavaretus (L.)) were analyzed at 29 enzyme loci. The genetic distances between these populations were highest when the lake form and the lake-river form from the southern part of the lake (both of them low-density-rakered) were compared with two lake forms ("black" and "white") from the north-western coastal zone of Lake Ladoga (DN = 0.0030.006). No genetic differences between the low-density-rakered "white" form and the medium-density-rakered "black" European whitefish were found. Analysis of allelic distribution and genetic divergence among European whitefish populations in North-West Russia failed to support the identity of the low-density-rakered forms of Lake Ladoga whitefish with eastern populations of C. lavaretus pidschian. Based on these data, the hypothesis of possible penetration of the White Sea coregonid fauna into Lake Ladoga can be rejected. A more plausible hypothesis is that European whitefish and vendace originated in the Lake Ladoga basin via colonization from a Baltic periglacial lake.
23734200|A paraphyletic entity may be split into its monophyletic constituents, or it may be rendered monophyletic by being widened to include additional taxa. In a given case only one of these treatments may be appropriate. The significance of the flea/fly example used by Michener (1978), Syst. Zool. 22:344) to illustrate a criticism of phylogenetic systematics is disputed.
23736161|Although recognition behavior is central to many aspects of an organism's biology, it has been difficult to effectively identify the individual recognition components (i.e., production, perception, and action) for most organisms. Among hermit crabs, a relatively well-studied system for recognition behavior, the precise shell cues that stimulate crabs to explore and choose empty shells are unclear. We have developed a novel method for studying shell selection in the hermit crab Pagurus longicarpus. Using rapid prototyping technologies, we have produced artificial gastropod shells based on 3-dimensional virtual models derived from the morphological parameters of shell geometry. In our study, individual P. longicarpus reliably inspected and occupied artificial shells thus enabling us to make specific modifications to test hypotheses of shell preferences. In addition to discriminating based on shell size, coating shells with crushed CaCO3 from remnants of natural shells increased shell acceptance. This latter result supports prior speculation that calcium is a recognition cue for shell preference. Our results indicate that this novel method of shell design and fabrication has great potential for more detailed investigations of recognition behavior in hermit crabs.
23737106|We studied the impacts of a large skiing and hiking resort on the distribution of semi-domesticated reindeer in Saariselk, eastern Finnish Lapland, in 1986 and 2000. The effect of intensity of outdoor activities on reindeer density in terms of pellet-group density was dependent variably on habitat, the year of inventory and season. Despite the overall doubling of visitor numbers between the inventory years, pellet-group density in winter increased in the study area by 20%. The sex ratio of reindeer in summer 1986 was male-biased up to a distance of 812 km, indicating that females with calves avoided the vicinity of the resort, but in 2000 the bias existed only at a distance of 04 km. However, pellet-group density in summer at the distance of 04 km was 53% and 28% lower than that at 48 km and 812 km, respectively. In winter, a similar pattern was observed in lichen-rich coniferous habitats. Cladonia stellaris, which has low tolerance to heavy grazing, reached its maximum abundance at the distance of 04 km. Observations on the increased tolerance of reindeer were very probably associated with improved channeling of tourists into fewer and better marked hiking and skiing routes, changes in the reindeer herd-management and frequent contacts with humans, but the adverse effects of outdoor activities could not be avoided.
23735830|The effect of location error on the estimates of home range size, movements and habitat use of an animal in a radio-tracking study was tested in the field. One person, outfitted with a transmitter (made for hares) and a GPS-instrument, imitated hare movements in the woods, while researchers located her every 15 min. using techniques used to locate true hares. The mean location error was 281 m and varied between seasons and persons. The route the 'hare' moved, calculated from radio locations, was 1.5  the true route, but radio-tracking gave a correct picture of the home range size, especially that of the core area. When habitat patches were small (mean size 2.9 ha), only 22% of the radio locations were in a correct forest patch, whereas radio-tracking gave a better picture of habitat use when habitat patches were larger (mean size 7.1 ha). In radio-tracking studies, the effect of the location error on the reliability of the results should thus always be tested and taken into account. The acceptable error depends on the aims of the study.
23731776|Oxygen consumption and respiratory quotients (RQs) of Finnish and French garden dormice were measured in a closed system by a volumetric micromethod during three study periods of the hibernation season. The animals were maintained in constant and undisturbed conditions at an ambient temperature of 4.2  0.5 C, in darkness, and were neither fed nor given water. There were highly significant differences in O2 consumption between individuals and between the means for the different study periods in the same individual. There were also seasonal differences between the two groups. In both cases the values at the beginning of the hibernation season were high, but only in the Finnish animals did they seem to rise again as spring approached. There were very significant differences in RQ values between the two groups, the RQ of the Finnish animals being 0.782, that of the French 0.812. In both cases the RQ values and their standard deviations seemed to increase slightly towards the end of the hibernation season. Total O2 consumption was measured during entrances into hibernation and during spontaneous and induced arousals.
23734692|Three species of shrew were found on the land Islands: Sorex araneus, S. minutus and Neomys fodiens, whereas the mole Talpa europaea has not been able to disperse from the southwest of Finland to land. The distributions of insectivorous mammals on land and on other large Baltic islands and island groups do not indicate a dynamic balance between immigration and extinction, but the island faunas appear to be colonization limited. On small and less isolated islands in lakes, local shrew populations occur in a dynamic equilibrium between extinctions and colonizations. The dispersal rate of Sorex araneus was positively correlated with the density of the species on the mainland. The larger Sorex araneus and S. caecutiens had a better dispersal ability than the smaller S. minutus. Sorex araneus had the lowest minimum island size, presumably because of its low extinction rate on small islands.
23735387|We attempted to predict annual fish yield (kg/ha/yr) in four data sets including a total of 390 lakes in Finland, using both water quality variables and variables involving fishing effort. Measures of fishing effort included gear numbers, gear type and number of fishermen. Principal component analysis was used to reduce the number of water quality variables, and to ensure independence of the predictive variables. As a rule, total fish yield could not be predicted reliably on the basis of water quality. At best, water quality explained no more than 15% of the variation in annual fish yield, and this model could successfully be applied to only one sub-area. Fishing effort turned out to be the most useful predictor, with an explanatory power of 50%. In one data set water quality explained more of the variation in fishing effort than in annual yield. Using the catch distribution of individual species in relation to environmental gradients, we constructed a simple theoretical model for yield vs. water quality. The model showed the extreme unlikelihood of finding a linear relationship between water quality and fish yield, because individual species display a bell-shaped distribution around their optimal water quality conditions, and the sum of such distributions likewise is bell-shaped. Finally, we argue that fishing effort should increasingly be taken into account in the development of management tools for inland fisheries.
23736010|Colonies of the red wood ant Formica truncorum were transferred to offshore islets in the Gulf of Finland previously lacking this or other sg. Formica species. The result of this ecological manipulation experiment shows that F. truncorum by weakening populations of Lasius niger may at the same time boost the nest numbers of Lasius flavus and Leptothorax sp. The findings confirming previous notions of stable competition between L. niger and L. flavus indicate that Leptothorax sp. may also be involved in the competitive network. Such findings as the hostility between F. truncorum and L. niger are discussed.
23735543|Breeding populations of the fire-adapted carabid-beetle A. quadripunctatum were found in most of the fifteen investigated burned, uncut forests, but not in any of the fifteen burned clear-cuts, although a few immigrants were found in two of them. The proportion of open-habitat carabid species progressively increased during the two first seasons after both clear-cutting and prescribed burning. These species are spring breeders in contrast to the summer-autumn breeding species found in the forest. Populations of carabids, and other beetles as well, were more or less unaffected by an experimental low intensity fire. The possibility that surviving open-habitat carabid species on burned clear-cuts prevent A. quadripunctatum from establishing successful breeding populations is discussed.
23736032|Precocious maturation (parr maturation) of salmonid males is treated as a conditional mixed ESS, and cues for the choice of life-history tactic discussed. Growth rate seems to affect the timing of the choice but not necessarily the choice of tactic. Unpredictable environmental conditions affecting potential fertility rather than survival would select for parr maturation. The temporal and regional variation of parr male frequency in wild sea trout suggests that populations are adapted to population specific parr male frequencies and that a state correlated with individual growth, e.g. nutritional state, is used as a cue.
23734458|Metacercariae, which sometimes occur at the pallial line and adductor muscles inside the shells of Macoma balthica, were identified as Gymnophallus gibberosus. Some similarity with G. somateriae (Levinsen) was also observed. The flame cell formula was found to be 2{[(2 + 2) + (2 + 2)] + (2 + 2)} = 24. Long daughter-sporocysts (up to 2.7 mm) containing cercariae were rarely found in M. balthica of the same locality. Metacercariae which were experimentally reared from the cercariae in M. balthica developed slowly. Although immature, they already showed some similarity with the metacercariae of G. gibberosus, and are thus suggested as belonging to this species. The cercaria has four pairs of penetration glands and 2  12 = 24 flame cells. It is compared with another cercaria  namely, of Lacunovermis macomae (Lebour)  occurring in M. balthica. The concept of Cercaria baltica Markowski may, besides L. macomae, include G. gibberosus.
23735533|The karyotype of Sorex araneus L. (Mammalia, Insectivora, Soricidae) consists of the sex chromosome trivalent XY1Y2 and three stable metacentrics with chromosome arm combinations cb, fa and ut. The other twelve chromosome arms from g to r take part in extensive polymorphism with different arm combinations between races, different combinations of metacentrics and telocentrics between populations and individuals. The sex chromosomes, stable metacentrics and the poorly polymorphic arm pair j/l have moderately AT-rich centromeres. All other polymorphic chromosome arms have variable amounts of highly GC-rich centromeric heterochromatin. The GC-specific stain Chromomycin A3 (CMA) intensified with Methyl green (MG) produces a R-banding pattern with brightly fluorescent centromeric dots in polymorphic chromosomes of Sorex araneus. We developed a rapid R-band procedure with a basic buffer pretreatment (pH 8.6) followed by silver staining. This RBS-procedure first induces NOR-bands, then a succession of GC-rich cell constituents (R-bands) in the following sequence  centromeric dots  telomeric  neartelomeric  intercalary bands. This RBS-staining method is a simple tool for analysing the polymorphic chromosomes of Sorex araneus. The central role of the GC-rich centromeric heterochromatin in the evolution of the chromosomal polymorphism of Sorex araneus L. is discussed.
23736741|Although factors influencing population fluctuations of migrant birds have been studied intensively, few studies have applied autoregressive modelling in linking monitoring data to essential factors from both breeding and wintering areas. We studied the effects of temporal variation in habitat composition and weather conditions on population dynamics of the skylark Alauda arvensis in southern Finland in 19842003 through autoregressive modelling and Monte Carlo testing of simulated time-series. The amount of grassland habitats explained well the general trends in skylark population development. Rainfall had a negative effect on the population growth in breeding areas, but a positive effect in wintering areas. There was also evidence for first order negative density dependence. Our results suggest that intrinsic and extrinsic factors simultaneously included in a population dynamical model, can improve the statistical visibility of both factors. The Monte Carlo approach presented here can be useful in many studies involving strongly autocorrelated time-series.
23735809|The debate over whether winter or summer grazing conditions are more important for reindeer (Rangifer tarandus) growth and reproduction is not settled. We used long-term weight data of sympatric semi-domesticated reindeer and domestic sheep (Ovis aries) in Sr-Fosen, Norway, to address indirectly the above-mentioned debate, by assessing the temporal patterns, variation and covariation of juvenile body weights. We further examined the relative importance of winter and summer weather conditions in explaining variation in reindeer autumn weights. A positive relationship between autumn body weight of reindeer and sheep was found, suggesting that a "good" summer for reindeer is also a good one for sheep. Despite the sheep being fed indoors during winter, there was no difference in intrinsic variability between yearly mean juvenile body weights of the two species. These results suggest that (i) reindeer and domestic sheep may equally benefit, or suffer, from weather-related variation in summer forage conditions, and that (ii) either reindeer calf autumn body weights are not very sensitive to environmental conditions in the previous winter (i.e. when they were in utero), or that they are able, to some extent, to compensate for winter-related stress experienced by their mother. Furthermore, (iii) winter weather conditions may influence reindeer and sheep similarly, through indirect effects on the summer forage conditions. Direct analysis revealed that summer weather index explained more of the between year variance in reindeer autumn weights than the winter weather index. Hence, our results support the view that summer, rather than winter range conditions, are more important to juvenile body growth of reindeer.
23735601|Lakes in Vuoksi drainage area in eastern Finland are inhabited by four salmonid species: the grayling (Thymallus thymallus), the Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar m. sebago), the brown trout (Salmo trutta m. lacustris), and the arctic charr (Salvelinus alpinus). We studied second-generation hatchery-reared juveniles of these freshwater salmonids from two age groups: (0+)-year-old fish, and (1+)-year-old fish; and compared their morphology in order to assess both intra- and interspecific variation in morphometric characters, and changes associated with growth. We observed that the (0+)-year-old salmonids are morphologically very similar, but as they grow, the interspecific differences become more pronounced. The characters that best discriminate among the studied species are body height and head dimensions as well as pectoral fin length. The grayling and the arctic charr are streamlined, whereas the salmon and the brown trout are more robust in their body shape. The shape of the studied species reflects also their adaptation to their native habitats.
23734078|The influence of environmental temperature on development in Arctocorisa carinata and Callicorixa producta was assessed by constructing developmental time scales from temperature records and temperature-specific developmental rates. The distances between successive stage occurrence curves in these scales suggested that at the start of recruitment, development in the field considerably exceeded the predicted rates. The discrepancy was largest and of longest duration in the first larval stage, diminishing steadily in later stages. Later, during the increase in population density, actual and predicted developmental rates were in close agreement. Increased interference by older individuals as an explanation. The rapid development of first individuals adds to the temporal heterogeneity and has a marked stabilizing effect in the populations.
23735652|Litter size of 207 parous Clethrionomys gapperi in the front range of the Canadian Rocky Mountains, was examined by means of embryo counts, births in live-traps and births in the laboratory from wild inseminated females. The overall mean was 5.5, with a mode of 6 and a range of 110. Litter size and maternal weight were not correlated in either primi- or multiparous females. No differences were found in litter size among years, among the different collection methods, or between overwintered and young-of-the-year in months in which they co-occurred. However, litter size was significantly influenced by both month and parity. Litter size of multiparous females was relatively constant over the season, but it continuously increased from May to August in primiparous females. The seasonal change in litter size was atypical of other microtine populations, which usually show a decline late in the season. The determinants of litter size among Clethrionomys appear to be numerous, but are also inconsistant among species or populations.
23736044|This paper summarizes present knowledge on the distribution and abundance of nectobenthic mysids in the Baltic Sea. Mysis relicta is the dominating species in the Bothnian Bay and the northern parts of the Bothnian Sea. The northern distribution limit of Mysis mixta lies in the Quark area, the species being more abundant in the Finnish coastal waters compared to the Swedish waters. In the southern Baltic Mysis relicta was not found abundantly southwards from 56N, nor westwards from 1830E. The abundance of M. relicta in the Baltic Proper is negligible compared to the northern and eastern parts of the sea. Mysis generally avoided waters less than 50 m deep in the Gulf of Finland and Bothnian Sea. In the southern Baltic Proper they were, by contrast, also found in relatively shallow waters. In deep areas of the Baltic Sea mysid populations are weak or even entirely absent, as is the case with the Bay of Gdansk and the Bornhorm Basin. Our results support the hypothesis that oxygen deficiency in the water layer near the bottom prevents the formation of nectobenthic mysid populations. Mysid shrimps were found in the southern part of the study area generally in more shallow water. The dominating species in the southern area is M. mixta, which is of Atlantic origin. A salinity high enough to support the species is also found in shallow waters in the southern part of the study area, while in the Baltic Proper such salinity levels are not found in the surface water layer. On the contrary, M. relicta, the dominating species in the northern part of the area studied, seems to prefer deep waters in the Gulf of Finland and the Bothnian Sea. Both species would thus favour deep water in the Baltic Proper, but as this zone is inaccessible due to oxygen deficiency the abundance of mysids in the central Baltic Proper is low. Alternative and/or supplementary explanations may be found in the ecological differences between the northern and southern Baltic Sea, e.g. productivity of the benthos.
23734642|Newly moulted individuals of Proteroiulus fuscus were collected by trapping from conifer tree stumps, and their stadia were determined on the basis of defence glands. The number of ocelli and their relative positions also were determined. The first stadium is eyeless. One new ocellus is formed during the 2nd and the 3rd moults, and in later moults the number of new ocelli is 0, 1, or 2, the corresponding probabilities being 0.0167, 0.98 and 0.0033. The distribution of ocelli size classes was in preadults consistent with corresponding trinomial distribution, but in mature individuals the frequency of the dominant size class was lower than expected. In 19% of the 1180 individuals studied the eyes had different numbers of ocelli, the maximal asymmetry being three. The form of the eyes varies widely. The ocular field appears to contain three anterio-posterior rows of possible locations, and in 76% of the cases, growth starts in the middle row, in 3% in the dorsal, and in 21% in the ventral row. New ocelli are added at the anterior border of the eye, usually in positions adjacent to already occupied locations. The first ocelli usually form a line, then new ocelli are added laterally, with the initial row strongly influencing the direction and form of later additions of ocelli. Successive preadult stadia can be identified on the basis of ocelli number, but in later moults the accuracy gradually decreases.
23731643|In permanently cannulated hedgehogs (Erinaceus europaeus L.) examined when at rest a circadian rhythm of the blood pressure and heart rate, with a trough at about 18.00 hours and a broader peak at around 06.00 to 12.00 hours, was observed which is not abolished after irritation.
23734101|In the butterfly Aphantopus hyperantus (L.), frequencies of spotting patterns were recorded in altogether 21 populations in the districts of Mikkeli (1961, 196875), Porvoo (196164, 197173) and Tampere (1958) in southern Finland. In the Mikkeli district, for comparison, six populations of Erebia ligea (L.) were investigated in 197074 and three populations of Coenonympha glycerion (Bkh) in 197173. In Aphantopus some wing areas showed changes in spot number concomitantly with changes in the general climate. A climatic index characterizing temperature and humidity conditions was calculated for the summers of 196874. The changes in the frequencies of the 2-spot phenotypes on the upperside of the fore and hind wings of males paralleled changes in the climatic index. The parallelism between the curves for climate and for phenotype was close enough to suggest a causal connection between them. In certain populations, occasional deviations from the afore-mentioned parallelism took place. Such deviations were most marked in populations living in habitats adversely affected by the activities of man. It seems possible that these activities of man were indirectly responsible for such irregular variability in spot number. It is possible to state whether the effect was due mainly to changes in selection pressure or to random factors. Spotting pattern frequencies in the Erebia and Coenonympha populations at the same sites varied somewhat similarly to those of Aphantopus, a situation lending some support to the conclusions drawn from the study of Aphantopus.
23736189|The spatial and temporal distributions of larval European whitefish (Coregonus lavaretus, species complex) were investigated in the years 1998 and 1999 in two Austrian lakes, Traunsee and Hallstttersee. The fish communities of both lakes are dominated by whitefish, but in addition to a normal-growing form Traunsee is also inhabited by a dwarf phenotype. Larval sampling was done weekly between January and June using a push net system. Whitefish larvae showed a preference for nearshore areas at both lakes. In Traunsee, the mean catch on the first sampling date was higher than those obtained during the following sampling dates in February for both years. A local minimum in temporal occurrence was observed in mid-February (1998) or early February (1999). Catches increased again during March before reaching a maximum in early April of both years. In Hallstttersee, the sampling started at the beginning of February with very few larvae caught. During the subsequent weeks the catches increased steadily until a single peak was reached in mid-March (1998) or late April (1999). This high within-lake variability in maximum larval occurrence between two successive years is the greatest ever reported. The degree of variation in spatial distribution of larvae observed between years was also novel.
23734598|The paper summarizes Canadian experiences on bird atlassing, discussing the organization of the projects and their status, but also the problems caused by the vast geographical areas that are sparsely populated.
23734204|The effect of sex, age, maturity, population density and season on the adrenal weight of five species of small mammals (Sorex araneus, S. minutus, Clethrionomys glareolus, Ondatra zibethica and Microtus agrestis) was studied in free-living populations in southern Finland. In sexually mature individuals the adrenal weight was greater in females; in immature animals the weight differed between the sexes only in S. araneus, in which the female adrenals were heavier. Sexual maturation clearly increased adrenal weight, except in male shrews. Adrenal weight correlated positively with body weight in immature animals, but this relationship was weakened by sexual maturation. In most species the adrenal weight of immature individuals and mature males was fairly constant during the breeding season. In immature shrews, however, adrenal weight decreased continuously in both sexes from the July peak towards winter. In mature females of C. glareolus the adrenal weight was greatest in late summer. No differences in adrenal weight were observed between years. It is concluded that the reproductive state is one of the major factors affecting adrenal weight in these species.
23736770|Null allele and marker segregation distortion are considered to be common in bivalve molluscs. To facilitate genetic analysis of the bay scallop, the inheritance patterns of nineteen EST-SSRs were tested in four self-fertilized families. While the filial genotypes in twelve segregations conformed to Mendelian inheritance, three locus-family cases showed the significant departure. Two loci confirmed Mendelian expectations when null alleles were considered. The molecular basis of null alleles was detected by redesigning primers in the external flanking regions, and single nucleotide mutations in primer annealing sites were responsible for the null allele. Based on our results, the inheritance pattern and null allele of novel microsatellite markers should be further tested before using them for population studies and parentage assignment in the bay scallop. Additionally, six markers were recommended as members of a standard marker panel for use in population genetic and parentage studies.
23734421|Life histories and population data of two corixid species living in temporary rock pools were investigated for evidence of interspecific competition. The evidence found included similar reproductive phenology, total qualitative habitat overlap and frequent occurrence of harmfully high densities during the reproductive period. As adult winter mortality and reproductive rates are the same in the two species, but the smaller Callicorixa producta suffers from higher larval mortality, its exclusion by Arctocorisa carinata would be expected in a stable environment. In the unpredictable rock pool environment its inferiority is offset by its ability to disperse rapidly into refilled pools after the termination of rainless periods. This behavioural difference between the species leads to quantitative differences in habitat utilization late in the reproductive season.
23731727|Plasma Na+, K+, Ca2+, Mg2+ and Cl- concentrations were studied in hedgehogs in three definable phases of their hibernation cycle in midwinter. These phases were: spontaneously aroused animals, animals at the beginning of a hypothermic phase, and animals at the end of a hypothermic phase. Cannulated animals were used, so that sampling did not disturb the animals. Plasma Na+ and Cl- levels did not change. Plasma Ca2+ and Mg2+ levels were lowest in aroused animals and significantly higher at the beginning of hypothermia. Mg2+ seemed to increase during the hypothermic phase. The plasma K+ level was highest in aroused animals; a significant drop occurred at the beginning of hypothermia and a slight decreasing trend continued during this phase.
23733649|Fourteen species are added to the 73 species known from the Seychelle Islands. The following taxa are described: Pritha heikkii sp. n. (Filistatidae), Seychellia wiljoi gen. n., sp. n. (Telemidae), Oecobius reefi sp. n. (Oecobidae), Bristowia gen. n. (Lycosidae), Argyrodes fissifrontella sp. n., A. recurvatus sp. n., and A. pusillus sp. n. (Theridiidae), and Microdipoena elsae sp. n. (Mysmenidae). The taxonomy of most of the species treated is discussed, with special reference to the secondary genital organs. The general distribution of each species is given.
23735445|Following an idea originally expressed by Bjrn Kurtn (1953), we here investigate the notion that differences in the scaling of reproductive output could be responsible (at least in part) for the differences in body sizes (both mean and maximum) attained by dinosaurs and terrestrial mammals. Using terrestrial non-passerine birds as "dinosaur analogs" we show that birds exhibit little or no decline in a variety of reproductive life history parameters with increasing body size, in contrast to terrestrial mammals. Extending this argument to dinosaurs, we suggest that large dinosaurs would have had a greater potential for reproductive turnover than similarly sized mammals and would thus have had a much greater capacity for rebuilding populations following environmental perturbations. This difference in reproductive strategies, which has its basis in ovoparity (dinosaur) versus viviparity plus lactation (mammals), may have resulted in a differential in the ability for dinosaurs and mammals to evolve and sustain largebodied species over evolutionary time. We also compare terrestrial mammals to cetaceans and show that marine mammals show a lesser decline in the scaling of reproductive output with body size. We suggest that differences in the costs of gestation and lactation, related to the richer available diet in the marine environment, may in part explain the greater sizes obtained by marine mammals in comparison to terrestrial ones.
23732257|A specimen of Eisenia foetida (Sav.) with an abnormal asymmetrial clitellum and tubercula pubertatis and with dichotomized segments is described. In addition, a mature specimen of Lumbricus terrestris L. and an immature specimen of L. rubellus Hoffm., both with double posterior ends and dichotomized segments, are described.
23734532|Analytical isoelectric focusing and electrophoresis with sodium dodecyl sulphate were used to examine the proteins present in the fat body of the southwestern corn borer, Diatraea grandiosella. In extracts from mature non-diapausing larvae about 60 protein bands were resolved with isoelectric focusing, and about 45 bands with dodecyl sulphate electrophoresis. The isoelectric points of most fat body proteins fell between pH 4.6 and 8.1. Molecular weights of major polypeptides ranged from about 30 000 to about 80 000 daltons. Several changes occurred in the protein patterns during metamorphosis. Selective release of some proteins was demonstrated in vitro. Larval diapause was associated with high titres of fat body and haemolymph proteins which appear to function in lipid transport.
23736204|We examined otoliths, pelvic fin rays and scales of inconnu to determine precision of age estimates within and between readers, and to compare relative accuracy of estimates from different structures. Our main objective was to determine if readability and estimates from fin rays and scales, which can be non-lethally removed, were similar to those of otoliths, which are generally considered the most reliable ageing structure. Among- and within-reader variation was low for both fin rays and otoliths, but higher for scales. Variation tended to increase with fish length for all structures. Scales were most difficult to read and had age estimates that were significantly lower than the other structures at ages of ten years and greater. Age estimates and readability of fin rays and otoliths were similar.
23734641|The development of rainbow trout ovaries, and changes in plasma vitellogenin and Ca2+ concentration was investigated for two annual photoperiod cycles, one advanced and another delayed for 1.5 months. The natural yearly water temperature fluctuated between 22 and 0.2C. Ovarian development, the increase in plasma vitellogenin and total calcium concentration was significantly faster in the advanced than in the delayed and control group fish. The fish in the advanced photoperiod cycle matured earlier than normally, but they laid their eggs first during the normal spawning time (in May), when the water temperature had increased to over 4C. At the end of the experiment the oocytes of the delayed photoperiod group fish were about 30% smaller than those of the advanced group fish. Besides, ovarian development in these fish was abnormal to some extent, part of the oocytes being necrotic.
23733689|Different portions of the gills of rainbow trout were fixed after the fish had been kept under normoxia or hypoxia. Two fixatives were used: a) 2.5 % glutaraldehydc and b) 2.5 % glutaraldchydc + 2.5 % formaldchydc. Morphometric analyses of light-microscopic sections were carried out for different structural components of the secondary lamellae and comparison made of gills after these different treatments. Overall analyses indicated some differences in the blood components of filaments from dorsal, lateral and ventral regions as well as parts of a filament, but individual analyses showed no significant differences in the small number of samples available. A number of significant differences were observed, however, between corresponding material fixed in the two ways. These differences were greater during normoxia than hypoxia. The study emphasizes the need for careful control of fixation procedures of the gills before morphometric investigation. Consistent results are obtained with the same fixative but as yet it is difficult to decide which gives the best indication of the normal condition.
23735764|Using data from two independent field experiments, we address whether pair formation in introduced mallards Anas platyrhynchos is associated with habitat quality, specifically food limitation at the brood stage. Based on the concentration of total phosphorous in the water, the study lakes were divided into two groups, 'poor' and 'rich'. In one of the experiments we used mallard ducklings imprinted on humans to study mass change of ducklings in poor and rich lakes, respectively. It turned out that ducklings foraging on poor lakes gained less mass than ducklings foraging on rich lakes, the division of lakes thus reflecting habitat quality at the brood stage. Introduced mallards formed heterosexual pairs on lakes that were, in a relative sense, high-quality brood habitats, whereas they did not on lakes of low-quality brood habitat. Pair formation thus seemed to reflect the suitability of habitat for breeding.
23735677|One-summer-old brown trout (Salmo trutta) were exposed to iron and humic acids at pHs 5 and 6 for two to three days in the laboratory. The oxygen consumption of the fish was measured after the exposure whereafter the gill and blood samples were taken. Brown trout gills were damaged in the exposure to iron at both pHs, more so at pH 5. Morphometric analysis showed that the fusion of the lamellae and hypertrophy of the epithelial cells significantly increased the diffusion distance across the gills. The precipitation of iron on the gills may also have increased the diffusion distance which had a negative effect on the oxygen uptake of the fish. Gill damage also impaired ion regulation seen as low Na+ and Cl- concentrations in the plasma. The blood glucose concentration increased, indicating stress in the fish. Humic acids in the water containing iron had an ameliorating effect on the ion regulation as well as the oxygen uptake but they did not completely prevent hypertrophy in the gills.
23737178|Voles are the main prey item for many mammalian and avian predators. Changes in vole abundance affect predator density directly and influence small game species indirectly. To test the hypothesis that intensive management of boreal forests increases vole population density, we surveyed small mammals twice during 20062010 in forests representing four succession stages in Taivalkoski, northern Finland. We focused on the bank vole (Myodes glareolus) and the field vole (Microtus agrestis) and found that bank voles were more numerous in all stages of succession while densities of both species were lowest in young (2430-year-old) forest stands. We also found that field voles increased after clear-cutting. Based on this study, current forestry practice in Finland has a clear impact on the abundance of these voles.
23736524|In a constantly changing environment, organisms must continuously adapt or face extinction. J. B. S. Haldane argued that the "cost of natural selection" (also called the cost of substitution) puts an upper limit on the rate of adaptation, and showed that the cost (C) was a decreasing function of the initial frequency of the beneficial alleles. Based on mutation-selection balance and 10% selective mortality, he suggested that the limit to adaptive evolution was about one allelic substitution per 300 generations. I have tested Haldane's results using simulations of a population limited by density-dependent regulation and subject to a constantly changing environment that affects n (= 17) independent survival traits, each controlled by a single locus. I investigated the influence of carrying capacity (K), mutation rate (u), number of beneficial mutations per generation (approximated by M = 2Ku) and net reproductive rate (R). Of these, M has the predominant influence. The effect of large changes in R was relatively small. The cost of selection (C) was measured as the shortest number of generations between an allelic substitution at all loci under selection that was consistent with population persistence. The results differed from Haldane's solution. Across a range of conditions, the cost of simultaneous selection at n loci was determined by the linear relationship C = C0(M) + nC1(M), where C0(M) is the intercept and C1(M) is the slope of the linear regression of C on n, for a given M. The intercept defined a positive fixed cost of substitution, that appears to reflect genetic deaths occurring during the stochastic phase when the beneficial alleles are rare. For M > 1/2, the cost of natural selection is substantially less than Haldane's estimate; however, when M < 1/2, the cost (and particularly the fixed cost) increases in an accelerating fashion as M is lowered. This result has important implications for conserved populations, since for u  5  10-6 the carrying capacity of the population must be 50 000 for M = 1/2. To avoid low M, smaller populations should be linked together into a large metapopulation whenever possible. This large unit would be capable of adapting when the isolated parts could not. It also suggests that if M << 1, small gains in K through increases in habitat can have a very large positive influence on the future survival of the population in a changing environment.
23736970|The material consisted of 300 skulls (150 male and 150 female) of adult European bison from the Lowland line aged 5 to 27 years. The specimens belong to the museum collection of the Mammal Research Institute of the Polish Academy of Sciences in Biaowiea. On each skull three standard measurements (BP, EctEct, SmSm) were taken. The results were standardized separately for males and females. The sum of three normalized parameters describing each skull was treated as its standardised dimension and then Perkal's natural similarity coefficients were calculated. In adult males a remarkable polarization of skull shapes was observed. In one set of the male specimens the type of a long skull with a broad forehead and narrow face was predominant (27%). In another, opposite and almost equally numerous (24%) set of male specimens, the type of a short skull with a narrow forehead and broad face prevailed. Such a polarization was not found in adult females: the type of a long skull with a narrow forehead and narrow face dominated (28% of the examined material); the remaining variants were evenly distributed.
23736799|The subject of the research was the geographic variation in tooth size and condylobasal skull length (CBL) in arctic fox Vulpes (Alopex) lagopus. The analysis was based on 328 skulls of individuals from 14 different populations. Most of the metric dental characteristics and CBL indicated a significant diversification among the populations. A particularly high inter-population variations was observed in the sizes of C1, C1, P4, and in the CBL. The arctic foxes of Eurasia were larger than the arctic foxes of North America. The largest specimens of the arctic fox were those of Komandorskiye Ostrova, while the smallest ones were on Baffin Land and Greenland. Moderate sizes of dentition and skulls were observed in continental populations (Taymyr, Ust-Yanskiy region, Zaliv Kozhevnikova, Yamal Poluostrov, Yakutskaya oblast'). As regards the variation in the size of the skull and dentition of arctic foxes, a higher variation was noted in arctic foxes from island (St. Lawrence Island, Komandorskiye Ostrova) and "coastal" populations (Yamal Poluostrov, Taymyr), and a lower one in arctic foxes from Asian populations (Zaliv Kozhevnikova, Yakutskaya oblast'). In the Arctic, within the geographical range of the fox, neither the size, nor sexual dimorphism of the metric dental and skull characteristics showed any specific geographic trend. However, the existing hypothesis, (such as Bergmann's rule, or "island syndrome"), do not explain the pattern of size variation in the arctic fox. The arctic fox morphological variation within its range is primarily shaped by climate conditions and food resources, and secondarily by competition within- and between species.
23735737|We examined the winter season mobility and habitat utilization of two mustelid predators, the least weasel (Mustela n. nivalis) and the stoat (M. erminea) in western Finland. Cyclically fluctuating abundances of voles offered an opportunity to compare speciesspecific behavioral adjustments to the density of main prey. Daily lengths of small mustelid snowtracks in different habitats were recorded during six successive winters covering two three-year population cycles of voles (field vole Microtus agrestis, sibling vole M. rossiaemeridionalis and bank vole Clethrionomys glareolus). Tracks of least weasels were longest in the low phase of the vole cycle indicating that least weasels as Microtus vole specialists increased mobility in searching for prey at low densities of voles. The mobility of stoats was highest in the early decline phase. Both small mustelid species preferred farmland habitats typical for Microtus species, in particular at high densities of voles. Stoats as semi-generalist predators may shift to alternative prey leading to changes in habitat utilization, when voles are decreased to low densities. This was observed when stoats utilized woodland habitats more in the low than in other phases of the vole cycle.
23737045|Research using biometric data relies on consistent measurements within, and often among, observers. However, research into the relative importance of intra- and inter-observer variability is limited. More importantly, the influence of biometric variability on accurate quantification of biometric-based condition indices has not been analysed: it is unclear whether multiple errors become magnified or cancel one another out. Here, we quantify intra- and inter-specific variability in multiple biometrics, and derived condition indices, using museum bird specimens. Inter-observer variability was higher than intra-observer variability for all parameters. Measurement error (ME) varied from < 1% to > 50% for different biometrics. ME was magnified in condition estimates, reaching > 80% within-observers and > 90% among-observers. Significant differences in mean measurements were found for 17% and 67% of biometrics within-and among-observers, respectively; for condition indices, the figures were 50% and 67%, respectively. We discuss the implications of these findings for research into species' ecology, taxonomy and behaviour.
23734644|The effects of the sand goby, Pomatoschistus minutus (Pallas) and the isopod, Saduria entomon (L.), on the zoobenthic community succession were examined in a field experiment conducted in the northern archipelago of land (Baltic Sea). In an enclosure colonization experiment two hypotheses were tested: 1) predation by Pomatoschistus and Saduria will have little structuring effect on benthic meio- and macrofaunal colonization, and 2) there will be no difference between the effects of Pomatoschistus and Saduria on the structure of the meio- and macrofaunal communities. After a twoweek colonization period, the enclosures with Pomatoschistus contained 4.8 meiofauna taxa and had a meiofaunal abundance of 484 ind/10 cm2. compared to 4.5 taxa and 428 ind/10 cm2 with Saduria. With Pomatoschistus, the macrofauna species totalled 4.9 and a macrofaunal density of 45776 ind/ m2 was reached, compared to 3.7 species and 20782 ind/m2 with Saduria. A difference was thus evident between the predators in their effect on the macrofauna. At community level in the meiofauna, no differences were found between the predators. The results partly support the first hypothesis, as Pomatoschistus and Saduria have little effect on meiofaunal colonization, whereas Saduria does affect colonization by the macrofauna. No difference was apparent in the structuring role of the predators.
23734717|Chironomidae (Diptera) collected in northern Fennoscandia, mainly Finland, have been studied. The material includes about 315 forms (4 Podonominae, about 25 Tanypodinae, 15 Diamesinae, 1 Prodiamesinae, 173 Orthocladiinae, 43 Chironomini and about 54 Tanytarsini), of which 287 are named. 77 species are new to Finland, and 188 to Region 21 of the Limnofauna Europaea. Some comparisons are made with the chironomid Fauna of the Abisko area, Swedish Lapland. Taxonomical problems remain to be solved, but ten new species are described, three of which have been assigned to two new genera: The genera are Boreosmittia and Lappokiefferiella and the species Boreosmittia inariensis, B. karelioborealis, Bryophaenocladius saanae, Chaetocladius crassisaetosus, C. muliebris, Hydrobaenus paucisaeta, Lappokiefferiella platytarsus, Thienemannia paasivirtai, Tokunagaia parexcellens and Zalutschia mallae. The author of these new genera and species is Tuiskunen. New combinations: Rheosmittia halvorseni Cranston & Saether, 1986 is a Krenosmittia and Orthocladius dentatus Karl, 1937 a Bryophaenocladius.
23735711|Analysis of variation in tooth size in a population of red fox, Vulpes vulpes (Linnaeus, 1758) from Poland based on three indices (coefficient of variation CV, variation index VSD, residual standard deviation RSD) and its correlation with average tooth size revealed two contradictory patterns. The CV and VSD were significantly correlated with average tooth sizes, while RSD values was independent. It was, therefore, concluded that RSD is the most reliable index for assessing population variation. The least variable position in the red fox dentition are M1 and M1, whereas the most variable is M3. The strongest sexual dimorphism in tooth size in Polish red foxes is observed in the canines. The strongest between-tooth correlations were in the premolar region. Moreover, a strong correlation in both tooth length and tooth width was found between opposite canines. Both functional and developmental factors determine patterns of morphological variation in the dentition.
23736203|The migration and catching areas of Carlin-tagged anadromous European whitefish (Coregonus lavaretus lavaretus) as well as the changes in the mean size, growth and age composition of stocked whitefish migrating to spawn in the Kalajoki, a river in Finland, were studied between the late 1970s and early 2000s. After spawning, whitefish migrate to the south, mostly to the Northern Quark and the Bothnian Sea. The proportion of tagged fish caught during JanuaryJune in the southern part of the migration route increased during the study period. At the same time the mean size and growth of whitefish entering the Kalajoki was reduced. In the late 1980s and early 1990s the mean age of whitefish declined rapidly. After that, it has increased gradually. The changes in whitefish growth and age composition were connected to the increased fishing effort and the reduction of the mesh size of gill nets in the Gulf of Bothnia.
23736174|Causes behind the changes in waterfowl populations in the Archipelago Sea, SW Finland, have until now not been quantitatively analysed. We modelled the impact of eutrophication, winter severity, weather conditions during breeding and water salinity on the breeding populations of ten waterfowl species (ducks, great crested grebe Podiceps cristatus and coot Fulica atra) using generalised linear models and the program TRIM (TRends and Indices in Monitoring data). The populations of the goldeneye Bucephala clangula, coot and velvet scoter Melanitta fusca decreased with increasing eutrophication. The populations of the goldeneye, coot, mallard Anas platyrhynchos, mute swan Cygnus olor and eider Somateria mollissima were most vulnerable to winter severity. We did not find evidence for impacts of weather conditions during breeding or water salinity on population trends. We also discuss alternative explanations to the observed population trends, such as predation and disturbance.
23733721|The standard semi-artificial diet of a laboratory culture of Pieris brassicae was supplemented with phospholipid and vitamins B and E. Pupal yield, larval growth rate and pupal weight were followed over three generations and checked again in the 12th and 26th generations after continuous rearing on the supplemented diet. Larval growth rate became significantly faster, the average pupal weight decreased through several generations to a lower stable level, and mating activity showed an approximately fivefold increase. The youngest instars showed notable mortality, probably unconnected with diet.
23731639|An analysis of 53 crops of the hazel grouse collected during September  December of 1967  1970 gave the following results: In late autumn the food is composed mainly of berries, seeds and green plant matter, Vaccinium species being the most important group. Browse items, catkins, buds and twigs of Betula pubescens and Alnus incana, make up some 15  20 % of the food even when the ground is exposed. With the onset of winter the browse food becomes more prominent finally amounting, in November  December, to as much as 90  95 % of the total food consumed. Ground feeding is, however, resumed again when the snow temporarily melts. In winter, there are also fairly frequently small amounts of summer food items in the crops. The autumn and winter diet of the hazel grouse population in northeastern Lapland is practically the same as in the Kola Peninsula. The similarity extends to the most frequent trace items, such as seeds of Melampyrum pratense, buds of Populus tremula and berries of Juniperus communis.
23735951|Some ecological theories predict a positive relationship between species richness and resource size, resource abundance, or resource concentration. In this study, we tested these three hypotheses with myrmecophilous beetles, which use ant nests as their hosts. The resource concentration hypothesis predicts that patches with a high density of a resource support high richness of species dependent on that specific resource. The resource abundance hypothesis predicts that the hosts offering more resources support more species. The resource size hypothesis predicts that larger hosts support more species than smaller hosts. We collected beetles from nests of the nest building wood ant Formica aquilonia. In 49 F. aquilonia nests, we observed 965 individual beetles and 16 species of myrmecophilous beetle. Both the nearest neighbour distance and the volume of ant nests influenced species richness and beetle number. The beetle species utilising several hosts were more widespread and more abundant than the specialist beetle species. Thus, our findings support the resource concentration, resource size and resource abundance hypotheses.
23737037|Alternative strategies of space use may be present in a species or in a population as a response to different environmental parameters, especially in mountainous habitats, where heavy snowfalls in winter may determine important variations of habitat quality. The spatial behaviour of 20 radiotagged red deer hinds was assessed in a mountainous habitat in the eastern Italian Alps from 2002 to 2004. Two groups of hinds were identified: 'resident' females remained in the same area throughout the year; 'shifter' females showed separated winter and summer areas. No significant difference was found in seasonal home-range sizes between resident and shifter hinds in 2002 and in 2003. Each year, in summer, home-range quality of shifter hinds was significantly better than that of resident ones, while, in winter home ranges, habitat diversity was similar in the two groups. During the severe winter 20032004, 33% of females summering in lower quality habitat died, whereas mild winters did not influence the survival of our collared hinds.
23735886|To understand the spatial and temporal behavior of outbreaks, it may be necessary to go beyond simple plantherbivore dynamics and consider trophic complexity, environmental heterogeneity, limited dispersal, and their possible interactions. We examine many of these factors in a system consisting of one plant, two insect herbivores, and multiple natural enemies. Bush lupines (Lupinus arboreus) in coastal California support intense but spatially localized outbreaks of the tussock moth (Orgyia vetusta), a flightless defoliator. Bush lupines are also attacked by the stem-boring larvae of the ghost moth (Hepialis californicus), which may cause periodic mass dieoffs of lupine stands. Here we extend previous models of the tussock moth and its natural enemies to include changes in the carrying capacity (i.e., lupine abundance) caused by the ghost moth and its primary natural enemy. By superimposing these two strongly interactive subsystems, we generate new questions and predictions.
23734185|In May and June 1983 1017 fish were obtained from electrofishing surveys at 18 littoral sites in the southern basin of the oligotrophic Lake Konnevesi. Phoxinus phoxinus, the minnow, was the numerically dominant species, forming 60 % of the catch. The minnows reached 50.9 mm fork-length by their second birthday, which was the age of first maturity. The sexes did not differ significantly either in length or numbers in the first three age-classes. Few males survived to their fourth birthday and the oldest fish, aged five years, was a female. In prespawning females the number and diameter of ripe eggs was positively correlated with body size. Some females still contained ripe eggs on 15 July, 50 days after the first spent females had been captured. Analysis of the changes in egg numbers in the gonads over this period indicates that each female ripens and sheds several batches of eggs over the spawning season. Nemacheilus barbatulus formed 28 % of the catch and was the most evenly and widely distributed fish in the littoral zone, occurring at all 18 sites, whereas the minnow was common at the sites with the largest rocks. Eight other species, of which Cottus gobio, Perca fluviatilis, Lota lota and Gymnocephalus cernua were the most abundant, formed the remaining 12 % of the catch. Zippin population estimates gave a total fish density of 1.75/m2, while the total biomass was 4.78 g/m2. The main contributors to biomass were N. barbatulus 51 %, P. phoxinus 31 % and juvenile L. lota 13 %. The annual production of N. barbatulus was 1.43 g/m2 and that of P. phoxinus 0.96 g/m2.
23736197|The shortjaw cisco (Coregonus zenithicus) was historically found in Lakes Huron, Michigan, and Superior, but has been extirpated in Lakes Huron and Michigan apparently as the result of commercial overharvest. During 19992001, we conducted an assessment of shortjaw cisco abundance in five areas, spanning the U.S. waters of Lake Superior, and compared our results with the abundance measured at those areas in 19211922. The shortjaw cisco was found at four of the five areas sampled, but abundances were so low that they were not significantly different from zero. In the four areas where shortjaw ciscoes were found, abundance declined significantly by 99% from the 1920s to the present. To increase populations of this once economically and ecologically important species in Lake Superior, an interagency rehabilitation effort is needed. Population monitoring is recommended to assess population trends and to evaluate success of rehabilitation efforts.
23735675|Assemblages of dytiscid water beetles and immature mosquitoes were compared in two boreal snowmelt pools that differed chiefly in temperature, owing to differences in shading, and duration. The total abundance of dytiscids (incl. larvae) was similar in the two pools, whereas species richness was more than twice as high in the warmer, less ephemeral pool. Moreover, the latter had five dytiscid guilds, only two of which were represented in the former. Records from previous years indicate that there has been a greater degree of species turnover in the warmer, more exposed pool than in the colder, more shaded one. Large species were rare in both pools, whereas the abundance of the species in the smallest size-class varied widely. The different guilds were compared in terms of larval phenology. Three general patterns are suggested and tested on data from 40 pools studied previously: (1) as pool duration is increased, there is a corresponding increase in guild number, (2) as pool size increases there is a corresponding increase in the number of species within each guild, (3) as pool temperature increases there is a change in species composition, with the cold-adapted species being replaced by more warm-adapted ones. The mosquito faunas of both pools were strongly dominated by Aedes communis, whose development time was about five days shorter in the warmer pool. Initial numbers of A. communis were similar in the two pools, however, first-instar larvae suffered much higher mortality in the warmer pool.
23734153|Young Blackbirds leave the nest about twelve days after hatching. They then need about five days before being able to fly. The families break up about three weeks after nest-leaving. In 1976, an urban population of individually marked Blackbirds was followed during the entire breeding season. Daily mortality rates of eggs and nestlings were about 4.3 and 2.5 %, respectively. The young were checked daily from nest-leaving until independence and the daily mortality rate was 1.9 %. This rate was considerably higher (4.2 %) during the first five days after nest-leaving than later on (about 1.4 % from day 6 to day 15 and zero during the remaining period).
23734589|A population of tawny owls Strix aluco was monitored from 1981 until 1987 in approximately 90 km2 of short-rotation spruce forest in northern England, where the owls fed largely on field voles Microtus agrestis. Vole populations showed a cyclic trend, with a peak every third year. This led to great annual variations in the number of young owls reared. The productivity of individual owl territories varied greatly over the 7 year period, but was not density-dependent. A multiple regression model incorporating 3 habitat categories explained 70% of this variability and emphasised the importance of habitat heterogeneity. The density of owl territories increased with the spatial diversity of the habitat.
23736973|In recently deglaciated areas, studies of mtDNA haplotype diversity have often revealed clear phylogeographic structure for many animal species. Here, we assessed mitochondrial DNA variation of the moose, Alces alces, in northeastern Poland. Altogether, four haplotypes were found among 45 moose and the haplotype (h) and nucleotide () diversity estimates were 0.38 and 0.8%, respectively. The most common haplotype, H1 found in the Biebrza valley, NE Poland was exclusively present in this area and was divergent from the remaining mtDNA haplotypes in the European moose lineage. Our results indicate that the moose population in the Biebrza valley experienced severe bottleneck and could be regarded as a relic group of moose that is very distinct from others in Europe. We also found evidence for population admixture due to immigration, both, in the Biebrza valley and in Poland, in general.
23736745|The Glanville fritillary butterfly (Melitaea cinxia) in Finland feeds on the plants Plantago lanceolata and Veronica spicata. These two plant species are distributed heterogeneously and both vary spatially and temporally in iridoid glycoside concentrations. We investigated the associations of plant species and iridoid glycoside (aucubin and catalpol) concentrations with weight, development rate and survival of larvae of the Glanville fritillary under laboratory conditions. In one experiment we compared the performance of split brood groups of larvae feeding on the two plant species collected from natural populations. In the second experiment larvae were fed P. lanceolata lines laboratory selected for high and low aucubin and catalpol concentrations. Larvae fed V. spicata performed better in terms of survival, weight and growth rate than those feeding on P. lanceolata, regardless of iridoid glycoside concentration. However, in the second experiment iridoid glycoside concentration in P. lanceolata was positively associated with larval performance. High iridoid glycoside concentrations retarded development rate of the first instar larvae, whereas later on the development was accelerated by higher concentrations of these compounds. The spatial and temporal variation of plant species suitability and iridoid glycoside content, and larval family level effects of plant chemistry on performance convey a dynamic ecological and evolutionary relationship between these host plants and their specialized herbivore.
23731691|Males of most Cenocorixa species are shown to stridulate spontaneously at any time of day during the breeding season, but the maximum stridulating activity occurs at different times of day in different species. Receptive females respond to conspecific male calls by producing an agreement signal, but while in some of the species the females respond at any time of day, in others a response is only obtained at the time when the stridulating activity of males is maximal. Specific differences in the diel periodicity of stridulation are suggested to reinforce the function of this signalling in securing premating isolation of species.
23731702|Twelve species of Enchytraeidae were recorded from terrestrial, littoral and benthic habitats during a survey in summer 1970. Two new species, Cernosvitoviella pusilla sp. n. and Mesenchytraeus argentatus. sp. n. are described, and the descriptions of Lumbricillus charae (Tynen) 1970 and Henlea ochracea (Eisen) 1878 augm. Welch 1919 are augmented.
23735516|Hemimysis anomala G.O. Sars, originally an endemic Pontocaspian mysid, was found in late summer 1992 at two localities in the coastal waters of SW Finland. This is the first observation of the occurrence of this deep sublittoral species in the northern Baltic Sea. H. anomala occurs swarming in wave-exposed archipelago habitats in the sublittoral belt of Mytilus and red algae. The swarms avoid direct light, aggregating in rocky crevices, under stones and in the cavities of the boulder shore to form larger groups in the daytime; but during the night dispersing in the algal zone, from 2 to 12 m in depth. Breeding females were found as late as at the end of October and females with fully developed ovocytes in April, indicating a long summer breeding period compared with other coastal Mysidacea in the northern Baltic. Because eurytopic crustacean populations have been introduced since the 50s from Pontocaspian estuaries into the freshwater reservoirs of the river Dnieper, the Volga and also into the Baltic basin, H. anomala seems to be a young anthropochorous neoimmigrant distributed via man-made water routes, instead of being a real glacial relict, not previously observed. The possibility of abrupt migration in the ballast waters of ships along Volgo-Baltic water routes is not, however, to be excluded.
23737133|This study compares the sensitivity of two methods for diagnosing avian haemosporidian parasite (Plasmodium, Haemoproteus and Leucocytozoon) prevalence in Siberian tits Poecile cinctus breeding in northern Finland: a polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based method and microscopy examination of blood smears. During molecular analysis, we used PCR screening and RFLP as a post-PCR diagnostic step. PCR screening detected haemosporidian parasites in the blood of 38 out of 40 (95%) breeding Siberian tits. Microscopy examination of blood smears and PCR diagnostics showed the same prevalences for Leucocytozoon spp. infections. In contrast, prevalences of Haemoproteus spp. and Plasmodium spp. determined by molecular methods were significantly higher than the prevalence determined by microscopy screening. However, habitat and sex effects on the total count of parasites, Plasmodium spp., Haemoproteus spp. and Leucocytozoon spp. counts appeared to be similar when assessed with either screening method, giving the same interpretation for the ecological hypotheses tested. Finally, this study shows that transmission of avian malaria can occur in the area of the Arctic Circle in northern Europe.
23734852|Notes are given on the taxonomy and distribution of fifty-seven Cixiidae. The following new taxa are described: Brixia minor sp.n., Andes aeneus sp.n., A. fuscus sp.n., Oliarus pellucidus sp.n., O. meridianus sp.n., O. obsoletus sp.n., O. nigeriensis sp.n., O. peregrinus sp.n., O. aeneus sp.n., O. flavifrons sp.n., O. fuscimarginatus sp.n., O. fuscisignatus sp.n., O. decempunctatus sp.n., O. flavescens sp.n., O. nitens sp.n., O. somaliensis sp.n., O. fusculus sp.n., O. aethiops sp.n., O. pseudoballista sp.n., O. atricollis sp.n., O. pseudovarians sp.n., and Myndus eboricola sp.n.; further, notes are given on the synonomy of five species and one subspecies: Oliarus africanus Synave (= O. varii Synave), Oliarus bingervillei Synave (= O. gabonicus Synave), Oliarus garambaensis Synave (= O. hyperides Fennah), Oliarus runingensis Synave (= O. iasis Linnavuori), and Oliarus lootensi Synave (= O. ladas Fennah). Andes similis subsp. mafingeanus Fennah is synonymized with the nominate form.
23736808|The role of genetic variation in determining fitness in natural populations has been enigmatic for decades. Both theoretical and empirical work suggest that additive genetic contributions to fitness variation are small, whereas observations of inbreeding depression suggest that non-additive genetic contributions to fitness can sometimes be large. We analysed associations between genetic variability at a small number of microsatellite loci and fitness in a natural population of the collared flycatcher Ficedula albicollis, and related these to estimates of additive genetic contributions to the same traits. We found strong single-locus associations between an intra-locus measure of variability (d2) and variables related to fitness. These heterotic effects were sex-specific, being found only in males, and variation at this locus explained as much as 11% of the variance in male lifetime reproductive success. The size of the heterotic effect on a trait depended on how closely that trait was related to fitness, and there was a negative relationship between the size of the heterotic effect and the proportion of a trait's variance due to additive genetic variance. One possibility is that the heterosis results from introgression due to hybridization with the closely related pied flycatcher F. hypoleuca. Our results provide evidence that genetic contributions to fitness can be important in outbred populations.
23734597|The principal means of monitoring avian species in North America since 1966 is the Breeding Bird Survey (BBS). Nearly 2000 random roadside routes of 50 3-minute stops each are run once each summer by experienced observers. Two-year and long-term population trends have been calculated for 250 of the more common species. We show how Breeding Bird Atlas data for two periods of time can also be used to calculate population trends, and we compare atlas trends with those from the BBS. If coverage is intensive and consistent between time periods, atlas data may be useful for monitoring species that are not adequately sampled by the BBS.
23735443|A newly discovered horn sheath is described for the extinct helmeted muskox, Bootherium. This is the first complete female horn sheath described for that species. The sheath was fitted to a Bootherium skull, revealing a very different form than exhibited by those of living muskox, Ovibos, and suggests a different behavioral emphasis in its use. Also, plant remains from ingested food and from possible faecal samples were examined histologically to reconstruct diet of Bootherium. These suggest a slightly different diet than that of Ovibos.
23731814|A new method is presented that permits statistical comparisons between populations of different age structures. Individuals are arranged chronologically, and their relative frequencies of occurrence in the sample are accumulated from oldest to youngest. A graph of ecological longevity can be constructed by plotting relative cumulative frequency (RCF) against age. RCF equals probability of occurrence and, in some cases, probability of survival. The age at which probability of occurrence is 0.5 is the median ecological longevity (MEL), that at which p = 0.0 is the maximum ecological longevity (MAX). MEL is an index of relative population age, MAX measures environmental favorability.
23735818|Flying dytiscids were trapped in an agricultural landscape with wetlands in different successional stages and in two urban landscapes with young wetlands. We compared the faunas in air and in water. Hydroporus and Agabus were the most frequently trapped genera in air. Most species were trapped near water in the agricultural landscape; species characteristic of later successional stages were common in air and dominated in water. In the urban landscapes, species were mainly trapped far from water and species known to colonise new waters were common in air and in the youngest waters. Overall, females and immature adults were more common in flight catches during April-July than during AugustOctober. Our results indicate that urbanisation would result in a less diverse fauna, but may lead to an assemblage dominated by species that are infrequent in agricultural landscapes. To obtain a rich wetland insect fauna, a wide range of wetland types is required at the landscape scale.
23732512|Body temperatures in the European Nightjar (Caprimulgus e. europaeus) were recorded in constant ambient temperatures every month all round the year in 1964  1968 in southern Finland. Observations in natural temperature conditions were made in June, July, and August. When fasting the nightjar sinks into a state of hypothermia and torpor, of which two types can be distinguished, one light and the other deep. From the short-term light torpor the nightjar awakes spontaneously even at an ambient temperature below 10 C, but from the deept orpor only at an ambient temperature above 15 C. Data on the effect of the seasons and of moulting upon torpor are presented. The relation of the physiological observations to the ecology of the species is briefly discussed.
23731379|A new technique for extracting springtails from frozen soil samples is described. This hot rod technique is especially useful for treating samples taken from frozen soils, because its rapidity eliminates the possibility of laboratory hatching. It has been compared with two (three) other extraction techniques. Some experiments were made to study the effect of storage of the samples upon the number and species composition of Collembola extracted. Anurophorus binoculatus (Ksen.) is reported from Finland for the first time.
23735718|Moose and reindeer occur in large populations in the Fennoscandian boreal forests, and also roe deer occurs in dense populations in Sweden and Norway. These large herbivores affect the structure and function of the forest ecosystems. During periods of high densities discussions arise about the impact of these herbivores on e.g. economic forest trees and preservation of biodiversity. The aim of this study is to review the present knowledge of the disturbance caused by moose in the boreal forest. First, we give a quantitative estimate of the different disturbance factors (feeding, trampling, defecation and urination). Second, we discuss the ecological impact of the different disturbances.
23733727|The abundance, biomass and species composition of the meiozoobenthos in the littoral and profundal of a deep, oligotrophic lake in southern Finland were studied for two years. Single and multiple Kajak-type corers were used and the meiofauna was defined as animals retained between sieves with 0.1- and 0.4-mm meshes. The total numbers of the meiozoobenthos were 80 000230 000 ind./m2 in the profundal and 400 000630 000 in the littoral, and it consisted mainly of Nematoda, Cyclopoida, Harpacticoida, Ostracoda and Chironomidae. Other groups were Turbellaria, Rotatoria, Oligochaeta, Cladocera, Ephemeroptera, Ceratopogonidae, Oribatei, Hydrachnellae, Halacaridae and Tardigrada, but their contribution to the total numbers was only c. 8 % in the littoral and c. 6 % in the profundal. The total biomasses (ash-free dry wt.) of the meiozoobenthos were 0.10.3 and 0.60.8 g/m2 in the profundal and littoral, respectively. More than 95 % of the meiobenthic animals lived in the uppermost 2 cm of the sediment. The seasonal variation in total numbers was most pronounced in the littoral, and the maximum abundances were reached in early autumn after a slight minimum in early summer. The ratio between the numbers of meiofauna and macrofauna was 1019: 1 in the littoral and 4152 :1 in the profundal. The ratio between their biomasses was 0.5 : 1 in the littoral, 3 : 1 in the littoriprofundal and upper profundal and 2 : 1 in the deep profundal.
23736902|Birds that excavate their own cavities for breeding are traditionally considered to suffer little from nest predation. We reviewed the literature for nest predation rates, nest success, nest predator species and nest defence in European and North American woodpeckers. Predation rate varied from zero to 0.35 (median = 0.13, n = 33 populations), while nest success varied from 0.42 to 1.00 (median = 0.80, n = 84). Daily nest predation rate increased, while daily nest survival rate did not change with species body weight. This suggests a role of cavity entrance size in passive nest defence and differential causes of nest failure between small and large species. Twenty three predator species preyed upon woodpecker nests. Woodpeckers defended their nests by attacking the predators, blocking the cavity entrance, and by the selection of safe habitat/cavity and timing of breeding. We conclude by discussing gaps in the literature regarding woodpecker nest predation.
23735523|I censused colonies (15 sites) of Common Gulls in the northern Baltic, Hanko, in 197891. The total population in the area declined from 240 to 159 pairs. Reproductive success was low in many colonies for several years during the study period. The mean rate of fledged young per pair varied from 0.17 to 1.09 (198291). The reproductive failures were mainly due to predation by Mink, and Herring Gull. When Minks appeared to decline in numbers, production rose significantly. With respect to predation risk, colony sites varied very much. During 8 years (198289) some colonies were never subject to major disturbances, while some colonies were severely disturbed in most years. The colonies disturbed most declined rapidly, while colonies successful in most years gained pairs, inspite of a general decreasing trend. I suggest that this was due to relocation of breeders between colonies in the area. The rate of decline was also tied to the severity of the disturbance, when adults are threatened, rapid desertion of a colony site may follow, when chicks are taken, the desertion process is slower. This is likely due to the Common Gull being adapted to stable breeding environments favouring site tencity. I suggest that the colonies formed an interactive metapopulation-like system, which is significant for understanding how archipelago birds in the Baltic should best be protected.
23735881|Both the quality and spatial configuration of a habitat can affect the distribution of its inhabitants. However, few studies have directly compared the relative effects of the two. In this paper, we focus on spatial patterns in the distribution of an oak-specific moth, Tischeria ekebladella. At the landscape level, the species was more often present on well-connected trees than on isolated trees. Experimental transplants revealed pronounced variation in larval survival among individual leaves within trees. In fact, survival on a "good" and a "bad" leaf within a tree differed almost as much as survival between a "good" and a "bad" leaf chosen randomly on two different trees. Qualitative differences among trees did not explain the distribution of the species across the landscape, as average larval performance did not differ between trees naturally occupied and unoccupied by the species. Hence, spatial effects seem to dominate over host tree quality in determining the regional distribution of Tischeria ekebladella.
23736935|A research plan must answer four questions: (i) What is the scientific question that the research seeks to answer? (ii) What type of investigation will the researcher conduct? (iii) What measurements will be made? (iv) What type of data analysis will be used, and will there be sufficient statistical power in the data to give an effective answer to the question? I illustrate how each of these questions can be answered. The first requires conceptual and propositional analysis to refine concepts and postulates so that an important scientific question is developed and one that is possible to answer. Questions ii, iii and iv together form a Data Statement that must answer why a particular type of investigation is appropriate and how that question will be answered. It must define the extent to which measurements represent the concepts in question and the accuracy and precision of those measurements. And, most important, the Data Statement must define the type of data analysis that will be used, including a definition of the statistical power necessary to answer the question effectively. The development of a Data Statement will usually involve exploratory analysis of the scientific question to explore the effectiveness of proposed measurements and to enable calculation of a sampling regimen that will provide adequate statistical power.
23731723|Two adult Rana temporaria L. specimens with nasal myiasis due to the blowfly Lucilia bufonivora Moniez were found in northern Finland in late July 1973. One myiasis consisted of 63 maggots and the other of 20 maggots. The development of the fly was studied in 60 maggots of the former case. The maggots devoured the head cavities of the frog, first the nostrils, then the eyes and brain, causing the death of the host after four days. Development to the adult stage took 17  20 days, of which the larval stage took 8  10 days and the pupal stage 8  12 days. Of the 60 flies 29 were males and 31 females. This is the first record of the larval stage of Lucilia bufonivora in Finland.
23732254|Attempts were made to fit Fisher's logarithmic series and Preston's truncate discrete lognormal distribution to bird survey records obtained in the centre of a city, by rural houses in an agricultural environment and in an uninhabited forest in southern Finland. The population models did not fit the survey records from the city, although they fitted those from the agricultural and forest environments. A low degree of goodness of fit between the survey record and theoretical numbers seems to be a useful indicator of environmental disturbances.
23731616|Two multiple-unit versions of the Kajak type corer are described, one with six units and the other with three units and an automatic releasing mechanism. Both corers are made of polyvinylchloride and brass. A slicing device for use with the corers was designed to permit study of the vertical distribution of the zoobenthos. Further, a sieving technique especially suited for the study of the zoomeiobenthos is described, in which the sieving residue can be studied with the aid of a movable grooved disc in which the entire width of each groove is visible simultaneously at a magnification suitable for the study of the meiofauna. Detailed diagrams of the construction of these improvements are presented. It is suggested that the relatively large number of animals per unit area obtained with the aid of the technique described is chiefly due to the fact that, as in the original model, the tube corers do not disturb the surface layer of the bottom, where the density of zoobenthos is highest.
23736138|Kin recognition, differential treatment of conspecifics based on correlates of genetic relatedness, is a central topic in the field of behavioral ecology, which became a focus of empirical investigation thanks largely to W. D. Hamilton's (1964) theory of inclusive fitness. In this review of early research on kin recognition, I (1) describe the abstract theoretical idea that catalyzed much of the original kin recognition research, (2) examine some of the conceptual issues that are part of the kin recognition literature, including various definitions of kin recognition, (3) describe some of the classic early research programs on kin recognition, (4) review the work that Paul W. Sherman and I did on the kin recognition abilities and mechanisms of ground squirrels (Spermophilus), and (5) offer some thoughts on valuable avenues to pursue in future kin recognition studies.
23734049|Adults of Eurytemora hirundoides (Nordqv.) were fed on bacteria-free cultures on the algae Ankistrodesmus sp., Chlorella sp., Selenastrum sp., Scenedesmus spinosus and S. quadricauda, and on these algal cultures infested with monocultured bacteria. Consumption rates levelled out at 17 g dry weight per individual per day for concentrations higher than 100 g dry weight per ml at +20C. The high consumption rate and high assimilation efficiency (100 %) in cultures with bacteria prompted the conclusion that these copepods feed more efficiently on decayed than on intact algal cells.
23736103|A long term project to evaluate the potential for food web manipulation to improve water quality in Lake Mendota, Wisconsin began in 1987. Intensive walleye Stizostedion vitreum stocking and harvest regulations were used to enhance walleye biomass. Over 60 million walleye fry and 2.4 million 50-mm walleye fingerlings were stocked during 19871992. Fry survival was negligible; mark-recapture estimates of small (< 275 mm) walleye abundance showed first year survival of stocked fingerlings to be variable but always  10%. Direct (predator consumption) and indirect (prey abundance, predator biomass) evidence suggested predation to be a major constraint to augmenting walleye recruitment by stocking.
23736922|Plants show rapid adaptation towards resistance against heavy metals. In contrast, tests examining the local adaptation of insect herbivores to heavy metal pollution are lacking. Here we test whether the autumnal moth Epirrita autumnata, living in a heavy metal contaminated area, shows local adaptation in the growth rate and immune function. We gathered male moths from control and polluted areas for use in paternal half-sib crossings in order to ensure that we measure genotypic variation in addition to phenotypic variation. We found genotype  environment interactions in the growth of the larvae suggesting potential local adaptation in the growth of pollution-exposed moths. However, adaptation appears to incur a cost, because we observed reduced performance of the heavy metal adapted strain in a non-polluted environment. Finally, we found that pollution enhanced the immune function in female moths but not in males.
23735998|Numerical relationships between predators (red fox Vulpes vulpes, pine marten Martes martes, lynx Lynx lynx) and mountain hare (Lepus timidus) were studied using the data from the Finnish wildlife monitoring scheme in 19892000. Line transect (wildlife triangle) data were used to obtain snow track indices of relative predator abundance. Finland was divided into 29 100  100 km squares, each including the mean of 348 km of transect line (total length > 10 000 km annually). The abundance of fox was related to the yearly growth rate of hare populations in 48% of the squares. The growth rates of fox and hare populations also correlated in 45% of the squares, indicating that there was a mutual relationship between hare and fox populations in about half of the squares. This relationship existed in areas with low/moderate hare and high fox numbers (a low hare/fox index) but was lacking in areas with a high hare/fox index, pointing to both functional and numerical response for foxes preying on hares. There was also a positive spatial correlation between hare and lynx numbers, but the correlation between hare and marten numbers was weak.
23734875|Assembly of communities is studied using ants in the Tvrminne archipelago of the Baltic Sea as an example. It is suggested that community-level distributional data fit poorly into analyses of community assembly processes. Instead, autecologies should be studied for species-specific limitations to colonisation. Such deterministic ecological factors include (1) habitat requirements, (2) dependence on other ant species in colony foundation or during the whole colony cycle, (3) dispersal capacity, and (4) level of social organisation. The species can differ profoundly with respect to the above features, which strongly restrict the role of stochasticity in the assembly of insular ant communities. Stochasticity, together with competition, may cause a priority effect. In other words, the first of a pair of ecologically similar species to settle on an island may keep out the second species or slow down its rate of colonisation. Different levels of social organisation order ant species into a competition hierarchy. This causes locally expected ("accepted") vs. locally improbable ("forbidden") combinations of species. As the same community structure may be reached by different mechanisms and their combinations, direct studies on the species' ecologies and relations between the species are needed to elucidate the assembly process.
23735880|The deme formation hypothesis predicts that short-lived insects with long-lived hosts can adapt to the traits of individual plants and form genetically differentiated sub-populations. Several life-history traits have been suggested that could predispose insects to deme formation, the most important being dispersal, feeding mode, and mating system. There is little evidence that adult dispersal ability or mating system promote fine-scale adaptation, but feeding mode appears to be important to the evolution of herbivore demes. Phenology (defined as the timing of life cycles) is now known to be individually variable and highly heritable; even a slight mismatch between an herbivore and its host can reduce egg and larval survival, or isolate adults from potential mates. This is particularly critical for internally-feeding insects that are in close and continuous contact with plants. Here I argue that endophagy, combined with insect and plant variation in phenology, are important predictors of deme formation, and a driving force behind fine scale genetic structure in herbivore populations.
23733733|Quantitative distribution patterns of breeding land birds were studied in Finland and adjacent areas in 197377; about 120000 pairs were observed in line transect censuses sampling a study area of 0.5 million km2. The area was divided by numerical methods into six zones on the basis of the breeding bird faunas: arctic (probably comprising an arctic and an oroarctic zone), hemiarctic, north-boreal, mid-boreal, south-boreal and hemiboreal zones. The between-zone transitions generally resulted from differences in the area of the major habitats, but the boundary between the north-boreal and mid-boreal zones was due to a shift in bird species composition without equally striking differences in habitat. The zones seemed to be equivalent in the sense that each zone had 810 species with frequencies of at least 3 %, and adjacent zones differed mainly by 46 such species. The bird fauna of each zone is described, with special emphasis on quantitative aspects and differences between zones. Regionality in breeding land birds is compared with various phytogeographical and zoogeographical zonations, including patterns of intraspecific variation in several animals. It is suggested that the different zonations reflect biologically significant differences among different taxa. Two main generalizations emerge. First, in areas north of the Arctic Circle, some species groups (plants, birds) show considerable regional heterogeneity, whereas others (ants) do not. Second, the bird fauna is fairly homogeneous in southern Finland, but other groups show more pronounced heterogeneity. Biological explanations for these generalizations are discussed.
23731566|Records are given for 24 naidids, 13 tubificids, three lumbriculids and one lumbricid from Finland. The first record from Finland is given for Nais simplex, Tubifex smirnovi, Aulodrilus limnobius and Lamprodrilus isoporus variabilis. A redescription with figures is given for Tubifex smirnovi.
23734244|Territoriality in Limnoporus rufoscutellatus (Gerridae) was studied both in the laboratory and in nature. Some reproductive males defend territories of approx. 50 cm in radius, while females and diapause males are not territorial. Territories usually lasted about a day in nature, but in the laboratory persistences of up to a week were recorded. Territorial and non-territorial males send surface wave signals. Males are chased away from territories by the territory owners, but females are approached for mating. As a rule, a male resident on his territory wins a conflict with other males. The duration of territory occupation and/or success in recent malemale interactions, and not size, seems important in getting the upper hand in conflicts. We suggest that the function of male territoriality in L. rufoscutellatus is to increase mating success but not food intake. As males alternate between territorial and non-territorial modes of behaviour, and also non-territorial males try to mate, territoriality is only one of the alternative male mating tactics.
23735738|The study of host-symbiont interactions has mainly focused on how parasites influence the fitness and behaviour of their host. Two common assumptions of such studies are that all symbiontic organisms are parasites, and that they are directly or indirectly related to host traits which act as signals of quality in mate choice. We assessed the prevalence and abundance of feather mites (Proctophyllodes pinnatus; Astigmata; Protocphyllodidae) on Linnets (Carduelis cannabina; Aves; Carduelinae) and examined how the abundance of mites may be related to the condition and plumage colour of Linnets. Mite prevalence was so high (near 100%) that no variation could be found between age classes or sexes. However, mite abundance was significantly higher in males than in females. No significant relationship was found between mite abundance and host nutritional condition, except for yearling females. Nutritional condition and showiness of secondary sexual traits (carotenoid-based plumage patches) were not correlated in male linnets. Size and brightness of red patches in the plumage of males varied with age, but were unrelated to mite abundance when age was taken into account. The absence of effects of mites is in agreement with the long held, neglected view that feather mites form non-parasitic associations with birds. Higher mite abundance on males may be attributed to more secretions of the uropygial gland, on which mites feed. Gender variation in plumage colour and abundance of feather mites suggests a common hormonal-mediated mechanism regulating both traits.
23735466|Analysis of data on the number of brown bears in the USSR for the last 30 years shows a dramatic increase from 105 000 to 130 000. The greatest increase could be observed in the northern regions of the European part of the USSR. In most parts of Siberia the number of brown bears did not change significantly. The densest bear populations occur in the Vologda, Kirov, and Kostroma oblasts in the European part of the USSR, the Altay mountains of Central Siberia, and on Sakhalin island in the Far East. Densities in these regions exceed 30 bears per 1000 km2. The density variation can be explained as a consequence of zonal regularities, while human activities provide intrazonal landscapes. Approximately 3 500 brown bears are legally culled annually in the USSR. Including those poached, the total harvest hardly exceeds 10% of the population. Bears are hunted in the oat fields, on paths, on open areas in the mountains, at their dens and by incidental hunting. There are 89 subspecies of Ursus arctos L. in the USSR. The systematics of Caucasian and Central Asian bears are the most complicated ones. In addition to subspecies, there are different forms (ecomorphs) of bears within the same territory and this must be taken into account when planning the establishment of a new population.
23736918|Predation on artificial ground nests placed along four transects (alderwood, fallow, pine forest and fallow-forest edge) was studied in 19982009. On average, a 25.4% increase in overall predation rate was observed over the study period and increasing predation occurred at all sites. Mean multiannual predation rate differed up to 2.3-fold between transects and was highest in the alderwood and lowest in the fallow area. Despite that share of particular predators in depredation of nests was not random with respect to the studied habitats, high year-to-year variation in the pattern of predation was recorded. Between-year and between-transect changes in predation pressure were responsible for 48% of overall predation variability. Predation in one, randomly selected year was weakly related to averaged data from all 12 years, which indicates that short-term studies employing artificial nests can significantly over- or underestimate the contribution of particular species to overall predation.
23731780|Leafhoppers were caught with nets in oatfields in 28 localities in the Finnish oatgrowing region at the end of June and beginning of July in 3 different years. Samples were collected from 720 fields. The material included 67 species and 68 932 adult specimens. Of the latter, 91.4 % were of species that transmit viruses or mycoplasma. The most frequent and most abundant species were Javesella pellucida and Macrosteles cristatus (85 % of the specimens). All the species may have lived in Finland before the era of human settlement. The species originated chiefly from shore meadows, broadleaved forests, moist heath forest, and swamps. Species from mesic biotopes were the most abundant. The Delphacid species were mainly long-winged, although in the natural vegetation, according to the literature, there is a higher proportion of short-winged specimens. The proportion of shortwinged specimens increased towards the north. Forty-two leafhopper species (99.7 % of the specimens) lived on grasses. In the most frequent species it was possible to determine the causes of ca. 20  80 % of the variation in abundance. The chief factors influencing the abundance of the species were climate, weather and certain agricultural measures. Two leafhopper communities were differentiated in the oats, and three zoogeographical zones were distinguished: hemiboreal, southern boreal, and middle boreal.
23733728|The naupliar development of six species of freshwater harpacticoid copepods (Canthocamptus staphylinus [Jurine 1820], C. microstaphylinus [Wolf 1905], Attheyella crassa [Sars 1863], Moraria brevipes [Sars 1863], Bryocamptus echinatus (Mrzek 1893] and Paracamptus schmeili [Mrzek 1893]) (Canthocamptidae) is described both from larvae reared from eggs and from larvae collected from an oligotrophic Finnish lake through all seasons. The naupliar stages of C. microstaphylinus and P. schmeili were previously unknown; for the other four species earlier authors had reported five naupliar stages. The present study revealed that these species all have six morphologically distinct naupliar stages, recognizable as clear modes in the size distributions of larvae collected from the lake. The number of naupliar stages in C. staphylinus was confirmed by following the development of isolated individuals. A survey of all available data on larval development in harpacticoids suggests that in both marine and freshwater harpacticoids the normal number of naupliar stages is six, as in cyclopoid and calanoid copepods. In the natural populations each naupliar stage had invariable patterns of setation and spinulation that were unaffected by varied rearing conditions. But body size, lengths of setae and numbers of spinules were somewhat variable, and rearing experiments showed them to be dependent on temperature and other environmental conditions. Species identification was possible at all stages; the most useful single diagnostic feature seemed to be the armature of the prehensile terminal spine of the antennal endopodite.
23735399|Development of knowledge of Neotropical carabid taxonomic diversity is illustrated primarily in terms of rate of description of new genera, the pattern of which is paralleled by description of new family-group (tribal-subtribal) taxa. The rate of discovery of the latter is very low now, suggesting approach of an asymptote. New genera have been discovered at a rate of about 11 per decade for the past 40 years. Four periods of descriptive activity are recognized and related both to circumstances that influenced Western European cultural history generally, from 1758 to the present, and to the activities of primarily European specialists on Carabidae.
23731640|Quantitative bird surveys were performed during every month of the year in the centre of a city, near rural houses in agricultural surroundings, and in an uninhabited forest in southern Finland. It was noted that the bird biomass was of equal magnitude in the forest and in the agricultural environment (21.9 and 22.9 kg/km2 respectively), but about ten times higher (229.2 kg/km2) in the city. The huge elevation of the bird biomass in the city is an indication of the ecological cycle disorder caused by transport of biological material from the forests and fields to the city. The density of urban birds indicates, however, only the degree of leakage, of biological material from the human community to the immediate urban environment. The number of bird species was highest near the rural houses and lowest in the city. The degree of preference for human settlements shown by the most abundant bird species is expressed as synanthropic indices calculated for them. Some species show specific seasonal variation in their degree of synanthropy.
23731679|The gold spots, now termed prismatic pigmented maculae (PPM), of the pupa of the monarch butterfly (Danaus p. plexippus) have been studied, using the technique of micro-cauteriztion, in order to investigate their possible function. This study has shown that the pigmented maculae apparently govern scale disposition and colour; an examination of the cell structure of the PPMs disclosed a number of cell types that are distinct when compared to those of the surrounding epidermis.
23735393|Territoriality and mating frequencies were studied in wing dimorphic populations of Aquarius remigis (Say), (Heteroptera, Gerridae) in California. Larger females were territorial in populations with winged individuals and in those with individuals of two wing morphs. Winged females were larger than wingless females, and because of their larger body size winged females were more often territorial than wingless ones in dimorphic populations. Males were seldom territorial but were often found either mating or searching for food and mates. Body dimensions were not correlated with mating frequency, but wingless males were found mating more often than winged males. In a laboratory experiment wingless and (smaller) males mated more often than did winged males. Thus, wingless males seem to have a mating advantage over winged. The territorial behaviour that we observed in females, and the association between size and territoriality were similar described on an exclusively wingless population in eastern North America.
23734853|A sample of specimens of Lynx shansius Teilhard has been compared to similar samples of L. lynx from Sweden and Finland, L. pardina from Spain, and L. issiodorensis from Etouaires. Results show that L. shansius is only subspecifically distinct from L. issiodorensis. No conclusions can be drawn concerning the evolution of L. lynx on the basis of L. shansius.
23731813|Detailed data on the changes in age structure of populations of Microtus middendorffi in Southern Jamal, in Polar Urals and in the taiga and forest steppe zones revealed that this species may produce up to five generations per year. The subarctic populations differ from those in the south in the very high mortality of the first generation of the season. In years with an early spring, however, the mortality of the first generation is reduced. Since the mortality during winter is insignificant, favourable spring conditions during two consecutive years may result in large outbreaks. It is concluded that synchronous changes in numbers of several species of voles are caused by climatic factors.
23735340|During a dry summer, the pH of a small (0.13 ha), natural forest pond in eastern Finland decreased from > 6.0 to 4.0, returning to normal the following winter. Experimental lowering of the pH, using a strong acid, in a laboratory water-sediment system and in pond water revealed qualitatively similar changes to those in the naturally acidified pond: decreases in water colour, dissolved organic material and total Fe, and increases in total Ca, Mg and Al concentrations. The effects of acidification, together with the simultaneously increased bioavailability of aluminium, were assessed on crucian carp, the only fish species present, by comparison with data from a connected pond that retained its normal pH (> 6.0). The growth in the length of the fish did not differ significantly between the ponds, and the liver glycogen stores were actually slightly larger in the acidic pond. Yet, finds of dead fish after 4 months of acidification, suggested high mortality. In comparison with the carp in the reference pond, the crucian carp in the acidified pond suffered from ionoregulatory imbalance and chronic stress, indicated by decreased plasma chloride, and increased cortisol and glucose concentrations, respectively. In addition, their blood haematocrit and haemoglobin concentration were elevated and the relative size of their livers had increased.
23736708|All available data, both from geological stray finds and archaeological refuse faunas, of the early occurrence of seals in the northern Baltic were summarized. Ten subfossil seals found in different parts of the Finnish coast were radiocarbon dated. The ringed seal (Phoca hispida), a resident species in the area, colonized the Baltic at 9500 BP, at the latest. The harp seal (Phoca groenlandica), which currently does not inhabit the Baltic, was part of the northern Baltic fauna from 5900 BP to 2800 BP, at least. Based on both geological and archaeological bone finds the harp seal was during this time common even in the northernmost parts of the Gulf of Bothnia, whereas the grey seal (Halichoerus grypus), today a common species in the area, seems to have been extremely rare in the whole northern Baltic. Identification of seals to species level is  to some extent  possible even from burnt and highly fragmented bone material found at prehistoric dwelling sites in Finland.
23736201|The recent history of the whitefish fishery in Lake Geneva has been very positive. Yields over the last seven years have not been attained for 50 years. Stocking has been increased for 10 years. Stocking was first done with larvae, but now with larvae and also juveniles and fingerlings. Stocking could explain the beginning of the increases in whitefish stocks but cannot completely explain the present level of the stock. Other causes are necessary to explain the situation. Lake Geneva sustained a stage of eutrophication (total phosphorus increasing from 20 g l-1 to 90 g l-1) from 1960 to the mid-1970s. Phosphorus levels have been decreasing since then. Improved water quality has contributed to the restoration of the whitefish population. Climate change has also contributed to better recruitment of whitefish. Stocking seems now to be superfluous and will be restricted in the future to fingerlings.
23731571|The Chironomid genus Krenospectra (new name for Gowiniella Thienemann partim, nomen nudum) is described on the basis of a collection of two species from the Alps and the Pyrenees  (K. fallax sp. n., type species, and K. acuta Goetghebuer 1934). The taxonomically important characters of the larvae, pupae and adults are described in detail. The taxonomic position of Krenospectra among the Tanytarsini is discussed.
23735612|The goal of this study was to examine whether or not the preparation of the bear to winter sleep requires changes in the composition of plasma fatty acids similar to those observed in deep hibernators. Seasonal changes in plasma fatty acids of six captive European brown bears (Ursus arctos arctos) were investigated between 1991 and 1996. Altogether fifty plasma samples were analysed chromatographically. The weight percentage of unsaturated to saturated fatty acids was 37.1% in winter but only 32.3% in summer. The proportions of palmitic (16:0), octadec-11-enoic (18:1n-7), arachidonic (20:4n-6), and docosahexaenoic (22:6n-3) acids increased significantly in the total fatty acid pool in winter. At the same time, a significant decrease in concentrations of heptadecanoic (17:0), stearic (18:0), oleic (18:1n-9), -linolenic (18:3n-6), -linolenic (18:3n-3) and eicosapentaenoic (20:5n-3) acids was observed. Some fatty acids also act as precursors in the synthesis of specific tissue hormones. The leptin level reached its maximum just prior to winter sleep, i.e. when fat reserves were greatest.
23734496|The theory of Pleistocene forest refuges states that during the arid cycles of the Pleistocene the Amazon lowland forest was reduced to a number of isolated patches. According to the theory, this isolation period contributed to the present subspeciesspecies level of biological differentiation of the forest biota via allopatric differentiation. The theory is mainly supported by the present vicariant distribution patterns of the lowland biota, especially birds and woody Angiosperms. The patterns are thought to reflect the past locations of the forest refugia. The question approached in this paper is whether there are also independent biostratigraphical, lithostratigraphical or geomorphological data which could show that the forest refuges have been isolated by savannas. Recent findings in the fluvial geomorphology of the Amazon basin, reviewed here, reveal geomorphological barriers which could explain the observed distribution patterns on the basis of present and past edaphic differences, rendering the Pleistocene forest refuge theory implausible and unnecessary.
23736986|The goal of this study was to evaluate the relative role of some central intrinsic and extrinsic factors affecting reproduction in the tawny owl in southern Finland, near the northern limit of the species' range. The data included 153 successful nestings of pairs of birds in which both mates were identified, sexed, aged, and measured. Brood size was constrained by clutch size that, in turn, could be explained by the positive influence of female age. Female condition was positively influenced by both male condition and female age, while male condition was positively related to the age of male. These intrinsic factors outweighed the effects of extrinsic factors examined. However, these probably prominent extrinsic factors, such as general food supply and winter weather conditions, seemed to be inadequately quantified for use in the present study. Therefore, future studies should proceed by evaluating variables that characterize more accurately those environmental conditions where the studied population lives.
23735407|In the Westphalian Lowlands (NW Germany), the carabid beetle Carabus auronitens inhabits forests and semi-natural (secondary) woods. Southwest of the city of Mnster the frequencies of two alleles of an esterase-encoding gene (Est-1) change continuously by about 90% over a distance of 20 km. Within this cline several local populations, that are only a few hundred meters apart, differ significantly, suggesting that the evolution of the cline is a rather recent event. We propose the following hypotheses to explain these observations: (1) C. auronitens survived the period of nearly complete anthropogenic destruction of woodlands (during Middle Ages and early Modern Times) in the region southwest of Mnster in a few small isolated populations; (2) in these refugia, the allele frequencies shifted by random drift in opposite direction (neutrality of the esterase genotypes against selection is supposed); (3) after semi-natural woods had regenerated and forests had grown up the refugial populations expanded and fused to a large metapopulation. We suggest that the cline observed in the Est-1 alleles reflects the continuous dynamics of the newly founded metapopulation. It is shown that in C. auronitens both population growth rates and individual dispersal ability seem to be high enough for an expansion over relatively large distances within a relatively short period.
23734542|The qualitative and quantitative changes in the meiozoobenthos are described along a pollution gradient downstream from the Valkeakoski industrial area. Material was collected in late summer. The response of the meiozoobenthos to the industrial waste water load is compared with that of the macrozoobenthos. Reference material was also collected from an area loaded with municipal effluents and from the least polluted part of Vanajavesi. The response of the meiozoobenthos to heavy pollution was in principle similar to that of the macrozoobenthos. The zoobenthos is either scarce or even totally eliminated below the pollution outfall. Cyclopoida is the only group which thrive on these anoxic bottoms. The most tolerant sedentary meiofaunal species were some nematods and Rotaria neptunia, which were found in low numbers at a station where the conditions were too extreme for the most tolerant macrofaunal species Chironomus plumosus. The diversity of both meiofauna and macrofauna increased downstream, where the oxygen conditions improved. The total abundance of both meiofauna and macrofauna reached a huge maximum in a zone where the oxygen concentration was 04 mg/l. Downstream from this point the abundance again decreased to a normal level. The industrial effluents (mainly from the wood-processing industry) and the municipal waste waters caused similar changes in the meiozoobenthos. Potentially toxic effects are not easy to detect, because the oxygen depletion is the main limiting factor. There are, however, specific changes in the composition of the meiozoobenthos which may be valuable in the biological assessment of the degree of pollution, such as the composition of the macrofauna.
23734700|Boreal assemblages of soricine shrews consist of species with a strikingly similar body shape but of distinctly different sizes. Eurasia and North America have morphologically parallel but phylogenetically distinct series of species in two different subgenera. This paper reviews related issues in the behavioural, population and community ecology of boreal shrews, including the reproductive biology of male shrews, body size and extinction probability in sympatric species, synchrony of population dynamics of sympatric shrews and microtine rodents, and the possible role of dispersal behaviour in population dynamics. Central Siberian populations of Sorex caecutiens, one of the three transcontinental Eurasian species, are characterized by large individuals, small litters and predictably cyclic dynamics, while populations at both the western and the eastern ends of the species' range have smaller individuals, larger litters and more irregular dynamics.
23734871|Measurements of 11 morphometric characteristics of coexisting populations of the willow warbler Phylloscopus trochilus, the wood warbler Ph. sibilatrix, and the chiffchaff Ph. collybita revealed the following results: (1) the willow warbler and the chiffchaff resemble each other much more than they do the wood warbler; (2) all three species are significantly sexually size dimorphic, the degree of dimorphism decreasing from the small chiffchaff to the large wood warbler; (3) the chiffchaff males and the willow warbler females were the same size, while the wood warbler females fell between the willow and wood warbler males; (4) measurements of the body size were more dimorphic than those of the bill, which, on the other hand, were intrasexually more variable; (5) males occupying territories in the deciduous and mixed woodland of the study area were significantly larger than those in the nearby spruce-dominated woodland; and (6) larger males were more sitetenacious than smaller ones in the deciduous and mixed woodland of the study area. These results suggest that in these warblers, the sexual size dimorphism is more a result of sexual selection than of intraspecific competition. Furthermore, at least in the willow warbler, spacing of territories fits Fretwell's ideal despotic habitat distribution model, and food competition is expected to be more intense between the willow warbler and the chiffchaff than between the wood warbler and either of the other two species, if there is any significant competition.
23736733|Cavity nesters may either reuse an old cavity or excavate a new one. Nest reuse among cavity nesting birds has been considered traditionally to be a characteristic of weak excavators that lack nest sites and to be a strong force in the evolution of life history traits such as clutch size. We develop a simple model to examine factors that may favour one or the other nesting strategy, assuming a trade off between investment in excavation of a new hole and investment in offspring. Consistent with time and energy costs of excavation, male northern flickers Colaptes auratus that excavated were in better body condition than those that reused cavities, and a greater proportion of second nests were in reused holes. Data for other facultative excavators including woodpeckers, nuthatches and chickadees revealed a general pattern of earlier laying dates and larger clutches in reused compared to freshly excavated holes. We suggest that nest reuse is motivated by multiple causes, but may often be adaptive by offering time and energy savings.
23735415|Ground beetle survey data were used to produce three habitat classifications; a national and a local riverside classification generated by hand searching and a Scottish classification from a pitfall trap survey. The classifications provided a clear picture of the habitats of the assemblages sampled, even when the data were from a number of sources, and were especially good with data from standardised sampling. Species rarity scores were derived from distribution records from either national or local surveys. These were used to generate site rarity values by summing species scores and dividing by the number of species. These were used as a measure of site quality and provided a mechanism for ranking sites within habitat groups. This methodology worked at the local, regional and national scales and it appears that there is great potential for the use of ground beetle data from structured, standardised surveys in assessing environmental quality.
23731752|Gas-liquid chromatography was used to determine the major fatty acid composition of the total lipids of the subcutaneous fat and skeletal muscle fat, and of the triglyceride and phospholipid fractions of the subcutaneous fat, skeletal muscle fat, coronary fat and liver fat of two speices of crossbills (Loxia curvirostra and L. leucoptera) as well as of their diet (spruce seed). Stearic and palmitic acids were the main saturated fatty acids of the tissues, and oleic and linoleic acids the main unsaturated fatty acids. In the spruce seed palmitic and stearic acids were the main saturated fatty acids, and linoleic, oleic and linolenic acids the main unsaturated fatty acids, in this order of importance. The major fatty acid composition of the depot fat of the crossbills did not reflect the fatty acids in the diet of these birds. No differences in the major fatty acid composition of the tissues were found between the two crossbill species.
23735458|The Eusmilini are miniature saber-toothed cats that usually did not exceed the size of a bobcat, Lynx rufus. They occur in both Europe and North America, although North America contains the more primitive form. In spite of their small size, their cranial specializations approximate those of Barbourofelis. A new genus and species, Nanosmilus Kurteni, is described from the Oligocene of Nebraska.
23733713|From the southern archipelago of Finland a new free-living nematode is described: Adorus astridae sp. n. Oxystomina islandica (De Coninck, 1943) is transferred to Adorus, and a differential diagnosis is given for Adorus species. A historical review of the systematic position of Adorus is given; the present description shows that Adorus belongs to the Oxystominidae within the Enoplida (reproductive systems, position of caudal gland cells and structure of excretory pore). The global distribution of Adorus species is pointed out. Their local habitat preferences are correlated with rather low salinity and muddy sediments. The phenomenon of rarity in aquatic nematodes is discussed.
23735431|We studied whether pied flycatcher (Ficedula hypoleuca) and great tit (Parus major) females differed in quality between polluted and unpolluted habitats. Comparing female condition between incubation and nestling periods, we aimed at testing whether biometric differences in F. hypoleuca females were caused by assortative settlement (i.e. intraspecific competition) or as a consequence of breeding in environments exposed to different levels of pollution stress. Body mass, wing length, fat reserves, age distribution, timing of breeding and breeding density of females were measured along an air pollution gradient from a copper smelter in SW Finland in 19911994. We found few differences in female quality which could be explained by assortative settling. Females were of the same size in all areas. At nestling time P. major females were heaviest in a moderately polluted area. However, females in the most polluted area were not lighter than those in background areas. Female fat reserves in both species were smaller in the polluted area in one cold breeding season. This suggests that natural (weather) and human induced (pollution) stress factors affected female condition additively. The proportion of young F. hypoleuca females was slightly higher in the polluted area than elsewhere. P. major females started laying earlier near the factory complex than farther away. F. hypoleuca females laid later in the polluted area in early breeding seasons but in late seasons laying started simultaneously everywhere. Especially F. hypoleuca bred more sparsely in the polluted area. Observed differences in the condition of F. hypoleuca females along the pollution gradient emerged mainly in the course of breeding.
23735444|Hipparionine horses were evolutionarily diverse members of Neogene Holarctic paleofaunas. In this study, we have sampled 13 hipparionine species for a statistical analysis of tooth microwear features used as a basis for dietary interpretation. Our methodology included the generation of two statistical models: first, a two-group model to characterize a suite of browsing and grazing perissodactyls; second, a four-group model to characterize browsing and grazing perissodactyls in combination with browsing and grazing artiodactyls. Fisher's classification functions were used to transform hipparion species from their raw microwear measure space into the spaces defined by each of the two models separately. Our observations on hipparionine dietary modes reveal that they did not exclusively graze, but rather showed a mosaic of dietary preferences.
23734708|This paper considers the dynamics of coupled host-parasitoid interactions where the hosts are distributed amongst discrete patches over which the parasitoids search. While it is well known that density dependent patterns of parasitism from patch to patch within such a setting can be important in promoting the stability of the interactions, only recently has it been appreciated that inverse patterns of parasitism can be just as important. Furthermore, it is now clear that even where there is no spatial density dependence of any kind, the distribution of parasitism can still play a crucial part in promoting stability as long as the probability of hosts being parasitized is sufficiently variable from patch to patch. Distinguishing between different spatial patterns of parasitism is thus not a reliable means of identifying those foraging behaviours that promote population persistence. A possible alternative approach is briefly described which involves measuring the variance in the distribution of parasitism. In simple models at least, this can be simply related to the stability of the interactions.
23733709|The population dynamics of the parthenogenetic ostracod Darwinula stevensoni was studied from spring 1975 to autumn 1977 in the littoral of Pjrvi, an oligotrophic lake in southern Finland. The distribution of the species is patchy; numbers reach a maximum at 1.5 m in the soft bottom in front of the macrophyte zone. Nine instars (the ninth being the adult stage) can easily be separated by length measurements. The first two instars were observed only between the carapace valves of the adults; the third instar is the first that lives freely in the sediment. Five to six instars (including adults) were always present. All the changes in the population structure took place in summer: Reproduction starts in early June, has its maximum in July-August and ceases in September. The maximum number of embryos observed within a single adult was 11; the highest mean number of embryos per adult during the reproductive season was 7.8 in 1975 and 6.3 in 1976. In summer 1975 the maximum reproductive rate (embryos produced per adult per day) was 0.20 and in 1976 0.16. No changes in the population structure were observed during the long, cold winter period. The life cycle of this species in Pjrvi is at least 34 years.
23735634|Models of patch use (Brown 1992) make a number of qualitative predictions regarding when a forager should quit feeding from depletable food patches that vary in predation risk. We tested for these effects using free-living fox squirrels, Sciurus niger, foraging for sunflower seeds mixed into a sand matrix. We used giving-up density (GUD: food remaining in patches following a day of foraging) as a surrogate for quitting harvest rate. We used near (bush) and away (open) from trees as risky and safe microhabitats for patches. And, we augmented seeds to the environment to depress the marginal value of food to the squirrels. GUDs were higher in the open than in the bush microhabitat. Augmenting food to either the bush or open microhabitats increased GUDs in both microhabitats. Augmenting food caused the difference in GUDs between the bush and the open microhabitats to increase.
23731708|A study of the type-species of Agyneta (A. cauta), Anomalaria (A. subtilis), Meioneta (M. rurestris), Aprolagus (A. saxatilis), and Syedrula (S. innotabilis) showed that the variability in the ecologically or ethologically adaptive characters of these species is not greater than would be expected within a single genus. On the other hand, the complicated male and female secondary genital organs are very much alike. Therefore all these species are considered to be congeneric, and Agyneta, being the oldest name, takes priority over the other generic names listed above.
23737107|Seasonal changes in body size and stable isotope ratios of bluegill Lepomis macrochirus were monitored at three sites in Lake Biwa in an attempt to investigate the latitudinal variation in the fish growth pattern.  13 C values of bluegill tended to decrease as latitude increased, implying the presence of a thermal gradient across the lake. In contrast,  15 N values of bluegill increased with increasing latitude. Better digestive performance of the fish at higher latitudes was assumed to explain this result, whereas the discharge from a sewage treatment plant seemed to have a more direct impact on the extremely high  15 N values of bluegill at the highest latitude site. Lengthweight relationships were used to assess the changes in the body weight of fish with a normalized body size. Bluegill at higher latitudes exhibited greater body weights with a prolonged duration of body weight gain. Bluegill at lower latitudes may have adapted to grow rapidly from late spring to early summer when feeding activity increases in response to increasing water temperature, while the catabolic activity remains at a low level. In contrast, bluegill at higher latitudes can continue to grow until the midsummer months owing to the lower water temperature. The seasonal growth pattern of bluegill was analyzed using a logistic-type equation. The assumption that the selection of growth rate or final body size depends on temperature may reasonably explain the latitudinal variation in the growth pattern of bluegill in Lake Biwa.
23736082|This study assesses the extent of size-selective mortality exerted on perch cohorts recruited to the commercial gillnet fishery in Lake IJssel. The size distribution of the 1985 cohort was surveyed with bottom trawling before and after the winter commercial gillnet fishery, from 1985 till 1990. Ageing and reconstruction of individual growth was done, using opercular bones from fish collected during the surveys and scales sampled from the commercial gillnet catch. The reconstructed potential average size of the 1985 cohort showed that the size reached after five summers could have been 26.9 cm, whereas average length observed in the population was 25.3 cm. Correlations between population size and back-calculated size were highest for back-calculations for the previous year. When earlier back calculations were considered, the correlations became poor or even insignificant. These findings stress the large individual differences in growth history within a cohort and show that the size selective mortality of perch can only be proven over relatively short growth trajectories of less than one year.
23736893|Anthropogenic changes have strongly influenced the European landscape. In the last 50 years electric power-line networks have become a conspicuous part of that landscape. From the outset it was known that these lines and their support structures would cause fatalities in the white stork, Ciconia ciconia. From a long-term (19832006) study in Poland, we analysed breeding performance in stork nests on four types of structure (chimneys, roofs, trees and electricity poles). Whilst the numbers of nests on both electricity poles and chimneys have increased, there was no significant difference among the four structures in terms of breeding success. Since 1998, over 100 electricity poles in this white-stork breeding area have been modified to include a platform designed to accommodate a stork nest. A comparison between the annual means of nests on electricity poles with and without platforms did not reveal any significant differences in breeding success. However, closer examination of the nests transferred to platforms revealed a slight drop in chick productivity in the year following platform addition, which, however, became significantly higher in the subsequent year. Thus the transfer of nests to platforms appears to have only a short-term adverse effect and may be beneficial in the long run.
23735700|Fish have several mechanisms that can cope with exposure to polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs). One system involved in defence against PAHs is the induction of drug-metabolizing enzymes. Fish can metabolize PAHs mainly by oxidation, reduction, hydrolysis and conjugation reactions catalysed by various enzymes, for example, cytochrome P450 monooxygenases, glutathione S-transferase (GST), and uridine 5diphosphate-glucuronosyltransferase (UDP-GT), which are mainly localized in the liver but are also found in extrahepatic tissues. PAHs exert their toxicity following biotransformation to toxic metabolites, which can be bound covalently to cellular macromolecules such as proteins, DNA and RNA, which causes cell damage, mutagenesis, teratogenesis, and carcinogenesis.
23736142|Individual recognition requires the ability to discriminate multiple animals according to their unique features. How animals do this will depend on the relative benefits to the evaluator and the cue-bearer; individuals may be discriminated either by the use of non-specific cues that are sufficiently variable to allow individual identification, or by a specific, evolved signal. Individuality information may be coded in a number of ways, although scent appears to be the primary modality for individual recognition in many species. We discuss the cue characteristics necessary to code individuality reliably, and review the bioassays that have been used to assess individual recognition ability. Although there is much indirect evidence for individual recognition by scent, many of the widely-used paradigms focus on the detectability of differences between odours rather than their function, or are compromised by the differing familiarity of odours. Further work should concentrate instead on functional assays that can disentangle odour discrimination from the role of odours in communicating individuality.
23733639|Garden dormice hibernating in constant and undisturbed conditions at a TA of 4 C were exposed for 3747 days in midwinter to 0C. The animals were kept in darkness without food and water. The difference between the TB and TA was maximally 1 C during deep hibernation. At 0 C arousals were more frequent and the animals lost more weight during the whole season as compared with those hibernating constantly at 4 C. The breathing periods of periodic respiration grew longer, but not all animals had shorter apnoeic periods.
23735730|Two microlandscapes were constructed for use in a live trapping study, designed to investigate how meadow vole populations are affected by habitat. Each microlandscape (105  35 m) consisted of barley and forage crops (white clover, alfalfa, Canada bluegrass and Kentucy bluegrass), separated by a center plot of undisturbed meadow. Differences in population parameters among habitats were used as indices of habitat suitability. Population parameters were found to differ among habitats; population density, population growth rate, and recruitment showed the greatest variations. Meadow was the highest quality habitat, forage crop was second highest in quality and barley was a low quality habitat. With intensive farming practices, an undisturbed meadow habitat is often rare and highly fragmented. Although forage crops may be common, these habitats are harvested, and are thus only suitable as vole habitats in early summer and late autumn. Persistence of vole populations in farm landscapes hinges on voles not being prevented from disperse among suitable habitats by agricultural crops and tilling practices.
23734125|Deciduous trees exhibit seasonal variation in the production of new leaves. The trees of the so-called Quercus-type (e.g. Quercus robur and Prunus padus) produce new leaves mainly in spring, while new foliage in the trees of Populus-type (e.g. Populus, Betula, Alnus) is also produced in late season. According to optimal defence theory, specialist (monophagous) herbivores should prefer young leaf tissue while generalist (polyphagous) species should grow better on mature leaf tissue. This difference gives rise to the prediction that the proportion of specilists will be highest on the trees of Quercus-type mainly early in the season, while on the trees of Populus-type their seasonal distribution will be more even. This assumption was tested using data on the Finnish macrolepidopteran fauna. The observed trends were as predicted: the proportion of specialists was significantly highest in spring on Quercus-type, while on Populus-type the proportioin was more constant over the season as a whole. However, on both tree types 70-85 % of macrolepidopteran fauna consisted of generalized feeders early in the season, which disagrees with the prediction of the optimal defence theory. It was suggested that the seasonal species richness patterns of herbivores are also affected by the differences in the seasonal production of allelochemics between these two tree types.
23731833|Specimens of Blarina brevicauda, Peromyscus gossypinus and Ochrotomys nuttalli were analyzed for their content of calcium, potassium, sodium, magnesium, iron and zinc. Atomic ratios for all elements except iron were found to be essentially the same for each species. It is postulated that there are no differences in the relative amounts of various elements stored in small mammals.
23735526|I determined the prevalence of Pneumocystis carinii in Sorex araneus (N = 228) and Sorex minutus (N = 56) at several locations in Finland, and in Sorex caecutiens (N = 50) in northern part of the country. The overall prevalence of this fungal pulmonary pathogen in Sorex araneus was 45% in southern Finland, 42% in the eastern, 58% in the western and 36% in the northern part of the country. The prevalence was high in every sex and age group, in all study areas, which represented different habitat types, in all seasons, and both in low and high host density populations. No clinically ill shrews were found. The prevalence of P. carinii was only 6% in a high density population of S. caecutiens. Pneumocystis carinii cysts were not detected in any of the S. minutus examined. The interspecific differences in the prevalence of P. carinii in shrews of the genus Sorex may be due to the species specific genotypic variation in the organism or due to differences in the biological characters (e.g. abundance, starvation time) of the host species. Analyses of faecal and histological samples of S. araneus revealed no sign of Cryptosporidium indicating that the high prevalence of P. carinii in S. araneus is not due to any general susceptibility to opportunistic parasites which usually are common only in immunocompromised hosts.
23731632|Examination of a number of passerine birds, both adult and young, in southeastern Finland, revealed a very high rate of infestation with three species of Ornithomya (O. frigillina, O. avicularia and O. chloropus), O. chloropus being the most abundant species. There were no important differences in the frequency and abundance of the parasites on the different hosts, except that O. fringillina was found on small passerines only, while O. chloropus occurred on birds of all sizes. Juveniles were infested more frequently than adults. The specimens of O. chloropus are paler in colour in southeastern Finland than in the British Isles.
23735695|The degree to which aquatic organisms accumulate organic contaminants depends upon rate processes involved in the uptake, distribution and elimination of the contaminant. These processes may be influenced by both abiotic and biotic factors, and may thus differ between locations and organisms. In this paper, environmental and physiological aspects of bioavailability and uptake of hydrophobic organic contaminants in bivalve filter-feeders are reviewed. This includes environmental distribution of contaminants; the relative importance of freely dissolved versus particle-associated contaminant uptake; and the role of physiological regulation of processes involved in contaminant uptake. It appears that more emphasis on considering food as a source of uptake together with particle concentration dependent physiological processes such as water-pumping, filtration and ingestion is important. Thus, contaminant accumulation in filter-feeding bivalves may be better predicted by bioenergetic rather than thermodynamic models.
23734697|This paper describes in detail dozens of metrical and non-metrical (epigenetic) skull traits of the common shrew that have been found useful in ecological and other biological studies. Cleaning of the bone material for morphometrical studies is described with some practical hints. A new method of taking metrical measurements of the lower jaw from digitized outlines of the bone is described. The technique may be adapted to other bones as well. We describe thirty non-metrical traits, mostly minor foramina, of the skull and the lower jaw. The distributions of different variants of these traits are described, and differences between sexes, age groups and years in one set of material are analysed. The use of bilateral traits in the study of fluctuating asymmetry is discussed, with examples.
23731806|Simultaneous trapping by the Standard Minimum method and by a buried cylinder method, in which the spacing between the cylinders was 5 m, revealed that even within the same sampling area much higher numbers of rodents were obtained by the latter method. It is concluded that the Standard Minimum method is less reliable than the buried cylinder method or digging out the rodents after poisoning. Data on the abundance of Mus musculus spicilegus and Apodemus sylvaticus during different seasons in Romania are given.
23736213|European whitefish is a polymorphic species where different morphs often are identified by differences in their gill raker numbers. Gill rakers may play an important role in food-particle retention, particularly with respect to zooplankton feeding. Possible associations between feeding ecology and gill raker number and morphology were studied in European whitefish in the Pasvik watercourse. The numbers of gill rakers exhibited a bimodal distribution pattern, demonstrating the presence of two sympatric forms, including a sparsely-rakered morph with 1830 and a densely-rakered morph with 2842 rakers. The morphology of the gill rakers was correlated to the raker number and exhibited distinct differences between the morphs; sparsely-rakered whitefish having shorter, thicker and less densely packed rakers than the densely-rakered morph. Differences in habitat choice and trophic ecology between the two morphs appeared to be correlated to gill raker number and morphology. Densely-rakered whitefish exhibited a diet dominated by zooplankton and other pelagic prey, whereas the sparsely-rakered morph mainly fed on zoobenthos. Within the morphs, however, the feeding ecology of individual fish was not correlated with number and morphology of the gill rakers. Thus, whereas gill raker number and morphology appear to be a reliable marker for identifying ecologically and genetically different European whitefish morphs, the functional role with respect to the feeding performance of individual fish is less obvious.
23736852|We compared the winter bird community in 5 old-growth coniferous forests and adjacent managed forests in northern Sweden. Norway spruce seeds on snow (available to birds) were sampled during late winter and differed about 13-fold between 1990 and 1992. There were no significant differences between the old-growth and managed forest in the seed-rich (mast) year, but during the seed-poor (normal) year there were more birds in total, and more birds belonging to the biogeographical group Northern taiga species in the old-growth forests. Our analysis suggests that differences in habitat quality between old-growth and managed forests may be small in the rare years with high spruce seed production, but in an average year, old-growth forests seem to be better for wintering birds. This pattern, although needing further study to determine its generality, is consistent with suggestions that forestry may negatively influence the avian community by reducing winter habitat quality.
23735698|Morphological deformities in chironomid larvae represent sublethal effects of exposure to heavy metals, organochloropesticides and other organic xenobiotics. Because chironomid larvae live in close contact with sediment and often feed on organic detritus and algae associated with it, morphological deformities exhibit a substantial potential as monitoring tool for assessing sediment toxicity. Pollutants rarely occur singly and in most contaminated ecosystems biota are exposed to complex chemical mixtures. Chironomid deformities occurring in field populations may therefore be considered as responses to the concurrent action of different toxicants. The main objective of this review paper is to offer a conceptual framework on mixture toxicity conducive to further elaboration of chironomid deformities as a monitoring tool for contaminated sediments. Current knowledge of chironomid deformity induction is compiled and joint toxicity concepts and mixture models reviewed. A selection is presented of studies dealing with joint effects of heavy metals and pesticides, two classes of deformity-inducing compounds, and factors determining their joint toxicity are discussed.
23735723|Biodiversity monitoring provides guidelines for decisions on how to manage biological diversity in terms of production and conservation. Monitoring determines the status of biological diversity at one or more ecological levels and assesses changes over time and space. Monitoring at the global level is needed to compare trends caused by the increasing homogenisation of the world's landscapes. Bioindicators are routinely used, but each indicator's potential to determine changes in the overall biodiversity should be rigorously tested. Monitoring is a vital feedback link between human actions and the environment, but incorporation of monitoring results into decision making is hampered by poor communication between ecologists and decision-makers. A global network for assessing biodiversity changes (GLOBENET) is described as an example of an initiative that attempts to address the above issues by using a simple field protocol with the aim to develop tools for assessment and prediction of the ecological effects of human-caused changes in the landscape.
23735858|We analysed longitudinal data of observations of the first spawning dates of two anuran species (Rana temporaria and Bufo bufo) from western Poland (19782002). For both species, a trend towards earlier breeding was found, corresponding to an eight to nine day shift over the 25-year period. These shifts appear to be associated with increased temperatures in the winter and early spring in our study area.
23734688|This paper outlines the main ideas and hypotheses that are relevant for the understanding of the geographical distribution and habitat selection of shrews in Finland. Three of the six species (Sorex araneus, S. minutus and Neomys fodiens) occur throughout Finland, while the three species belonging to the Siberian faunal type (S. caecutiens, S. idoson and S. minutissimus) have more restricted distributions. The larger and competitively superior species are most abundant in the more productive habitats, while the smaller species find a refuge in the less productive habitats or habitat patches, where they may survive because of their low per capita food requirements. Species richness of shrews first increases but then decreases with decreasing latitude in Finland. We suggest that this pattern is related to the size-dependent asymmetry in habitat selection, and to the increasing productivity of habitats from north to south.
23734068|Information on the distribution and changes in abundance of the hedgehog in Sweden was collected by means of questionnaires. The investigation showed that man has influenced the distribution of the hedgehog in Sweden (as in Finland and Norway) due to intentional introduction. In Finland and Sweden, its range has expanded during the twentieth century. However, this has occurred much faster in Finland than in Sweden. At present, the hedgehog is found in most parts of southern and central Sweden, and in Norrland, along the coast up to the Finnish border. A "minimum time-span" was calculated to predict the areas in which the hedgehog is expected to be found in self-maintained populations. This time-span was calculated to 155 days and covers the time needed for reproduction, storage of energy and growth of the young. It corresponds rather well with the northern distribution limit of the hedgehog. It was found that no large-scale general changes in abundance occurred between 1975 and 1979.
23737052|Warning signals of aposematic organisms often include patterns that contrast with background coloration, though controversy exists over their importance. Many dendrobatids have contrasting colors, but no work has established whether these are anti-predator components of the warning signal. We used 840 clay frog models to test whether a black spotted pattern on the red dorsum of the poison frog Oophaga pumilio (= Dendrobates pumilio) from Costa Rica enhances the aposematic signal. Model type, patterned or not patterned, did not predict predation. However, we did find evidence that background (i.e., contrast between an aposematic organism and its environment) influenced a predator's attack decision because models on white paper (higher contrast) were attacked significantly less than models on leaf litter (lower contrast). Our results indicate that the pattern of Costa Rican O. pumilio does not influence predation. Our results also support the hypothesis that novel backgrounds evoke a neophobic reaction and can affect predation rates.
23737081|Temperate amphibians in colder regions are expected to store more energy prior to hibernation for successful overwintering and subsequent spring breeding. We tested this prediction on a capital breeding species  Rana chensinensis  using samples collected from 27 populations across 1200-km latitudinal (33.644.2N) and 1768-m (1121880 m) altitudinal gradient in northern China. Our data showed that frogs from colder regions (high latitude or altitude) had relatively heavier liver and fat bodies than those from warmer regions, but that the weight of carcasses tended to become smaller. The greater pre-hibernation energy reserves in colder regions could be an adaptive response to the longer and colder winter period, whereby meeting the energy demands for overwintering, and the subsequent energy requirements of reproduction in the spring.
23732515|The timing of the onset of arrest of ovarian maturation in Arctocorisa carinata and Callicorixa producta has been determined by rearing newly emerged females in natural conditions. A rapid change from ovipositing to non-breeding females was detected in animals emerging in the first ten days of July. The main function of this arrest is assumed to be the limitation of the late-breeding population to the level of the overwintered generation.
23734214|In order to examine geographic patterns of density variation or cyclicity in microtine rodents, a quantitative index of cyclicity is necessary. Lewontin (1966) proposed s, the standard deviation of the logarithmic transformation of the densities, as a general measure of density variation. Using long-term data sets of Clethrionomys species we compared the dominant frequency (wavelength) contribution to the time series. When seasonal information (spring and autumn indices) of density variation is available, s divides cyclic and non-cyclic populations perfectly. We performed a discriminant analysis for more heterogenous data sets with only a single yearly density estimate, by separating data sets into cyclic or non-cyclic populations on the basis of s and then using contributions of frequency classes as variables. The discriminant analysis classified these relatively heterogeneous data sets lacking seasonal information with 91.4% accuracy. The use of s improves when some qualitative features of cyclicity (summer declines, interspecific synchrony) are taken into consideration. Values of s based on autumn densities provide the best discrimination between typical cyclic and non-cyclic populations. Our examination of the effect of length of study period on s suggests that variation in s is considerably decreased and levelled after 4 years. Since s is significantly correlated with the dominant wavelength of the spectral contribution to the time series and also is predictive of cyclicity we conclude that s is a reasonably good measure of cyclicity.
43923479|It has long been known that there is an allometric relationship between metabolic rate (M) and body weight (W) of the form: M = MWb. However, the debate remains open regarding the value of b. Only recently research turned to the ecological implications of existing differences in metabolic scaling among taxa. Using a data set on forest soil invertebrates, we evaluated the influence of differences in intraspecific metabolic rate scaling on observed species biomass and abundance distributions. We found that absolute densities and biomass were correlated with the exponents of the intraspecific metabolic scaling. Evenness of the abundance distributions and species diversity were also moderately linked to b. These results suggest that the shape of the intraspecific metabolic-ratebody-size relationship affects interspecific biomass and abundance distributions. This emphasizes the importance of intraspecific variations in allometric scaling and indicates the need to take these variations into account when proposing models to explain these relationships.
23735942|Female insects have a limited energy budget to invest in reproduction. Clutch size and egg size are two traits typically involved in energy budget trade-offs, and an optimum clutch size is generally predicted. This trade-off, however, is influenced by many factors including the probability of egg parasitism. We studied this possibility in the pine processionary moth (Thaumetopoea pityocampa), which frequently suffers from parasitoids. We found support for a trade-off between clutch size and egg size in this species, but the intermediate clutch size did not correspond to higher hatching success. We suggest that the lack of an optimum clutch size in relation to hatching success was mediated by parasitoids: parasitoids preferentially selected small clutches containing larger eggs. In addition, we experimentally tested whether the scales that coat egg batches reduce the effect of parasitism. Egg batches with experimentally removed scales showed a significantly higher parasitism rate than control batches, which demonstrates that scales protect egg batches from parasitoids. We discuss three possible explanations for our results.
23735498|Relationship of species richness to the most important environmental gradients explaining understorey vegetation variation in the boreal forests of Finland was described by means of generalized additive models (GAM). Site quality was the most important factor in explaining the number of species. Also species richness pattern related to successional factors was dependent on site type. Herb-rich sites were more species-rich than mesic or xeric sites. In the southern and middle boreal zones, species richness increased until stands were 1030 years old, and decreased thereafter, except on southern boreal herb-rich sites, where it continued increasing until stands reached an age of 80100 years. Species richness was only weakly related to total crown coverage of trees and shrubs. The variation of species richness along the environmental gradients was small in the northern boreal zone.
23736870|In many species male dominance leads to an increased access to mates through male-male competition and/or female choice. However, for promiscuous species, in which both males and females mate several times with different partners, male mating success is not necessarily correlated with male reproductive success. We conducted an enclosure study on the promiscuous bank vole (Clethrionomys glareolus) to investigate the influence of male social status on reproductive success. We assessed male dominance in the laboratory from urine marking behavior. Thereafter, we released male pairs of either a clearly different dominance relationship or an equal dominance along with four unrelated females to outdoor enclosures for 10 to 12 days and followed their reproductive output. On average 2.1 females per enclosure were breeding, i.e. the mean operational sex ratio was 1. Paternity analyses revealed no correlation between male dominance and reproductive success. Male body mass, which was not correlated to social status, was also not related to reproductive success. We suggest that, in bank vole males, sexual selection for dominance or body mass may not be strong. The benefit of multi-male mating in promiscuous species may therefore override the benefit of mating with high quality males.
23735853|Variation is a necessity for evolution and consequently patterns of variation have been analysed extensively. This analysis can be divided into two parts, a predictive part, where variation is analysed in terms of possible future evolutionary change (adaptive significance), and a narrative, which aims to understand the evolutionary history of current variation. Most often variation in morphology can be found in terms of overall size, with minor variation in shape. This suggests either that selection on size has been historically unimportant (selectively neutral), or that stochastic events override causal relations between size and fitness. The pattern of current multivariate variation suggests that selection on trait combinations has been far more important than selection on size, and should therefore be the focus of more intensive studies.
23734158|The moult was studied retrogressively from breeding individuals in 1979-83. The females did not start moulting their wing feathers until in the late nestling period or early fledgeling period. No males were in active moult during the nestling period. The high number of moulted outer primaries in the first and subsequent moults may be adaptive because of the wear of the sound muffling combs on the leading edges of the outer primaries. There was a decreasing trend in the number of moulted primaries and secondaries in the first six moults. The number of moulted flight feathers decreased from the birds having failed their breeding attempt to those having 1, 2, 3 or 4-5 young. This was explained by the energetic strain of the presumably long fledgeling period. In addition, the Ural Owls moulted more of their flight feathers in those years when only few females laid eggs compared to those years when almost all females laid. The results suggest that the reproductive output is a severe constraint on moult in the Ural Owl. On the other hand, the energetic needs of the moult may affect the evolution of the timing of the laying period and the age of first breeding.
23735477|We reintroduced the endangered Baton Blue butterfly (Pseudophilotes baton schiffermuelleri, Bergstrsser) from its last known Finnish population to a site where it had become extinct. The butterfly is associated with dry and open eskers, but because of drastic habitat degradation only one population is known to have survived in Finland. The main reason for habitat loss is succession of pine forests. The last verified records of the species at the site of reintroduction date from 1984. The habitat was managed by the selective logging of pines in 1992. In 1994, after vegetation followups, 10 female baton blues were translocated. The introduced population was studied with the mark recapture method in 19951996. Its size increased during this period to ca. 50 butterflies in 1996. Reintroduction, accomplished in close cooperation with forest industry, administration authorities and environmentalists, has diminished the probability of extinction of the baton blue in Finland.
23735356|Based on 30239 records from several questionnaires and field censuses in 19801992 distribution maps were drawn for the amphibian and reptile species of Finland. Populations of the great crested newt (Triturus cristatus), smooth newt (T. vulgaris), slow worm (Anguis fragilis) and smooth snake (Coronella austriaca) were found outside the ranges where they were recorded in a corresponding survey of 196079. These recoveries were attributed to a more accurate recording of the species in the field and not to recent dispersal jumps. No considerable changes in the ranges of the common frog (Rana temporaria), moor frog (R. arvalis), common toad (Bufo bufo), common lizard (Lacerta vivipara), slow worm (Anguis fragilis), grass snake (Natrix natrix) and adder (Vipera berus) were observed in comparison with the ranges they occupied in 196079. The marsh frog (Rana ridibunda), recorded in Finland for the last time in 1960, was not found during the period of 19801992, either. The mean abundances of V. berus, N. natrix and A. fragilis were lower now in 50% or more of the biological provinces monitored in 196079. In the other species, the mean abundances were the same as in the preceeding monitoring survey. The trends reported for local herptile populations in 198092 imply that V. berus, N. natrix, A. fragilis and T. vulgaris have decreased more often than the other species. For none of the species did the reports indicating a population increase exceed 30% of all the reports with trends for the same species.
23736750|A review of previously published cladistic analyses of Polistes is presented. The two most recent analyses of Polistes are shown to be largely consistent phylogenetically. Although the taxonomy implied by each differs, this difference is shown to be mostly due to taxon sampling. After the review, a phylogenetic analysis of Polistes  the most data-rich yet undertaken  is presented. The analysis includes new data and the data from previously published analyses. The differing conclusions of the previous studies are discussed in light of the new analysis. After discussing the status of subgeneric taxonomy in Polistes, the new phylogeny is used to test an important hypothesis regarding the origin of social behavior: the haplodiploidy hypothesis of Hamilton.
23731363|The diel periodity of swarming in Chironomus salinarius Kieff. near Bergen, Norway, is described. Swarming is performed in front of trees which line the sea-shore. Cessation of dusk swarming and onset of dawn swarming occur in light intensities less than 5 lux. Air temperatures under 9 C are inhibitory.
23736091|In 1987, ruffe (Gymnocephalus cernuus L.) was recorded for the first time in Lake Constance, Germany. Since then its population has increased dramatically. This species is now (1995) found in high numbers throughout the lake from inshore areas to depths up to 100 m. In autumn 1994, the ruffe population consisted of fish of an age of 0+ to 3+. Maximum body length was 16 cm. At the end of the first year ruffe attained an average body length of 7.6  0.9 cm (mean  S.D.), at the end of the second year 10.4  1.1 cm. During the growing season ruffe were bottom feeders, preying mainly on chironomids and detritus. However, during the spawning season of whitefish (Coregonus lavaretus L.) in December ruffe switched to whitefish eggs as a main prey. In December 1993, high numbers of eggs were found in the stomachs of all ruffe investigated with a maximum of 322 eggs in a ruffe of 16 cm body length and 60.1 g body wet weight. In December 1994, ruffe started predation on whitefish eggs at the end of the spawning period, but the percentage of ruffe preying on whitefish eggs did not exceed 60%. Due to this egg predation, negative impacts on the natural reproduction of nearshore spawning whitefish are to be expected. There is also a possibility of interactions during the growing season with the commercially important perch (Perca fluviatilis L.) population.
23733692|In Pjrvi, an oligotrophic lake in southern Finland, Mysis relicta (Lovn) has a life span of 1 or 2 years. Young liberated in late April and early May attain maturity during the first summer and autumn and start breeding in early December, whilst those liberated in late May and June remain immature till the next spring and then breed earlier than the offspring of the former group. The latter group start to release their young in late April, offspring of the former group not until MayJune. Thus the two groups show a regular alternation of early and late breeding. Most of the population lives within the 20 m isobath. A small proportion migrate to shallower parts after the autumn circulation. During the summer the mysids are almost totally pelatic, but in the autumn they shift to a benthic life. The population reaches its maximum size (about 300400 million individuals) in early July. In winter there are only 2040 million mysids in the lake. Biomass (B) is maximal in SeptemberOctober and minimal in spring at the time when the embryos are liberated. Great annual variation was observed, 200600 kg ash-free dry weight (AFDW). The growth of M. relicta seems to fit the logistic model. It ceases during the winter and begins again in May. The mysids attain a mean weight of about 4.0 mg (AFDW) in the first year and 8.0 mg in the second. Annual production (P) varies from about 500 kg to 800 kg (AFDW). The P/B ratio varies between 3.0 and 3.8, depending on the year and the method of calculating production.
23737162|The Tibetan Plateau is one of the areas in the world most sensitive to global warming. Dung beetles are the most abundant decomposer species group responsible for cattle dung removal in the Tibetan alpine meadow, and are critical to nutrient cycling and primary production of the grazing system. This study evaluates the possible effects of global warming on early life-history traits of dung beetles. We established three warmed open-top chambers (OTCs, about 2.3 C higher than the control) and three ambient OTCs, each containing nine fresh dung pats that were bagged with a nylon screen (0.2 mm in mesh size). Twenty adults of a dominant coprophagous beetle species, Aphodius erraticus (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae) had been put into each dung bag at the beginning of the experiment and the timings of egg-laying and hatching, and egg and larval size were followed for 80 days. Artificial warming advanced egg-laying and hatching by 4.1 and 7.2 days, respectively; warming decreased egg and larval size by 22.1% and 33.4%, respectively. This short-term study demonstrates that early life-history traits of A. erraticus are sensitive to artificial warming, which suggests that global warming may also change life history traits of other organisms in detritus-based systems.
23731573|Fragments of definitive primitive streak of the chick embryo taken posterior to the mid-level, grafted between the epiblast and hypoblast of young host embryos and incorporated into the host exerted no inductive influence on the host. Similar fragments of the definitive primitive streak, pretreated with lithium chloride, and implanted into host embryos retained their integrity, gave rise to several tissues and exerted a neuralizing influence on the host ectoderm.
23735660|Estonia has been considered to hold non-cyclic vole populations, which should be revealed in owl productivity or movements. I asked (1) whether owl and vole populations fluctuate regularly in Estonia, (2) are the fluctuations in Estonia synchronous to those in its neighbouring areas, (3) do Estonian and northern owl populations exchange individuals? I found significant periodicity in owl reproduction, which was linked to vole abundance, suggesting that Estonia belongs to the transition zone between cyclic and non-cyclic vole populations. The migration intensities of nomadic owl species were positively correlated with each other, and in the long-eared owl related to its productivity. Having found that owl productivity fluctuates independently in Estonia and southern Finland, and owls do not move freely between the countries, I discussed possible causes for this.
23731636|The behaviour of a nesting capercaillie was studied with the help of a field television system with remote control in northeastern Finnish Lapland (67 45 N, 29 45 E) in continuous daylight in late May and June 1971. The hen was most regularly off the nest between 21.00 and 01.00 hours. It never left the nest in the afternoon (13.00  19.00 hr). The mean number of absent periods per 24 hr was 1.9, their mean length was 35 min and the mean length of the incubation periods was 11.3 hr. Snowfalls occurred during the incubation period. The temperatures varied between -0.5 C and +29 C, and the relative humidities between 23 % and 100 %. It is concluded that in conditions of continuous daylight the incubating capercaillie has no special resting time. Each individual has its own rest-incubation rhythm. The hen usually shifted one or two eggs at a time, on an average 16 times per day, at mean intervals of about 100 min. The shiftings were evenly distributed throughout the day. On an average, during each 24-hr period, preening, nest-building and resettling activities were recorded 28.3, 4.0 and 3.3 times, respectively. Egg-shells on the nest rim were replaced by the hen in the nest. A chick hatched out of each of the seven eggs laid by the hen. The period from the beginning of intensive incubation to the departure of the brood was about 26 days. When the brood finally left the nest (at 06.17), the oldest chick was about one day old.
23735404|Thanks to pitfall trapping, carabid beetles form one of the most appropriate groups for comparative studies on community composition and variation, both at local and geographical scales. This paper focuses on the following conceptual points: (1) At a local level, two types of species assemblages can be distinguished, i.e. communities, separated on a habitat basis, and local faunas, defined as a list of species occurring in all habitats at a locality. The concept of a local fauna is intended to link the traditional faunistic phenomena with their possible explanatory variables, both ecological and biogeographical. (2) The environmental factors affecting the assemblage composition and spatial variation at larger geographical scales can be divided into two major groups: regional, caused mainly by historical reasons (isolations, glaciations) and zonal, caused by the recent climatic conditions. (3) The parameters of carabid assemblages can be derived from either species composition or species diversity. On a within-region scale, species composition and its derivatives appear to be more informative in reflecting the environmental gradients in comparison to species diversity. Above questions are illustrated on (i) the basis of literature survey on large-scale variation of ground-beetle communities, and (ii) an analysis of the changes in 61 local faunas of the genus Carabus L. scattered over the Russian Plain in relation to environmental factors.
23735822|Grazing rates of Mytilus edulis and Dreissena polymorpha were estimated in the Gulf of Riga in May and July 1996. The faecal material was quantified using chlorophyll a (Chl a) as tracer for planktonic algae. Faeces production rate of M. edulis (shell length: 20 mm) ranged from 0.02 to 0.40 g Chl a equivalent ind.-1 h-1 and that of D. polymorpha from 0.01 to 0.85 g Chl a equivalent ind.-1 h-1, respectively. Filtration rates of the mussels were lower at lower temperatures in May. The defaecation rate increased curvlinearly with ambient concentration of Chl a and levelled off at high food concentration. After correcting for loss of fluorescent material during gut passage the population grazing impact of M. edulis was estimated at 8% d-1 of the chl a stock in the littoral zone in May and 67% d-1 in July. The values for D. polymorpha were 5% d-1 and 29% d-1, respectively. A high grazing impact by M. edulis in the coastal zone during summer was supported by strong horizontal and vertical gradients in Chl a. Hence, the populations of benthic suspension feeders in the littoral zone of the Gulf of Riga constitute an important sink for primary production, especially in summer.
23734638|A muskrat population in northern Sweden was studied during one breeding season. The spatial distribution of muskrat houses was regular, indicating that the animals are territorial even at relatively low densities. Muskrats preferably constructed houses on elevated places, or on the edge of deeper water and in stands of Phragmites. The number of young produced per house was correlated with territorial quality. Predation by red fox occurred in houses situated in shallow water close to the shore. The few cases of predation by mink that were recorded seemingly occurred independently of water depth or distance to shore.
23736894|Game species exploitation usually causes an increase in their distribution, further from their own dispersal potential, but we know too little about the ecological effects that these human-induced expansions may produce. The realized niche of the red deer was analyzed by means of habitat suitability modelling in the present study. Two populations inhabiting different geographic areas have been distinguished according to their origin, one is native to the study area and the other was translocated as a result of human hunting interests. Translocated red deer showed strong distributional overlap with the native Iberian ibex. However, a comparative analysis of the potential distribution of native red deer and Iberian ibex populations did not yield a significant niche overlap. Thus, we conclude that the observed niche overlap between the Iberian ibex and the red deer in the study area would not have taken place without human intervention. We discuss these results in the light of biological invasions and native species translocation programmes, and conclude that human-induced range expansion of native species should be regarded as a specific case of invasive species.
23737043|National agri-environment schemes (AESs) aim to promote sustainable farming and protect farmland biodiversity. For efficient maintenance of biodiversity, it is essential to understand the habitat requirements of fauna, and its responses to farming practices. This study examined the importance of different habitat characteristics and habitat heterogeneity for farmland birds in boreal agricultural landscapes, focusing on species in open arable habitats (true field species) and bushy field-edge habitats. Density, species richness, and species composition were studied in a multivariate space, and along environmental gradients. The relevance of the biodiversity-related measures of the Finnish AES regarding the habitat needs of farmland birds was examined. Non-cropped habitat heterogeneity (especially open ditches and habitat patch richness) increased the density and species richness. Crop diversity increased the species richness of true field species. Ordinations revealed a gradient from large open arable to small field areas, and a relation to habitat heterogeneity. The AES places insufficient emphasis on biodiversity issues.
23736815|We conducted laboratory experiments (1) to confirm the existence of a non-injury released disturbance cue in juvenile convict cichlids and rainbow trout, and (2) to determine if cichlids and trout exhibit a graded threat-sensitive antipredator response to varying concentrations of disturbance cues. The results of our first experiment demonstrate that both cichlids and trout exhibit significant antipredator responses (reductions in time spent moving, foraging rate and area use) to the odour of conspecifics that had been exposed to a realistic predator model but not to the odour of undisturbed conspecifics. The results of our second experiment demonstrate that cichlids and trout exhibit reduced time spent moving and foraging rates proportional to the concentration of disturbance cue detected. Together, these results confirm the presence of disturbance cues in cichlids and trout and demonstrate that disturbance cues provide sufficient information to allow for graded threat-sensitive responses.
23731671|As the structure of male and female genital organs is important in studies of relationships of the Linyphiid spiders, the type-species of Oreonetides (O. vaginatus Thor.) and some other species currently placed in this genus in the European literature were examined in detail. The non-European species of the genus are also treated. According to this study, O. vaginatus is the only representative of the genus. Taxonomically interesting characteristics of O. vaginatus are described and its geographical distribution is discussed.
23736848|Phylogeography and population structure of the ant Formica exsecta was studied across Eurasia by using mtDNA sequences and microsatellite genotypes. The phylogeny based on 1.5 kb mtDNA fragment including the cytochrome b and part of the ND6 gene showed significant division (1.63% of nucleotide divergence) between a haplotype from Tibet and all other haplotypes. Similar to findings in diverse array of species associated with forest in Eurasia, the mtDNA phylogeny revealed no evidence for vicariant events due to separation in different forest refugia over glacial periods. The haplotype network includes several small clades (with 24 haplotypes in each) with geographically limited distribution, but one geographical region may have received haplotypes from two or more of such clades. This pattern could indicate mixing of different gene pools during postglacial colonization of Europe from different forest refugia or from an ancestral source with some spatial genetic differentiation. The genealogy and the haplotype frequencies suggest postglacial colonization of Siberia from a single refugial source of limited size. Maternal and biparental DNA markers indicated a moderate but significant level of population differentiation (mtDNA ST = 0.42, microsatellite FST = 0.13) across Eurasia. However, no correlation between genetic differentiation estimated for mtDNA and microsatellites was found among the populations. Considerable reduction in microsatellite genetic diversity was found in the small population of F. exsecta in England, giving some basis to classify this population as near threatened.
23735762|The relationships between the abundance and biomass structure of invertebrate assemblages and environmental variables were sought by using multivariate statistics. Sediment type explained the biggest part of the variation in invertebrate assemblages in the deeper areas and dominant macroalgae in the shallower areas. Additionally, the loose-lying macroalgae, Furcellaria lumbricalis, contributed to the increase in macrozoobenthos densities in the deeper parts of the Vinameri by offering secondary substrate for true hard bottom invertebrates. The infauna below the algal mat was poor when compared to the sediments in unvegetated areas. On the other hand, the introduced polychaete, Marenzelleria viridis, was found only under the mat of F. lumbricalis and the biomass of the polychaete increased with the coverage of F. lumbricalis.
23734694|The fauna and infection levels of intestinal helminths in three species of Sorex shrews (S. araneus, S. caecutiens and S. minutus) were studied in various parts of Finland. Altogether 23 species of helminths were recovered, representing trematodes (4 species), cestodes (14 species) and nematodes (5 species). The total number of helminth species, the helminth burden and the number of species per host were all higher in S. araneus than in the other shrew species. This pattern was evident both in local populations and in combined material from Finland, and has been observed for shrew communities in other geographical regions. The present analysis suggests that S. araneus harbours heavy helminth burdens because of its large size, wide diet and great abundance.
23733661|The presence of Hipparion primigenium in Vallesian deposits of Iberia and North Africa does not necessarily indicate a land connection in the west: the species has a wide geographic range. In the Turolian, the close taxonomic relationship and similarity of evolutionary trends in the two areas suggest a continuous geographic range. In the Ruscinian, the presence of caballoid hipparions in both areas seems to support the suggestion that a direct land connection was formed by the desiccation of the Mediterranean.
23734521|The onset and changes in the timing of spawning of the common frog (Rana temporaria L.) in Finland was studied through the 3888 records received through enquiries carried out by the Finnish scientific society "Finska Vetenskaps Societeten-Suomen Tiedeseura" in each year over the period 18461986. Spawning begins at the end of April in southwestern Finland and gradually proceeds towards northeastern parts of central Finland and from there to the north. The mean date of the first spawning of the year is 18 April. The maximum delay between the mean dates of all the records of spawning from the southernmost (lat. 60N) and northernmost (lat. 70N) 100100 km Finnish uniform grid squares is 35 days. The mean date of spawning correlates well with mean air temperatures (April in southern, and May in northern, Finland) and with the dates when the ground was no more permanently snow covered. A long-term skift towards earlier spawning (213 days depending on the indice used and the area studied) during the observation period of about 150 years can be seen after smoothing the means of 10-year periods with a 50-year moving average. This long-term change is in accordance with the changes observed in spring temperatures in Finland during the same period. The "greenhouse effect" causing a worldwide increase in the mean air temperatures probably influences the onset of spawning in amphibian populations and accordingly its impacts should be monitored in this respect in other areas as well.
23735816|Availability of resources is a limiting factor for many populations. Diminished resource availability due to intraspecific competition is expected to decrease the annual growth increments of individuals. We study an age-structured population model for individuals with indeterminate growth and annual reproduction; parameters of the model are chosen to characterize a population with life history similar to the Eurasian perch. Different variants of this model are analyzed, all of which have a potential for exhibiting non-equilibrium population fluctuations. We demonstrate that incorporating density-dependent individual growth into these models changes the dynamics of these populations by damping or even eradicating fluctuations in abundance and biomass. This finding offers an explanation for the observed stable dynamics of unperturbed perch populations. Further, density-dependent individual growth may also be a significant factor contributing to the conspicuous empirical rarity of non-equilibrium population dynamics in general.
23731596|The seasonal changes in the habitat requirements of the root vole in the archipelago of Vaasa (63 10 N, 21 20 E) are described. In summer root voles prefer the lower parts of the shore meadows with rich vegetation, but towards autumn they move to the drier (upper) parts, chiefly owing to the fluctuations of the sea level. Their reproductive activity begins early in April, reaches a peak in June and ceases in October. The young born in early summer reproduce during the same summer, whilst those born later remain immature for the rest of the season. The mean litter size is 6.7.
23736885|The avoidance of roads and human settlements by wolves (Canis lupus) in a harvested population was studied in boreal woodland landscapes in east-central Finland with a low density of humans (2 km-2) and roads (0.4 km/km-2). The abundance of the primary prey, i.e. moose, is moderate with approximately 50 moose per wolf within wolf pack territories. Twelve alpha wolves in six territories were captured, fitted with radio-collars, and ground-tracked during 19982002. The number of wolves has recently been increasing in Finland and they have also expanded their range. This in turn has raised a certain degree of concern among people living in the area, and the wolves are often perceived as a safety threat both to people and domestic animals. We found that wolves tended to avoid human constructions. The avoidance distances were highest for buildings (1000 m) and for roads (250 m). Extrapolating from the avoidance distances to give an estimate for the entire study area revealed that 48% of the study area would potentially be subject to reduced use by the wolf.
23736100|A total of 89 fish-processing companies were interviewed to determine their attitude towards the use of under-utilized fresh-water fish species, their methods and the problems involved in processing. Small perch were used by 17 companies. The product groups were traditional Finnish fish pasty kalakukko (4 processors), other ready meals (2), canned fish (4), fish meat (3), fillets (2) and smoked fish products (2). The main reason why companies are not using small perch is the unreliable supply of raw material. According to the interviews, inland fisheries appear poorly organized and inefficient.
23735485|Moult and migration are both recognised as highly energy-demanding activities of birds. I studied moult-migration overlap in migrating goldcrests Regulus regulus to see whether birds might be trading these activities off against each other. I found that in both sexes the size of subcutaneous fat reserves were greater in birds in later stages of moult. This indicates that birds in active moult were either: (1) not able to store as much fat as birds which have completed moult, or (2) that birds in active moult used up their fat reserves quicker than birds that had completed their moult. This suggests that moult-migration overlap is costly, and there exists a trade-off between energy allocated to moult and migratory fat deposits.
23736985|We investigated reproduction and mortality of raccoon dogs (Nyctereutes procyonoides) in the Biaowiea Primeval Forest (eastern Poland). The species invaded the forest in 1955 and is more common than native species of medium-sized carnivores. The mean litter size of raccoon dogs, based on placental scars and foetuses was 8.4 (SD = 2.0). Mortality of pups was 61% during the first three months following parturition. Of 82 cases of raccoon dog deaths recorded from 1996 to 2006, 55% were caused by natural factors (predation and diseases), 40% were human-related (vehicle collisions, harvest, poaching), and 5% were indeterminable. Rabies was the most important disease. The main predators of raccoon dogs were wolves (Canis lupus) and domestic dogs (Canis familiaris). Almost all raccoon dogs killed by cars were dispersing juveniles. We did not find differences in causes of mortality between collared and uncollared individuals. The annual survival rate of radio-tracked raccoon dogs (n = 18, 19972000) was 0.38 (SD = 0.05), and did not differ between males and females. Survival of raccoon dogs varied seasonally. It was highest in winter (0.82) when raccoon dogs settle in burrows, which may protect them against predation. The life table constructed based on the age at death indicates that mortality was highest in the first year of the raccoon dog life (0.82), and lower in the following years (0.580.68). Most raccoon dogs (98%) died during the first three years of their life and the maximum life span was 7 years. Life expectancy at birth was 0.8 years.
23735614|Studies of energy flow and allocation in biological systems often result in the production of energy budgets. Our aim is to describe the potential mis-representations that energy budgets can produce and draw together the various criticisms levied at energy budgets. While such budgets purport to represent accurately energy allocation we, by discussing the literature, propose that many offer little. This is because in practice they rarely reflect actual energy relationships due to problems with their empirical derivation. These problems include both the omission of some energy budget terms (such as dissolved organic matter, non-lethal predation and metabolic faecal loss) and their underestimation (e.g. mucus production). Recalculation of budgets to account for these terms often results in new conclusions being drawn. Moreover, problems of extrapolation of measurements made in the laboratory to the field, coupled with misconceptions over the expression of temporal and spatial variation in budget terms, produce budgets that are both approximate and specific to an individual or population at the time each budget is constructed. In addition, the set of assumptions that are used in the construction of one budget are rarely the same as those for another and so budgets should be used with extreme care in comparative studies. We suggest that energy budgets have little value in the context of other studies and are of interest and value only as descriptors under a set of what should be well-defined assumptions. We urge caution in their use and propose that more modest studies of energy allocation with precise goals are more appropriate.
23731739|The food of the common crossbill (Loxia curvirostra) and the pine grosbeak (Pinicola enucleator) and its chemical composition were studied in NE Lapland in February-April 1973. Common crossbills were seen feeding solely on seeds of Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris), whereas pine grosbeaks were seen feeding on spruce (in 93 % of cases) and willow (7 %) buds. Pine seeds contained more crude protein, digestible crude protein, crude fat, nitrogen, potassium, calcium, magnesium and ash than the spruce seeds available in the study area but not consumed by the birds. Spruce buds contained more crude protein, digestible crude protein, nitrogen, potassium and calcium than seeds of the same tree species, whereas the latter contained more crude fat and magnesium. The proportions of ash and organic matter were equal. The spruce bud diet consumed by the pine grosbeaks contained 11.7 % of crude protein, 10.5 % of crude fat, 27.4 % of crude fibre, 6.3  of potassium, 4.3  of calcium and 1.1  magnesium.
23735390|Demography of field vole (Microtus agrestis) was studied by live-trapping wild populations in an abandoned field and a grassy spruce forest in Konnevesi, Central Finland. Population density had two peaks in the field during the summer. The intervening low coincided with colonization of the suboptimal forest. Reproductive success of females in the field correlated negatively with population density. Reproductive females were distributed among the habitats according to ideal free distribution as the forest was inhabited when reproductive success in the field lowered to the same level as in the forest. 28% of females and 3% of males matured during the year of their birth. Maturation rate of females correlated negatively with density of reproductive females. Most males born in late spring disappeared from the field resulting in an excess of spring born males in the forest. The different life histories of the sexes are due to their different social organizational modes.
23735529|In the following we review the results of comparative and experimental studies on the impact of kinship and familiarity on the social systems and population dynamics of microtine rodents. We refer especially to the bank vole Clethrionomys glareolus and the field vole Microtus agrestis. In the beginning of the breeding season the neighbouring territorial Clethrionomys females can be close kin or at least mutually familiar after having spent the winter in an aggregation and probably having nested together. This relatively high degree of kinship or familiarity promotes population growth in the first half of the breeding season, if external factors, such as food and predation, allow it. Kinship should have less or no impact on the social relationships in Clethrionomys males. The impact of relatedness between the breeding females seems to be unimportant in Microtus agrestis. The differences in kin interactions between these species are most probably food-mediated. Field voles use most effectively the rich food resources during the early summer. The preferred dicotyledons are, however, soon depleted and the growth of the graminids slows down as they form seeds during midsummer. As a consequence the breeding females have a strong tendency to disperse and kin groups are very short-lived. This affects the population density negatively during mid-summer. In the bank vole females the lower level of agonism among neighbouring breeding females promotes population growth but exclusive female territoriality throughout the breeding season prevents as a rapid population growth as in the field vole. The role of kin interactions in population dynamics of Clethrionomys and Microtus voles seems to be different, but as a whole it should have an annual character only, and have no or little to do with multiannual population fluctuations of microtine rodents.
23734500|Studies on the ecological biogeography of Northern Baltic islands are reviewed. The emphasis is on population level explanations for patterns observed in assemblages of animal and plant species. As in other archipelagoes, faunal and floral diversity tends to increase on Northern Baltic islands with increasing island area. However, even within a single group of species there is no general species-area relationship. For example, within an area studied in detail, species number in vascular plants was higher on clustered islands (0.11.0 ha) than on more scattered, similar-sized islands. For most taxa island colonization in the Northern Baltic area is easy owing to the short distances between islands and the mainland, whereas long-term persistence on the islands might be difficult either due to lack of suitable habitats or due to harsh climate (long droughts, occasional flooding, exposure to wind, etc.) and probably occasionally due to biotic causes. Islands expand and new islands emerge in the Northern Baltic owing to the continuous postglacial uplift of the land masses. Pioneering species colonize small islets and shorelines emerging from the sea, but they disappear from the central areas where species of more mature communities displace them. It follows that species colonizing the smallest islets are also found on almost any other islands irrespective of island size. This pattern seems to hold for a number of taxa ranging from vascular plants to breeding birds. Rock-pools, small island-like aquatic ecosystems on Baltic islands harbor a rich fauna and flora. Though many of the species occupy different parts of the salinity gradient found in different rock-pools, quite a number of them have overlapping preferences. Factors contributing to the coexistence of those species are mosaic-like distribution and dynamic disappearance (droughts) and reappearance (in rains) of the rock-pools. These characters promote coexistence of good colonizers and poor competitors with good competitors but poor colonizers. Zooplankton of the rock-pools is characterized by the presence of large herbivorous Daphnia species, apparently due to the general lack of vertebrate planktivores. Experimental evidence suggests that Daphnia grazing on phytoplankton enables the presence of filamentous algae in rock-pools. Experimental analysis of species assemblages on Northern Baltic islands has gained a foothold in recent years. This trend is likely to continue.
23731608|Notes on the taxonomy, habitats and distribution of the aquatic and subaquatic species of Hemiptera, collected by the author in 1961  1963 in the Sudan and the adjacent countries are reported. The following 25 new taxa are described: Micronecta wau sp. n., M. opaca sp. n., M. jenkinae Hc. ssp. maculiceps ssp. n., Corixa frigidae sp. n., C. monticola sp. n., Sigara sexlineata Rt. ssp. limpida ssp. n., Esakiella rivularis sp. n., Naucoris ciliatistylus sp. n., Laccocoris omoensis sp. n., Heleocoris linnavuorii Ps. ssp. amaricus ssp. n., Neomacrocoris poissoni sp. n., Sphaerodema urinator (Df.) ssp. sudanensis ssp. n., Laccotrephes keilak sp. n., Halobates melleus sp. n., Naboandelus bergevini Bgr. ssp. pygmaea ssp. n., N. patricii Mc. ssp. migrans ssp. n., Microvelia major Ps. ssp. wondoensis ssp. n., M. lokaensis sp. n., M. lobata sp. n., M.arabica Brw. ssp. pratermissa ssp. n., Mesovelia dentiventris sp. n., Hebrus pusillus (Fn.) ssp. arabicus ssp. n., H. saxatilis sp. n., H. soudani Ps. ssp. campestris ssp. n. and Hydrometra juba sp. n.
23731579|The influence of some physical, chemical and biotic factors upon the growth and survival of brown trout (Salmo trutta L.) and rainbow trout (S. gairdneri Richardson) introduced into nine small lakes in southern and central Finland is described. The lakes had been treated with rotenone before being stocked with trout. Attention was especially paid to the interrelations between the fish and the benthic fauna, the selective feeding of the fish, and the biological productivity of the benthic fauna and fish populations. In most respects the lakes were found to be suitable habitats for trout. Scarcity of food and the small size of the food organisms were the most important factors limiting the growth of the fish. The fish stock had a considerable influence upon the abundance of the benthic fauna. Clear selective feeding was observed; animals living on submerged vegetation as well as freely in water were preferred to benthic organisms. Factors affecting the productivity of the benthic fauna and fish stock are discussed in detail.
23736726|Life history theory predicts that high extrinsic mortality rates will cause the evolution of earlier maturity and increased reproductive effort. Guppies that co-occur with predators support these predictions because they attain maturity at an earlier age and have higher levels of reproductive effort than their counterparts from localities that lack predators. In the past, we used short term (12 day) mark-recapture studies to show that guppy populations that co-occur with predators do in fact have higher mortality rates than those that do not. Here we extend this result to long term mark-recapture studies with a single recapture interval of over 200 days. We show that the recapture probabilities after these longer intervals are very similar to what one would predict based on the short term studies. Because of the multiplicative nature of mortality rate, the differences in recapture rates in guppies from low as opposed to high predation sites are now much more dramatic, on the order of 20 to 30 fold after 200+ days, as opposed to being around 15% higher after 12 days. The earlier short-term studies also revealed that guppies from high predation localities grow faster, in part as an indirect effect of predators because they reduce guppy population densities and increase per capita food availability. The long-term studies reported here yield the same result, but the difference between high and low predation localities is again far more dramatic as a consequence of the longer duration of the recapture interval. These observations, in combination with those of the earlier work, support the hypothesis that the increased mortality that accompanies predation represents a plausible mechanism that causes the evolution of the observed differences in life histories; however, the confounding of mortality rate and growth rate also suggests that more complex life history models that include density regulation and eco-evolutionary interactions may provide a better explanation for life history evolution in guppies.
23731802|Results of a modified 'Standard Minimum' trapping on grassland habitats in southern Finland in June 1969 are reported. Two grids, each consisting of 12  12 lines spaced at 8 metres, with two snap traps at each intersection point, were trapped for 8 days. Apple baits, labelled with a radioisotope, P 32, I 131 or Cr 51, were arranged in three concentric zones, to mark the animals outside the grid. Good acceptance of bait and a high percentage of labelled animals were observed. The rate of accumulation of catch of the most abundant species, the field vole (Microtus agrestis), varied according to the reproductive component of the population. The rate of removal was highest in breeding males, and lowest in juveniles. The same was true with regard to the invasion rate and the contribution of the invaders to the edge effect. Density estimates based on various methods of calculation are compared. Both the regression method and the maximum likelihood method recommended for the IBP studies tend to give overestimates, as do the actual catch numbers. The most reliable estimates are obtained by a combination of removal trapping and mass marking of animals, or by a tentatively proposed 'adjusted numbers' method. The same applies to the sex ratio and other parameters defining population structure.
23734162|Nestboxes with different-sized entrance holes were put out to study caching behaviour and prey choice of Pygmy Owls in southeastern Norway in the winters 1971/72 to 1976/77. Pygmy Owls preferred nestboxes with entrance holes less than 55 mm for caching, while nestboxes with larger holes were primarily used as sheltered feeding sites. Caching took place from October to April, with a peak in November to January. Single caches contained up to 97 prey items, and regular surplus killing by individual Pygmy Owls may explain the sudden filling up of caches. Of the 1321 prey items identified, 1173 were small mammals. The bank vole Clethrionomys glareolus was the most frequent prey species. Birds were taken in the highest proportions in years of low vole abundance. Choice of caching sites is discussed as an adaptation to avoid cache-robbing from other species. Caching may itself be an adaptation to fluctuating prey availability during winter. The flocking of tits during winter is discussed as a possible antipredatory behaviour pattern to reduce the predation risk from Pygmy Owls.
23734635|The influence of avian predators on bank vole (Clethrionomys glareolus) populations in four 0.5-ha enclosures was studied in central Finland in 1988. Two of the enclosures were covered with nets to keep out birds of prey, and two were left open to avian predation. A fence of metal sheet and continuous trapping kept out small mustelids during the breeding season. The only avian predators observed in the area throughout the year were the Ural owl (Strix uralensis) and the tawny owl (Strix aluco) and during summer the common buzzard (Buteo buteo). During autumn and winter pygmy owls (Glaucidium passerinum) was present in the study area. No Tengmalm's owls (Aegolius funereus) were observed around the area. During late winter and spring, the highest density of voles was observed in one of the open enclosures. No evidence of the influence of avian predators could be observed. During the summer the net covers had no effect on the survival of the voles; the highest density, with 100% survival of the young, was observed in an open enclosure. We suggest that avian predators have only a slight influence on breeding bank vole populations during a peak year in a patchy environment with boreal spruce forest. An explanation could be that bank voles are only an alternative prey for avian predators when field voles (Microtus agrestis) have high densities in more open habitats at the same time. The heterogeneity of the habitat and the dominance of the Ural owl in the owl community could also play a role.
23734067|The study is based on the yearround bird censuses of Soveri in southern Finland during 193436 and of the author in northern Finland during 197578. Congeneric passerines had smaller habitat overlaps and breadths than passerines which are not congeneric with other species in the forest. The habitat breadth of foliage-gleaners decreased with the increasing number of coexisting foliage-gleaning species in the same habitats. Both results suggest that interspecific competition modifies the habitat selection of forest birds. Intraspecific competition may partly be responsible for the clear positive correlation between abundance and habitat breadth of foliage-gleaners. Habitat breadths in general were smallest during the breeding season. This appears to be a consequence of special habitat requirements at that time, such as suitable nest-site and shelter against predation. This postulation is supported by the fact that the annual variation in habitat selection during the breeding season was smaller than in other seasons. Intense interspecific competition during breeding can be rejected as an alternative hypothesis, since the reduction in habitat breadths was particularly pronounced for species which were not congeneric with other species in the forest. All species changed their habitat seasonally to some degree, but for some migrants these changes were relatively slight. Overlaps in the habitats of gallinaceous birds were small in winter, and large overlaps in summer might reflect the absence of interspecific competition during the period of maximum food availability. In contrast, habitat overlaps among foliage-gleaners were smallest during the breeding season, which may be due to the restricted habitat selection, irrespective of competition, at that time.
23737025|Weather conditions can influence birds' breeding performance through changes in metabolism of a female and can also directly affect eggs and chicks. I studied the influence of ambient temperature, variation in ambient temperature and rainfall on the breeding performance of the red-backed shrike Lanius collurio in 19992003 in the extensively agricultural landscape of eastern Poland. I did not find any influence of the analysed weather conditions on clutch size, mean egg volume in a clutch, variation of egg volume in a clutch and losses between the numbers of laid and hatched eggs. A probable explanation is that weather and food conditions are usually favourable for red-backed shrikes during egg laying and incubation, and males provide frequent supplemental feeding to the females at these stages of breeding. Probably, the extensively farmed agricultural area provides an abundant food base for the study population living there, which allows the red-backed shrike to quickly compensate its energy expenditures.
23731661|Small mammals were caught in mossy forests of Kuhmo, eastern Finland in 1957 1968. In this material, comprising 1493 specimens from snap-traps (7366 trap-nights) and 182 from pitfall traps (446 trap-nights), the dominant species were Clethrionomys glareolus and Sorex araneus, and in some years also Myopus schisticolor. In Sorex araneus the fluctuations were not synchronous with those of the two dominant rodent species, which underwent a marked cyclic low in 1959. In the wood lemming the peak occurred in 1958, when the numbers of the bank vole were already declining. There was a peak of the bank vole population in 1961 and again in 1966, whilst the wood lemming population has remained low, with a slight increase in 1962 1963. The reasons for the irregular occurrence of wood lemming are discussed. In Sorex araneus winter mortality was exceptionally low in 1967/68, and 1968 was a year of great abundance. In Clethrionomys glareolus the population may sometimes begin to decline even in summer. It is suggested that the basic difference in the population dynamics of Sorex araneus and Clethrionomys glareolus is that in most years the population of S. araneus starts from very low densities in spring whereas the C. glareolus population usually grows for at least two years before a crash.
23735632|Patch use under predation risk requires animals to trade off needs for safety and food. I consider within a common framework four ways of modeling how safety and energy influence fitness. These models make similar predictions for when a forager should stop feeding from depletable patches that vary in predation risk. In accord with Brown (1988), patches should be abandoned when the harvest rate no longer compensates for the metabolic, predation, and missed opportunity costs of foraging. In accord with Gilliam & Fraser (1987), safe and risky patches should be left at the same ratio of predation risk to net feeding rate when the alternative activities include resting in a safe refuge to save energy. The quitting harvest rate of the forager within a food patch should be sensitive to predation risk and to the marginal value of food (the fitness value of an additional food item). Quitting harvest rates should be higher in food patches with higher predation risk. Quitting harvest rates and the costs of predation should increase as the marginal value of food decreases. The difference in quitting harvest rates between patches with high and low predation risk should increase as the marginal value of food decreases. Fortunately, the shared qualitative predictions of these models have and can be tested. Unfortunately, distinguishing among the models' differing quantitative predictions shall prove challenging.
23735817|The authors of a recent commentary challenged a "traditional view" that organisms living at high latitudes are normally exposed to lower doses of potentially damaging UV-B radiation than those living at lower latitudes. Taking as their main example the European common frog (Rana temporaria L.) in Scandinavia, they suggested that global warming might be masking adverse biological effects of ozone depletion, which allows a greater percentage of solar UV-B to reach the Earth's surface, by altering species' phenology. Here, I expand the scope of that study to include phenology and potential exposure to UV-B radiation across a larger part of the common frog's geographic range, including populations from oceanic and alpine climates. The results highlight both the importance of phenology in limiting exposure to UV-B radiation and the need for a mechanistic understanding of phenological variation. The results also illustrate some important limitations of a commonly used field experiment, at least in terms of its utility for comparing sensitivities to UV-B or predicting effects of ozone depletion.
23733699|Field observations and experiments were made to study the growth, reproduction and hibernation of Arianta arbustorum in southern Finland where the species lives at the periphery of its range. The newly hatched young become adult during their third or fourth summer. The rate of growth of the shell decreases gradually with age. The snails lay eggs from spring till autumn, most frequently in spring and early summer. The eggs hatch in 23 weeks. Hibernation begins earlier among adults than among subadults and juveniles, as indicated by the number of epiphragms secreted. Adults secreted more epiphragms than subadults, and subadults more than juveniles. Most specimens hibernated with the apex down. The possible adaptive value of this position is discussed. Winter mortality was greater among juveniles than among subadults, and least among adults. Totally, it was 13.6 % in 19671968, but only 3.4 % in 19731974.
23736816|Fluctuating asymmetry (FA) of foramina as a measure of environmental stress was studied in polar bear (Ursus maritimus) skulls from East Greenland (n = 300, collected 18922004) and Svalbard (n = 388, collected 19502004). Levels of FA for each of the 11 traits used in the study were compared between sex/age groups (subadults, adult females, adult males), localities (East Greenland, Svalbard), and periods ( 1960 [prepollution] and > 1960, [pollution]) using general linear models (GLMs). The GLMs revealed that adult males had higher FA in two traits than other sex/age groups. Also, the Svalbard bears had higher FA in number of intracondylar foramina than had those from East Greenland, a trend corresponding well with skull differences found previously between the two subpopulations. No correlation was found between the bears' year of birth (n = 468) and FA or between levels of contaminants and FA (n = 65).
23732261|The size of a breeding population of white wagtails living along the shores of a water-course area in central Finland was determined in the years 1967  1972. Population density was more uniform when expressed in relation to the length of the shoreline than in relation to area. Comparisons of densities in different parts of the study area and with those found in other parts of central and southern Finland showed the great importance of the shore zone as a nesting habitat for the wagtail. In the shoreline habitats the population density was higher than the average in central Finland and was often at roughly the same level as in man-made habitats. Year-to-year changes in the numbers of breeding pairs were very small. Although most of the wagtails returning to the study area in spring bred in territories that had been occupied the previous summer, nests were often built in different sites. Although the breeding population was about the same size each summer, about one third of the pairs occupied territories which had been uninhabited the previous year. This indicates that suitable habitats as well as suitable nest sites were plentiful in the study area. Originally, there must have been a shortage of suitable habitats in the study area but as a result of human activities seemingly good territories nowadays remain unoccupied throughout the breeding season. Apparently water-course areas in central Finland are not at present the optimal habitats for the species, but white wagtails prefer settled areas, both rural and urbanized, where the population density may exceed that along water-courses. The preference for settled areas does not necessarily depend upon better nesting success, but may be the result of psychic factors affecting the birds' behaviour.
23736846|We provide the first detailed description of the phenotypic polymorphism of the European moose (Alces alces) bulls with three different antler types: cervina, intermediate and palmated. We assess how the frequencies of bulls with different antler types as well as antler spread and tine numbers are related to age, body weight, region and time. Our results indicate that antler type phenotypes are linked to other body and antler size characteristics. The cervina type had the smallest and the palmated the largest carcass weight, antler spread and tine numbers. The youngest age groups were predominantly of cervina type. At the prime age of 6.510.5 years, the prevalent types were intermediate and palmated. At an older age, the cervina type increased and the other types decreased. We propose that the penetrance of inherited antler type is best at prime age when it is important for a bull to be successful in mating competition. The cervina type was most prevalent in the southern zone and the palmated type in the northern zone. The mean age, mean carcass weight, antler spread and tine numbers all decreased from 19761986 to 19961999. The results were similar in the age-standardized prime age bulls. We hypothesize that intensive selective hunting as well as possible fitness differences between antler types in managed forests may have been involved in the decrease of the palmated antler type.
23735448|Analysis of the mammal fauna of the last glacial shows that the main factor of mammal distribution was the humidity or aridity and its effect on the flora, rather than the temperature itself. The biome typical of the last glacial in Central Europe, forests of parkland character, does not exist today. The variety of habitats resulted in a rich species diversity, which became poorer with the gradual growth of continuous forests during the Holocene.
23736778|Fluctuating asymmetry (FA) as a measure of environmental stress was studied in polar bear (Ursus maritimus) skulls from East Greenland (n = 300, collected 18922004) and Svalbard (n = 391, collected 19502004). Nine metric traits in skull and lower jaw were measured. FA levels of each trait were compared between sex/age groups (subadults, adult females, adult males), periods ( 1960, > 1960), and localities (East Greenland, Svalbard). The period  1960 was chosen to represent a period prior to the appearance of organohalogen pollution in the Arctic. Results indicated that Svalbard bears generally had a higher level of FA than those of East Greenland. Overall, no substantial evidence of a linkage between FA and organohalogens was found. Instead, indications were of subpopulations with declining levels of FA over time, suggesting the existence of positive population level effects powerful enough to overrule the influence of stress caused by global warming, pollution, and overharvesting.
23737179|Biogeochemical markers in ecology are useful for indicating geographic origin and movement patterns of species on various temporal and spatial scales. By assessing these markers in a tissue that is chemically inert once formed (e.g., claws) and is grown incrementally (i.e., deposited in layers), changes in an individual's foraging environment would be captured in the chemical signatures in these tissues. To determine whether trace elements can be used as a marker to track movement in terrestrial carnivores, we resolved multi-elemental data at a fine spatial scale in the claw keratin of a model species (Taxidea taxus) using high resolution laser ablation inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (LA ICP-MS). The unique chemical signatures we detected in claws suggested that these chemical variations were, in part, a reflection of the chemical environment and were not be attributable to sex or random deposition. Neighbouring claw samples were not more chemically related than distant ones, which suggests that local differences in chemical composition (e.g., habitat type) may have a stronger influence on claw chemistry than large-scale patterns in trace element variation associated with underlying geology. Our findings illustrated that temporally-explicit chemical profiles in the blade horn keratin of mammalian claws may be used to examine endogenous uptake of trace element signatures from the local environment and serve as tool to assist in reconstructing animal movement pathways.
23736097|Several limnological responses were recorded after an almost total collapse of the population of perch, Perca fluviatilis, in the control basin of the limed Lake Iso Valkjrvi in autumn 1992. Increases in hypolimnetic concentrations of dissolved organic carbon and ammonium-nitrogen were the most striking changes in water chemistry. After a few months, high densities of ciliates were recorded in the hypolimnion, suggesting an increased microbial activity in the decomposition of fish carcasses. Correspondingly, hypolimnetic bacterial biomasses in summer 1993 were higher than earlier. In crustacean zooplankton: the densities of planktonic cladocerans were lower in the fishless side of the lake in summer 1993 than before the fish kill in the previous summer. The decline in cladocerans was probably due to predation by the rapidly increased numbers of Chaoborus larvae and corixids after the disappearance of fish. The mean biomass of zoobenthos also increased following the fish kill. The remaining perch in the control basin strated to grow very rapidly. Instead of the normal length increase of 12 cm per year, they grew 57 cm in the summer of 1993 and their weight increased ten times more than that of perch of the limed basin of the lake. The mercury concentrations and radioactivity of the perch showed a 50% decrease, probably due to the growth dilution. A behavioural change in the golden-eye, Bucephala clangula, was also recorded. The breeding individuals continued to use both basins of L. Iso Valkjrvi, but the brood clearly preferred the control basin after the collapse of the perch population.
23737217|We tested if within-lake differences in individual growth in an Arctic charr population before and after nutrient enrichment was due to a population bottleneck, for example as a result of strong selection for growth in a limited part of the population. The positive change in growth pattern after treatment was not coincident with a reduction in microsatellite variability, and various genetic estimators of demographic change did not indicate changes in population size. This suggests that the change in growth was not a result of only a limited part of the population responding, but an overall response.
23736919|Nest size and nest building behaviour affect individual fitness and thus, selection may act on these traits. Most data on nesting behaviour come from species that build a nest for each new breeding attempt, whereas almost nothing is known regarding nest reusers. Here, the association between nest size and nest building behaviour, and occupation date as well as breeding success of the white stork Ciconia ciconia, a migratory species with nest reuse, is presented. Large nests were occupied earlier and showed higher breeding success, even accounting for the confounding effect of the breeder's age. In addition, nest size increased steadily over the entire breeding season and only ceased when reproduction failed. However, this increase was not related to breeding success variables. Finally, nest size was related to the number of times that it was used in the past and thus, to the probability of successful reproduction. These results suggest that storks may seek and compete for bigger nests and that nest size could be an indicator of individual and/or nest-site quality.
23734123|Bathymetric, monthly and intralacustrine variations in species composition of the macrozoobenthos and meiozoobenthos were investigated on soft and stony bottoms of lake Konnevesi. Regional differences were significant for many variables, although the lake was expected to be quite homogeneous. On soft bottom macrobenthos the numbers and biomasses were generally greater in spring than in late summer and the bathymetric maxima generally occurred at a depth of between 2 and 4 m. On stony bottoms, the variations were not as clear as on soft bottoms and the proportion of predator taxa was about half, as opposed to about one third on soft bottoms. The seasonal distribution in numbers of meiobenthos was opposite to that of macrobenthos, showing a maximum in late summer and not in spring. Soft bottom abundances were 3.3 times higher than stony bottom abundances for macrobenthos and 8 times higher for meiobenthos. Oligochaeta, Megaloptera and Chironomidae were more abundant on soft than on stony bottoms. Hirudinea, Trichoptera and Coleoptera were more abundant on stony than on soft bottoms. Insects formed about 3/4 of the abundances and 2/3 of the biomasses. It seems that, with regard to macrobenthos biomasses, if the investigating resources are limited, the sampling times ought to be reduced to one, rather than reducing the number of sampling depths or subareas. The amounts of the merolimnic part of the zoobenthos were greater than the amounts of hololimnic zoobenthos on both kinds of bottom, and on stony bottoms the number of merolimnic fauna species was also greater than that of hololimnic fauna. On stony bottoms the number of species of merolimnic fauna increased with depth. The diversity and number of species were higher in spring than in late summer, which is not in agreement with the assumed food diversity. The bathymetric maximum of diversity occurred at depths of between 2 and 4 m and not in deeper zones, where the stability of environment ought to increase diversity. The quantitative proportion of predators on soft bottoms was lowest at the same depths at which the diversity was highest, which is in contrast with the predation hypothesis. However, examination of the numbers of species gave different results. On stony bottoms, the proportion of predators in the biomass was exceptionally high, which may indicate that the predators favour stones for habitation but gather food from the surrounding soft areas. A correlation analysis of the zoobenthos abundances coincided with certain niche overlap findings and certain correlation associations coincided with the results of factor analysis.
23735746|Sentinels are group members that watch from prominent positions. Sentinel interchanges often appear orderly and the number of sentinels changes little despite the turnover of individuals. I modeled why solitary individuals or group members might take up prominent positions. Such positions can be safe places to rest because they provide a good view of approaching predators, even if undetected predators preferentially attack sentinels. In pairs, coordinated sentinel behavior is favored whenever information spreads from a detecting to a non-detecting individual more than half the time. Under these conditions, safety for a sentinel produces safety for a forager as a by-product. Thus sentinel behavior occurs for selfish safety reasons but coordination of sentinels is based on mutualism. If sentinels can coordinate their individual actions, evidence of the game is hidden from view. The fitness consequences of some games may be best indicated by the strategies organisms take to avoid playing them.
23734142|The paper summarizes some of the work that has been done on the population endocrinology of the Pied Flycatcher. Emphasis is given to polyterritoriality and testosterone levels in monoterritorial and polyterritorial males, the time of gonadal regression and the ending of incubation and its relation to prolactin secretion. The importance of knowing the exact ecological status of the individual when doing endocrine studies on free-living birds is also stressed.
23731659|A remnant of an aspen which bore clear marks of gnawing by the beaver was found at 1.3 m depth in a bog in eastern Finland. According to C14-dating the age of this aspen is 4340  80 years. This shows that the heaver belonged to the fauna of Finland at least during the Littorina period.
23731832|The effects of season (spring, summer, autumn) and sex on RMR were studied in Mus musculus spicilegus Pet. The results demonstrate that the seasonal and sex differences are not statistically significant.
23736968|The abundance of wolves in Lithuania is important for the conservation of the species in the Baltic region especially for ensuring its long-term viability. On the basis of distribution maps for 20002005, and minimum population counts, I propose that the wolf population in the country is stable, around 200 individuals (1520 packs). Main threats are highways and, possibly, human disturbance in fragmented forest areas, while the impact of hunting is minor. Preparation and adoption of the national species management plan and agreement on minimum viable population numbers, as well as mitigation of conflicts caused by depredation of domestic animals are the main tasks for the conservation of this species in the near future. High ecological plasticity of the wolf makes it likely that its existence in Lithuania is not threatened.
23736140|Recognition of conspecifics is necessary for differential treatment of individuals in a variety of social contexts, such as territory establishment and defense, dominance hierarchies, reciprocal altruism, mate choice, parentoffspring interactions and nepotistic contexts, to name a few. Here I first review various categories of perceptual mechanisms of social discrimination, focusing largely on the extensive literature on the perception component of kin recognition, although the ideas presented here can and have been used for analyses of recognition at many levels of social organization. I then discuss a range of recognition mechanisms observed in a model species, Belding's ground squirrels, and how socio-ecological factors influence the development and expression of each mechanism. Finally, I address several theoretical and empirical controversies in the kin-recognition literature which pertain to the perceptual component of recognition, as well as areas in need of additional investigation.
23734170|About 480 islets and small islands were censused in part of the archipelago of SW Finland. The study area consisted of three "zones" of different maritimity: the inner, middle and fjrd (fjrd = stretch of open water surrounded by the middle archipelago) zones. The distribution of a number of archipelago birds and plants was mapped and comments are made on possible factors influencing the landward boundaries and abundance of the species. This cross-disciplinary approach yields a more reliable picture of the maritimity of the different parts of the archipelago. Strongly offshore birds species were: Cepphus grylle, Stercorarius parasiticus, Anthus spinoletta littoralis, Sterna caspia, with the most marine species, Alca torda, possibly breeding close to the seaward boundary of the area. Somewhat less maritime was Arenaria interpres. Plants with a similar distribution were Isatis tinctoria and Cohlearia danica. Among the bird species reaching the innermost part of the archipelago, but clearly more abundant in its offshore part were Larus marinus, Somateria mollissima, Sterna paradisaea and Haematopus ostralegus. Plants with a corresponding distribution were Cardamine hirsuta and Vincetoxicum hirundinaria. The recent immigration of Aythya ferina into the archipelago is discussed; this species has even bred in the fjrd zone.
23731599|Organ primordia of the reproductive tract of both sexes of Aedes sierrensis (Ludlow) are labile when thermal stress is applied during embryogeny. All parts of the male tract may be affected in varying degrees whereas the lateral or median oviduct as well as the ovary of the female may be malformed. The onset of disruption of primordial development of imaginal tissues occurs after 6 days at 34 C or after 7 days at 33.5. Larval morphogenesis is modified by exposure of embryos to 34 or 33.5 for 5 days.
23734178|The Red-throated Diver is considered to be a threatened species. Since 1979 the breeding success of about 40 pairs in Hme, southern Finland has been monitored. Nests located on small islets produce more young than nests on shores. Reasons for unsuccessful nesting, including human disturbance, are considered. Our results seem to indicate that the Red-throated Diver population within our study area is on the increase rather than declining. The most probable reason for this is the good breeding success, i.e. 1.15 offspring per pair per year.
23737180|Sex differences in foraging ecology have been found in a variety of taxa. We tested the hypothesis that breeding female wolverines (Gulo gulo), probably due to their smaller home ranges and higher energy demands because of gestation and lactation, are forced to rely more on food caches and carrion than other wolverines. The diet composition, as the percentage occurrence, was estimated for four breeding females and six males and non-breeding females by analyzing scat samples, all collected in eastern Finland. The most important food source for breeding female wolverines was human- and wolf-killed moose (55%), while the diet also comprised mountain hare (13%), domestic pig (13%) and grouse (11%). Mountain hare (52%) was the most utilized food source for males and non-breeding females. Moose (22%) and grouse (15%) were also important components of the diet. Our study highlights the importance of human- and wolf-killed carrion for breeding female wolverines in areas where the density of medium-sized ungulates is low.
23736864|Chimango caracara (Milvago chimango) is a southern Neotropical species and the most common raptorial bird in the Pampean region of Argentina, where natural grasslands were completely transformed by agriculture and urbanization. We determined whether this species responds to the intensity of these human disturbances through changes in its abundance. To examine the response to agricultural intensity, both birds and land use were surveyed along 18 transects covering the regional agricultural gradient from pure arable to pure pastoral farming landscapes. To explore the effects of urbanization, birds were surveyed at 19 points along an urbanrural gradient. Results showed that chimango caracara did not respond to changes in agricultural intensity. No land use type was associated, either positively or negatively, with abundance in the arable or pastoral farming scenarios. In contrast, we observed a negative response to increasing urbanization, where a higher abundance was recorded in rural than in commercial or residential areas.
23735607|Investigations of the incorporation of terrestrial detritus into aquatic macroinvertebrates through 13C analysis are becoming frequent for streams and wetlands, but comparatively little information exists for forest-fringed oligotrophic lakes. Although the most accurate assessment of community patterns in carbon dependency will be made through an organism density-weighted analysis of 13C, this has never previoulsy been undertaken for any freshwater system. Littoral macroinvertebrates (predominantly amphipods, ephemeropterans and dipterans, as well as odonates and trichopterans) from boreal lakes in northwestern Ontario, Canada displayed ranges of 6 to 9 in 13C, all centred about -26. The closer agreement between the density-weighted 13C distribution for these macroinvertebrates to tree rather than epilithon values, suggests that these organisms may be relying more substantially upon allochthonous detritivory than upon autochthonous algivory for energy sustenance. This finding therefore challenges the precept in some timber management guidelines that dismisses riparian trees as an important energy source for lake foodwebs.
23736712|Spatial analysis on the relative medullary thickness (RMT) of sympatric shrews Notiosorex crawfordi and Sorex ornatus from different habitats in southern California showed no significant intraspecific differences between habitats but RMTs of N. crawfordi were significantly higher than those of S. ornatus. Interspecific comparison of RMTs of Sorex shrews from Alaska did not differ significantly from each other but they were significantly lower than those of both shrew species from southern California. RMTs of another group of insectivorous mammals, the Microgale shrew tenrecs from Madagascar, did not differ significantly between species, or from those of shrews from mesic habitats. The interspecific comparisons showed that RMT is an informative way to estimate the ability of an insectivorous species to occur in arid habitats, and to compare the RMTs of closely related sympatric mammals.
23736943|Omnivores exploit numerous sources of protein and other nutrients throughout the year, and meat is generally considered a high-quality resource. However, it is unknown if there is any general association between latitude and carnivorous behavior in omnivorous mammals. We examined the relative importance of meat and other dietary components, including anthropogenic food items, in the diet of brown bears (Ursus arctos) in Estonia using conventional scat- and stomach-content analyses as well as stable-isotope (15N, 13C) analyses. When food habits of brown bears in Estonia were compared with those of other populations in central and northern Europe, the proportion of animal prey in the diet was positively correlated with latitude. Further comparison with the data on the diet of two other omnivorous mammals, the European badger (Meles meles) and the European pine marten (Martes martes), provides evidence that increased carnivory towards northern latitudes may be a general adaptation in omnivorous mammals.
23735581|We studied responses of yolk-sac fry of three salmonid species to simulated predator attacks. Remaining motionless after tactile stimulation was more common in arctic charr alevins than in brown trout or Atlantic salmon. When stimulation was followed by a startle response, arctic charr predominantly responded with an upward swimming burst, whereas fry of brown trout and Atlantic salmon mainly performed a short swimming burst near the aquarium bottom. We suggest that differences between species in flow and predator regime may explain the differential behaviour between the three salmonids.
23736800|Maculinea nausithousis the most endangered Iberian butterfly, being included in the Bern and Habitat directives and in the Spanish Red Book for invertebrates. We map its potential distribution in the Iberian Peninsula, identifying potentially suitable areas where to focus future surveys. Using presence/absence data and a set of environmental variables, the distribution of M. nausithous was modelled using Generalized Additive Models. Model results were filtered using land cover data to identify the anthropogenic grasslands inhabited by the species. The model obtained indicates that some Iberian areas that currently do not support M. nausithous populations could be environmentally suitable for the species. The reasons for these absences are discussed. Indeed, field surveys identified possible sources of uncertainty at finer scale, highlighting that deficiencies in land use GIS data might constitute an important source of error, able to explain both commission and omission errors (i.e., over and underpredictions) of the model.
23734431|The distribution of the nymphs of Philaenus spumarius, Lepyronia coleoptrata, Aphrophora alni and Neophilaenus lineatus (Aphrophoridae) on their food plants was investigated in Svanvik, southern Finland. The nymphs of these four species differ in their food plant choice. Between some of the species, there is considerable niche overlap in the utilization of the various food plant species. Nymphs of these species differ in their vertical distribution on the food plants. The nymphs produce spittle masses for their protection, and nymphs belonging to different species are frequently found within a single mass. Depending on conditions, this extreme form of coexistence may lead either to fruitful protocooperation or to the most intense competition possible.
23731623|Six species of Tanytarsini with established or suspected parthenogenesis are described. Morphological descriptions are given, and the taxonomic status of the parthenogenetic forms is discussed. Methods of detecting and collecting parthenogenetic Chironomidae are briefly described, and some comments made on the adaptability and dispersal of these forms. Two populations, each with a very low proportion of males (about 10 %), are suggested to include both normally reproducing and strictly parthenogenetic strains. The question of whether accidental parthenogenesis exists is touched upon.
23737113|The introduction of immigrants into resident populations may disturb the social organisation of the latter. It is often stated that males compete with males for access to mates, while females compete with females and/or males for limited resources (e.g., nest sites, food). Therefore, the impacts of introductions on residents should depend on the immigrant's sex. To test this hypothesis, we experimentally introduced either male or female immigrants into field vole (Microtus agrestis) populations, and observed the consequences in terms of space use and survival of both residents and immigrants. Our results showed intra-sexual competition: (i) resident females responded to the introduction of females by reducing their home range size and their interactions with neighbours; (ii) immigrant males suffered high mortality, probably due to contests with resident males for access to females. We conclude that the role of social interactions should not be underestimated when releasing unfamiliar individuals into small populations.
23735570|Activity patterns and size of home ranges were studied in the American mink (Mustela vison) by the means of radio-tracking in a sea archipelago in southern Finland. Activity pattern was analyzed in 7 tracking periods of individual minks in different times of the year: 1 was nocturnal, 2 were diurnal and 4 were neutral. Total activity was negatively correlated with night length. Home range size varied largely according to season and sex, for instance. The paper discusses some details about the use of home ranges consisting of several islands and skerries.
23731589|Histerid predation on blowfly eggs and larvae was observed to cause a remarkable decrease in the numbers of developing blowflies in cultures performed in field conditions. The histerids arrived at the fish baits several days later than the ovipositing blowflies. Histerids were rather scarce on isolated archipelago islands but common on the adjoining mainland. The significance of histerids in the biological control of blowflies is discussed.
23731826|In a white spruce forest (Picea glauca) both primary net production and the numbers of small mammals were estimated. Bioenergetics and food habits were studied in the voles (Clethrionomys rutilus, Microtus oeconomus), squirrels (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus, Glaucomys sabrinus), and shrews (Sorex cinereus) of this forest. The annual assimilation of voles, squirrels and shrews reaches ca. 215 000 kcal/ha, and consumption averages 252 000 kcal/ha-year, although during the population cycle it might vary from 50 000 to 600 000 kcal/ha-year. In different years small mammals may consume 3  47 % of their potential food supply in the taiga forest, which is proportionally higher than in other woodlands.
23737174|We conducted an analysis of relationships between results of survey on breeding community of birds, including species richness, abundance of individual species and ecological groups of birds, and habitat features of 91 isolated reed patches in southwestern Poland. The approach to the reedbed habitat involves environmental differentiation at the patch level, landscape context and isolation, including the impact of man-made structures as potential constraints to the occurrence of birds. Generalized linear models have shown that 12 out of 14 analyzed environmental predictors had a statistically significant effect on birds. The results from individual species (sedge warbler, great reed warbler, bluethroat, Savi's warbler, water rail, moorhen and coot) models revealed that the number of territories was affected from two to four predictors. The number of reedbed specialists was affected positively by reed edge, water area and proportion of reed habitat within a 100-m radius, and negatively by railway. The number of water birds was affected positively by reedbed area, internal reed edge, treebelt, distance to reedbed > 1 ha and a proportion of reed habitat within a 100-m radius, and negatively by external reed edge. The proportion of reed habitat within a 100-m radius and internal reed edge were the predictors which positively affected richness of bird species. Our results showed that, apart from the habitat features measured within a reedbed, i.e. area of a reed patch, length of external edge or presence of trees, some other factors measured in larger landscape context, i.e. isolation (expressed mainly as the proportion of reed habitat within a 100-m radius) and the presence of man-made structures are important predictors in explaining the abundance of birds. The area sensitivity of birds nesting in reedbeds in terrestrial habitat was considerably lower than in reed islands located in lakes and wetlands of southern Europe.
23736211|I investigated population dynamics of bloaters Coregonus hoyi in Lake Huron using data collected during 19801998 from fixed-site trawl surveys. Bloaters were uncommon in 1980, but abundance increased during 19801992 through a series of strong year classes. High adult abundance appeared to suppress recruitment after 1992, and the population subsequently declined. Growth was similar between sexes up to age5, thereafter females grew faster than males. Both sexes lived to age-9, but females tended to live longer than males. A Ricker least-squares stockrecruitment relationship defined the relationship between adults and age-3 recruits, and may have been due to egg predation by adult bloaters. Higher female survival and shift in age structure toward older ages after 1990 led to female predominance in the population during 19951998. Female predominance appeared to be a consequence and not a cause of the observed population cycle.
23737138|We examined the effects of tannins on food digestion in the plateau zokor (Eospalax baileyi), a rodent that lives primarily underground. Our results indicate that (1) all experimental groups maintained their body weight; (2) food intake and food assimilation increased, while food digestibility decreased with an increasing tannin concentration in the diet; (3) protein digestibility, but not protein assimilation, decreased significantly with an increasing tannin concentration in the diet; (4) mean dry weights of the small intestine of the zokors fed with feed containing 3% and 6% tannic acid were 67% and 87%, respectively, greater than that of the control. Therefore, tannins in the diet affected negatively food and protein digestibility in zokors. The animals counteracted these effects and maintained their body weight and nutrient assimilation by increasing food intake as well as widening the lumen of their small intestine.
23734164|We present data on measurements of Ural Owl nestlings which can be used to estimate their age from one nest visit. This is useful for sparsely distributed species when one wants to minimize the number of nest visits. We found wing length and sheath length to be the best predictors of age (the mean age estimate error was one day). They seem to increase in a way mainly determined by age and less by hatching order or nutrition. Tarsus length and weight were less useful for assessing age.
23734165|Methods of censusing breeding raptors are reviewed and discussed on the basis of field experience gained mainly in Uusimaa, southern Finland, during the last ten years. The four commonest diurnal raptors of the region, the Honey Buzzard Pernis apivorus, the Goshawk Accipiter gentilis, the Sparrowhawk A. nisus and the Common Buzzard Buteo buteo were included in the study. No single general census method is equally applicable to them all. Specialized habitat requirements of the Accipiter species, and clearly discernible courtship flight of the buzzards as well as other observations (moulted feathers, remnants of prey and faeces) are useful keys for the location of occupied territories. The breeding part of the population can be censused reliably only on the basis of occupied nests and fledged broods still fed by their parents. The densities of the species were estimated as follows: the Honey Buzzard 911 pairs/100 km2, the Goshawk 58 pairs/100 km2, the Sparrowhawk about 9 pairs/100 km2 and the Common Buzzard 722 pairs/100 km2. The local variation in raptor densities may be pronounced even in relatively small areas, probably largely due to differences in the combination of habitats available. Annual fluctuations in numbers and in the proportion of non-breeders may also be considerable.
23731638|Succession in ground spider communities was studied in several clear-cut areas and one burnt-over area in various parts of Finland during the years 1962  1970. The method mainly employed was sieving and hand-sorting. Material for comparison was also collected by pitfall trapping and funnel extraction. The results contribute to our knowledge of the general ecology of spiders of the forest floor. The course of succession after each silvicultural measure was gauged by observing the changes in the population densities of the various species and in the ecological spectrum of the spider community as a whole (based on classification of the constituent species according to their preferred habitats), and by measuring the ecological remoteness of the community from its control with the aid of different similarity indices, of which Kendall's tau coefficient was observed to give the most consistent results. After clear-cutting, the spider community was found to diverge from its original condition during the first 7 years, a process marked by a gradual increase in the numbers of species from open habitats. Prescribed burning almost totally destroyed most of the original spider populations, and was followed by a rapid sequence of populations of open-land species. Between the 7th and 13th years the composition of the spider community reverted towards the forest situation. The factors determining the course of succession are discussed. Physical factors, especially the amount of solar radiation, are considered to be of prime importance. The epigeic component of the community follows the changes in the ecosystem more rapidly than the edaphic component.
23733668|A taxonomic revision of the species of the genus Cricotopus van der Wulp and its closest relatives from the western part of the Palaearctic region is presented, and the data on the distribution and habitats of the different species are discussed. To evaluate the numerous characters studied, the adult, pupal and larval morphology of the Chironomidae has been reviewed. The aim has been to find the most suitable names and assess the homologies of many important structures in the different subgroups of the Chironomidae and in some other Nematocera. It is suggested that a strictly monophyletic group consists of the genus Cricotopus (with subgen. Cricotopus s. str. and Isocladius Kieffer status n.) and its nearest relatives, the genera Acricotopus Kieffer, Paratrichocladius Santos Abreu (syn. Syncricotopus Brundin, syn. n.), Paracladius Hirvenoja (nom. nov. for Paratrichocladius Thienemann) and Halocladius Hirvenoja gen. n. (with subgen. Psammocladius Hirvenoja subgen. n. and Halocladius s. str. subgen. n.). About 50 species from the western part of the Palaearctic region have been redescribed, mostly from new material. As far as possible, the descriptions are based on all developmental stages (larva, pupal exuviae and adult). In addition, the following 21 new species are described: Paracladius quadrinodosus, Halocladius (H.) mediterraneus, Cricotopus (C.) pilidorsum, C. (C.) pirifer, C. (C.) magus, C. (C.) septentrionalis, C. (C.) claripes, C. (C.) tristis, C. (C.) beckeri, C. (C.) patens, C. (C.) coronatus, C. (C.) guttatus, C. (C). caducus, C. (I.) laetus, C. (I.) pilicauda, C. (I.) relucens, C. (I.) suspiciosus, C. (I.) reversus, C. (I.) arcuatus, C. (I.) obtusus and C. (I.) reductus. In addition to these, C. (C.) tokunagai Hirvenoja is the new name for C. bituberculatus Tokunaga, which is a secondary homonym of Trichocladius bituberculatus Goetghebuer, and C. meunieri Hirvenoja is the new name for C. parvulus Meunier, which is a primary homonym of C. parvulus Kieffer. In the light of present knowledge, an attempt has been made to place the species from all different parts of the world that have been ascribed to the genus Cricotopus up to 1970 in the genera to which they probably belong. In addition, it is suggested that a number of names existing in the literature should be regarded as nomina dubia. Keys to the males, females, pupal exuviae and larvae are presented, as far as possible down to species level. Several hundreds of new figures of taxonomically important characteristics are presented.
23734577|Mature and larval crucian carps were captured from natural ponds near Joensuu, Eastern Finland. The spawning fish were stripped and eggs were artificially fertilized. Different stages of embryonic, larval and juvenile development were described from fish kept at 20C in the laboratory. In 24 days from hatching the larvae started to feed and swim actively. The fins differentiated gradually at the fish lengths of 8.515 mm. No difference was noted in the development between larvae taken from the pond and those reared in the laboratory.
23735914|Here we summarize recent data on the accumulation of phosphorus in nests of wood ants as compared with that in the surrounding forest soil, and discuss mechanisms that cause this phenomenon. Moreover, we also indicate questions for future research. Various species of red wood ants (Formica s. str.) in a wide geographic area show an apparent increase of phosphorus content in their nests. Remarkably, this increase mainly entails the forms of phosphorus which are potentially available for plants or microflora, whereas the increase in total phosphorus content is less pronounced. This increase in available phosphorus is mainly attributable to release from food brought to the mound, release by decomposition of organic matter in the nest and a shift in pH of the nest material from acidic to neutral, which supports the stability of available forms of phosphorus. The effect of increased availability of phosphorus in wood-ant nests in the surrounding forest ecosystem is not quite clear and requires further attention.
23734087|Diagnostic characters of Stenochilus and Colopea are reviewed and corrected on the basis of new material and accurate information about the structure of the genital organs of both sexes. The genital organs of both genera can be shown to be totally homologous and they represent typical haplogyne structures. The embolic division of Colopea comprises soft, finger-like white processes that are completely granulate. These processes are normally concealed within the bulbus and are expanded only when functional. This expansion has more or less occurred in material collected with pitfall traps using ethylene glycol as preservative. There are no ejaculatory ducts, and the transfer of sperm is suggested to occur with the aid of the granulate surface of the embolic division. These granulate areas are also present in males of Stenochilus, but are most probably not turned inside out in the normal position of the bulbus. The vulva of Colopea consists of a small transverse vulval tube with small receptacula at both ends and usually with an unpaired central process. This sclerotized part is attached to a strong paired bundle of longitudinal muscles and a smaller pair of transverse muscles. Adult males and females are described both for the type-species, C. pusilla (Simon), and for C. laeta (Thorell). This has enabled correction of the recent specific revision of this genus listing only two species in the whole genus and a single one in Southeast Asia. Nine species of Colopea are regarded valid here, including the new species C. malayana (Malayan peninsula), C. unifoveata (Borneo), C. silvestris (Papua New Guinea), C. xerophila (Papua New Guinea), C. romantica (Bali & Sumatra), and C. virgata (Central Thailand & Vietnam). The range of Stenochilidae extends from northwestern India to Fiji, but species of Colopea are not known from India, although the type-species has been incorrectly listed from there. All species of Stenochilus seem to prefer xerophilic conditions in open habitats, and a few species of Colopea are ecologically similar, but the majority of Colopea spp. are regularly found in the leaf litter of tropical forests.
23736092|From May till November 1994 the diet of ruffe was investigated in the shallow eutrophic Lake Vrtsjrv (South Estonia). 187 ruffes of standard length (SL) of 4.312.0 cm were examined. Ruffe of SL over 4.5 cm (age 1+ and older) were typical benthophagous fishes consuming mainly chironomid larvae and pupae (over 95% of the weight of food). Chironomus plumosus (91%), Einfeldia carbonaria (36%) and Microchironomus tener (31%) had the highest frequency of occurrence. The most important food item was C. plumosus (about 98% of the chironomid biomass in stomachs). The biomass of C. plumosus in the profundal mud bottom corresponded to its proportional amount in stomachs of ruffe. The diet of ruffe was compared with that of eel (Anguilla anguilla) and bream (Abramis brama). Overlap in their diets appeared mostly in respect of C. plumosus larvae and pupae.
23734590|Previous studies have shown that it is difficult to estimate accurately the breeding numbers of song thrushes. This has been confirmed in our Biaowiea study, where actual numbers were derived from a combination of special dusk and dawn counts of singing males, from intensive nest searching and from colour-ringing. Empirical tests have shown that the improved (combined) mapping technique yields estimates which are only 6278% of actual numbers. The result is negatively correlated with the song thrush densities (r = -0.852, P<0.05). However, the efficiency for the low-density blackbird Turdus merula population was found to be close to 100%. It is suggested that almost all territory mapping technique density values published so far for the song thrush are underestimated by 3060%, depending on the type of method used. Single-visit relative counts may record only about 20% of actual values, lower than for other species. All methods, when applied under Central European conditions during the usual period of late morning, tend to record mostly unmated males, which constitute only a tiny and fluctuating fraction of the population. The species can easily be mapped, however, during a very early morning period or (with some complications) during late-evening semi-darkness. Thus, to start counts earlier (about one hour before local sunrise) would embrace more song thrushes or other thrushes, as well as some other species, e.g. Locustella fluviatilis, Erithacus rubecula, and some pigeons.
23733676|Pure hexoses fermented in aqueous solutions proved as attractive to moths as the ordinary bait made from brown sugar, beer and baker's yeast. The attractant properties are suggested to depend mainly on fermentation. Of 38 pure compounds (simple alcohols, acids, esters and aldehydes) present in the ordinary bait, 35 attracted Macrolepidoptera, the most efficient being ethyl alcohol, isoamyl alcohol, acetic acid and acetoin. Geometridae preferred ethyl alcohol, -phenethyl alcohol and acetoin. A mixture of eight compounds exhibited synergistic increase of attractiveness to Thyatiridae and Noctuidae, but not to Geometridae.
23731383|Three years after termination of the field work of an earlier five-year survey the densities of enchytraeids and micro-arthropods were studied in three representative localities. The present stage in the succession of the fauna and flora is outlined and compared with the situation three years earlier.
23731684|Catches of night-flying insects were used to measure the relative attractiveness of the mixed radiation of the mercury vapour lamp as compared with the separate near-ultraviolet and yellow-green parts of the spectrum of the same lamp. A few other lamps were tested. Altogether, about 85 000 insects were counted. Only a few characters could be attributed to the groups of higher rank, because each species seemed to have its own mode of spectral orientation. The mercury vapour lamp collected over twice as many specimens as the UV lamp and this nearly eight times as many as the yellow-green lamp. The yellow-green lamp had a strong attraction to a few species, e.g. Lampyris noctiluca L. (Col.) and Hepialus fusconebulosus De G. (Lep.). Near-ultraviolet radiation was relatively most attractive in the beginning of the night. The spectral sensitivities of the compound eyes of 18 Lepidopterous and 1 Trichopterous species were measured. The curves were mostly of similar shape, a smooth curve with the maximum in the yellow-green, no distinct red sensitivity and a lower plateau at the short-wave end. At night the sensitivity was relatively higher at the short-wave end than at the long-wave end. The electroretinograms evoked by the trapping lamps were strongly at variance with the trapping results, the sensitivity of the compound eye to the black-light lamp being only 20 % of that of the yellow-green lamp. Central interpretation of the information received from the peripheral apparatus of vision is supposed to be decisive in the spectral orientation of insects. A functional model for a light-orienting insect is presented. A considerable body of the recent literature up to 1972 is reviewed.
23736551|Cryptobiosis is an ametabolic state of life entered by some lower organisms (among metazoans mainly rotifers, tardigrades and nematodes) in response to adverse environmental conditions. Despite a long recognition of cryptobiotic organisms, the evolutionary origin and life history consequences of this biological phenomenon have remained unexplored. We present one of the first theoretical models on the evolution of cryptobiosis, using a hypothetical population of marine tardigrades that migrates between open sea and the tidal zone as the model framework. Our model analyses the conditions under which investments into anhydrobiotic (cryptobiosis induced by desiccation) functions will evolve, and which factors affect the optimal level of such investments. In particular, we evaluate how the probability of being exposed to adverse conditions (getting stranded) and the consequences for survival of such exposure (getting desiccated) affects the option for cryptobiosis to evolve. The optimal level of investment into anhydrobiotic traits increases with increasing probability of being stranded as well as with increasing negative survival effects of being stranded. However, our analysis shows that the effect on survival of being stranded is a more important parameter than the probability of stranding for the evolution of anhydrobiosis. The existing, although limited, evidence from empirical studies seems to support some of these predictions.
23735463|The cranium of the Pleistocene deer Navahoceros fricki (Schultz & Howard) from Mexico is described and compared with other New World Cervidae. The sister group of Navahoceros is Rangifer, and these two genera together with Blastoceras and Hippocamelus form a distinct clade within the subfamily Odocoileinae.
23734240|Two new cestode species, Andrya kalelai sp. n. and (?) Anoplocephaloides sp. are descrived from rodents of the genus Clethrionomys (Arvicolidae). They belong to the group of species with irregularly alternating genital pores. The differential diagnosis of the taxons is given, and the important characters in determining the species in the genera Andrya, Paranoplocephala and Anoplocephaloides are discussed.
23734524|In Nicrophorus beetles several individuals arrive at a carcass but usually only one pair stays and breeds there. To find out how the breeding pair is selected, intra- and interspecific fights and intersexual interactions in three Nicrophorus species (N. vespilloides, N. investigator and N. vespillo) were studied. The likelihood of different kinds of fights was estimated by using the abundance, habitat preference and seasonal occurrence of the species. In intraspecific fights large individuals won against smaller ones in all species, and in N. vespilloides the arrival time was also important. In interspecific fights individuals belonging to the two largest species had an advantage over the smallest species, even when they are the same size as their opponent. No mate choice was observed; the breeding pairs at carcasses are simply the winners of intrasexual fights. While burying the carcass the male and female often learn to recognize each other and behave aggressively towards intruders.
23736909|The human brain is one of the most complex biological systems. Neuroscientists seek to understand the brain function through detailed analysis of neuronal excitability and synaptic transmission. In this study, we propose a network analysis framework to study the evolution of epileptic seizures. We apply a signal processing approach, derived from information theory, to investigate the synchronization of neuronal activities, which can be captured by electroencephalogram (EEG) recordings. Two networktheoretic approaches are proposed to globally model the synchronization of the brain network. We observe some unique patterns related to the development of epileptic seizures, which can be used to illuminate the brain function governed by the epileptogenic process during the period before a seizure. The proposed framework can provide a global structural patterns in the brain network and may be used in the simulation study of dynamical systems (e.g. the brain) to predict oncoming events (e.g. seizures). To analyze long-term EEG recordings in the future, we discuss how the Markov-Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) methodology can be applied to estimate the clique parameters. This MCMC framework fits very well with this work as the epileptic evolution can be considered to be a system with unobservable state variables and nonlinearities.
23734867|Current ecological theory on present effects of interspecific competition, as summarized by Roughgarden (1979), has not helped us to understand how nature works. It has generated predictions that are either practically untestable, by virtue of unmeasurable parameters or unrealizable assumptions, or trivially true. Whether or not it has influenced a productive set of investigators of natural systems is debatable, but such influences are not explicit in the writings of most such investigators. On the other hand, the theory has caused a generation of ecologists to waste a monumental amount of time. However, specific investigations, usually experimental, of well-defined field systems have in a gradual and hierarchical way told us quite a bit about how nature works and about the role of interspecific competition among plant and animal populations. These investigations are strongly in the hypothesis-testing tradition, but rather than testing general theory they test specific predictions about specific systems, and they seem to arise as much out of intense curiosity about these systems as out of a desire to find general laws or patterns of nature. As a group, these investigations suggest that competitive exclusion of one species by another is exceptional and that more frequently species sharing resources either do not affect one another or contrive to coexist with changes less drastic than local extinction. When species do compete with one another, effects are usually moderated by other factors (e.g., weather, predators, pathogens) that keep populations below levels at which exclusion would occur, or else each competitor is favored in a different set of times and/or places and this fact combined with normal individual movements keep all species in the system. Interspecific competition is as likely to be by interference as by exploitation, and is frequently affected by biological idiosyncrasies of the individual species. Chance plays a major role in many potentially competitive interactions, and there is good evidence that many species that do compete with one another do so rarely or intermittently, and at most times their population dynamics are governed by other forces.
23735732|Voles and lemmings (Arvicolinae subfamily) diversified throughout the northern hemisphere over five million years into 140 lineages. Attempts have been made to identify relationships within the Arvicolinae on the basis of biochemical, chromosomal and morphological characteristics as well as on the basis of palaeontological data. Arvicolines are thought to have originated from among the Cricetidae, and the history of voles can be divided into two successive chronological phases occurring in Palaearctic and Nearctic areas. The history of lemmings is not well documented in the fossil record and their Early Pleistocene ancestors are still unknown. The arvicoline dispersal is one of the best known and provides an opportunity to test the anatomy of the radiation and more particularly the punctuated equilibrium model. Study of arvicolines reveals three modes of evolution: stasis, phenotypic plasticity and phyletic gradualism. Clearly the punctuated equilibrium model needs to be supplemented by a further component covering disequilibrium in phenotypic plasticity and phyletic gradualism, suggesting a punctuated equilibrium/disequilibrium model. In terms of palaeogeography, study of arvicolines shows that Quaternary climatic fluctuations led to long-range faunal migrations (3 000 km) and study of these patterns is a significant factor in mapping past environments and climates. Some studies attest to the prevailing influence of ecological and ethological factors on skull morphology in arvicoline rodents sometimes inducing morphological convergences.
23735411|The response of Carabidae, based on 14C-dated fossil assemblages, was to track climate change through dispersal and differential survival. Isolation of populations of arctic Carabidae caused by Quaternary climatic oscillations did not lead to enhanced rates of extinction and speciation, as it did in the mammals. Regional extinction of populations occurred as dispersing individuals encountered barriers such as ice sheets. Variation in mtDNA haplotype diversity in the arctic-alpine species Amara alpina (Payk.) in North America demonstrates the importance of climate change, glaciation, and extirpation in determining genetic variation. The future response of Carabidae to climate change will probably be similar to that of the past with the exception that species extinction is expected to be higher because of the additional fragmentation of habitats caused by human activities.
23736519|In this paper, we review the main thresholds that can influence the population dynamics of hostparasite relationships. We start by considering the thresholds that have influenced the conceptualisation of theoretical epidemiology. The most common threshold involving parasites is the host population invasion threshold, but persistence and infection thresholds are also important. We recap how the existence of the invasion threshold is linked to the nature of the transmission term in theoretical studies. We examine some of the main thresholds that can affect host population dynamics including the Allee effect and then relate these to parasite thresholds, as a way to assess the dynamic consequences of the interplay between host and parasite thresholds on the final outcome of the system. We propose that overlooking the existence of parasite and host thresholds can have important detrimental consequences in major domains of applied ecology, including in epidemiology, conservation biology and biological control.
23731536|The breeding habitats and nesting sites of the redwing (Turdus iliacus L.) in South Finland are described. Various aspects of the breeding biology, such as egg-laying, number of eggs, incubation time and the role of the parents during incubation and feeding of the brood, development of the nestlings, and the rhythm of incubation and feeding are described. Other aspects dealt with are the number of broods, the food of the redwing during the nesting season, food requirements of the young and the behaviour of the young after nest-leaving. The relations between clutch size and ecological conditions in the maintenance of population equilibrium are discussed. The redwing nests twice a year even in the subarctic. Attention has been devoted to the factors that make this possible.
23736791|Several hypotheses were proposed to account for geographic parthenogenesis that is the disjointed distribution of a species' sexual and asexual forms. In the areas affected by glaciations the parthenogenetic forms would have had ecological success and hybridization and polyploidy would have been the driving forces in their success. Limnocythere inopinata is well-represented in Quaternary non-marine sequences and is useful for studying the evolution of geographic parthenogenesis. We analysed the genetic variability of twelve populations from sub alpine Italian lakes, Austrian lakes and a pond, in an area that was covered by ice during the Pleistocene. In all samples we found only parthenogenetic females. Using allozymes, we described at least 33 different clonal lineages in the total of 812 females. We found no evidence for polyploidy. Clonal diversity is relatively high and may reflect the genetic diversity of ancestral sexual metapopulations. In L. inopinata, geographical parthenogenesis seems the result of historical and ecological factors and is not linked to polyploidy and hybrid advantage.
23734281|Minced testes from the eel-pout (Zoarces viviparus L.) obtained at various stages of spermiogenesis from January to June were incubated with radioactive 17-hydroxyprogesterone. The metabolites formed were identified by thin layer chromatography and by determination of their constant specific activities. 21-Deoxycortisol and 11-hydroxyandrostenedione were the major products in all experimental groups indicating that also in this species 11-hydroxylated androgen would appear to be important during spermiogenesis. Androstenedione was detected in low amounts. Over the study period no obvious variations in 11-hydroxylating activity were observed. C21-C19 Desmolase activity increased slightly, resulting in an increase in the formation of 11-hydroxyandrostenedione to spawning. The conversion of 17-hydroxyprogesterone to 11-hydroxyandrostenedione seemed to occur mainly via 21-deoxycortisol.
23731751|Gas-chromatography was used to determine the major fatty acid composition of the total lipids, and triglyceride and phospholipid fractions of the subcutaneous, liver, skeletal muscle, coronary and perinephric fats of 38 moose killed in northeastern Finnish Lapland in early and late winter 1967  1972. Stearic and palmitic acids were the main saturated acids, while oleic, linoleic, linolenic and arachidonic acids were the main components of the unsaturated fatty acids, in this order of importance. A remarkable similarity in fatty acid composition was found between the adipose tissues of the two sexes and age classes. This similarity existed even between moose that had fed on different diets.
23735406|A 3-year field experiment tested the suitability of isolated habitat patches for two ground beetle species in the Netherlands. Both species have low dispersal ability and occur at low frequencies in small isolated heathland patches. The results gave no evidence for the presence of unoccupied habitat patches for Olisthopus rotundatus. Successful reproduction of artificially introduced Pterostichus lepidus, however, proved the existence of unoccupied habitat patches for this species. It is concluded that extinction of P. lepidus in isolated habitat patches is only partially balanced by colonization. Hence, P. lepidus occurs in metapopulations with both continuously and discontinuously occupied habitat patches.
23735952|PCR primers were developed for three microsatellite loci successfully isolated from the Chilean scallop Argopecten purpuratus. One locus was highly variable and therefore suitable for phylogenetic analysis. Heterozygosity was tested in four populations within the natural Chile distribution of the species. This locus will be useful for population genetic analysis if further polymorphic loci are isolated.
23735412|The history, ecology and conservation of three distinctive areas of heathland in eastern England are discussed: the Humberhead Levels, the Lincolnshire cover-sand heaths, and the East Anglian Breckland. The biogeographic and habitat affinities of the carabid faunas of the three areas are examined. Breckland is identified as a stronghold for a characteristic and declining carabid fauna. Analysis of the biotope preferences of these carabids reveals the importance of a previously unrecognised and currently unprotected 'traditional arable' biotope. Effective carabid conservation, at least in heathlands, must begin with baseline survey for carabids, independent of any pre-existing botanically-defined protected area system.
23733650|The dependence of the burrowing activity of Macoma balthica (L.) on size, water temperature, bottom quality, salinity, "starvation" and exposure to low cadmium concentrations were tested under laboratory conditions. In response to adverse stimuli, small specimens burrowed more rapidly than large ones. Burrowing was more rapid at 16C than at 4C. Keeping Macoma on a hard bottom significantly retarded subsequent burrowing activity on a soft sand bottom. Storage without food at 14C for 3 months did not affect the rate of burrowing of large specimens but slightly reduced that of small ones. Preliminary tests with cadmium showed that its effects were dependent on the concentration used and the length of exposure. In individuals exposed for 24 h, cadmium at 2 and 5 ppm completely inhibited all burrowing activity, and at 1 ppm diminished it clearly. Exposure to 0.5 ppm Cd caused first an increase in burrowing activity, and then a decrease.
23735646|Cyclic population fluctuations of small rodents are characteristic in northern and central Fennoscandia. In Finland research addressing this problem was initiated in 1940s by professor Olavi Kalela, and the work is carried on by his co-workers and their students. One of the paramount questions is to what extent and by which ways social interactions among individuals contribute to the observed population dynamics. The focus at Konnevesi Research Station has  during its whole ten years of existence  been on social mechanisms of small rodents. This article is a review of our pending studies. It rather soon turned out that population cycles take place in spite of stabilising social mechanisms, not because of them. Our studies uncovered correlation between social organisation and quality of food and habitat. This led to comparisons between species and among populations, calling for experimental research both in large outdoor enclosures and in detailed laboratory tests. The questions studied were the effect of familiarity of interacting individuals on population growth and spacing behaviour, comparison of dispersal patterns between Microtus and Clethrionomys, and the effects of odours of conspecific and heterospecific rodents and of predators on the reproduction of individual voles. Quite recently we have focused on predator-prey interactions between rodents and their main predators, mustelids and raptors. Results of these studies imply that behaviour of voles exhibits great phenotypic plasticity as response to changing environment.
23733652|In the northern Baltic a negative correlation has repeatedly been observed between the abundances of Pontoporeia (P. affinis and P. femorata) and Macoma baltica. The various views on the factors involved are discussed and predation on young Macoma by Pontoporeia, doubted in a recent paper by Ankar, is considered to offer the most likely explanation.
23736141|The action component of recognition systems is concerned with the response of an evaluator to perceived cues, based on the dissimilarity of those cues compared with a template. Building upon the historical focus on kin recognition, we apply the framework of conspecific acceptance thresholds to recognition in a broader sense, including interactions within and between organisms, between species, and between living and nonliving things. We review examples from a variety of taxa and recognition contexts to demonstrate when a discriminatory response is expected, and how this response may be flexible depending on the costs and benefits of recognition errors and the interaction rate with cue-bearers in a given environment. Investigation of response flexibility must incorporate natural and life history data as well as controlled laboratory studies whenever possible in order to separate flexibility due to perceptual differences from shifting acceptance thresholds.
23731626|The food of two crossbill species, Loxia curvirostra and L. leucoptera, and its chemical composition was studied in NE Lapland in late winter 1969. A total of 20 crop contents was examined. In addition, the chemical composition of spruce seeds originating from NE Lapland and southern Finland was studied. The food of the crossbills studied consisted of spruce seeds, seed wings and small pieces of cone scales. This matter contained 9.1 % of crude protein, whereas the crude protein contents of spruce seeds extracted from cones collected in the same area was 14.2 %. Spruce seeds originating from southern Finland contained more crude protein, digestible crude protein, crude fat, ash and phosphorus than those of northeastern Lapland, whereas the seeds from Lapland contained more organic matter, N-free organic matter and crude fibre than those of southern Finland. No differences could be found in the calcium, potassium and magnesium contents of the two seed groups. The great difference (29 %) recorded between the crude fat contents of the two spruce seed samples is especially noteworthy. The thousand-grain weight of seeds from Lapland was 1.3 g and that of seeds from southern Finland 5.1 g. It is concluded that crossbills must do much more work in northeastern Lapland than in southern Finland in order to ingest the same amount of nutrients.
23736053|The deposit-feeding Pontoporeia affinis (Lindstrm) and P. femorata (Kryer) (Crustacea, Amphipoda) are the dominant macrobenthic animals in deep soft bottom areas of the northern Baltic Sea. Their abundance, growth and life cycle vary according to local temperature and food conditions. Both species seem to be food-limited. In the Tvrminne area, on the southwest coast of Finland, the seasonal timing of growth differs between species, indicating either competition or differing food sources. Abiotic and biotic factors regulating Pontoporeia populations make up an inter-twined network, with numerous one-way effects and two-way interactions. For example, temperature and salinity limit the distribution of Pontoporeia, and temperature also directly affects the rates of feeding, respiration and growth; however, because of complicated food-web effects, the overall influence of temperature, as of any single factor, is difficult to evaluate. The omnivory of Pontoporeia on three successive levels (sediment detrital carbon, bacteria and meiofauna) confuses predator-prey and competitive relationships in the detritus-based benthic system. Calculations based on the observed growth and production show that Pontoporeia species must obtain most of their energy requirements from detrital carbon. Nonselective feeding by Pontoporeia decreases the populations of bacteria and the meiofauna, and thus probably releases Pontoporeia from their competition for the detrital carbon source, but at the same time decreases the availability of high quality food.
23734426|Changes in soluble proteins, esterases, and lipases during embryogenesis were examined in the cabbage butterfly, Pieris brassicae. The soluble proteins of 24-h eggs, estimated as ca. 11.7 g/egg, resolved into 17 bands on polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. A total of 23 bands were found in 72-h eggs. Four of the protein bands of 72-h eggs were identified as lipoproteins. A distinct increase was observed in the number of esterases during embryogenesis. Two esterase bands were found in 24-h eggs, eight in 72-h eggs, and eleven in newly hatched larvae. The egg esterases varied in their activity toward -naphthyl acetate and -naphthyl propionate. The results suggest that hydrolytic activity increases notably between 48 and 72 h; this conclusion is further supported by the presence of two lipase-like bands in 72-h eggs and newly hatched larvae. Electron microscopy showed that the lipid droplets were larger in embryonic fat body cells than in the yolk in the intestinal lumen. The possible role of the embryonic intestine in the absorption of yolk lipid is discussed.
23736777|The Colorado potato beetle (CPB), a serious pest of potato, is currently spreading north in Europe. We investigated the risk of CPB establishment in Finland and control methods for the case when beetle life history characters change due to global warming or as an adaptation to colder climate. Analysis with a spatially explicit simulation model supported the current management policy in Finland (efficient eradication and one year field quarantine) but changes in CPB viability, such as decreased winter mortality or increased number of offspring would render them inefficient. Longer quarantine times would be needed to effectively prevent the CPB establishment and spread. As an option we investigated Bt-potato cultivation integrated to other control methods and found that it was already efficient when used as a sole strategy but its benefits may be reduced by the adaptability of the Colorado potato beetle.
23735346|The incidence, timing and adaptive significance of multiple mating in female Drosophila littoralis and D. montana were studied under laboratory conditions. In both species almost all the females were willing to remate within six days, although D. littoralis females tend to remate later than the D. montana females. Previous copulation or the existence of live sperm in the female storage organs did not reduce female receptivity in D. montana. Multiple mating prevented the depletion of sperm stores in both species. The most adaptive reproductive strategy in both species was to defer remating for several days after the initial mating. Even so considerable numbers of females of both species remated within the same day, thus implying some other benefit associated with remating. Experiments with radioactively labelled sperm did not produce any evidence that sperm consumption provides nutrients for female nourishment or egg production. A female of D. littoralis could not assess the quality or level of fertility of prospective mates. More diverse offspring did not increase offspring production in either species. Differences in sperm precedence values between different male strains were found in D. littoralis. These differences were merely due to competition among sperm from the mating males for access to fertilization rather than preferential sperm utilization by the females. Other probable benefits and costs associated with multiple mating are discussed.
23731564|The morphological and histological changes with age in the baculum of the wood lemming, Myopus schisticolor (Lilljeb.), are described on the basis of 66 specimens captured in the wild and 55 reared in captivity. The bacula of the different stages can be distinguished on the basis of all the dimensions examined. Even in sexually mature animals there is a slow increase in the length of the baculum stalk, so the final stage is reached only in old mature specimens.
23734160|This paper examines the effects of population fluctuations of small mammals on the population dynamics (primarily on population fluctuations, clutch sizes and production of young of the Long-eared Owl Asio otus, Short-eared Owl A. flammeus, Kestrel Falco tinnunculus and Hen Harrier Circus cyaneus in the large (63 km2) field plain of Alajoki, western Finland (63 05 N, 22 55 E) in 1977-82. Altogether 315 nests or territories of birds of prey were found in the study area. The peak phase of population fluctuations of birds of prey occurred in 1977 (98 breeding pairs), thereafter the populations decreased continuously to about the tenth part in 1981 but a rapid increase occurred next spring (45 pairs). Asio flammeus was the most numerous bird of prey in Alajoki (39 % of the breeding pairs) followed by Falco tinnunculus (36 %), A. otus (20 %), Circus cyaneus (3 %), Tengmalm's Owl Aegolius funereus (2 %) and Sparrow Hawk Accipiter nisus (+). Field and Common Voles (Microtus agrestis and M. arvalis) emerged as the most important factors regulating population fluctuations, clutch sizes and the production of young in the birds of prey studied, because Microtus spp. are energetically advantageous prey species. Asio flammeus had the largest clutch size of birds of prey in Alajoki, followed by Falco tinnunculus, A. otus and Circus cyaneus, but population fluctuations were greatest in Circus cyaneus and Asio otus and clearly smaller in A. flammeus and Falco tinnunculus. These results seem to contradict the theoretical prediction that there is a positive correlation between clutch size and the degree of nomadism.
23736814|Incorporation of unrelated eggs into a clutch by incubating females (egg retrieval), which has an obvious adaptive value when female retrieves her own egg, seems to be also a part of the reproductive tactics related to brood parasitism. In open nesting waterfowl, the parasitic egg remains frequently outside the nest bowl after the parasitic event. Using time-lapse video recorders, we described experimentally the behavioural reaction of the common pochard (Aythya ferina) females towards an egg lying beside the nest. We tested whether the females discriminate between conspecific and heterospecific eggs (brown chicken eggs). All 16 experimental females retrieved both conspecific and heterospecific eggs. We found no apparent differences in female responses towards either egg type. The retrieval of alien eggs can be a result of an imperfect recognition ability of the female, anti-predation defence, or sophisticated tactic related to the brood parasitism. The last explanation seems to be less likely due to imperfect egg recognition abilities in the species.
23734151|The breeding ecology of a colour-ringed population of Blyth's Reed Warbler has been studied in Lappeenranta, SE Finland, since 1978. Nearly all nests were found and inspected daily from building to fledging. Polygyny was observed in a single year in a luxuriant meadow optimal for the species. One of the three polygynous males paired with two, another with three conspecific females; the third male paired with a conspecific and a female Marsh Warbler Acrocephalus palustris. Polygyny was polyterritorial and successive. The number of young that left the nest was over twice as large in polygamous as in monogamous males. Polygyny in other European Acrocephalus warblers is briefly discussed. In one species with small territories it was reported as being polyterritorial, in two other species with large territories as being monoterritorial. The breeding success of polygynous males in one species was better, in another less good than among monogamous males. Some evidence was found that females select males with optimal territories.
23736863|We collected ants in ten replicated habitat types of an urban island and described their assemblages using Non-metric Multidimensional Scaling and Multivariate Regression Trees. Lasius niger was the most abundant species, followed by Myrmica rubra, Formica fusca, L. flavus and L. platythorax; these species comprised 87% of all 1133 nests of the 16 species found. Ant assemblages changed gradually from open habitats to sites with closed tree canopy. Species most tolerant to urban pressure were L. niger, L. flavus and M. rugulosa, whereas forest-associated species were scarce or absent. Successful urban species had extensive (Palaearctic) or more limited (Euro-Siberian) distribution. Common and abundant habitat generalists were overrepresented relative to rural areas; these were also efficiently dispersing pioneer species with independent colony founding. Lack of suitable (micro)habitat apparently hampered colonization of many species. Competitively superior, territorial species were rare or absent, as were species dependent on dead wood, and many species depending on other ants. The indicated reorganization of interspecific competitive relationships may be due to selective impoverishment of the urban species pool. Comparison with other urban studies suggested that in ants, faunal homogenization has not taken place on a European scale.
23737159|Neutral theory focuses on random dispersal and species equivalence, and challenges views on the ecological importance of life history traits and habitat properties in explaining community assembly and the spatial distribution of species. Ground beetles are a popular model taxon to test predictions of contrasting macroecological theories. Here we investigate the effects of habitat properties and life history on the occurrence and community structure of 71 carabid beetle species inhabiting 15 lake islands in NE Poland. Island properties, particularly area and habitat quality, were positively linked to the occurrences of 42% of the species and correlated with species richness and -diversity. Life history traits (hibernation type, dispersal ability and average abundances) significantly influenced species occurrences. Thus, site and species properties influence the spatial distribution of species and macroecological patterns on islands.
23736783|We counted droppings of ungulates and hare on transects in order to assess (1) seasonal changes in detectability and disappearance of pellet groups, (2) whether the detectability varies according to the forest type, and (3) the degree of misidentification between pellets of roe deer (Capreolus capreolus) and red deer (Cervus elaphus). The summer decrease in detectability of pellet groups was the most important factor for all species but European bison (Bison bonasus). Detectability did not significantly depend on forest type. In summer, decay reduced significantly the dropping density of red deer, roe deer, wild boar (Sus scrofa) and European hare (Lepus europaeus) but not those of bison and moose (Alces alces). Misidentification of roe and red deer droppings did not influence much density estimates of red deer but resulted in an important overestimation of roe deer in areas were roe deer were much less common than red deer.
23735728|The growth of burbot in ultraoligotrophic Kilpisjrvi, a lake in northern Finland, is slow. The mean lengths of age-5 and age-9 burbot were 198 mm and 217 mm, respectively. Stomach contents of 45 burbot (144274 mm) and 331 whitefish (117345 mm) were analysed to determine any possible diet overlap between the studied species. According to logistic regressions, the main diet of burbot longer than 257 mm was fish, whereas the smallest burbot (< 165 mm) ingested mainly insect larvae. The length-dependent probabilities of burbot ingesting certain food items did not differ between the ice-covered and open-water periods. During the ice-covered period burbot preferentially preyed on molluscs, insect larvae and benthic crustaceans, while most whitefish smaller than 274 mm ingested zooplankton. During the open-water period, more than 50% of whitefish smaller than 191 mm ingested zooplankton, while those in the length interval 127244 mm preferred benthic crustaceans. The largest whitefish (> 294 mm) ingested insect larvae during the ice-covered period and insect pupae during the open water period. Independently of season, most large whitefish (> 274 mm) ingested molluscs. The diet overlap between burbot and whitefish was thus highest during the ice-covered period.
23731538|The age group composition of populations of some common fish species (Gobio gobio, Leuciscus cephalus, Cottus gobio and Nemacheilus barbatulus) inhabiting a small river of southwestern Finland is described. Conclusions concerning the growth of these and some additional species are drawn from this material collected by means of electrical fishing. Age determinations of Cottus gobio and Nemacheilus barbatulus from otoliths are described and the difficulties of interpreting the age rings are discussed.
23734069|The reproductive cycle of the common mussel, Mytilus edulis, was followed for one year from July 1978 to June 1979 from histological preparations of the mantle. Spawning occurred mainly in July, but individuals in spawning condition were found throughout the year. The most inactive time was from August to October, after which genital canals penetrated the mantle. The first ripe gametes emerged in February. The sex ratio was 1:1. Only two specimens out of 1832 individuals studied were hermaphrodites. No differences in the spawning periods were noted between age classes. Mussels of different age and size are found in different locations. Small, less than 3 mm long, individuals settle in filamentous algae outside the mussel field. About 95 % of animals attached to algae were under 3 mm long, while only 0.2 % of those settled in the mussel field were of this size.
23735883|Many plantinsect interactions show spatial structure at a hierarchy of scales. We investigate population turnover at different spatial scales in two specialist insect herbivores that feed on tansy, Tanacetum vulgare, in the Tvrminne archipelago in southwestern Finland. Colonies of both aphid species form on individual ramets and in addition to the level of ramets, individuals cluster at the levels of the genet, groups of plants, and islands in the archipelago. Colonisations and extinctions were observed at all spatial levels studied. Mean persistence times in both species ranged from less than five weeks at the level of the ramet to less than 20 weeks at the level of islands, such that aphids over-wintered on only a fraction of the islands in the archipelago. Our field study suggests that aphids on tansy form a hierarchically structured metapopulation where longer-term persistence is only possible at the level of the archipelago.
23734109|A total of 18 species of parasitic worms belonging to ten families and three classes (Trematoda, Cestoda and Nematoda) were recovered from the following species of terrestrial rodents in Finland: Clethrionomys glareolus, C. rutilus, C. rufocanus, Microtus agrestis, M. oeconomus, Arvicola terrestris and Apodemus flavicollis. The helminths found were determined as follows: Trematoda: Plagiorchis elgans (Rud., 1802), Notocotylus sp.; Cestoda: Hydatigera taeniaeformis (Batsch, 1786) larvae, Taenia tenuicollis Rud., 1829 larvae, Cladotaenia globifera (Batsch, 1786) larvae, Anoplocephaloides sp., Paranoplocephala spp., Catenotaenia spp.; Nematoda: Heligmosomum mixtum (Schulz, 1952), H. costellatum (Dujardin, 1845), H. yamagutii Chabaud, Rausch, Durette-Desset, 1963, Boreostrongylus minutus (Dujardin, 1845), Syphacia stroma (Linstow, 1884), S. petrusewiczi Bernard, 1960, S. nigeriana Baylis, 1929, Angiostrongylus (P.) dujardini Drozdz & Doby, 1970, Capillaria sp., Mastophorus muris (Gmelin, 1790). With the exception of H. taeniaeformis, all species are recorded for the first time in Finland and with the exception of that species and all species of the genus Syphacia, these are first records in Fennoscandia.
23731650|Sarcosaprophagous flies were reared from eggs to adults on fish containing 0.14, 0.17, 0.47 and 1.90 ppm of mercury. The transfer of mercury from the food to the larvae was followed by activation analysis. When fed on fish of the two lowest (natural) levels of mercury, the fly larvae had the same mercury content as their food. With a mercury content of 0.47 ppm in the fish the full-grown fly larvae had 0.62 ppm, whilst with a mercury content of 1.90 ppm in the fish the full-grown larvae contained 6.90 ppm, which is a clear indication of bioaccumulation. It is suggested that fly larvae are capable of inhibiting the bioaccumulation of mercury only if it is present in the food in normal concentrations. When, for a short period the larvae were given mercury-contaminated (9.07 - 10.62 ppm) adult flies as food their mercury content rose from low level to 11.40 ppm. Because of the weight loss caused by evaporation and respiration during the pupal stage, the mercury content of the adult flies was about 1  times as high as that of the full-grown larvae. Free-living fly populations in general had low mercury contents (0.02 - 0.06 ppm), except for one sample (0.50 ppm) collected on the shore of a mercury-polluted lake at a place where fish is regularly cleaned.
23735341|Developmental stadia of newly moulted individuals of Choneiulus palmatus and Nopoiulus kochii were determined on the basis of the defence glands. The numbers of ocelli and their relative positions also were determined. The first stadium is eyeless, and one ocellus is present in the 2nd stadium. In later moults 0 or 1 and very rarely 2 new ocelli can be formed. In initial moults the probabilities of different types were constant, but after the 7th stadium the probability of a moult without a new ocellus increased strongly, the maximal number of ocelli observed being nine. In 24% of the 497 and 429 individuals of C. palmatus and N. kochii studied, respectively, the eyes had different numbers of ocelli, the maximal asymmetry being in C. palmatus 2 (8 individuals) and in N. kochii 3 (1 individual). The ocular field contains three anterioposterior rows of possible ocular locations, and new ocelli are added at the anterior border of the eye, usually in locations adjacent to already occupied locations. The first ocelli usually form a single row, then new ocelli are added laterally, and all three rows are usually occupied in older individuals. In C. palmatus in 72% of cases growth starts in the ventral row, in 24% in the middle and in 4% in the dorsal row. In N. kochii the respective percentages were 45%, 40% and 15%.
23736521|One hypothesis for the maintenance of the edge of a species' range suggests that more central (and abundant) populations are relatively stable and edge populations are less stable with increased local extinction and turnover rates. To date, estimates of such metrics are equivocal due to design and analysis flaws. Apparent increased estimates of extinction and turnover rates at the edge of range, versus the interior, could be a function of decreased detection probabilities alone, and not of a biological process. We estimated extinction and turnover rates for species at the interiors and edges of their ranges using an approach which incorporates potential heterogeneity in species detection probabilities. Extinction rates were higher at the edges (0.17  0.03 [$\hat{\mathrm{S}\mathrm{E}}$]) than in the interiors (0.04  0.01), as was turnover. Without taking the probability of detection into account these differences would be artificially magnified. Knowledge of extinction and turnover rates is essential in furthering our understanding of range dynamics, and in directing conservation efforts. This study further illustrates the practical application of methods proposed recently for estimating extinction rates and other community dynamic parameters.
23734276|The study presents autumnal movements of herring gulls, based on a total of 1633 ring recoveries of birds ringed mainly on the southern and southwestern coasts of Finland. Although strictly migratory in a conventional sense, these gulls exploit areas fairly close to the breeding area during August-October. Upon leaving the colonies, juvenile first year birds, to some extent disperse in various directions, but very few reach the main wintering area during early autumn. The recoveries centre around urban areas. Breeding adults seem to participate in this dispersal to a lesser extent. The analysis of postnesting dispersal in adults is hampered by birds that have dispersed prior to the autumn period, i.e. birds breeding far from their natal colony. Of a total of 325 recoveries of adults in May-June, some 20 % are reported from locations > 100 km from the natal colony. It is suggested, on the basis of recoveries made on refuse dumps, that adults primarily exploit the nearest possible feeding sites upon leaving the colony. The use of dumps is considered to be important. Immature (2-3 rd year) birds that do not breed exploit a wide area in late summer and autumn. The areas exploited coincide with that used by dispersing first year gulls. Second year herring gulls, in particular, seem to shift to areas near the main wintering area much earlier than any other age-class. The pattern observed in 4-5th year birds resembles that of adults. There is thought to be spatial segregation between different age-classes during this period.
23731615|The fish populations of 32 oligotrophic Finnish ponds, 0.6  64 ha in size and most of them without outlets, were poisoned by rotenone, and the numbers and biomasses of the fish species were calculated. Age determinations of perch, made chiefly by the scale method, proved difficult, but the mean lengths of one-, two-, and three-summer-old perch were estimated as 5.6, 9,5, and 12.4 cm, respectively. In one pond all the perch were six summers old and of the same size, in others the age groups were uniformly represented. During the first few summers the growth rate is the same as in larger waters, but later on it slows down and may nearly cease. The very different growth rates are probably correlated with the availability of food. Since the growth rate of older perch was high if perch young were available, it is concluded that the young form an important part of the food. The average biomass of perch in the ponds investigated was 11.9 (1.8  41.3) kg/ha. In ponds with a high number of one-summer-old perch the biomass was smaller on the average than in ponds with few or no young. A new age group usually forms when there are few mature perch. The biomass of perch was significantly smaller in ponds with a reproducing roach population than in ponds without roach. The biomass of perch tends to decrease with increasing number of fish species. It is concluded that the size of each age group and the variation in the perch biomass mainly depend on the size and composition of the populations of perch and other fish. Although many mechanisms may be involved, the main factors affecting the perch populations in the ponds studied are biotic  predation upon perch young by perch, roach, pike and burbot, and the availability of suitable food.
23736722|The social organisation of a population of Microtus agrestis was studied by trapping and radiotracking in southern England. There was no significant variation in male home-range size during the breeding season or between years but there was significant variation in core areas between years but not during the breeding season. There was no significant relationship with male density and core area size but there was a significant increase in home range size as density decreased. There were no significant correlations between home-range size and body mass. In both 1995 and 1996, there was an increase in mean exclusivity of core areas that coincided with an increase in nearest neighbour distances as the breeding season progressed suggesting a territorial social system. Male residency was transient and recruitment of female offspring influenced residency.
23734553|The structure of the digestive tract in Sphaeriidae conforms well to the bivalve general pattern. Intergeneric variation was found in the length of the alimentary canal (2.5 times shell length in Sphaerium, 2.0 times in Pisidium). Interspecific variation occurred in the structure of e.g. the labial palps and the digestive diverticulae, mainly between the neotenic Pisidium conventus and other members of the genus.
23731641|Age determinations based on periosteal growth lines have been compared with body weight and with the lengths of the body, hind foot, and tooth rows in 67 hedgehogs collected in southern Finland in 1960  1961. None of these dimensions can be used in place of growth lines as a measure of age; even in their first autumn some yearlings reach nearly the same size as older animals. In the present collection the number of animals decreased from their fourth winter. The oldest specimen was killed during its seventh winter.
23735637|Arguments regarding the appropriate form for the rate at which consumers extract biomass from resource populations hinge on relative time scales of underlying processes. Some ecologists argue that, because differential equation models imply instantaneous rates of change, time scale arguments do not hold. Here we point out that this reasoning is fallacious. We define three natural time scales for consumer-resource interactions and demonstrate, using asymptotic methods of analysis, how relative differences in these scales lead to the formulation of models with qualitatively distinct dynamics. Further, we identify time scale and resource heterogeneity assumptions that constrain the R* competition rule (i.e., the competitor that suppresses the resource to the lowest density excludes all other competitors), as well as clarify the dichotomy between Schoener's models of competition for overlapping and for partitioned resources.
23731816|From data obtained by the Standard Minimum method of trapping, the total numbers of animals born during the reproductive seasons of 1967  1969 were estimated. Natality was lowest in the Vaccinio myrtilli  Pinetum forest. Production and relative stability of numbers from year to year were highest in the mixed forest. The survival rate of juveniles varied from 30 to 47 % for the four study habitats. The values calculated for reproduction and survival are compared with other estimates reported in the literature.
23732264|Consumption by larvae of Dineura was estimated by two methods to be 830 and 613 mg/m2 per season at the same site. It is concluded that results from larvae reared in the laboratory under field temperatures give values applicable to field populations. Temperature had a strong effect upon food intake, which near + 10 C followed the rule Q10 = 2. At constant temperature the rate of feeding was practically the same as in naturally varying temperatures with the same mean. If animals in ecdysis and near pupation are excluded from the materials, consumption is more than 35 % higher than in a calculation where the above phases are included.
23735831|In cyclic vole populations the body size of voles tends to vary with population density, voles being smaller in the decline and low density phases than in the peak phase of the cycle. We have studied this 'Chitty effect' using field measurements of vole (Microtus agrestis, M. rossiaemeridionalis) body size and predator densities, and laboratory experiments on the minimum passable hole size for voles and their major predator, weasels (Mustela nivalis nivalis). We found that many voles can pass through smaller holes than the smallest weasels, which implies that these small voles can have a refuge from weasel predation. Consequently, predation pressure is expected to be greater on larger voles. In the field we found a negative association between the mean body size of voles and weasel abundance. Our laboratory and field results suggest that size selective predation might be an important cause of the observed smaller size of voles in the decline phase of cycles.
23734698|Tooth wear was studied in 1040 S. araneus and 201 S. minutus in Southern Finland. Total height, as well as the absolute and relative amount of tooth pigment, was measured from the first molar in the lower jaw (M1). During the whole life span of the shrews, the average tooth wear/month is 39 m in S. araneus and 26 m in S. minutus. However, clear differences in tooth wear exist between year classes: wear is almost twice as fast in sexually mature overwintered adults as in immature current-year juveniles. This difference is even greater in the relative height of tooth pigment (pigment index). Differences between age groups in tooth hardness or in the amount or quality of food eaten are suggested. There is sexual dimorphism in tooth measurements (significant in S. araneus): males have lower means in tooth height and in pigment index especially for adults. In juvenile shrews, great differences in tooth height, pigment index and body size exist between years, tending to be higher during rainy summers. This probably is a results of different availability of food between years, resulting in differences in tooth size or tooth wear, or both. Method of measuring tooth height is a better method for differentiating year classes than the method for measuring tooth pigment. The amount of tooth pigment exhibits sexual dimorphism and is more susceptible to measuring errors.
23734850|Foraging dynamics of Bombus lucorum and B. lapidarius was followed during summer 1979 at Mekrijrvi, eastern Finland. These species are close in terms of proboscis length (B. lucorum 9.3 mm, queens; B. lapidarius 10.3 mm) and they are the two most abundant species (43 % and 38 % of observations) out of the total of 11 species present at the study area. Food niche overlap vs. proboscis length differences suggest that species in this community cluster to those utilizing flowers with intermediate corolla tube depths and to those frequenting flowers with short corolla tubes. This corresponds to the frequency distribution of available corolla tube depths for bumblebees. In the course of the summer food niche overlaps between queens of B. lucorum and B. lapidarius are smaller than expected on the basis of random foraging on available flowers, while in workers observed weekly niche overlaps are mostly larger than expected, or not distinguishable from random foraging. During the summer B. lucorum has two peaks of abundance while B. lapidarius peaks only once (in between B. lucorum peaks). These periods of abundance coincide with the activity times of workers. It follows that the temporal overlap between workers is low (0.34) whereas queens (0.73) and males (0.78) overlap more intensively.
23737044|Failure to detect a species in an area where it is present is a major source of error in biological surveys. We assessed whether it is possible to optimize single-visit biological monitoring surveys of highly dynamic freshwater ecosystems by framing them a priori within a particular period of time. Alternatively, we also searched for the optimal number of visits and when they should be conducted. We developed single-species occupancy models to estimate the monthly probability of detection of pond-breeding amphibians during a four-year monitoring program. Our results revealed that detection probability was species-specific and changed among sampling visits within a breeding season and also among breeding seasons. Thereby, the optimization of biological surveys with minimal survey effort (a single visit) is not feasible as it proves impossible to select a priori an adequate sampling period that remains robust across years. Alternatively, a two-survey combination at the beginning of the sampling season yielded optimal results and constituted an acceptable compromise between sampling efficacy and survey effort. Our study provides evidence of the variability and uncertainty that likely affects the efficacy of monitoring surveys, highlighting the need of repeated sampling in both ecological studies and conservation management.
23731598|A mass occurrence of the fieldfare (Turdus pilaris L.) in Finland in the winter of 1964/65 is described and an analysis of its causes is presented. It is suggested that a significant part of the breeding population did not migrate in the autumn because the berry crop of the mountain ash was exceptionally good and, moreover, because the autumn was very mild and the snow cover delayed. Emigration only started when the food supply was exhausted. Some data on other thrushes (blackbird, redwing, song-thrush, mistle-thrush) are included, and the winter migration of the waxwing is briefly discussed.
23735798|In this study, we surveyed habitat characteristics of the Siberian flying squirrel in northern Finland. Forest structure in currently occupied sites was compared with random forest sites within the same old-growth forest area. We also studied whether the same habitat selection patterns can be detected directly from satellite images at the home-range scale. For this purpose we analysed forest characteristics that were associated with habitat use of radio-tracked individuals. Field survey showed that sites used by flying squirrels were in mixed spruce dominated forests with a relatively large amount of mature deciduous trees (particularly aspen). Similarly, the preference to mature spruce and avoidance of pine within home-ranges were also detectable from satellite images but the importance of deciduous trees was not perceived in this analysis. This study suggests that satellite imagery data provide a tool for finding potential forest sites for the Siberian flying squirrel in northern Finnish forest landscapes. However, our results also emphasise the need to develop GIS techniques further to identify very small scale forest characteristics more accurately and reliably than is possible at present.
23734092|Recently proposed metrical and geographic evidence for the presence of two sub-species of lions (Panthera leo Linnaeus 1758) during the Upper Pleistocene in Europe is examined in comparison with measurements made on modern specimens of known sex and a consideration of the sexual composition of modern adult lion groups. On the basis of these comparisons, the bimodal distributions observed in measurements made on fossil specimens and the presence of single size groups at certain sites are argued to support sexual dimorphism rather than sub-speciation as a preferred interpretation. Potential palaeoecological and palaeoethological insights likely to be obscured by incorrect interpretation of bimodality and size-group temporal and geographic distributions are discussed.
23736124|The changes in distribution of Daphnia longispina, D. magna and D. pulex on a group of islands containing 507 rock-pools were followed over a three-year period with at least two samples per year. Of the pools 48 % were inhabited at least during some period and two-species coexistence was observed in 12 % of the pools. The distribution of invasions (155 cases) corresponded closely to the expected frequencies calculated as the product of frequencies of occupied and unoccupied patches. Empty pools and those occupied by other species were invaded with equal probability. Median distances to the closest source area were the same (5  9 m) in all species, but distances of up to 500 m were recorded. Of the populations existing at the start of the study 25  30 % became extinct, whereas 80 % of the populations established during the first study year and 33 % of those established during the second year disappeared. It is suggested that the distribution of daphnids is maintained by populations inhabiting favourable rock-pools. From these source areas hazardous marginal areas are continuously invaded, but with little success.
23736757|Polistes venom is a complex secretion that has several functions in the social organization of a colony. The defensive function as an allomone against vertebrate and invertebrate enemies is enhanced with antimicrobial properties. Its role in chemical communication is multi-faceted as it contains both alarm and sexual pheromones, but can also have cues which are important both for nestmate and caste recognition, as well as for hibernacula marking. Research on venom chemistry is extremely important for both the establishment of specific immunotherapy for allergic patients and for the discovery of new molecules with pharmacological activity. Venom composition can also provide important characters for taxonomical and phylogenetical studies.
23735582|We studied the kin structure in schools of juvenile three-spined sticklebacks (Gasterosteus aculeatus) using allozymes as genetic markers. Young of the three-spined stickleback stay in their natal nest for several days after hatching. They thus have an opportunity to associate with kin when leaving the nest for independent life. Juveniles have also been shown to preferentially associate with kin in laboratory conditions, and furthermore, schools of free-ranging juveniles are size-assorted, all suggesting that schools might consist of relatives in the wild. However, our data show no close relatedness among individuals within the schools, indicating that school members are a random sample from the genetic pool of the population. The result therefore suggests that, despite young sticklebacks' apparent opportunity to group with kin, their school formation in the wild is not tightly linked with genetic relatedness.
23734222|Laboratory work concerning two aspects of sexual maturation, social regulation of maturation in males and fertility during the pubertal period in females, is summarized. Social regulation of puberty of male Clethrionomys glareolus was studied in cyclic animals from North Sweden and non-cyclic ones from South Sweden. Presence of other males influence male puberty differently in these animals. If young males are kept in groups of two or four, puberty is delayed in cyclic, but not in non-cyclic males. If, on the other hand, young males are exposed to unfamiliar mature males, non-cyclic males are suppressed, while cyclic ones are unaffected, or possibly even stimulated. These results indicate that different mechanisms for density regulation of maturation have evolved in these two populations. Pubertal female Clethrionomys often show a period of sterility with several non-fertile matings before the first fertile one. It is not clear whether the phenomenon is density-dependent. Field data for C. glareolus indicate that a period of sterility is common in both non-cyclic and cyclic populations, and that it is equally common in all years in cyclic populations. Studies on other species suggest that the phenomenon is more common in peak years. Laboratory studies show that this probably is not due to pregnancy block. Sterile matings are seen also when the studied male is left with the female after mating. Young females appear to need more copulatory stimulation than one normal mating for activation of the corpora lutea of pregnancy. The sterile matings may be a method of accelerating puberty: the fertility of young females is higher if they have experienced one or two sterile matings.
23735630|Wild guinea pigs are neotropical, diurnal, herbivorous rodents which frequently inhabit field borders. They use borders as protection from predators and forage in adjacent fields. We studied the relationship between the height of field vegetation and cavy density along the border. Animal distribution was determined by an indirect method based on counting the number of faeces in circular sample units. We sampled 60 units on a 1800-m line transect placed on field borders five times between July and December 1991, at intervals of 32 to 43 days. Cavy density was highest where vegetation height in the foraging areas was lowest. This relationship was most strong in July (winter) and was progressively lost with plant growth. We interpretated these results as the population expression of individual strategies for solving the trade-off between foraging and predation risk: individual guinea pigs (1) should select a home range with shelter for daily inactive periods given by the field border, and with an adjacent rich area of very short grass to forage; and (2) should reduce danger in open areas by behavioural adaptations.
23737211|Humanbear conflicts occur frequently in the Pasvik Valley, Norway. We used a variant of the hair-trapping method with higher densities of traps (2.5  2.5 km grid) to detect brown bears moving near human settlements and livestock. We distributed 20 hair traps for one month close to a farm with frequent observations of grazing bears. The study area consisted of one area close to the farm, and one adjacent area without settlements. We collected 85 hair samples and identified 13 different individuals by STR analysis. In the farm area, we detected 4 different males once, and a female that was detected in both areas. In comparison, nine bears (2 males and 7 females) were detected for more than one week in the area without settlements, suggesting lower roaming activity. Conclusively, hair trapping has the potential to survey bears at specific locations of importance to the wildlife management.
23734102|The intra- and interspecific variation of certain felid species belonging to, or morphologically related to, the genus Lynx is studied with the help of bivatiate and multivariate statistical methods. With this as a base, the major evolutionary patterns within Lynx are outlined and interpreted. The genus Lynx is considered to be of African origin. Its earliest occurrence is early or mid Pliocene. This species, L. issiodorensis, had lynx-like dental features, but skeletally resembled Felis. It migrated into the Northern Hemisphere and gave rise to several species. In Europe, L. pardina is a direct descendant of L. issiodorensis. This transition is found to have involved a gradual reduction in size and relative lengthening of M1, through the intermediates L.i. valdarnensis (ssp. n.) and L.p. spelaea. In Asia, L. issiodorensis gave rise to L. lynx. This latter species migrated into Europe and North America, on the latter continent giving rise to L. canadensis. The differences between L. lynx and its ancestor and descendant are studied and interpreted. In North America, L. issiodorensis gave rise to L. rufus. The first appearance of Lynx in North America coincides with a postulated 2.6 Ma. mammalian dispersal event. Other Blancan Lynx species are reviewed. L. compressus is incorporated into L. rufus, while L. calcaratus is separated into two groups, one incorporated into L. rufus, and the other tentatively into F. yaguaroundi. The caracal differs considerably from Lynx, particularly in the relative size of the postorbital constriction. No evidence for a close phylogenetic relationship between Caracal and Lynx has been found. Very little sexual dimorphism was found in Lynx. Geographical variation was also found to be small, and it is suggested that the subspecies of recent Lynx are in need of thorough revision.
23731590|Thirty-two species of Enchytraeidae collected in 1968 are listed, and data about the habitats of each species are given. Earlier records of enchytraeids from Greenland are revised and the zoogeographical features of Greenland are discussed. The following new taxa are described: Henlea glandulifera, Bryodrilus parvus, Enchytraeus subitus, Lumbricillus kalatdlitus, and L. imakus. Some features of a probably new species of Mesenchytraeus are also reported.
23736026|During the breeding season, fishes may be confronted with the conflicting demands of avoiding predators, feeding, mating, and providing parental care. I constructed a series of three stochastic dynamic-programming models that explore these conflicting demands in terms of tradeoffs between present and future reproduction. The state variables were parental state (i.e. energy reserves) and nest state (i.e. number and age of offspring). The tradeoffs were built in as behaviour dependent coefficients that reduce parental and offspring survival, and as behaviour dependent increments or decrements to parental energy reserves. I found that as parental energy reserves increase, courtship and parental care both increase; whereas, feeding decreases. However, as offspring number or age increases, parental care increases, and mating and feeding both decrease. Thus, with respect to parental state, feeding is traded off against reproduction (i.e. mating and caring); however, with respect to nest state, mating and caring are traded off against each other. These results may provide insights into such phenomena as van Iersel's parental phase (1953); that is, after some combinations of clutch number and age, parental male fishes cease courtship and and show heightened levels of parental care.
23737089|Fecal sexual estradiol (E 2 ) and progesterone (P 4 ) analyses were conducted on three adult female Formosan black bears in order to establish non-invasive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA) for describing the endocrine profile in a simulated natural breeding environment. Moreover, we investigated whether the Formosan black bear living in subtropical habitats in Taiwan is a seasonal breeder with delayed embryo implantation, ovulation pattern, and maternal perinatal fasting. Our results indicate that mating behavior occurred both before and after the fecal E 2 peak of MarchJune. Fecal P 4 concentrations initially increased after mating, then decreased to lower levels, and finally increased again, which is indicative of a delayed embryo-implantation. Fecal P 4 levels decreased postpartum. Peaks of fecal P 4 levels were also observed in unmated female bears housed with male bears without coitus: their annual fecal P 4 levels were higher from winter to spring, similar to the pregnant female bear. Interestingly, only pregnant female bears displayed a physiological state of fasting before and after parturition. These results suggest that Formosan black bears' breeding is seasonal and takes place from spring to early summer. Delayed implantation, maternal perinatal fasting and induced ovulation from male stimulation independent of coital stimulation alone are typical for the species.
23734460|The inner nest temperature in field colonies of ants of the F. rufa group was studied with thermograph recordings and spot sampling. The observations indicate that in colonies with a worker complement exceeding 1 million, nest-warming after winter could start as an autocatalytic process and hence may not require triggering by sunning behaviour. In the colony studied with the thermograph the intranest temperature remained at a stable level, near 30C in late spring and summer, even when the outside temperature temporarily dropped below freezing point. A slight "overshoot" or increase in inner nest temperature, was evident, however, when the outside temperature dropped below the threshold for ant activity in spring. It was found that nests later producing sexuals maintain a significantly higher inner temperature in spring than nests later producing only worker broods. The nest-warming effect of insolation is considered more important in small or weak colonies, whereas endogenous nest heating, based on the metabolism of the ants and their clustering behaviour, is more compatible with the observations in the case of vigorous colonies. The recordings suggest that a capacity for social thermoregulation is a cause of thermal stability in red wood ant nests.
23733708|The bird community breeding on farmlands in land (about 60N, 20E), SW Finland, was studied semiquantitatively in the 1920s and 1930s, and quantitatively (by line transect censuses) in 197577. Owing to the low accuracy of the older data, only striking changes could be detected; the relative densities of most species had not changed greatly since the 1920s. Emberiza hortulana had decreased catastrophically: the former index figure was 5, but the present one only 0.1 A similar decrease has been observed in Sweden, but not on the mainland of Finland. The data also indicate considerable decreases in Oenanthe oenanthe and Carduelis cannabina. The relation between the population changes observed and changes in agricultural practices is discussed; changes in the tropical winter quarters may be a more important cause of the decrease in E. hortulana (and possibly O. oenanthe). Sturnus vulgaris has increased considerably from the 1920s to the 1970s, in keeping with the general expansion of the species in Finland.
43923475|Since in laboratory experiments a relationship between segment number and temperature in geophilomorph centipedes has been proven, we suggest that climatic variation in nature could have a direct effect on segment number. To address this hypothesis we examine the way in which local climatic factors in Sognefjord  air temperature and precipitation both changing along a longitudinal gradient  exert their effect on segment number in Geophilus flavus. Changes in G. flavus segment number along the climatic gradient are similar to that found in previous laboratory experiments with Strigamia maritima, but are even more pronounced. In G. flavus, a 1.5 difference in the mean segment number is found in populations that occur in Sognefjord along a temperature gradient of only about 1.4 C. In contrast, several degrees centigrade were required to produce a similar increase in the mean segment number in laboratory experiments involving S. maritima.
23737109|The stinging pattern of a predatory wasp is a behavioural trait, affecting the possible evolutionary changes of its niche, e.g. widening or shifting the prey spectrum. We tested the hypothesis that the ability of a predator to adjust its handling effort to the size of prey is a species-specific trait, the parameters of which depend on the size and size range of the exploited prey. We found that wasps better adjust their stinging effort to prey size if they hunt relatively larger or relatively more variable prey. This adaptability differs amongst neighbouring phylogenetic lineages. We presume that evolution of prey-handling behaviour may result in two types of tactics: the first, an application of precise techniques for optimal prey immobilization, little dependent on prey size and typical of specialists. The second tactic typical of generalists is a less precise handling, causing more general damage to the prey with an intensity dependent on its size.
23736961|In order to estimate small mammal diversity in Warsaw we analysed pellets of tawny owls inhabiting green areas. Altogether we found 21 species of mammals (9 species in the city centre and 19 on the outskirts). In the central zone the largest share was comprised of striped field mouse, house mouse and rats, while species connected to forest and open areas dominated in the outskirts.
23736911|Population-based genetic association studies are increasingly used to explore the association between genetic polymorphisms and outcomes such as disease-status and disease-related quantitative traits. Because multiple polymorphisms are typically available, there are several statistical analysis strategies that might be appropriate depending on the goal of the study. In this paper, we compare several linear model parameterizations that might be used to perform a test of association between a genomic region defined by multiple SNPs and a quantitative trait. We compare via simulation the type I error and power of the omnibus F-test to detect association. As expected, there is no one most powerful test across the genetic models we considered, although tests based on simple parameterizations that do not rely on phase information can be as powerful as more complicated haplotype-based tests even when it is a haplotype that is truly associated with the trait.
23735380|The valve movement of two unionid mussel species, Anodonta anatina and Unio tumidus, was recorded with the aid of a digital monitoring system in a eutrophic lake in southern Finland. The animals were in their natural environment at the bottom of the lake, where they moved freely. The mussels were monitored for 22 days. Both species displayed a diurnal rhythm of valve gaping, although the rhythm was much more pronounced in Anodonta anatina. The state of openness of the shell was highest at night and lowest in the morning. The valve openness of Unio tumidus was greater than that of A. anatina, which was mainly due to the fact that the former species seldom has its valves fully closed. The rate of valve movement was significantly greater in A. anatina than in U. tumidus. There were significant long term fluctuations in valve openness for both species.
23734511|The capture efficiency of a 1500 cm2 hydraulic suction sampler was evaluated in comparison with a 157 cm2 corer in sampling eggs of Coregonus albula (L.). Samples were taken from soft and hard bottoms in three different types of lake in eastern Finland. The overall mean per m2 was higher with the corer (38.4), but the difference was not significant (4.2 eggs per m2).
23735824|Butterfly communities were studied along field boundaries in agricultural habitats in Finnish and Russian Karelia. A total of 34 sites represented typical arable land in both countries, i.e. modern cereal and forage cultivation in Finland (n = 17) and old fashioned hay cultivation in Russia (n = 17). Transect count data obtained over three years (19971999) consisted of 55 species and 11 759 individuals: 53 species and 5382 individuals in Finland, and 49 species and 6377 individuals in Russia. Despite various differences in the long-term exploitation of arable land, the species composition and the total abundance of butterflies were rather similar in both countries, but the species richness and diversity were higher in Finland. The different structure of agricultural landscapes and differences between the two countries as regards the distribution of field vegetation and cultivation practices in the studied habitats were regarded as the main factors responsible for the result being contradictory to the authors' expectations.
23734478|Eggs of crucian carp (Carassius carassius (L.)) were fertilized and incubated at different constant temperatures in the laboratory. The eggs hatched normally at 1528C but died at 510 and 30C. The shortest embryonic development time (<3 days) was achieved at 2428C. In two natural ponds in Eastern Finland, eggs hatched in six days at 1819C. Exogenous feeding started at 6.57.2 mm, after 24 days development at 2030C. The growth of young fish was followed 5064 days at five experimental temperatures (1030C). The fastest growth in this period (0.32 mm/day) was achieved at 28.5C. Growth of 0.10.2 mm/day was observed at 1520C. but none at 10C. Growth during the first year of life in a natural population was monitored by examining size distributions of fish samples. The lengths in the 0+ age group varied from 2.510.5 cm (mean = 6.3 cm, mean weight = 4.9 g) at the end of September. Rapid growth (0.40.8 mm/day) between June and September is believed to be primarily due to low population density and reduced intraspecific competition for food after the experimental removal of the population in the previous year.
23735501|In several taxa regional species richness typically decreases towards the poles. However, the species richness of Old World sawflies (Hymenoptera, Symphyta) shows the opposite latitudinal trend, so that species richness is highest in the north. Among the forest-dwelling insect groups, aphids also make a similar exception to the general pattern. We examine the hypothesis put forward by Dixon et al. (1987) on the reversed gradient of aphids. Both sawflies and aphids are highly host-specific, which is in accordance with the hypothesis. However, other life history traits of sawflies do not fit Dixon et al.'s hypothesis. We propose that the increase in sawfly species richness is due to the increase in the diverse community of their principal host plant group, the Salix species. In general, the groups with high species richness in a particular area should deserve special attention in an analysis of diversity and ecosystem properties and functioning. It is possible that sawflies form such a group in northern boreal forests.
23736020|Using three-spined sticklebacks, we examine the consequences of foraging in groups for the individual fish. Firstly, the number of prey eaten per fish increases with the number of fish in the school, which suggests that sticklebacks benefit from schooling. Secondly, the feeding rate increases with body size. Thirdly, when foraging alone, both small and large fish clearly prefer large prey items to small ones, but the presence of a competitor alters size selectivity. Minor changes are observed in the rates of feeding on two prey sizes when two small or two large fish are foraging together. The effect of a competitor is most notable, however, when a small fish is foraging with a large fish  the small fish switches to eating smaller prey. In the presence of a small fish, a large stickleback selects more large prey items than when foraging with a large fish. Intraspecific competitive ability thus appears to be size-dependent. These observations suggest that, when schooling, it pays for small sticklebacks to group with small fish. On the other hand, a large fish also seems to do better in association with smaller fish than in schools of uniformly large fish. To examine the validity of this conclusion we ran two different experiments. First, when five small and five large fish were released together into an arena, the fish split into two schools after 36 min. In the newly formed schools, small fish frequently consorted with small fish and large with large. After 910 min, the pattern was well pronounced. Second, fish of different size were allowed to chose between schools of large and small fish. Small fish tended to associate with the school of small fish while large fish were most often seen with large fish. Finally, we discuss whether these results are sufficient proof of assortative schooling (i.e., two phenotypes associating with fish of their own type) in three-spined sticklebacks.
23731600|In foetuses and in postnatally developing NMRI mice the highest glycogen concentration 19.71 mg/g, was measured just prior to birth. After birth, the content fell rapidly. In 1-day old young it was only 1.46 mg/g. After the age of 5 days, exposure to low but not hypothermic temperatures stimulated glycogenolysis. One-day-old young did not respond to injected glucagon, but responded to injected adrenaline. In the older age groups tested both these hormones had stimulating effects. After injection of these hormones, thermoregulation at ambient temperatures below the thermoneutral zone did not improve until the age of 15 days. Phosphorylase is already active and responsive to adrenaline on the first day after birth, although its activity is only about 30 % of the value at the age of 2 weeks.
23736802|Allozyme electrophoresis is a common tool to analyse the genetic structure of populations with a focus on conservation and biogeography. An essential requirement for biogeographical analyses is the independence of the applied methods from ecological selection processes. We surveyed the genetic population structure of Coenonympha pamphilus as a model species to validate allozym electrophoresis as a method for such studies. We analysed 106 individuals of C. pamphilus of the Monte Baldo region (southern Alps, Italy) at different altitudes and 82 individuals from two populations north of the Alps (Germany). The FST among all populations was 9.7% but no significant differentiation was observed along the altitudinal gradient in the Monte Baldo region. Our results revealed no influence of the climate on the allozyme frequencies, thus excluding a major importance of recent selection processes for the observed differentiations. These results support the suitability of allozyme electrophoresis for biogeographical studies.
23731592|The paper is a continuation of an earlier study by the senior author on male sexual behaviour in Stictochironomus (= Allochironomus) crassiforceps (Kieff.) on a solid substrate. Laboratory experiments were carried out in order to study the sexual stimuli involved in the males' response to females. It is suggested that an olfactory stimulus may be involved, in addition to tactile stimuli.
23735797|Species richness hotspots are of critical importance in conserving biodiversity, but by using simple species richness in an area, there is an inevitable bias in favour of lower latitudes. We propose a simple method for estimating regionally representative species richness hotspots where the effect of latitudinal gradients is accounted for. By using this method, the same number of species are conserved but instead of being concentrated on lower latitudes the selected areas fall into much larger geographical regions resulting in a broader range of habitat types conserved. This method suits any scale and is also applicable to other kinds of environmental gradients. These points are illustrated with data on birds and dragonflies of Finland.
23736700|It has been suggested that blood parasites are a source of physiological stress for avian hosts in the wild. We report the first experimental evidence relating blood parasite infection to the physiological stress response in a wild avian population. We reduced through medication the intensity of infection by Haemoproteus majoris and the prevalence of infection by Leucocytozoon majoris in half of a sample of female blue tits (Parus caeruleus). Results show that (i) control females had a higher final level of the stress protein HSP60 than medicated ones, (ii) the initial immunoglobulin level was negatively correlated with final HSP60 level, (iii) control females had a lower final body mass than medicated ones, body mass being negatively correlated with the number of blowfly pupae in the nest only for control females, and (iv) final female body mass was positively correlated with nestling tarsus length only for control females, which produced nestlings with shorter tarsi than medicated females. Responses of HSPs to parasitism, and associations with aspects of immune function and condition, suggest that the stress response may allow blue tits to maintain blood parasites under control during reproductive stress.
23736143|Greenberg's landmark publication (Science 206[1979]: 10951097) on kin recognition in sweat bees was followed closely by experimental studies of kin recognition in primitively eusocial paper wasps. These early studies of recognition in social wasps concentrated on documenting nestmate recognition ability, which then stimulated interest in the mechanism subserving recognition ability. For the major portion of my review, I summarize our current understanding of kin, brood, and nest recognition ability in social wasps and its underlying mechanism, relying primarily on paper wasps (Polistes) as a model system. In my discussion of the mechanism of recognition, I review our understanding of the perception, expression, and action components of recognition. I also provide a synopsis of the recent recognition studies of two species of Polistes and their congeneric, obligate social parasites. Finally, I discuss our understanding of the ecology of kin recognition in social wasps and then close my review by contemplating the future directions of kin recognition research.
23735561|The first major survey of road-killed animals in Denmark, conducted in 1991, showed that more than 3 600 badgers Meles meles, equal to 1015% of the total population, had been killed. Most badgers were killed during the summer when traffic intensity was highest. The traffic-victims were very unevenly distributed across the country. This is not explained by differences in local traffic intensities alone, but also by differences in population density of the badger and the surroundings of the roads. Almost all road-killed badgers in 199293 were adult, and female badgers were killed most frequently during spring whereas male badgers were killed throughout the year.
23734093|The pH sensitivity of perch eggs, fry, young of the year, and adult fishes was studied. The eggs were most sensitive soon after fertilization and fry after hatching while the adult perch were most tolerant. The variation in pH sensitivity of eggs between single females was wide. The pH sensitivity of eggs from two perch populations showed a difference at pH 4.0. The fry became acclimatised to the pH: the lower the pH at hatching, the better tolerance to low pH as fry. At a constant low pH there was a correlation between the conductivity of water and pH sensitivity of eggs.
23735839|Hamilton's first papers concerned social evolution and revolutionized our understanding of reproductive conflict in insect societies. The revolution continues. Recent research at the University of Sheffield has investigated two topics previously not considered from an inclusive fitness perspective: dominance hierarchies and queenworker caste conflict. The theory makes predictions close to that occurring in hierarchies of Dinoponera queenless ants and queen overproduction in Melipona bees. An earlier prediction, that multiple paternity favours worker policing, is supported by research on Vespula and Dolichovespula wasps. However, worker policing also occurs in the hornet, Vespa crabro, which has low paternity (effective queen mating 1.1). Worker policing in Vespinae wasps has two novel facultative features. In Dolichovespula saxonica, worker policing occurs in colonies headed by a multiple-mated queen but not by a single-mated queen. In Vespa crabro, queenless colonies accept worker-laid eggs but reject queen-laid eggs, probably because queen supersedure does not occur but queen parasitism does.
23736958|The long-term dynamics of small mammal communities inhabiting a mosaic of agricultural and forest habitats, that is, mixed forest, lakeside alderwood forest and arable land, set aside in the second period of the study, was analysed. No cyclicity was recorded in the numbers of the dominating species, that is, the bank vole (Myodes glareolus) and the yellow-necked mouse (Apodemus flavicollis). Fallowing of the arable land resulted in a decline in diversity and species richness of small mammals in the habitat mosaic under study. The greatest changes were recorded in the community inhabiting a narrow belt of spatially heterogeneous alderwood along the lakeshore. In this community, a considerable increase in the number of yellow-necked mice and a general increase in the dominance of forest species took place. We suggest that the fallowing of extensive arable lands, taking place in Poland for the last two decades, constitute an attractive source of food for small mammals and may lead to a considerable decline in small mammal species diversity within the landscape or even cause local extinctions in some species.
23735960|Multiple predators can have risk-enhancing effects due to conflicting predator-specific prey defenses. Wall lizards (Podarcis muralis) escape from searching predators by fleeing into refuges where they can also encounter ambush snakes (Coronella austriaca). We simulated attacks to lizards in the laboratory to compare their use of predator-scented refuges with that of control refuges, and examined whether lizards that suffered a second attack changed the refuge used in the first attack if they had been hidden before in an unsafe refuge. The presence of snake cues neither influenced time to enter the refuge nor refuge choice. However, appearance time was greater in the snake-scented refuge, probably due to time spent acquiring information to ensure the absence of the snake. This was supported because once lizards appeared, they resumed their activities in the same interval of time. Our results suggest a case of predator facilitation due to conflicting prey defenses.
23735930|Based on published data on 117 deciduous forest sites studied in Poland, relationships between habitat factors (size of study plot, type and age of forest stands) and breeding of great spotted and middle spotted woodpeckers were examined. As compared with middle spotted woodpeckers, great spotted woodpeckers occupied twice as large a number of studied plots (97 vs. 41) and were characterized by lower area demands. Great spotted woodpeckers avoided young forest stands and residual alluvial forests, preferring oak-dominated forests. Middle spotted woodpeckers selected the oldest, oak-dominated forests. Logistic regression revealed that the presence or absence of great spotted woodpeckers could be predicted from the age of forest stands, and the occurrence of middle spotted woodpeckers was positively correlated with the plot size and type of forest. My results stress the importance of old, sufficiently large (> 15 ha) oak dominated forests conducive to the presence of middle spotted woodpeckers.
23736890|In the first year's data of the 10th Finnish National Forest Inventory (20052008) 533 active and 178 abandoned ant mounds were found yielding 4.2 mounds ha-1. We found 11 species: Formica rufa, F. polyctena, F. aquilonia, F. lugubris, F. pratensis, F. exsecta, F. fennica, F. pressilabris, F. forsslundi, F. suecica and F. uralensis. Five species occurred throughout the country, and four were restricted to the south. We found species-specific associations with either mineral soils or mires, with forest site type and with tree-canopy openness. Low fertility decreased the occurrence of polygynous species with large worker force, and sun-exposition was favourable for species with smaller colonies presumably because only large worker force enables metabolic thermoregulation of nests. Forest fragmentation and increased amount of edge habitats favourable for colony founding have presumably increased nest density whereas drainage of mires has reduced the amount of habitat of three species since the 1950s.
23731706|Captive willow grouse were offered 17 plant species in 10 combinations in June and July 1967. The items offered were in the stage of growth found in nature. In addition, berries of Vaccinium vitis-idaea, and stems of V. myrtillus and tender shoots of Salix caprea stripped of leaves were offered. Stems of V. myrtillus, leaves of V. uliginosum and Andromeda polifolia, and berries of V. vitis-idaea were the food items most preferred. The results support the view, based on analyses of a large number of willow grouse crops, that these birds actively select their food.
23734699|The published data on the electrophoretically detectable variation in and the genetic differentiation of north temperate shrews are reviewed with a database of 54 loci from nine studies (39 enzymes of which 27 are variable). This paper summarizes the mean heterozygosity (H) and the average number of polymorphic loci (P) for 17 species belonging to three genera. Genetic variation within and between shrew species is substantial but not uniform. More research should be conducted on small-scale variation especially in Sorex araneus but also in the other species. Intriguing observations for subdivision of populations, temporal changes in genetic variability and differencies between the sexes are discussed.
23731835|Two sets of experiments on small quadrat sampling of small mammals with snaptraps in southern Finland are reported: In 1967 and 1968, catches of Microtus agrestis and Arvicola terrestris in three localities were analysed. The removal grid consisted of 3  3 trap sites spaced at 10 metres with 2 traps at each site. Animals living outside the grid were marked by feeding with isotope-labelled (P 32, I 131) apple bait. In both species a higher percentage of invasion during the 5- or 8-day trapping period was recorded than in experiments on larger quadrats. In accordance with the results from larger quadrats, the removal rate and the proportion of invaders were highest for reproductive males, followed by reproductive females and subadults, these values being lowest for the juveniles. An "excess" of reproductive males as high as 160  180 % was recorded. On the basis of the relative constancy of the accumulation of the catch in various population components, it is postulated that conversion of catch numbers from small sampling units into density estimates may be possible. In 1969, sampling with small quadrats was used to obtain information about the numbers of small mammals in a given locality. Pooled summaries of four 4-day trappings on quadrats of ca. 0.1 ha (2  2 grids with trap sites spaced at 15 m and 3 traps at each point) are presented. The species concerned were Microtus agrestis, Clethrionomys glareolus and Sorex araneus. No inconsistencies were found between the behaviour of Microtus and Clethrionomys in this set of trappings and the results presented above. Technical difficulties in trapping Sorex prevent comparison with rodents. It is concluded that the method is useful for assessing small rodent populations, at least for a practical forecasting service.
23734509|One-year-old perch were semistatically exposed for 14 days in 1, 2 and 4 % (v/v) concentrations of total, unfiltered, bleached, kraft pulp mill waste water. The fish were tested with the rotatory-flow technique before and after exposure. In the two highest concentrations the perch displayed significantly impaired ability to compensate in the rotatory-flow test compared to the control perch. However, no difference was observed between the two highest effective test concentrations. Histological analysis of liver showed hepatocytes with pycnotic nuclei, particularly in connection with the central veins. Increased cytoplasmic granularity with lysosome-sized particles was also discernible. Apically swollen secondary lamellae occasionally occurred in the gills. In addition, parasitic cysts were found between the secondary lamellae in all exposed fish but not in the controls.
23736849|Red plumage is produced mainly by deposition of carotenoid pigments into the feathers and is assumed to be costly. Recent studies suggest red plumage may be a condition-dependent, sexually selected signal. To date, few studies have explored the relationship between carotenoid-based plumage colour and genetic (realised) reproductive success. This is despite the rarity of genetic monogamy among avian mating systems. We studied this relationship in the red-capped robin (Petroica goodenovii) across two breeding seasons, using spectrophotometric techniques to score colour and molecular markers to assign paternity. Males with the highest within-pair reproductive success during the first season moulted into the most colourful plumage at the conclusion of that season. We found no such correlations when using putative measures of reproductive success, underlining the importance of unambiguous paternity assignment. However, males that moulted into the most colourful plumage did not go on to attain highest reproductive success during the subsequent breeding season (while displaying this plumage). Instead, variation in male reproductive success was explained by male body condition and age. These results suggest that the information value of male plumage colour is unpredictable.
23734505|Amphipods of the species Pontoporeia affinis Lindstrm were subjected to sublethal concentrations of phenol (130 ppm), 4-chlorophenol (110 ppm), and styrene (2.346 ppm) in controlled constant-flow or static laboratory conditions at 4C and a 12:12 h light-dark regime for 10 days in experiments lasting about 40 days. Exposure to toxicants led to changes in swimming behaviour (recorded with the aid of IR photocells). Phenols caused the activity to decrease, although the higher concentrations (17, 18 and 30 ppm phenol and 5 and 10 ppm of 4-chlorophenol) brought about temporary activation for a few days. The decrease in activity showed a clear correlation with increasing concentrations of toxicants. Styrene in static tests at initial concentrations 2.323 ppm had an immediately stimulating effect upon swimming activity. By contrast 35 and 46 ppm caused an immediate cessation lasting for several days, after which activity rose to many times the normal level. During the recovery period, the animals exposed to styrene regained  the normal level of swimming activity, except those exposed to 69 ppm, which all died within a few hours. Volatilization of styrene from the aquaria was high in all experiments.
23734726|This paper is a case study on long-term population events concerning the spreading and the subsequent decline of the samson character among Finnish red foxes. Three different hypotheses have been put forward to explain the phenomenon. An attempt has been made to test the hypotheses by means of a precise application of the hypothetico-deductive method. It is concluded that only one of the hypotheses generates testable predictions and that the predictions can be validated. This hypothesis associates the samson fox episode with random population genetic events in the low-density fox populations of the 1930s and 1940s. The other two hypotheses are burdened by ad hoc assumptions and, consequently, do not generate testable predictions.
23732517|A report is given on the primary production of a meadow ecosystem in four years. The different energy flow parameters of the Chorthippus parallelus (Zett.) (Orthoptera) population are given, and a comparison is made between the values of 1969 and those of 1966  1968 presented in an earlier report. As root production was not measured, the total percentage of solar radiation utilised by the plants as gross production could only be estimated at 1 %. Owing to favourable weather conditions, the annual production, respiration and assimilation of the grasshopper population was about 1.3 times the values for 1966  1968. As annual consumption and egestion values were comparatively low, the efficiency (assimilation/consumption) for 1969 was 40 %, compared with only 29 % in 1968. The importance of efficiency values is discussed, and a comparison with earlier reported values on grasshopper energetics is made.
23734689|We have analyzed the regularity, regional variation and density-dependence in the long-term dynamics of the common shrew Sorex araneus in six regions in Finland. The impact of some external factors on shrew dynamics is also examined. Autocorrelation analyses revealed no regular multiannual cycles; seasonal fluctuations and erratic long-term fluctuations prevailed. No synchrony in the long-term dynamics of shrews between the regions was found. In each region either summer growth rate or winter mortality rate were density-dependent. The climatic factors analyzed (snow depth and winter temperature) correlated rarely with winter mortality. The summer declines of shrews at low densities were often synchronous with microtine declines, especially in Lapland, where the cyclicity of microtine rodents is pronounced. Synchronous summer declines suggest a common factor affecting both shrew and microtine dynamics, which most probably is specialist predation by weasels. In western Finland, however, the reasons for slight summer declines in shrews at high densities could be interference by rodents or predation by nomadic avian predators.
23736176|Central reservations, also known as median strips, are strips of ground, usually paved or landscaped, that divide the carriageways of a highway. We trapped beetles in vegetated central reservations of three Ring Roads around the city of Helsinki, Finland, in 2002, and collected a total of 1512 individuals and 110 species. Ground beetles were the most abundant beetle family collected with 749 individuals and 29 species, followed by rove beetles (410 individuals, 31 species) and weevils (131 individuals, 15 species). Central reservations of the most recently constructed Ring Road II collected significantly more ground-beetle species and rove-beetle individuals than the two older roads (Ring Roads I and III). However, in Ring Road III we collected slightly more weevil individuals, and significantly more individuals of the rest of the beetles. As expected, most species collected were associated with open habitats, eurytopic and capable of flight. Regarding species characteristics, the three roads differed with respect to their catches of short-winged, saprophagous, predator/mixed-diet, small-sized (3.16 mm), common and nationally rare species, whereas the occurrences of long-winged, plant-eating, very small (< 3 mm), large (> 6 mm) and moderately common species were more even. Non-metric Multidimensional Scaling demonstrated that the beetle community of the central reservations of Ring Road II was different from the communities of Ring Roads I and III. There appeared to be more within-road variation in community structure at these last two roads. Catches of the nationally vulnerable carabid Amara equestris, and several considered rare species, indicate that central reservations have conservation potential.
23736960|A three-year (20042006) study on a 1-km road section near Warsaw (central Poland) indicated that road traffic may be an important cause of mortality in bats, at least locally. The total number of bat casualties was 52, mostly recorded on a short subsection (up to 9 individuals per 100 m of roadway and year). The bats were killed near two linear landscape elements  tree lanes, during the migration to mating and hibernation roosts. Myotis nattereri dominated the sample of dead individuals (over 70%).
23737082|Knowledge of badger density is important for their conservation especially in areas with low badger densities. Therefore, we aimed to build a simple model to estimate badger density in northern Europe on the basis of habitat characteristics. A radio-tracking study in southern Finland showed that habitat structure of the landscape affects home-range sizes of northern badgers. The data collected from the literature indicate that badger density and home-range size correlate negatively but the relationship was non-linear, with highest densities and smallest home ranges in England. Consequently, badger density can be estimated on the basis of habitat characteristics of the area: density is higher when the proportion of mixed forests is high and that of large spruce forests low and vice versa. Because other factors, such as hunting and predation may be involved, density values should be treated as rough estimates of the density in different landscapes in Finland.
23734479|Dance fly swarms usually consisted of five to ten females (range 140). Females moved between swarm-sites, which were the same during the whole flight-period and over several years. Usually a single male with a nuptial gift approached a swarm. He either mated with one of the females or left, still with his gift, for another swarm. Males coming to swarm sites activated females resting at the swarm-marker to swarm. At the end of the flight-period males were very few, while females still swarmed. Males hunted for prey, which were presented to the females prior to mating. Females did not hunt and were only seen to consume prey received from males. The most frequent nuptial gifts were Diptera, including conspecifics. Females, and presumably males, mate several times. Swarming females had no mature eggs. The number of mated females in the population rose rapidly to 80% during the first six days of the flight-period, and on day 20 all females were mated. No sexual difference was found regarding wet-weight, but wings were longer and broader in the females, whose wing-area on average was about 60% larger than in males. Femur I was about 20% longer in males than in females. We suggest that the sex-role reversed courtship behaviour, the offering of nuptial gifts and the sexual size dimorphism in E. borealis have evolved because males limit female reproductive success, and males therefore should become choosy and females should compete for mates.
23734535|The mycetophilid community of Leccinum scabrum (Boletaceae) was studied using a new method which allows the sporophores to decay in the field. None of the eight Mycetophilidae species now examined have previously been found feeding on L. scabrum in Finland, six species have never been described on this fungus, and the first ecological records are given for four species.
43923481|We studied the effects of small-scale disturbance on breeding, forest passerine birds in an old-growth and managed boreal forests in northern Finland. Small-scale disturbance (< 2 ha) in an old-growth and managed forests originated from wind falls and small clear cuts. Continuous forest without gaps was used as a control for both management types (old-growth and managed forests). Passerines' response to disturbance was examined by estimating species richness and abundance of different ecological groups. Species richness and the total abundance of birds did not differ between gap and non-gap plots, neither did the abundance of most ecological groups. Management type or study year were the most important factors explaining abundances. Our results differ from studies conducted in temperate forests, mainly in North America, where small-scale disturbance have been found to increase avian diversity and abundance. Differences between boreal and temperate forests or in avian assemblages between continents may explain observed differences.
23735750|I developed a game theoretic model for habitat selection of prey and a generalist predator. In the model, both prey and predator may choose between either a simple or a complex habitat. A second predator is restricted to hunting only in the simple habitat. The model is applied to a system of rodents and their predators: snakes (the generalist predator) and owls. The simplest version of the model predicts that snakes and rodents distribute themselves among the two microhabitats according to the relative magnitude of risk for rodents. Under various conditions (moonlight, competition among rodents and dilution of the risk) the model predicts that snakes distribute themselves among habitats in a way that dampens rodent reactions to variation in owl predation risk and to effects of competition. When rodents are abundant the model predicts that snakes will show a weaker reaction to moonlight. The predictions of the model are qualitatively comparable to field data of microhabitat use of kangaroo rats and sidewinders from the Mojave Desert. The model can also describe a habitat selection game at a larger scale (e.g., movements of snakes into a rich desert oasis). Although a game between predators and prey may not be the cause for all their movements among habitats in the field, a game perspective may contribute explanations for what would otherwise be unintuitive habitat shifts.
23736063|The population density of a species in space usually is highest near the center of its geographic range and declines with increasing distance away from the center. Since a large number of biotic and abiotic factors may act simultaneously to limit local densities of species populations, rather than trying to identify these, we focus o the general processes by which environmental factors affect population density. Four processes determine the rate of population change: birth, death, immigration, and emigration. These are functions of both space (density independent factors) and population size (density dependent factors). Death and emigration should be increasing functions of population density. Birth rate should increase with population density up to a point, then begin to decrease. Immigration should decrease with increases in density. Birth and immigration sum to a net rate of population gain and death emigration sum to a net rate of population loss. These two functions intersect to give a stable equilibrium point. The set of equilibrium points of populations in space determines the general pattern of population abundance in space. In order for population density to be a nonincreasing function of the distance from the geographic center, either population gain rate must be a nonincreasing function of distance from the geographic center and population density, or population loss rate must be a nondecreasing function of distance from the geographic center and population size, or both must occur.
43923436|The newly raised lycosid subfamily Zoicinae is redefined and relimited on the basis of new material from India. The subfamily consists of two externally dissimilar types of wolf spider: minute (1.5-2.0 mm) unicolorous with wide carapace and sloping eye region (Zoica) and small (2.2-4.0 mm), narrow, patterned with high eye region. The latter type includes two monophyletic groups which are not closely related to each other, but Lysania is a sister group of Zoica and the Zantheres group seems to be a sister group of Lysania and Zoica together. The Zantheres group is restricted to mountain regions of northeastern India and Burma. Only three species are known, but wide morphological and topographical differences in genital organs in both sexes suggest that they be placed into three different genera. This group is easily distinguished from all Oriental lycosids by the presence of a basal tibial spur in the male palp. Long legs, presence of glistening hairs in both sexes and long, narrow abdomen are also characteristic of all of them. Margonia (type-species Venonia himalayensis Gravely, 1925) and Shapna (type-species pluvialis sp. n.) are described as new genera. Zantheres Thorell, 1887 is transferred from Venoniinae to Zoicinac.
23735841|The evolutionary theories of helping assume reciprocity, genetic relatedness or group selection. The evolution of an altruistic act, that is, a costly act by an individual that benefits another unrelated individual, often requires reciprocal interactions. Therefore, models of evolutionary stability (ESS) have been successful in studying the evolution of altruistic behavior. Nevertheless, altruistic behavior may evolve without reciprocity. Such a situation may arise when altruistic behavior is costly but other behavioral alternatives lead to more costly outcomes. However, this setting may closely resemble intraspecific parasitism where one individual exploits the resources, behavior or actions of another. Egg carrying behavior in the golden egg bug (Phyllomorpha laciniata Vill, Heteroptera, Coreidae) exemplifies the close and problematic relation between altruism and parasitism. The golden egg bug females lay eggs on the backs of female and male conspecifics. Egg carrying in the golden egg bug can be understood as intraspecific parasitism, altruistic behavior, reciprocity, or paternal care depending on which individual is receiving the eggs, from whom, and when. In this paper, we discuss the alternative theories in order to understand the unique reproductive behavior in the golden egg bug.
23736858|Using data from expert assessments, we classified the habitat and resource requirements of red-listed boreal forest species in Finland. All major taxa were included and represented by 466 species. Of the four major groups studied, red-listed Plantae & Fungi and Aphyllophorales were mainly inhabitants of shady coniferous forests, whereas the habitats used by Animalia and Coleoptera were more diverse. Of the boreal tree species, Picea abies harbours the greatest number of red-listed species, but Pinus sylvestris and Populus tremula host almost as many. The proportion of critically endangered species is highest on Populus. Our results emphasise the importance of dead wood and the conservation value of natural early successional forest habitats in addition to old-growth natural forests. Red-listed forest species are a highly heterogeneous group in their habitat and resource requirements, and this has to be taken into consideration in conservation and when seeking for cost-efficient conservation measures.
23734193|The limited productivity of the brackish water and absence of tidal shores on the coasts of Finland originally allowed these gulls to breed only in sparse populations of single pairs. Refuse from fisheries permitted an early increase in Larusf. fuscus, since it winters in a partly tropical region, but the winter conditions in the North Sea prevented the increase of L. argentatus and L. marinus until the technical advances and urbanization improved their food supplies. In Finland, L. argentatus began to increase around 1930 and L. marinus around 1940. Field records made in 19301982, mainly on the S coast of Finland, are used to examine: Population trends, changes in the proportion of single pairs and their causes, the tendency of single pairs to defend a feeding range around the breeding islet and the advantages of this feeding range, the change in feeding habits required for colony formation, and the breeding success of single pairs and colonial breeders. The location of single pairs and the formation, size and density of colonies are influenced by the location of food, inter- and intraspecific sociability and the topagraphy of the archipelago. Attention is paid to predation and other impacts on other shore birds, to the effect of food shortage on the occurrence of predatory single pairs in L. argentatus and the reasons why such are always adults, and to the causes of dispersal into non-marine landscapes in L. marinus. Colony formation begins when the aggeression shown in defending of the feeding range no longer counterbalances sociability and the population pressure. In L. fuscus the long narrow wings prevent feeding in localities where flocks of gulls hover over the food. This disadvantage, together with the reduced fishery in the archipelago and the inability of L. fuscus to withstand L. argentatus on the small breeding islets, has led to a drop of its population.
23734113|The effects of laying sequence and ambient temperature were tested on 41 great tit and 47 pied flycatcher eggs and the egg components (yolk, albumen and shell). In pied flycatchers, clutches (females) contributed about 40-70 % of the variation in egg components, the values being apparently smaller in great tits. Laying sequence contributed 17 % and 8 % to the variation in wet weight of yolk and albumen, respectively, but not to dry weights or energy contents of yolk or to total egg weight in the pied flycatcher. Thus the increase in size caused by the laying sequence in large clutches reported earlier for the pied flycatcher is due to inclusion of water, not of nutrients. Only the fresh weight of the yolk tended to decrease with sequence in the great tit, large interactions indicating that females invested the components differentially with the sequence. With regard to the relation between the egg sequence variation and growth strategies, both species apparently follow the clutch adjustment strategy. Changes in ambient temperature caused up to 10-15 % of the total variation in the egg components in the great tit, but only 2-3 % of that in the pied flycatcher. Birds have the potential to use considerable amounts of energy for maintenance if adverse weather occurs during the laying period, this exceeding the energy needed to produce an egg each day by a factor of about two. The main factor affecting egg size and components (egg quality) is the large, phenotypic female component, which perhaps reachs values close to the heritability of these characters. The influence of other factors, such as the ambient temperature, is small.
23737145|Amphibian declines have been reported worldwide during the last decades. In this study, we focused on the endangered great crested newt (Triturus cristatus), which has suffered from intensive forestry and past mire ditching in the northern verge of its distribution. We collected data from 46 breeding ponds in eastern Finland during 20052011 using dip-netting. We modeled breeding success with cost-effective methods by using site-level forest data. The results highlight the importance of herb-rich forests in the vicinity of breeding ponds. Based on the results possible new breeding sites can now be located based on the presence and size of types of nutrient-rich forest, proportion of deciduous trees, young stands, shading and unfavorable habitats in the vicinity of ponds. Also practical conservation measures, like creating new ponds within a certain area, can now be allocated more accurately using the same variables.
23734493|The use of quantitative methods in the exploratory analysis of complex biogeographical data is discussed in terms of delimiting biotic elements and biotic regions. The various stages in a quantitative analysis of biotic elements are described and recent methodological and mathematical developments are outlined, in particular problems of defining scales, appropriate proximity measures, choice of partitioning techniques, display of results, distortion tests, and evaluation of results. Future developments are suggested for comparing biogeographical regionalisations, for using spatially contrained partitionings, for developing statistical approaches in analytical studies, and for improving data-extraction techniques. The importance of critical selection and use of numerical procedures is emphasised. Current quantitative procedures, if used carefully, have the potential to link descriptive and analytical approaches to biogeography.
23735710|Open-water field studies were conducted to clarify the reproductive biology of crucian carp in mono- and multispecies fish communities in eastern Finland. Between late May and mid-July, ready-to-spawn (ripe) crucian carp entered traps mainly during periods of rising water temperature. The males tended to be smaller but remained ripe longer than the females. In all populations the gonadosomatic index of females was variable throughout the summer, but in May it was higher in fish from the multispecies community than in those from the monospecific communities. Crucian carp is a batch spawner in all the water bodies studied. After a minimum temperature of ca. 18 C, the timing of spawning is set by any clear increase in water temperature. Normally there were two spawnings during the 65-days reproductive period. The higher the mean temperature in May, the earlier the first spawning was.
23734082|A population of the common frog using ditches and two ponds for spawning was observed daily. Spawning begins in spring one day after the daily temperature exceeds 5 C. The peak is on the third day, and half of the egg clumps appear within five days. Hatching of the eggs takes 417 days (median 14 days). Most egg clumps were isolated from each other in ditches. Hatchability of the eggs was usually over 90 %. In one spring drought caused fairly high mortality. Great annual variation was observed in the size of a small local population. The females laid 1000  290 eggs; no geographical variation was observed in Finland. In Finland spawning takes place in various types of water. Brackish water, open lake shores without emergent vegetation, and running water are not utilized.
23736734|Microsatellite loci of nine-spined stickleback (Pungitius pungitius) were optimized using primers originally designed for the three-spined stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus). Of the 57 three-spined stickleback loci tested, only 18 loci (32%) amplified a specific PCR product in the nine-spined stickleback. Further analysis for two Fennoscandian populations revealed 11 polymorphic and six monomorphic loci. The eleven polymorphic markers were optimized into two ready-to-go genotyping panels to facilitate genotyping applications, and these markers should prove useful for population genetic studies in the nine-spined stickleback. Comparison of polymorphism in the 11 loci between three- and nine-spined sticklebacks collected from the same two (lake or sea) localities revealed significantly lower polymorphism in the nine- than in the three-spined sticklebacks, and in the lake than in the sea populations of both species. Moreover, loss of polymorphism in the lake population was especially pronounced for the nine-spined stickleback (target species) as compared to the three-spined stickleback (source species). This suggests that the success of cross-species amplification may, in addition to well-known effects of e.g. species evolutionary divergence, depend on population history.
23734449|Seasonal variations in the diet and diel feeding activity of perch were studied in a highly humic, small forest lake. Over the summer there was no clear change in the diet of perch of < 11 cm, whereas 1113 cm fish fed on Asellus aquaticus and aquatic insect larvae in early summer but later concentrated on zooplankton. Perch of > 13 cm had a similar diet to fish of 1113 cm during MayJune, but later turned to corixids, water spiders and leeches. It appears that the intensity of predation by perch, the life histories of the prey species and decreasing oxygen conditions contributed to diet segregation and that a decreased availability of benthic food resulted in intraspecific competition. A shift occurred from distinct morning and evening activity peaks in May and June towards a midday peak in July and August. Temporal segregation in feeding activity was not observed among perch of different sizes.
23731786|Three individuals of Dendrobaena veneta (Rosa) ssp. hortensis (Michaelsen, 1890), recorded for the first time in Finland, were found in a greenhouse of the Botanical Garden of the University of Helsinki. The main features of the morphology and the distribution of this species are given and the problem of its taxonomic position is discussed.
23733691|Spiders of the family Tetragnathidae have anterior and posterior dorsal intestinal caeca and the ventral caeca extend not only to the coxae of the legs but also to the chelicera and the pedipalpal coxa. Spiders of the family Araneidae (= Argiopidae) as well as Meta have only anterior dorsal caeca and the ventral caeca extend only to the coxae of the legs. This is a strong argument in favour of retaining Meta in Araneidae.
23736191|Although several authors have shown that UV radiation can cause damage to fish larvae, the UV avoidance behaviour of larvae has received little attention. Larval coregonids are vulnerable to the recently enhanced UV levels because immediately after hatching in spring they show a distinct positive phototaxis. The behavior of three size groups of vendace (Coregonus albula (L.)) and whitefish (Coregonus lavaretus (L.) s.l.) larvae were studied under enhanced UV-B irradiation in the laboratory. In addition, field data from four coregonid lakes in Finland were analysed. Coregonid larvae avoided UV radiation both in the laboratory and field. The smallest vendace larvae were the most sensitive to changes in UV irradiation in the laboratory experiments. In the field, the avoidance behaviour was more pronounced in lakes with low dissolved organic carbon (DOC) concentrations than in a lake with a high DOC concentration.
23735719|The number of spider species found in faunas north of 60N varies from 250 (Polar Urals) to 620 (Finland). Faunal lists allow for comparison of the most interesting and important areas of species diversity. Only two areas, divided by the Beringian Strait, namely northeast Siberia and northwest North America have marked proportions of endemic spider taxa. There are still some areas in Eurasia which can be regarded as unstudied "white spots". Investigations are especially required in west Siberia, northwest Yakutia and in northern parts of the Verkhoyanski and Cherski Mountain ranges. High levels of endemism, together with rather high species diversities in NE Siberia (550 spider species) and NW Nearctic (about 500 species) in spite of inadequate levels of investigation show a high necessity of further studies and conservation, at least in NE Siberia.
23736212|Population size and fishing yield of coregonids has considerably diminished in many central European lakes where nutrient concentration, in particular phosphorus, has fallen to oligotrophic levels. In re-oligotrophicated Lake Lucerne, apart from slower growth, reduction in year class strength of the slow growing form of lake whitefish was identified as the major cause for decreasing yield. Stocking of lake whitefish larvae could not counteract this process. It was, therefore, hypothesised that larval mortality of lake whitefish, both from stocking and natural reproduction, had increased during re-oligotrophication because of food shortage during the early larval phase. Feeding experiments in aquaria with newly hatched lake whitefish larvae from Lake Lucerne, and using various concentrations of Artemia salina and zooplankton, showed a clear relationship between food concentration and mortality over the first 34 days. Elevated mortality of 40% or more resulted from food concentration of 20 zooplankton organisms per litre or fewer. Analysis of zooplankton data from Lake Lucerne indicated that concentration of zooplankton organisms usable by the whitefish larvae in late winter and spring was much lower in the years after 1984 than before. This might explain, at least in part, why year class strength and yield of the slow growing form of lake whitefish has decreased during re-oligotrophication of Lake Lucerne.
23736844|Precopulatory mate-guarding in aquatic crustaceans is known to have immediate costs for the guarding male. The extent to which guarding behavior may reduce future reproductive opportunities, however, is less established. We examined the survival and antennae length, suggested to be important in detecting receptive females, in male freshwater isopods (Asellus aquaticus) collected paired or unpaired. Antennae length to body size relationships suggested that large, paired males had broken antennae more commonly than large, unpaired males. Moreover, broken antennae seem to be associated with increased mortality. Males collected paired had lower survival than males collected unpaired, and this reduction in survival was greatest in larger individuals. In pairing trials, males usually attempted pair formation regardless of their size, female size, or previous pairing status. Our results suggest that some costs associated with male guarding behavior may extend beyond the actual guarding episode, though the consequences for mating decisions remain to be determined.
23734096|Sublittoral Macoma balthica (L.) (14 mm size class) from the Southern coast of Finland (6  S) has smaller inhalant siphon (0.8 mg as dry weight) than intertidal M. balthica in England (4 mg, respectively). When one third of the siphon was removed, it was restored to the normal size within 3 months. The condition factor (dry weight/shell length3) of the operated animals after the experiment did not differ from that of wild Macoma. When half of the siphon was amputated twice with an interval of 3 months, the siphon remained smaller than normal 6 months after the first amputation. The condition factor of these animals, too, was normal. The regeneration of the tip of the siphon is comparable to that reported in Scrobicularia plana (da Costa). The muscles at the end of the siphon contract to close the wound. The tip also rools inside to shelter. A very thin microvillated epithelium is spread over the wound, usually within 48 h. 48 h after wounding traces of forming fingers may be seen at the tip. One week after mutilation these seem to be fully reformed. Two types of sense organs on the siphons of M. balthica are described in general: goblet organs and smaller hill organs. Comparison with sense organs in other tellinaceans is made.
23735635|We manipulated brood sizes of 132 pairs of the collared flycatcher to investigate whether or not an investment in reproduction was traded against an investment and timing of the post-nuptial moult. Our manipulations did not affect the probability of moult-breeding overlap in males, and there was no effect on their moult scores at fledging time of the young. Males and young birds initiated moult earlier than females and old birds, respectively. Very few females started moulting during the period of nestling care. Reproductive success in terms of recruitment rate of fledglings was independent of parental moult stage during reproduction, which indicates that the manipulation did not induce a trade-off between moult and post-fledging care. Furthermore, the survival probability of adults was independent of brood size manipulations and their moult stage at fledging time. Thus, our brood size manipulations showed no evidence for a trade-off between reproductive and moult investments in the collared flycatcher.
23731601|Sterile imagines of both sexes of Aedes aegypti occur when developing imaginal primordia are exposed to near lethal temperatures. When developing under thermal pressure the anterior filament, a component of the ovary, is capable of generating ovarian tissue beyond the fifth abdominal segment. Primordia of certain larval parts are also affected, but at a temperature lower than that required to affect developing imaginal primordia.
23735845|Multiple mating by queens occurs in many species of social Hymenoptera despite its likely costs. Hypotheses to explain multiple mating include a need for more sperm than provided by a single male, the convergence of queen and worker sex-allocation optima and various genetic diversity hypotheses. For some species the sperm need hypothesis fails since queens retain only a single male's worth of sperm. In other cases, sperm store does increase with the number of matings. Similarly for the sex-allocation and genetic diversity hypotheses, data from some species are in support, those from others are not. Comparative analysis reveals a negative correlation between level of genetic diversity (of which queen mate number is an important determinant) and parasite load; findings in the best-studied case are complex: monandry and higher levels of polyandry are each selectively favored over moderate polyandry. Out of 14 identifiable hypotheses five are judged most useful for future work. Unfortunately, the search for a simple unitary model to explain all cases seems futile. A model encompassing all of these factors is desirable for studies on single species, but would be complex. Comparative analyses remain desirable, but should encompass the likelihood that different factors predominate in different groups.
23735752|We analyze a game theory model in which individuals foraging on a habitat continuum choose behaviors that are the "best responses" to the behaviors and densities of competitors. These behaviors determine community invasibility and coexistence. By making fitness an explicit function of maintenance metabolic cost, we can show that changes in maintenance cost have an indirect but important effect on the best response behaviors, and hence, on community dynamics. In particular, decreasing maintenance cost has the effect of decreasing habitat resource levels by increasing the efficiency with which individuals convert resources into offspring. The resulting decrease in habitat resource levels increases each phenotype's relative foraging advantage in whatever habitat(s) it holds an absolute advantage. As a result, more phenotypes can successfully invade the community. Indeed, low enough maintenance costs results in species inhabiting evolutionary minima in the adaptive landscape, which promotes disruptive selection and provides the potential for an evolutionary bifurcation.
23736762|The infection of Polistes dominulus wasps by the strepsipteran Xenos vesparum provides a suitable case study for exploring parasitic manipulation. One aim of this review is to summarize the life cycle of X. vesparum: from infection of immature wasps to the "stylopization" of adults, and from its mating at summer aberrant aggregations of infected wasps to the overwintering of fertilized Xenos inside the abdomen of hibernating wasps. The second aim of this review it to highlight how this parasite manipulates the flexible phenotype of the wasp to maximize its own reproductive success.
23734195|The study is based on material collected at Kilpisjrvi (6303'N, 2050'E) in 19661981. F. hypoleuca colonized the area in the 1950s, whereas Ph. phoenicurus is indigenous. The study area was divided into two sub-areas, 20150 m and 200650 m from the shore, respectively. F. hypoleuca began to lay about 2 days later near the shore of Lake Kilpisjrvi than further away, and due to the 'calendar effect' its clutch size was smaller near the shore. Laying advanced about 0.5 days/100 m increase in distance away from the lake. Significantly more eggs failed to hatch far from the shore than near it but nestlings did equally well in both sub-areas. Ph. phoenicurus was relatively insensitive to the effects of the shore. It started to lay in relatively cold weather and at the same time in both sub-areas. Its hatching success was good near the shore, and it produced equally many fledglings in both sub-areas. In both sub-areas the total nesting success (%) was better in Ph. phoenicurus than in F. hypoleuca. A good food supply was perhaps one reason for the successful hatching of the species near the shore. In a Swedish study, the nesting success of several passerines (e.g. F. hypoleuca) was found to be highly impaired near the shores of Lake Tjultrsk, further south in Swedish Lapland, probably due to poisoning. Results presented from Kilpisjrvi indicate that pollutants have not yet reached northernmost Lapland on a large scale. The effects of low temperature on the breeding performance of F. hypoleuca is discussed.
23736946|We examined whether the body size of mound building wood ant Formica aquilonia workers is affected by forest clear-cutting in a before-after logging field study. Clear-cutting is expected to decrease the availability of tree-living aphids, the main food resource of wood ants. Worker size decreased from one year to the next in clear-cuts but not in forest stands, indicating food limitation in the clear-cuts. Worker size increased with nest size in forest interiors, but not in clear-cuts, which further indicates food limitation in the clear-cuts. In addition, lower body-fat contents in ant workers in the clear-cuts supports previous suggestions of lower food resources after forest logging. Nests were cooler in the clear-cuts, which suggest that they may be poor habitats for forest-dwelling wood ants. Food resource limitation may have an effect on the ability of wood ants to regulate nest temperatures.
23735573|In late winter (FebruaryMarch) the social behaviour of the pine marten (Martes martes) is intensified (increased scent marking frequency, intersexual tolerance and intrasexual aggression) and the levels of sex hormones are increased, i. e. the same characteristics as for the mating period in JulyAugust (pine marten exhibits delayed implantation). However, in late winter no fertilizations are possible, since males have no spermatogenesis at this time. Here, we review data on this "false heat", including some of our own observations. We suggest that late winter is the start of a dispersal period for pine marten, and that the main function of the social activity is territorial defence. The period coincides with the implantation and the beginning of the active pregnancy. This change in the female's reproductive cycle may start the behaviour of driving out her young from the territory, and by that, the whole dispersal mechanism.
23734872|I critically examine the conception that pairs of similar sympatric species in a community will be separated in size by values in excess of a minimal ratio, and that sequences of such species will be regularly spaced on a size spectrum. This expectation appears to have become widely accepted in ecology as much because of its seeming agreement with the prevailing paradigm in community ecology, that communities are structured by competitive interactions, as because of its empirical support, which has eroded upon re-examination. Studies of size ratios in communities are plagued by a variety of generally neglected methodological problems: Which morphological features should be measured? Which individuals in the populations should be included in the comparisons? Which species should be compared? How should intra- and interpopulational variation in morphology within a species be considered in the determination of between-species patterns? Several assumptions are also made in the analysis and interpretation of size relationships between species. These assumptions are fragile. Together with the relaxed logical procedures that have been used in many studies, they render size-ratio patterns and their explanation by processes such as competition suspect. Several ingredients of a more rigorous approach to the study of size relationships among species in communities are developed.
23733716|Air exchange through the snow was examined under field conditions in northern Finland by measuring the temperature in air vents opened by voles (Microtus agestis and M. oeconomus) and by checking how CO2 released under the snow spreads and disappears in the subnivean spaces. During freezing weather warm air was able to flow upwards along air vents for the first few hours only. Cold air flowing down from the snow surface into the air vent then stopped the flow. Opening of air vents did not depend on the CO2 content under the snow cover. CO2 did not accumulate under a dry snowpack at least 70 cm thick and not even wet snow 48 cm thick could suppress its disappearance. The highest CO2 content measured under the intact snow cover was 0.25 vol. %.
23734876|Studies on the structure of animal communities in rock pools in the Baltic area are reviewed. Rock pools are patchy habitats characterized by low durational stability. This, together with pool size and water quality mainly determines the distribution of rock-pool organisms, as judged by data on flagellates, rotifers, corixids, daphnids and water beetles. Immigration to and extinction from pools create an ever-changing kaleidoscope of species occurrence in rock pools. Thus, examination of distribution patterns of species in rock pools is not sufficient to assess the significance of interspecific competition in affecting community structure.
23731624|Samples of reindeer, moose, willow grouse and rock ptarmigan as well as samples of great predators such as wolverine, wolf, lynx and bear have been collected from Lapland and other parts of Finland and analysed for the natural radionuclides 210Po and 210Pb. All samples collected from Lapland (not only those of lichen-eating reindeer) showed more or less elevated 210Po and 210Pb levels in relation to samples collected from other parts of Finland. The highest 210Po concentrations (320 pCi/kg wet wt.) in flesh were found in reindeer killed in winter, but the highest bone concentrations (5 900 pCi of 210Po and 10 800 pCi of 210Pb per kg wet wt.) were observed in rock ptarmigan. The 210Po/210Pb ratios varied between 1.2 and 120 in soft tissues and between 0.3 and 0.9 in bones. The soft tissues of predators generally showed somewhat higher 210Po/210Pb ratios than those of herbivores. In several cases the stomach contents of the animals were studied and in some cases also analysed for polonium and radio-lead. The elevated concentration levels of these radionuclides in the arctic are explained by the low productivity of the arctic ecosystem and the consumption of perennial forms of vegetation by herbivorous animals during the long winter.
23731681|In common and arctic terns collected from the southwestern Finnish archipelago and the eastern part of the Gulf of Finland Schistocephalus solidus occurred in 34 % of the adult birds and in 85 % of the young ones. The frequency of infestation was dependent on the food of the terns, especially on the proportion of the three-spined stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus). The majority of the plerocercoids entering the digestive tract of the birds passed through it without developing to sexual maturity.
23734518|We collected carabid beetles (Coleoptera: Carabidae) with identical sampling effort in the main habitat types on three islands (area 2993 ha, distance to the land mainland 420 km) in the Baltic Sea. The vegetation area on the islands decreases with increasing distance from the mainland. As the mainland reference we use samples taken from the land mainland (area about 900 km2). There was pronounced variation in the occurrence of individual carabid species between the islands and the mainland, and among the islands. Three of the 21 dominating species (59 species in total) were abundant on the mainland, but were not found on the islands. Eleven species were abundant on all three islands (successful colonists), and seven were found on one or two islands, but not on the other(s) ("mosaic distribution"). All of these seven species were found on the island closest to the mainland. Furthermore, the species number (standardized by sample size) was lowest on the most distant island. There is no clear relationship between the dispersal ability of the species and their island-mainland occurrence. The general habitat occupancy of the species seems to be an important factor determining their colonization success. Successful island colonists tend to be found in habitats common on the islands and species showing a "mosaic distribution" tend to occur in habitats scarce on the islands. The small area of vegetation and its patchy distribution on the two most distant islands, together with the stochasticity connected with dispersal over water for 1020 km, is the most probable explanation for the uneven distribution of some carabid species among the three Baltic islands.
23735938|The first wild animal humans domesticated was the wolf (Canis lupus). The benefits of dog presence for human hunting success is often mentioned as a probable factor initiating the domestication of the wolf. We compared the per-hunter moose (Alces alces) hunting success of four hunter groups of different sizes with and without a dog. Groups with a dog had a higher hunting success for every group size. The difference was most pronounced for the smallest group (< 10 hunters)  hunters with a dog obtained 56% more prey than those without a dog. Indeed, the mean hunting success was the highest for the smallest groups with a dog. Among larger groups, hunting success was independent of the group size regardless of whether or not a dog was present. In groups over ten hunters, hunting success correlated with the number of dogs. The benefit of hunting with a dog had a density-dependent pattern: the benefit increased when moose density was low. Our results give quantitative support to the hypothesis that the benefits of cooperative hunting was a potentially important factor in the wolf domestication process.
23737108|A number of studies have reported how neighbouring plants may influence herbivory on palatable or unpalatable plants. Such neighbourhood effects can have important evolutionary consequences as they may either promote the evolutionary stability of plant defences or, alternatively, select against the fixation of plant defences and instead promote a stable polymorphism of palatable and unpalatable plants. These consequences depend on whether the difference in herbivore damage between unpalatable and palatable plants is smaller or, alternatively, greater when the neighbours are unpalatable instead of palatable. Such relations can arise when the neighbourhood effects are non-parallel among palatable and unpalatable plants. We outline two basic situations of non-parallel neighbourhood effects and illustrate how they can come about. A detailed dissection of these interactions reveals that there are several qualitatively distinct mechanisms that promote either evolutionary stability of plant defences or alternatively polymorphism. Our classification of mechanisms can be used to clarify and explain observations obtained in the field of plantherbivore interactions and predatorprey interactions, both at the population and the community level.
23735567|Data on 977 foxes harvested between November 1987 and March 1992 from the alpine county Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Germany, concerning reproduction, sex-ratio and age-structure were combined with some results of a mark-recapture study and the hunting statistics in this area and used to construct a new fox-density population model on the basis of the juvenile fox population. This to investigate the effects of the disappearance of rabies on the population dynamics in spring 1985 after succesful application of oral vaccination. The average adult fox density in spring, during 1987-1991, was estimated at 0.74 foxes/km2. The adult spring fox density was three times higher in the northern heterogeneous part of the county (1.77 foxes/km2) than in the southern alpine regions (0.59 foxes/km2). Annual losses, including fox hunting, could not prevent an increase of the fox density between 1987 and 1992. In 1992, seven years after the last fox rabies case, the increased fox density apparently still has not reached its carrying-capacity. The foxes here live in a very stable environment with a high food-supply and number of denning sites, partly of anthropogenic origin.
23737059|Nest predation in ground nesting black grouse (Tetrao tetrix) inhabiting managed boreal forests is arguably the single most important cause of nesting failure. Little is known, however, about indirect effects of other factors, such as maternal or environmental properties, and to what extent maternal and habitat qualities interact with varying levels of predator densities. Using an information-theoretical approach, we studied maternal and environmental determinants of daily nest survival rates under variable predator densities of 210 individual black grouse hens in central Finland. Environmental determinants were far more important than maternal ones, and the effects were more apparent at higher predator densities. Keeping predator densities constant, daily nest survival rates increased with nest conspicuousness and increasing tree density, and were higher in undrained areas. While there was no difference between adults and juveniles, hens that invested more in egg size were more successful. Therefore, environmental factors and, to a lesser extent, maternal properties, indirectly affect nesting success especially when predator density is high. Modern forestry practices such as clear cutting and drainage are commonly linked to increased densities of predators such as foxes. Our results suggest that the nesting success of black grouse may further be indirectly affected by the same practices, the overall impact being a balance between the negative (e.g. drainage, clear-cutting) and the positive (reforestation, producing dense young forest stands) effects.
23731377|Two genetically different strains of Wistar rats were developed by selective breeding for high and low alcohol consumption. Marked differences in alcohol consumption between the sexes and the strains were evident by the eighth generation. In the choice situations presented to the animals, the amounts of water, food and alcohol consumed showed interactions. Interchanging the drinking bottles, although it had no significant effect on the level of alcohol intake, seemed to increase individual variation in this respect. A habituation period before the actual free choice tended to raise the level of alcohol intake so that the individual differences in consumption increased. Learning influenced free choice behaviour. It was shown that alcohol consumption changes with age. The genetical differences could not be overcome by differences in motivation. A valid determination of the phenotype could nevertheless be established, using a single alcohol concentration if the content of the main food components of the diet and the ambient temperature were standardized. The drinker strain was genetically less homogeneous than the non-drinker strain.
23736944|Managers are sometimes faced with a situation where one endangered species increases the vulnerability of another one. According to our late-winter helicopter survey of Finland's two small populations of wild-forest reindeer (Rangifer tarandus fennicus), the eastern one decreased by half during the last 7 years. This is probably due to the return of the wolf (Canis lupus) to the area. Our data show that the annual recruitment rate of reindeer is strongly correlated with wolf density. Calf mortality was high and stable during the first months after birth. The wolf is classified as an endangered species in Finland. Thereby, our study area provides an example of a triggered situation in which a locally abundant, endangered predator increases the vulnerability of a threatened prey. There are basically two policy options for avoiding extinction: (1) to directly control the predation risk or (2) to reach further out into the ecosystem to control those factors that have led to high abundance of predators. One potential direct management action is increased wolf control in the primary summer home ranges of female reindeer. In the long term, wolf predation on wild-forest reindeer would decline if the abundance of moose (Alces alces) could be lowered, because high moose density supports high abundance of wolves. Another noteworthy option is the reintroduction of reindeer into regions where the wolf still exists at low densities.
23736983|Some plumage patterns in birds, such as irregularities of feathers, are potential amplifiers because they can reveal damage by conspecifics and therefore social status. We experimentally manipulated the pattern of the white cheeks of male great tits (Parus major) in order to simulate the effects of peckings by others and thus investigate possible changes in dominance during agonistic encounters at artificial feeders exposed to different risks of predation during winter. As predicted, manipulated birds were displaced by controls from safe feeders, and performed a lower number of aggressions and with lower success, although they did not receive more aggressions as expected from the fact that efficient agonistic displays can avoid the occurrence of overt aggressions. Thus, our manipulation changed the social status of birds by converting individuals with manipulated cheeks into subordinates. We propose that cheek colour uniformity acts as an amplifier of the outcomes of aggressions in great tits.
23737066|We studied morphology (shell, penis and flagellum, female reproductive organs) and 395 partial sequences of mtDNA COI and 93 of ITS-1 in Bythinella from continental Greece. Molecular techniques inferred ten molecularly distinct species: two in the Peloponnese; one in the Parnassus and Attica; two sympatric/parapatric at Volos; one in the Lefkas; four in northern Greece. The differentiation was probably not older than 3.5 MYA, most species originated in the last 2 MYA (Pleistocene). Haplotype diversity, nucleotide diversity and mismatch distribution indicated common bottlenecks followed by fluctuations in population size. A nested-clade analysis indicated allopatric fragmentation with instances of long distance colonization, and restricted gene flow with isolation by distance. The decrease in Bythinella species richness from the north to the south was due to the geological history, colonization and recolonization, and short and long-distance dispersal, to survive in the unstable environment.
23734120|The trematode from Macoma balthica (L.) here studied has the characteristics typical to the genus Lacunovermis, the ventral pit and wide genital pore some distance anterior to the ventral sucker. Other characteristics are quite similar to those described earlier for Lacunovermis macomae (Lebour). The position of the ovarium was nearly in the proportion of 50:50 on the right side or on the left side of the worm. Tegumentary spines were broad on the face and wedge-shaped in profile; they were in fact "multiple" spines, usually with 24 individual spines side by side. The subtegumentary cells, the outer tegument and filamentous surface coat were alcianophilic, thus largely composed of acid mucosubstances. Large lipid droplets were present in the cells of the digestive caeca. In brackish-water cultures in vitro at 37 C sperms began to form within 12 h, and they filled the seminal vesicle in 24 h. Later they were seen further up the genital tract, finally in the fertilisation space near the ovarium. The first capsulated eggs formed in 48 h. More viable and a greater number of eggs (1336 in number) were obtained when metacercariae were incubated subcutaneously in mice for 5575 h. In the adults dissected from the mice the tegument was less alcianophilic, the size of the digestive caeca was reduced and their lipids had decreased compared to metacercariae. In some individuals lipids had increased in other tissues. Alcianophilic cells had appeared in the Mehlis' gland. Smaller metacercariae with enormous digestive caeca, with small suckers and with "double" spines on the thin tegument, were also often present in the extra-pallial space of M. balthica. They may be the younger stages of L. macomae, or they may be metacercariae of a different species.
23733654|The aim of this study was to analyse how far the local distribution of the freshwater gastropods in southern and western Finland is determined by water quality and how far by the spatial variables (area, degree of isolation) of the MacArthur-Wilson equilibrium model. The analysis was performed in four different lake groups comprising 70 lakes. The statistical tool was stepwise multiple regression analysis. In the most oligotrophic lakes, where total hardness was < 1.0 dH (1 dH = 7.1 mg Ca 1-1), the best predictors for the local occurrence of the gastropod fauna were the chemical variables of lake water. By contrast, in the group of lakes where total hardness exceeded this critical limit, the explained variation in the number of species was nearly all accounted for by the spatial variables of the equilibrium theory. The equilibrium model does not hold for the large, non-isolated lakes of the Finnish lake district. Thus, no single formula will explain the occurrence of gastropods in southern and western Finland, but each "archipelago" of lakes behaves ecologically and biogeographically as a functional entity.
23731741|The land mollusc fauna in the Jolosjoki area of Kiiminki was studied with the aid of a semi-quantitative sieving method and compared with the molluscs collected in the same localities about 100 years ago. Nine of the 27 species found had not been recorded earlier in Kiiminki, and three species collected earlier, viz. Carychium minimum Mll., C. tridentatum (Risso) and Vertigo geyeri (Lindh.), were not rediscovered. The mean densities of land molluscs in different habitats are presented. Aspen litter and a moist riverside meadow watered by streams rich in lime, were especially rich in land molluscs.
23734640|Time allocation during breeding was studied in unmated male common frogs Rana temporaria Linnaeus in three populations along a gradient of altitude, climate and length of feeding season. The length of the breeding period decreased with increased altitude. All three populations had low activity levels (033% of the time during peak chorusing). Peak chorusing in the lowland population was due to more males participating in the chorus, and not to increased individual calling activity. An increase in mating effort at this time was nevertheless indicated by the males' using more time for moving in the pond. At both montane localities, males called more sparsely, and not at all at night. During peak chorusing, calling and moving males became significantly rarer with increased altitude. Aggressive males were significantly rarer in the alpine population. Between-locality variation was evident in fat reserves after hibernation and during breeding; the relative fat body mass was significantly higher in lowland males than in mid-altitude and alpine males. We discuss male mating activity (here: calling, mate searching and aggression) in ultimate terms as a trade-off between mate acquisition and survival.
23734242|The morphology and fine structure of the antennular aesthetasc hairs of Saduria entomon were studied and described using transmission and scanning electron microscopy. The external structure of the aesthetascs of Saduria resembles the chemoreceptor structures of other aquatic crustaceans. The internal fine structure differs markedly from other chemoreceptor structures described among crustaceans. The role of these antennular receptors in feeding behaviour was studied by behavioural tests in laboratory aquaria. After ablation of distal antennular segments accurate feeding orientation become random and sluggish. No recovery was observed after a four-week period.
23731597|The effect of different doses of X-irradiation upon crossing-over were studied simultaneously in distal segments of structurally normal autosomes and of autosomes having unequal parts of the left arms mutually exchanged. In this genetic system, the type of effect produced (increase or decrease of recombination) was found to depend on whether or not spontaneous crossing-over was affected by proximity to the centromere. The results lend support to the hypothesis that, in general, any external agent expected to reduce crossing-over is likely to exert its strongest action in the regions that are least influenced by the centromere effect, i.e., in the distal segments of the chromosome. On the other hand, in regions influenced by the centromere effect, X-ray-induced recombination generally more than counterbalances the decrease, the result being a net increase in the crossover frequency.
23735585|A fungus identified as Aphanomyces astaci was isolated from two crayfish plague epizootics among noble crayfish, Astacus astacus, in Central Finland. The isolated fungal strains from Vaikkojoki, Kaavi and Iso-Suojrvi, Saarijrvi were able to kill healthy A. astacus crayfish in aquarium experiments and the fungus could be reisolated from the diseased animals. The genomic DNA of the isolated strains were characterized by applying a polymerase chain amplification technique with arbitrarily primed DNA. One strain was identical, i.e. showed an identical DNA band pattern, with an A. astaci strain earlier isolated from signal crayfish, Pacifastacus leniusculus. The latter strain has been the cause of several crayfish plague outbreaks in Sweden. These data suggest that the introduction of North American crayfish into Finland has resulted in the transmission of the disease to populations of the native crayfish, A. astacus.
23735584|We studied the reproductive performance of herring gulls (Larus argentatus) in an old stable colony in SW Finland. Over the period 19931997, the colony decreased, and the garbage dumps the birds may have utilised have all closed. This had an effect on the breeding performance of the colony when comparing the year prior to the closing of the last garbage dump available (1996), and the following season (1997). It is clear that the last-laid egg size decreased significantly between years, more eggs were lost due to predation, and fewer of the hatched young fledged. The quality (in terms of body weight) of hatching chicks (both first and last) was not reduced, but first chicks grew slower in 1997. These changes are in agreement with predictions from other studies, and are likely effects of diminishing food resources. However, overall production was still good, and the birds seem capable of successful breeding without the presence of nearby garbage dumps.
23736163|The PAMUCEAF (Poplars  A multiple-use crop for European arable farmers) project of the European Union was initiated to evaluate the influence of poplars on local agricultural practice and on local and regional biodiversity. The underlying hypothesis was that afforestation with poplars contributes to regional biodiversity. We use ground beetles as an indicator taxon and show that poplar plantations contain mainly ubiquitous species with unspecific habitat requirements. Judged by the samples from pitfall traps the species numbers in the poplar plantations were lower than in the adjacent arable land and did not noticeably contribute to overall regional diversity. An analysis of community structure revealed that the plantations did not contain habitat specialists not occurring elsewhere in the adjacent rural environments. We have no convincing evidence that the plantations enhanced species numbers in adjacent fields by providing refuges or hibernation sites.
23731593|The relative significance of the founder principle, genetic drift and selection was estimated in 31 populations of Philaenus spumarius living on small islands in the Gulf of Finland, and experiencing great yearly fluctuations in numbers. Philaenus is polymorphic with regard to colour, and this polymorphism is known to be of the balanced type. Each of the main colour forms is determined by a specific chromosomal gene. The frequencies of the colour forms were determined in each of the 31 populations. In populations living on large islands or on small islands close to the mainland, the frequencies approximate to those typical of the mainland populations of southwestern Finland. In such islands, the frequencies were found to be governed mainly by selection. However, the founder principle also appears to be significant. With decreasing size or increasing isolation of the islands, the founder principle, intermittent drift and permanent drift gain in importance. In the outermost zone of the archipelago, the frequencies of the colour genes are determined primarily by the founder principle and genetic drift. The effects exerted by selection under such conditions are discussed.
23736003|A fine-scale fragmented area (twenty-two 40  40 m clear-cuts) and a coarse-scale fragmented area (three 150  150 m clear-cuts) were created in a spruce forest in Norway during 19951996. Before and after the logging, in 1994 and 1997 respectively, ground beetles were sampled in pitfall traps between the clear-cuts and from an untouched control area. Seven eurytopic forest species accounted for 99% of the catch. In the fine-scale fragmented area the abundance of Leistus terminatus was significantly negatively affected by fragmentation, whereas in the coarse-scale fragmented area L. terminatus, Trechus obtusus and Calathus micropterus were significantly negatively affected. No clear indications of area or edge effects were found. Isolation effects probably were minimal. The ambiguity in the explanation of the results is likely to be due to species-specific and complex responses to the different aspects of habitat fragmentation.
23736099|Pikeperch in a British canal have been depleted for a period of 16 years in an attempt to reduce their abundance. For the first 11 years, the intensity of removal was low but was then increased. Initially, two dominant cohorts followed each other with a gap of four years. After intensifying removal, there have been no further dominant cohorts. Total pikeperch biomass did not decrease after the change in removal rate, but numbers increased and mean length decreased. It is suggested that in this case, removal of pikeperch increased the intensity of predation on prey fish.
23731673|Development of the reproductive system from the primordially bisexual embryos may be modified from normal by thermal stress applied at different times and for different intervals. The gonadal complex was used in this investigation as the model for illustrating the effect of constant and serially variable temperature on modification. Primordially it contains ovarian, testicular and accessory tissues which may be variously expressed according to temperature prevailing at the time of their differentiation. At uniform rearing temperatures below 23 , the testicular primordium is capable of becoming a fully defined testis. Constant temperatures of 26  and above prevent the development of testicular tissues. Suppressive effects which uniform temperatures above 23  have on testicular development can be offset when these temperatures are alternated with lower, non-stressing ones. Normal definitive testes develop within mosquitoes exposed to non-stressing temperatures for at least nine hours each day during ontogeny. Testicular tissues are sensitive to thermal changes only during a limited period in the early stages of ontogeny. Termination of the temperature sensitive period varies with temperature. Although thermal increases within the optimum range of temperatures (23 ) have no modifying effect on testicular morphology they do extend the period of time during which the developing tissues are sensitive to thermal stress. The ability of developing testicular tissues to recover from retarding effects of exposures to high temperatures during the sensitive period may be enhanced by 1) lowering the relieving temperature and 2) increasing the frequency of exposure to the relieving temperatures. In the component of Aedes stimulans having a dual primordial system, ovarian primordia develop only after development of the testicular ones have been suppressed. Temperature, therefore, is permissive not repressive to the developing female system.
23737163|Geoffroy's and Pampas cats are small felids with large distribution ranges in South America. A camera trap survey was conducted in the Espinal of central Argentina to estimate abundance based on capturerecapture data. For density estimations we used both non-spatial methods and spatially explicit capturerecapture models (SECR). For Geoffroy's cat we also obtained density estimates from 8 radio-tracked individuals. Based on the data on 10 Geoffroy's cats and 7 Pampas cats, non-spatial methods produced density ranges of 16.2121.94 indiv./100 km 2 and 11.3417.58 indiv./100 km 2 , respectively. The density estimated using SECR models was 45 animals/100 km 2 for Geoffroy's cat, whereas we were unable to produce a reliable estimate for the Pampas cat. The SECR estimate for Geoffroy's cat is more similar to that obtained from telemetry data (58.82 cats/100 km 2 ). In agreement with the hypothesis of its greater adaptability, Geoffroy's cat was more abundant than the Pampas cat.
23734523|After incubation of eggs from 70 to 75 hours in a local geomagnetic field, the orientation of chick embryos differed significantly from the random distribution. When another batch of eggs was incubated in the presence of an artificial field that turned the horizontal component of the resultant field by 90, there was a corresponding change in the orientation of the embryos. The head-tail axis of the embryos had a tendency to be oriented perpendicularly to the magnetic field. The results suggest that static magnetic fields affect the orientation of chick embryos during their first stages of development.
23734573|Naturally established corixid populations living in four rock-pools were given frozen Chironomus larvae to supplement their diet. Initially the amount was 50100 larvae/m2, and this was gradually increased to 300400 larvae/m2. Supplementary feeding rapidly increased the egg production and, initially, the survival of corixid larvae. Population densities and the numbers of individuals completing development increased markedly. A net immigration of adults was detected during the first four weeks of the experiment. Later a strong emigration of adults occurred, and larval mortality increased, leading to the characteristic mid-season drop in total biomass. During late summer a comparable new cycle with corresponding high densities occurred. These results suggest that rock pool corixid populations are food-limited. The main regulating mechanisms are density-dependent changes in survival of small larvae and dispersal of mature adults. The balance between immigration and emigration will change with changing food availability and leads to concentration of adults in high resource patches.
23735669|Studies in colonies of common gulls in Poland show that black fly outbreaks can affect breeding success in colonial waterbirds. During massive black fly outbreaks, many pairs of common gulls deserted their nests, both during the incubation period and after hatching. Remaining pairs exhibited less parental care, spent less time at territories and when present, often wheeled above their nests instead of incubating, brooding, or feeding their chicks. Increased absence of adults resulted in increased nest predation by crows and magpies and frequent starvation of broods. Mortality of chicks and adults caused by physical harassment and probably direct loss of blood and body fluids from biting flies was also observed. During black fly outbreak years, loss of clutches and broods increased by 40% to 60%. Low breeding success during outbreak years may limit recruitment of young birds to the colony resulting in long-term population decreases.
23734279|Pied flycatcher, Ficedula hypoleuca (Pallas) females (N=25) were collected in different breeding phases (pre-breeding, pre-laying, laying, incubating, feeding young) in the Oulu region of northern Finland. The energy investment rate for eggs and the lipid and protein reserves (measured as ash-free lean dry weight) of all females were determined. The follicle growth period was slightly over 4 days, during which investments were successively 4, 15, 32, and 34 % of final yolk weight. The albumen, shell and the rest of the yolk (15 %) were produced during the last 24 h. The modal clutch of 6 eggs contains about 0.6 g lipid, 1.5 g protein and 0.3 g calcium carbonate (measured as shell ash), which amounts are invested in the eggs during 10 days. The maximum investment rate (2.2 kcal/d, measured as egg content energy) occurred only during two days of the cycle, the other days reaching 2 to 98 % of the maximum rate. Pied flycatcher females lost 0.7 g of lipids but only a very small amount of proteins from the body reserves during laying. The lipids were presumably used not only to cover the investments in yolk, but also for fueling the search for protein-rich food. Pied flycatchers thus rely mainly on foraging to cover the protein demands for their eggs.
23735352|Herring gull colonization of the Fennoscandian-Baltian area by the taxonomically and chorologically separate elements, cachinnans and argentatus, is evaluated in the light of their ecologies. The colonization events within the area consist of several consecutive occurrences during periods of large-scale temporal dimensions. Such characteristics as the ecological tenacity determining habitat selection and the invasion ability vs. inability to occupy certain kinds of habitats  both determined by the past history of the pertinent populations  were considered essential in the distributional dynamics of cachinnans and argentatus. These components formed the conceptual basis for hypotheses generating testable predictions of future colonization events.
23736742|Climate change is considered to be one of the factors explaining a recent increase of bearded tit populations. To test this hypothesis, the effect of weather conditions on breeding and wintering populations in western Poland between 1986 and 2005 was studied. Weather did not influence annual changes in the breeding population, whereas non-breeding numbers were positively associated with spring and autumn temperatures. There was a slight trend for earlier egg laying related to higher MarchApril temperatures. These results suggest that the bearded tit may potentially benefit from climate warming through a prolonged breeding season which in turn could enable more broods to be raised. This conjecture was supported by the fact that the bearded tit showed a strong tendency to start breeding early, well before conditions for maximal clutch size, breeding success and egg volume occurred.
23735889|Competition has been widely discussed as a process that may structure communities of plants and animals. Its role in insect communities is less clear, especially as many insect species do not appear to compete for resources. However, such communities could still be structured by "apparent competition" where the species interact through shared natural enemies. We explore recent attempts to assess whether apparent competition may structure herbivorous insect communities. Communities can be described by quantitative food webs from which the potential for apparent competition can be inferred. We illustrate both the construction of a diverse quantitative food web and a field experimental test of apparent competition using our work on leaf-miner communities in Belize. We consider how a spatial perspective may be incorporated into our leaf-miner community research, and speculate about the shape of apparent competition kernels and their relevance for the structure of herbivorous insect communities.
23734586|During 198687 we started a winter atlas project in Lombardy, northern Italy, by means of point-counts with habitat recording in the whole area. Our selection of (a) 1010 km squares to be covered in the first year of field work and of (b) the actual sites where to perform point-counts within each square, was based on a two-stage sampling with a random selection of primary (squares) and secondary (point-counts) sampling units. During the first year of our survey, we covered 80 squares, performed 1484 point-counts and detected 128 781 birds comprising 113 species. Among these, 15 species made up 93% of the total number of individuals. Among the species found in such large numbers to allow the evaluation of a through-winter trend, four different patterns were recognized: (a) no change, (b) decline, (c) increase, (d) decline followed by an increase. Due to the random distribution of the point-counts performed, the present method allows projections of provisional maps on the whole regional area. Moreover, due to its quantitative approach, it also allows the provision of an index of abundance within each square, correlations between bird presence and type of habitats and a satisfactory standardization in the degree of exploration of the accessible part of the region.
23731711|The distribution of Enchytraeids in the northern areas of Asia, Europe and North America is surveyed. All the studied areas harbour essentially similar Enchytraeid faunas, the Pacific coast of North America possibly being the only exception.
23737075|Teeth are essential in mammals for the capture, handling and processing of food and self-defense. The rate of deterioration may affect longevity and indicate certain environmental conditions. The goal of this study was to characterize tooth conditions of moose (Alces alces) from multiple regions and to make inferences of possible causes of variation. An assessment of > 5500 moose incisors, found that the frequency of breakage and rate of decline in incisor integrity, with age, was much higher in Cape Breton and Newfoundland (breakage from 6% to 47%) than in New Brunswick, Ontario, New Hampshire, Vermont, and Yukon (breakage from 1% to 6%). Incisal degradation, among jurisdictions, differed significantly though population age structures did not appear different. The two jurisdictions most affected by incisal deterioration, Cape Breton and Newfoundland, are inhabited by genetically distinct subspecies, at higher densities than other regions; therefore, breakage may be linked to local environmental conditions.
23737215|Shrews have very high metabolic rates and are often unintentionally starved in rodent live-traps during capturemarkrecapture (CMR) studies. Here, we suggest a shrew exit as a modification to rodent traps. To test whether this modification is (1) saving shrews and (2) not jeopardizing results of rodent captures, we compared captures in Ugglan traps with and without shrew exits, studying bank voles (Myodes glareolus) in a spruce forest in central Finland. Numbers of captured bank voles and body size of smallest juvenile bank voles were not affected by the shrew exit, while the number of captured common shrews (Sorex araneus) was reduced from 31 to 0 individuals per 100 trap nights. However, rare larger shrew species (> 8 g body weight) could not escape through the exit. A shrew exit can, therefore, save smaller shrew species in standard live-trapping of vole-sized rodents without affecting CMR data of the rodent.
23735678|The disappearance of acid sensitive fish species that usually are the most important top predators in freshwater ecosystems is an important ecological consequence of lake acidification. This may have beneficial consequences for insectivorous waterbirds that may compete for food with fish. We studied the response of common goldeneye (Bucephala clangula) pairs and broods to pH, perch (Perca fluviatilis) density and invertebrate abundance in small forest lakes in southern Finland. Neither the density of breeding pairs nor that of broods showed an overall trend with lake acidity but both of them increased with invertebrate abundance. Among three lakes studied in more detail for several years both pair density and brood density were highest in the lake with lowest pH and perch density and highest invertebrate abundance. Goldeneye brood density, but not pair density, increased after a sudden perch death in an experimental lake. Our results indicate that both breeding pairs and broods of goldeneyes may benefit of acidity-induced release in food competition after the disappearance of fish competitors.
23736782|The correct use and interpretation of statistical measures is often challenging for field-oriented ecologists. One such basic measure is the odds ratio (OR), which enables the comparison of two proportions. Odds ratio is the pivotal concept in the simple analyses of proportions in two-way contingency tables, as well as in complex logit model approaches. Here, we clarify the use and interpretation of the odds ratio in ecological research. We show that the odds ratio is both a statistical and an ecological solution to quantifying the direction and magnitude of discrepancy between proportions. To enhance comparison of suppressing (with OR below one) and promoting (with OR above one) factors, we propose that the odds ratio should always be reported as a value above one, together with an exponent (1 or -1) to denote the direction of the effect. The odds ratio supports powerful ecological interpretations in the comparison of proportions and thus should become a standard concept in ecological papers.
23735591|Plumage coloration may signal individual quality through carotenoid and melanin colour patterns; novel mechanisms by which structural coloration in feathers could signal individual quality are proposed here. Uniformity of structural colour is suggested to signal developmental stability during feather growth, the colour constituting an amplifier. For structural coloration produced by coloured portions of barbules which are susceptible to loss by abrasion, the intensity of colour is suggested to signal feather quality and abrasion-resistance, the structural colour constituting an amplifying handicap. In both cases, large areas of structural coloured plumage may be more revealing of quality than small areas. Predictions as to the extent, position and combinations of these structural colours relative to carotenoid and melanin coloration were derived from these mechanisms and supported by comparative tests. Structural coloration may thus be a component in multiple messages of individual quality in plumage coloration.
23735542|Reptiles rely upon external heat sources to increase body temperature, and it has been suggested that thermoregulatory capacity may vary among individuals of different colour morphs because colours differ in reflectance and may influence the rate at which solar radiation is converted into body heat. Individuals with superior thermoregulatory abilities may either maintain higher body temperatures, and thereby enjoy increased performance, or they may decrease time spent basking, and thereby reduce the potential costs, e.g. predation, associated with thermoregulation. In a comparison of thermoregulatory capacity, daily body temperature, and proportion of time exposed between melanistic and zigzag individuals in a population of Vipera berus polymorphic for colour pattern, melanistic individuals were found to heat faster and to reach slightly higher body temperatures than did zigzag individuals when experimentally exposed to identical environmental conditions. However, there was no consistent difference in daily body temperature variation or in exposure between radiotelemetered free ranging melanistic and zigzag individuals, despite the fact that snake body temperatures appeared to be constrained by the physical environment for most of the study period. Either colour exerts only a trivial effect on the body temperatures of adders or melanistic individuals use their thermoregulatory advantage differently depending on gender and reproductive condition.
23734416|A. carinata (C. Sahlberg) and A. germari (Fieber) are close to each other morphologically, and presumably also genetically. They are partly sympatric, their habitat isolation is partial, their breeding seasons overlap, and in both species both sexes produce stridulatory signals during the mating season, stridulating activity being maximal at night. However, the signals are species- and sex-specific. In A. germari, laboratory experiments showed that exchange of acoustic signals between the sexes is an essential part of mating behaviour; in A. carinata, in contrast, males were frequently observed to attempt copulation without preceding acoustic signalling, and they often managed to copulate forcibly even with unreceptive females or females of other species. Experimental crosses gave viable hybrids between A. carinata and A. germari, and one viable hybrid was even obtained between A. carinata and Sigara distincta (Fieber). Morphologically the hybrids had intermediate characters, and the acoustic signals of the Arctocorisa hybrids were also intermediate. In backcrosses of Arctocorisa hybrids the males were almost totally sterile; in contrast, the females produced fertile offspring when backcrossed to A. germari males, but sterile offspring when backcrossed to A. carinata males. Thus, in experimental crosses between A. carinata males and A. germari females postmating isolation was strong and behavioural isolation weak, but in crosses between A. germari males and A. carinata females the weak postmating isolation was counteracted by strong isolation in acoustic behaviour.
23736938|Many problems in the analysis of ecological data have the format where there is an observed response that may be predicted by several covariates. Although the response can take several forms (e.g. measurements, counts, observations of presence/absence), and the covariates can also vary (e.g. be measurements themselves, or be grouped according to the treatment applied, the time or location of of sampling, etc.), most of these problems can be handled in a single framework, the Generalized Linear Mixed Model (GLMM). The framework encompasses regression, ANOVA, generalized linear models, and equivalent models with random as well as fixed effects. Here, the different parts of the GLMM are described, building from regression and ANOVA to show how the extra components  the wider range of distributions, and random effects  can be added into the same framework, and how the parameters of the fitted model can be estimated and interpreted. Being able to handle data with GLMMs helps ecologists to analyse the majority of their data.
23735515|A genetic analysis of four nasal bone structures found in European moose (Alces alces L.) was performed. The study was based on a hypothesis of an active role of the temporary ossification centres of developing sutural area during the suturation process. Results suggest that the bone polymorphism is controlled by two gene loci showing dominance but no epistasis. Since nasal region morphs seem to be more stable in males than in females biomechanical strain due to massive antlers with a horizontal pedicle structure may be casual.
23735842|Thirty years ago Hamilton showed that spite, an action that harms a recipient at no direct benefit to the actor, could evolve if interactants were negatively related. Wilson later showed that spite could also evolve by indirect benefits to a third party. Since then, many selfish actions that are particularly harmful to the recipient have been called 'spite' but no convincing examples have been found. Here we discuss three examples of spite from the social insects: worker policing, sex allocation biasing by workers and green beard queen killing in the fire ant. All examples are Wilsonian spite and the last example is also Hamiltonian spite. Spite will be harder to identify in other animals because actions that seem mutually harmful may have delayed reproductive benefits. Spite may prove to be more common at the genetic level than the individual level because negative relatedness can more easily arise. Two possible examples, cytoplasmic incompatibility and maternal-effect lethal distorter genes, are discussed.
23732266|Studies on pellets collected on breeding grounds during three seasons showed that both adults and young fed exclusively on fish. In estimating the numbers eaten, different criteria were used for different species and taxa. Altogether 12 fish species were recorded. Roach (Rutilus rutilus), perch (Perca fluviatilis), and Clupeidae (mostly the Baltic herring, Clupea harengus membras) were the commonest items in the diet (57, 24, and 11 %), which varied seasonally. In the first half of May, roach clearly dominated, but in June perch were eaten as frequently as roach. Clupeidae were commonest in late May and early June, when spawning. The Caspian tern seems to be an opportunist, feeding on available fish species of a given size. The lengths of the roach and perch eaten ranged from 9.0 to 25.5 cm. In the roach, the most frequent sizes were 18  22 (mean 18.5) cm, but in the perch 14  18 (16.0) cm. There was no statistical difference in size of prey taken between the incubation period and the period of feeding young.
23732258|The nesting biology of pair of rough-legged buzzards in northeastern Finnish Lapland (67 44' N, 29 37' E) was studied in the continuous daylight of June and early July 1973 with the help of a field television system with remote control. During the incubation and nestling periods both parents, especially the female, brought building material to the nest. The female was seen incubating 86 % of the time and the male 9 %. The nest was left unattended 5 % of the time. The mean duration of an incubation period was 108 min in the female and 41 min in the male. It was longer between 18.00  06.00 hr than between 06.00  18.00 hr. Nest-building, shifting of eggs, preening of plumage, settling and resettling were recorded during the incubation period. The parents carried pieces of egg-shell away from the nest. The four young hatched during about 5 days. The parents shared the care of the young. In the beginning of the nestling period the young were fed by the female at all times of day. All the young died, probably of paralysis due to the exceptionally hot weather. The parents ate the dead young. During 19 days, they also consumed at least 38 voles, one whimbrel chick, one frog, one unidentified prey animal and numerous mosquitoes.
23734190|The late Pleistocene lion of Beringia was a distinctly smaller animal than the great Panthera leo atrox south of the Wisconsin ice. It probably was on a cline with the slightly larger European Panthera leo spelaea and is referred to the same taxon.
43923432|Data from 1219 broods examined during 1969-1980 in the Oulu area of northern Finland provide the basis for this study; 28 % of the broods failed to produce fledglings, while 78.8 % of the 976 pairs represented produced at least one fledgling. The reproductive rate was 6.09 young/breeding pair. This, together with a female survival rate of 44.8-48.3 % resulted in a juvenile survival rate of 17.0-18.1 % to maintain a stable population. Excluding human interference, the most important predator upon the great tit nests was the stoat, which plundered an average of 7.9 % of all clutches. The years following small rodent peaks were those of heaviest predation by the stoat. The fledging success (percentage of eggs yielding fledglings) amounted to 54.8 % in the first broods, 45.6 % in the repeat broods and 65.7 % in the second broods. Starvation was the most important cause of nestling deaths. In first broods the nestling success decreased with increasing initial brood size. Nevertheless, the number of fledged young was highest in broods of largest initial size. Second broods were laid in years when the success of the first broods was higher than average, and the females laying second broods had been more successful with their first broods than those which produced no second broods, suggesting that a second brood is profitable for the most competent females. Among the repeat broods, those initiated after the first brood had been destroyed during the incubation stage were most successful. The habitat differences in breeding success were small. Hatching success and nestling mortality among the first broods was not density-dependent, but the population size reduction during the non breeding season was relatively higher when the initial summer population was high. Nestling success in the successful first breeding correlated positively with the average daily temperature during the period May-June. Shorter periods also showed positive relationships, but not significantly so. These results suggest that climatic factors contribute to a great part of the reproductive output in the Oulu area and are in this respect more important than density-dependent factors. The number of fledglings was on average 2.0 young less than the number of eggs hatched in successful first broods. This result indicates the brood reduction strategy in the great tit in the Oulu area.
23731737|After 15 days' exposure to phenol at 100 mg/m3 in an inhalation chamber at 27 C tests with the "tilting- plane" method demonstrated that this sublethal concentration had had a significant effect on the central nervous system of rats. No significant effects on haemoglobin or haematocrit values could be demonstrated, and plasma sodium, calcium and chloride values were unaffected. On the other hand, plasma potassium and magnesium values were significantly elevated. The activities of the plasma enzymes LDH, GOT, GPT, and GLDH were also significantly elevated. At the concentration used phenol did not have any effect on the weight of the test animals. The total amount of free phenols in plasma remained unaltered.
23736817|Predatorprey studies in streams have traditionally focused on mayflystonefly interactions in relatively constant flow conditions. In reality, however, lotic prey encounter multiple types of predators, most of which are restricted to low-velocity microhabitats. By contrast, some invertebrate prey may occur in very high current velocities. For example, many blackfly species are able to feed at velocities of 100 cm s-1, whereas even moderate currents reduce the hunting efficiency of their invertebrate predators. The caddisfly larvae of the genus Rhyacophila, however, may be an exception to the pattern of reducing predator efficiency with increasing velocity. Using a combination of laboratory and field experiments and behavioral field observations, we examined the interaction between predatory Rhyacophila caddis larvae and larval blackflies along a velocity gradient of 20120 cm s-1. In laboratory experiments, Rhyacophila preferred currents slower than 50 cm s-1 while blackflies exhibited a wide tolerance of currents and frequently occurred in currents exceeding 100 cm s-1. In direct field observations, total activity and distance moved by Rhyacophila were similar at all current velocity regimes tested, but frequency of predation attempts on blackflies was lowest at the highest velocities (> 100 cm s-1). In a field colonization study, blackflies avoided substrates with the slowest velocities (< 40 cm s-1), as also did the caddis larvae. Only velocities approaching 100 cm s-1 provide blackflies with refuge from predation by Rhyacophila. Being able to maneuver across a wide range of velocities, Rhyacophila may have more pervasive effects on their prey than other lotic invertebrate predators.
23731798|Live traps were used on a 26  26 grid to determine the movement patterns of three species of small mammals in a lowland mesic-hardwood forest. Blarina brevicauda moved 94.7 m between successive captures, Ochrotomys nuttalli moved 72.8 m and Peromyscus gossypinus moved 54.9 m. These data are not consistent with Calhoun's theory of social dominance. Linear relationships are given for predicting home range size as calculated by several different methods from average distance between captures. A new way of depicting the distribution of average distances between captures is given. Movements on the middle 16  16 grid compared to those on the 26  26 grid were 19.4 % shorter for O. nuttalli and 25.1 % shorter for P. gossypinus. Longer movements are responsible for extending the area of effect around a census grid or line farther than might be expected from data collected on smaller study plots. Thus, an upward bias is introduced into most density estimates.
23734512|The morphometric variation in seven body characters of 204 adult female reindeer from various wild and semi-domestic populations in Fennoscandia was investigated by multivariate analysis. The wild mountain reindeer (Rangifer tarandus tarandus L.) from southern Norway have smaller bodies than those of the Kola Peninsula, a difference that can hardly be due to nutritional factors alone. The wild forest reindeer (Rangifer tarandus fennicus Lnn.) differs from both of these in several body measurements and ratios. It has significantly longer legs, both relatively and absolutely, than the wild Norwegian mountain reindeer and semi-domestic animals studied. The Finnish semi-domestic reindeer is in most respects identical with the wild mountain reindeer of southern Norway, which bears out early records claiming the western origin of the present Finnish semi-domestic reindeer. The gene flow from the wild forest reindeer to the semi-domestic forest type appears virtually to have ceased in the southeastern herding co-operatives. It is concluded that the long legs of the wild forest reindeer are an important adaption to taiga conditions, where the snow cover is usually deep and soft. The mountain types have evolved in areas with hard-packed tundra snow, and consequently the semi-domestic reindeer have difficulty in surviving in coniferous forests, especially in winters with deep, soft snow.
23731585|The sequence of the pelages and its relation to age have been studied in lemmings reared in captivity, and the results applied to the analysis of the age structure of wild populations. From the age structure of the spring populations it is concluded that the lemmings had reproduced under the snow. In May they migrated from the winter to the summer habitats, where reproduction was resumed for three months. Age analysis revealed a close correlation between the date of birth and the proportion of young lemmings reaching sexual maturity in the course of the summer. In the autumn, migration away from the summer habitats continued from late July to the advent of winter. In the male section of the autumn migratory population the age structure remained fairly constant during this period, but there was a profound change from maturity to immaturity. Mature females remained in the summer habitats for longer than mature males, but among the immature specimens there was no marked difference between females and males in the order in which the different stages abandoned the summer habitats. The composition of the rapidly diminishing sedentary population accurately reflected the effects of emigration.
23735353|We compared samples of carabid beetles (Coleoptera, Carabidae) from fifteen forest fragments in a suburban-agricultural setting with catches from a nearby large contiguous forest in Espoo, southern Finland. Forest fragments were relatively similar in vegetation and ranged in area from 0.5 to 21.5 ha. Samples were collected by pitfall traps from forest-fragment interior and edge and from the surrounding agro-urban environment. Abundance and species richness of carabids was lowest in the contiguous forest and highest in the fragment surroundings. Contiguous forest had none, large (9.621.5 ha) and medium-sized forest fragments (4.28.2 ha) a few, and small fragments (0.53.0 ha) several species typically found in the surrounding open habitats. High carabid diversity in the small fragments and in the surroundings was probably related to the higher vegetational diversity in such sites. High diversity of vegetation, in turn, was due to moderate human disturbance and effects of vegetation succession. Most of the abundant carabid species were non-randomly distributed among the habitat types. Some specialized forest carabids were caught exclusively in contiguous forest and only the most generalized forest species were obtained from small forest fragments. These results indicate that in order to preserve the integrity of forest arthropod faunas in urban areas it is essential to leave large, continuous forest tracts untouched to preserve specialist species and forest species assemblages.
23736038|Predation by planktivorous and piscivorous fish has a major impact on zooplankton communities, juvenile fish survival, and the composition of the benthic fauna. In addition, the level of invertebrate predation is closely associated with the presence of predatory fish and influences both the invertebrate and vertebrate prey. Prey species, in turn, show active avoidance of predation by fish. Our aim is to review the recent literature on the responses of different types of prey (fish, benthic animals and zooplankton) to fish predation in freshwater communities. The responses include behavioural responses, predator-induced morphological or chemical defences, and alterations in life history traits. The anti-predator tactics adopted depend on the possibilities of predicting future environmental changes. The consequences of the anti-predator tactics may be evident at the individual or population level. The possible costs of the responses reflect a trade-off between survival and reproduction and/or growth, and may be evident as a lowered intrinsic growth rate of the population. In studying prey responses, account should be taken of the effects of predation on the competitive interactions among the prey.
23734874|Overlap in flower visits by pairs of bumblebees (Bombus) in six communities in Europe and North America is inversely related to the difference in bumblebees' proboscis lengths. 'Corrected' proboscis lengths improve the correlation, and suggest niche shifts leading to tighter groups of species, similar in their flower visits. Complementary abundance changes attributable to interspecific competition were observed on geographical and regional scales but not on more local scales. Data from 12 communities in Europe and North America indicate that the core species (Hanski 1982) are better spaced out in proboscis length space than are randomly selected species from the respective species pools.
23735497|The reviewed studies indicate that small-scale gap disturbance and gap regeneration can be common in boreal forests that have escaped catastrophic fire disturbance for prolonged time periods. Tree regeneration in gaps is enhanced by fine-scale heterogeneity at the forest floor created by soil disturbance and woody debris, which create favourable microsites for seed germination and seedling establishment. The significance of specific microsites for seedling establishment varies among forest types, being smallest in dry Scots pine -dominated forests with scanty understory vegetation and thin humus layer, and greatest in moist Norway spruce -dominated forests with abundant understory vegetation and thick humus layer. In a gap the survival, growth and recruitment of tree seedlings is determined by gap size and long- term below- and above-ground interferences between tree seedlings, understory vegetation and adjacent large trees. Gap disturbance contributes to the structural, functional and species diversity of the boreal forest both at local and areal levels. At local level gap disturbance increases fine-scale variation in soil properties and microtopography. At areal scale gap disturbance creates horizontally and vertically heterogenous forest structures and contributes to the coexcistence of coniferous and broad-leaved tree species.
23737122|Coturnix coturnix is a climatically widespread farmland specialist bird with a well-known distribution in the Iberian Peninsula. Therefore, its current real distribution can be finely mapped. We used recent atlas data and high-resolution climate layers to model the climatic distribution of this species. Next, we compared the obtained predictive maps with the real distribution of the species. Precise information about underestimation and overestimation of model predictions at different sample sizes was obtained. An increase in sample size allowed the predicted distribution to approach the current real distribution, but unbalanced the climatic prediction. This is because the distribution of occurrences is mostly determined by habitat, which depends more on agricultural factors and less on climate. Modelling the climatic distribution of widespread species while ignoring habitat constraints could lead to a non-equilibrium scenario where obtained predictions may not be reliable.
23731769|The effects of waste waters were studied in two oligotrophic lakes in central Finland, special attention being paid to the successive changes caused in the plankton and benthic faunal communities by eutrophication, and its consequences for the aquatic food chain. Phyto- and zooplankton species indicating the trophic status were distinguished. The quotients of these species appear to be a more sensitive index of eutrophication than other changes in community structure or increase of production. The ratio of phytoplankton biomass to that of the zooplankton increases with eutrophication, since the zooplankton cannot utilize the large phytoplankton biomass. Sedimentation then causes qualitative and quantitative changes in the benthic fauna. The structure of the bottom animal community reflects the influence of waste waters, even while eutrophication and pollution are still slight. The disturbances in the production resulting from rapid eutrophication first concern the primary consumers, but finally extend to the entire food chain. The herbivorous zooplankters and bottom animals are a particularly weak link in the food chain. Their gradually declining role as consumers of the increasing primary production is taken over by the decomposers, i.e. the food chain is shortened and the balance of the ecosystem shaken, a large part of the organic matter accumulating on the bottom.
23732259|The colour polymorphism of arctic tern chicks was studied on the Baltic coasts of Finland and on Spitsbergen. On oceanic coasts the brown and brownish morphs predominate, but the grey or greyish morphs comprise the majority on the Baltic coasts, where the ratio of the morphs varies according to the colour and vegetation of the nesting substrate. In areas dominated by grey rocks with sparse vegetation, the greyish morphs are more frequent than in areas where the rocks are reddish and/or covered by stony or brown sandy soil, often with dense vegetation. In one population of the latter type no significant difference was observed between the predation pressures against different morphs. Genetic analysis of the data suggests that the polymorphism may be caused by two Mendelian factors, one regulating colour and the other its distribution. The polymorphism may be maintained by the mosaic nature of the environment, the differently coloured patches offering shelter to different morphs.
23733687|The fauna of Enchytraeids and their ecology was studied for 13 months in two meadow forest habitats in southern Finland. There were 18 species in the moister habitat and 21 in the drier one. The species Stercutus niveus was found in Finland for the first time. S. niveus has its maximum abundance in winter, thus differing from the other species. In both habitats the genus Fridericia covered more than half of the total numbers and about 90 % of the biomass. The mean density was 8 044 individuals per m2 in the drier habitat and 5 711 individuals in the moister one. The mean annual biomasses were 1.74 g/m2 and 1.28 g/m2. Some vertical migration occurred at the onset of frost. The horizontal distribution was aggregated.
23737111|Ecological research using biometric data is only sound if biometrics themselves are accurate and not confounded by measurement error. Given concerns about the accuracy of biometrics taken directly (physical measurement of animals), digital measurement of photographs is often advocated, particularly for small or live specimens. However, there is currently limited understanding of intra- and inter-observer variability of such measurements (i.e. variability of multiple measurements of the same specimen by the same observer, and variability of multiple measurements of the same specimen by different observers, respectively). We took biometrics (two linear, two curvilinear, two angular) from moth photographs using standard image software and calculated two fluctuating asymmetry measures. Inter-observer variability was always higher than intra-observer variability. Measurement error was low for linear/curvilinear measurements (< 4%), but high for angular variables (52%) and asymmetry measures (45%). Measurement precision correlated positively with trait size. Variability caused significant differences in mean measurements inter-specifically for half the biometrics; there were no significant intra-specific differences. We discuss the implications of our findings for research using photographically-derived biometrics and offer recommendations for reducing measurement error.
23731760|A moss cushion (Hypnum cupressiforme) was cut into 66 squares each 2  2 cm for a study of the relations between interstitial water content, weight (or density) of the moss, and numbers of Tardigrades (mainly Macrobiotus hufelandii). The wet weight and corresponding water content of the moss, and the maximal biomass of Tardigrada are related to the density of the cushion by second-degree polynomials. Their respective maxima occur at different densities of the moss stems. The Tardigrada seem to prefer the high water content of the "a" layer of the moss. Here, the water is dispersed among pockets of uniform size, with the result that the rate of drying is largely independent of how much water is initially retained in each particular area of the moss.
23736160|Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar L.) populations from 30 spawning rivers along the northeastern European coast were analyzed for restriction site variation on the standard 2000 base pair fragment of mitochondrial DNA. Overall genetic diversity was higher than in the North Sea or Baltic Sea populations. Linear partitioning of the populations into three geographical areas contributed 27% to the total molecular variance. The Atlantic haplotypes dominate in the westernmost populations along the Barents Sea up to Svyatoi Nos. A haplotype belonging to the North American phylogenetic branch was also frequent along the western Barents coast. The Kola Peninsula rivers draining to the White Sea are dominated by haplotypes hypothesized to originate from the Komi Ice Lake, diluted by Atlantic immigrants. On the Karelian and Arkhangelsk coast of the White Sea, only two haplotypes were present, which are suggested to be derived directly from the freshwater refugium.
23735717|Grazing and trampling by semi-domesticated reindeer are important factors controlling vegetation in northern Fennoscandia. In this article we review Nordic studies on the effects of reindeer on vegetation and animal communities. The studies have shown clear effects on vegetation, especially on Cladina lichen dominated sites. Cladina is the main forage of reindeer during winter and dominates climax vegetation in dry site types in the absence of reindeer. Reindeer can even affect galling and ground-dwelling invertebrates. Due to the special relationship between reindeer and Cladina majority of the research has concentrated on winter grazing on Cladina, but there are some studies of summer grazing which have also shown substantial changes in vegetation. Reindeer grazing increases richness and diversity of vegetation and invertebrate assemblages in most cases, but this influence depends on site type and grazing intensity. The enriching effect seems to be strongest at moderate grazing intensity.
23736207|Year-class variation and growth of the vendace (Coregonus albula (L.)), the most important commercial freshwater fish species in Finland, was assessed in Suomunjrvi from 19742001 seine and gill net catches. We estimated the relative abundances and growth of the individual year-classes. The year-classes 1980, 1985, 1990, and 2000 were strong. There were often oscillations of year-class strengths, although the period of oscillation was not regular. Strong year-classes dominated catches for almost as long as they were present in the lake. The strongest year-class was about 300 times greater in size than the weakest. The growth of the year-classes varied considerably; the difference in growth rate between the strongest and weakest year class was about 2.5-fold. Comparison of the growth of a year-class with its strength showed a marked negative correlation (p < 0.001). The size of the whole stock (CPUE data) also had a negative effect on yearly growth (p < 0.005).
23731732|To facilitate placing of the genus Microneta within the subfamily Lepthyphantinae, the taxonomically important features of its type-species (M. viaria) are described. The genus is compared with Agyneta, which stands very close to it. A list of other nearly related genera is also given.
23736751|A novel hypothesis for the origin of castes in Polistes has recently been proposed: the worker and gyne castes among offspring of a Polistes colony are based on the underlying ground plan of reproductive physiology that would have characterized the non-diapause and diapause generations of a bivoltine solitary vespid wasp. Here the hypothesis is reviewed in light of the dynamic nature of diapause expression in insects in general, and it is re-named the diapause ground plan hypothesis. The diapause ground plan hypothesis differs in several significant aspects from an existing hypothesis for the origin of castes  the ovarian ground plan hypothesis. Phylogenetic implications of the diapause ground plan hypothesis also are in discord with the currently accepted classification of Vespidae, and the diapause ground plan hypothesis has been challenged for its failure to address multiple levels of analysis. Each of these areas of discord is described, and key points of difference between the diapause ground plan hypothesis and competing hypotheses are identified. Strong inference  the explicit testing of a hypothesis for possible rejection  is proposed as the most efficacious route to clearer understanding of the evolution of the castes in Polistes. Specific suggestions for some strong tests of competing hypotheses are proposed.
23735428|We sampled blue mussels (Mytilus edulis) in 19921996 from mussel beds that common eiders (Somateria mollissima) preferentially use during foraging in the Hanko archipelago, Finland. We also compared our data with an earlier study carried out in the same area. We found a consistent trend towards decreasing mussel size; the proportion of larger mussels in the population has decreased significantly. Since blue mussels are an essential part of the Baltic ecosystem, a shift in mean mussel size may have important consequences. A decrease in salinity during the last few decades may be the ultimate reason for the observed changes, as salinity affects growth, maximum size and reproduction of mussels. We also suggest that selective eider predation may be of local importance.
23736891|To date, digestive flexibility has been studied in dozens of vertebrate species. However, practically all of these works has ignored the importance of intraspecific physiological variability across populations inhabiting different habitats. Here, we compare the digestive tract gross morphology of three populations of the Andean toad (Bufo spinulosus), inhabiting along an altitudinal gradient and feeding on different food items. Results support a core prediction of digestive theory, i.e., intestinal length increases in parallel with the content of indigestible material in the natural diet. The present study suggest how variation in the abiotic environment associated with altitude (e.g., temperature, water availability, soil quality) can change biotic conditions (e.g., vegetation cover, prey availability), affect feeding behavior of individuals (e.g., width and composition of trophic niche), and, ultimately, individuals' digestive features (e.g., gut morphology).
23735820|The great grey shrike, Lanius excubitor, is known to be a raptor-like passerine. In addition to invertebrate prey, its diet also consists of vertebrates, including small birds. We examined the effect of presence of the great grey shrike on the breeding assemblages of small passerine birds in an intensively farmed landscape in western Poland. Line transects were used for bird censuses. Birds were counted at 29 treatment transects (length 500 m, width 100 m), located within shrike territory, as well as 29 control transects, situated > 800 m from the nearest shrike nest. Treatment and control transects did not differ with respect to the habitat composition. We did not detect any difference between territories and controls regarding either numbers of recorded bird species, or pairs. However, the vicinity of shrike nests negatively affected the total density of the skylark Alauda arvensis, the most abundant bird species and important item of shrike bird prey, and the whinchat Saxicola rubetra. The results indicate that the presence of the great grey shrike selectively affects species of breeding bird communities.
23731707|The taxonomic status of Centromerus microps (Simon, 1911) is revised, and this species is selected as the type-species of a new Linyphiid genus, Birgerius. Additional data of taxonomically important characters of the species are also given.
23735907|Wood ant species show differences in their social structure, especially in the level of polygyny (number of laying queens per nest) and polydomy (number of nest per colony), both within and between species. We demonstrate here for the first time that Formica lugubris displays two different social forms in close proximity in alpine unmanaged forests of the Swiss National Park. The genetic data (7 microsatellite loci) and field data indicate that one population is mostly monogynous to weakly polygynous (r = 0.438) and monodomous, the second one being polygynous (r = 0.113) and polydomous. Within this latter population new nests are founded by budding, leading to the observed high density of nests. These two different social structures, possibly being two expressions of a same continuum, could be explained by several ecological or environmental factors (e.g. habitat saturation, resource competition) and also historical effects.
23734592|The spruce forest complex in the Krkonoe Mts. of Czechoslovakia is among those most affected by industrial emissions in Europe. Breeding birds in this area have been censused using line transects (total 179 km) and point counts (484 points) since 1983 in four different habitats from almost healthy beech-spruce and spruce forests to heavily damaged and dead spruce forests and subsequent clearcuts. The total bird density was highest in good quality stands (319430 pairs/km2 or 100% in 198487) and gradually decreased with increasing damage to the forest (8089% in slightly and moderately damaged, and 5055% in heavily damaged and dead forests). The dominant species exhibited a similar decrease (especially Regulus, Turdus, Troglodytes, Fringilla and Parus). In 198487 the total density of breeding birds decreased by about one-third in the different habitats. Out of the 15 most abundant species the densities decreased significantly in 6 (40%), increased in 1 and fluctuated or remained constant in 8. Such decreases were not typical of larger areas and it is therefore argued that the trends can be attributed to the effect of industrial emissions in the study area.
23737128|Frogs of the genus Indirana belong to the endemic family Ranixalidae and are found exclusively in the Western Ghats biodiversity hotspot. Since taxonomy, biology and distribution of these frogs are still poorly understood, we conducted a comprehensive literature review of what is known on the taxonomy, morphology, life history characteristics and breeding biology of these species. Furthermore, we collected information on the geographical locations mentioned in the literature, and combined this with information from our own field surveys in order to generate detailed distribution maps for each species. Apart from serving as a useful resource for future research and conservation efforts, this review also highlights the areas where future research efforts should be focussed.
23735729|Bank voles and grey-sided voles occur in sympatry in large parts of boreal and subalpine Fennoscandia. The bank vole has been studied throughout its range, whereas the grey-sided vole has primarily been studied in northern Fennoscandia. We compared habitat selection of grey-sided and bank voles close to the southern edge of the grey-sided vole's range. Voles were live trapped in the summers of 1995 and 1996 in two plots located in boulder fields in birch forest. We used Principal Component Analysis based on six habitat variables to describe the habitat in the plots. In general, the grey-sided voles preferred areas with boulders and Vaccinium spp., whereas the bank voles avoided such areas, being found in association with herbs and grass. When the grey-side voles decreased and bank voles increased in abundance, bank voles used the habitat more according to the habitat availability within the plots, which suggests that competition affected habitat selection.
23735414|Human activity has destroyed or fragmented seminatural habitats, yet some carabid species have maintained, or even extended, their range. This can partly be explained by their colonisation of manmade habitats. A range of manmade analogues for seminatural habitats exists, which supports rare and threatened carabids. The fauna of manmade sites may be partitioned into ubiquitous and eurytopic species, and habitat specialists. The conservation evaluation of manmade sites is discussed; a method based on the proportion of the regional species-pool of habitat specialists present is proposed. The habitats and management of manmade sites are compared with those of nature reserves.
23734859|The ultrastructure of the synapses in Diphyllobothrium dendriticum (Cestoda) was studied. Three main types of vesicles were observed: 1) dense-core vesicles regarded as aminergic, 2) small clear vesicles regarded as cholinergic and 3) large dense vesicles regarded as peptidergic. On the basis of vesicle content and presynaptic morphology the synapses were divided into two main classes: A) Aminergic synapses characterized by dense-core vesicles and pronounced postsynaptic densities (asymmetrical). Single, shared and multiple synapses occur. Several types of postsynaptic elements were observed. B) Cholinergic synapses characterized by small clear vesicles and pre- and postsynaptic densities (symmetrical). Single and shared synapses occur. The central position of the aminergic synapses in relation to other nervous and non-nervous elements is discussed.
23735931|Forest fragmentation leads to a decrease in total forest area and patch size, which enhances predation pressure on birds' breeding success. Existing data suggest that because hole nesters occupy relatively safe nest sites, their breeding success is not negatively affected by this process. However, fragmentation effects on other reproductive parameters are possible and could have important influences on population growth rates. We examined the hypothesis that a decrease in forest patch size does not influence some aspects of breeding biology of a primary cavity nester  the great spotted woodpecker. We compared clutch size, the number of fledglings, breeding phenology, and nesting success between birds nesting in large forests (> 120 ha) and in small woodlots (255 ha). We found that almost all the parameters studied differed in relation to patch size, and were worse in small forests. Only breeding success was similar in both groups of birds.
23736518|There are two types of deterministic extinction thresholds: demographic thresholds such as the Allee effect, and parametric thresholds such as a critical effective colonization rate or a minimum amount of available habitat for metapopulation persistence. I introduce briefly both types of thresholds. First, I discuss the Allee effect in the context of eradication strategies of alien species. Then, I consider an example of parametric threshold: the critical amount of suitable habitat below which a metapopulation goes deterministically extinct. I review how this spatial threshold changes in relation to the level of spatial detail and the complexity of the food web. Since classical metapopulation models assume an infinite number of patches, I proceed by considering how the extinction threshold is affected by environmental variability acting on a small number of patches. Finally, I consider recent work suggesting that if the network of connectivity among patches is not random but highly heterogeneous, the extinction threshold may disappear.
23735622|The evolution of antipredatory behaviour in animals requires unsuccessful hunting by predators. Voles are relatively slowly moving rodents with little possibility to escape predators in direct confrontation. Therefore their antipredatory behaviour should be based on advanced recognition of risk, an adaptive 'cleverness' called the 'David and Goliath' arms race. In the case of mammalian predators, odours form the basis of this advanced recognition. Studies on Clethrionomys glareolus and C. rutilus under predation risk, manipulated in the laboratory and outdoor enclosures, and observed in the field in Fennoscandia and Poland are reviewed. The odours of mammalian predators, especially small mustelids immediately elicited short-term changes in the behaviour of voles, their spatial and vertical distribution, diurnal activity, mobility, and intraspecific aggressiveness. The presence of odour of the small mustelids also affected reproductive parameters of voles: sexual maturation of young voles was delayed and female breeding was suppressed. The consequences of breeding suppression may be severe. The advantage of the delay is discussed in terms of predictability of the environment. In Northern and Central Europe the most pronounced 'Goliaths' were not the largest but the smallest predators (weasel and stoat), highly specialized in hunting voles.
23735536|Plasma levels of testosterone (T) and 17-estradiol (E2) were measured in rainbow trout during the course of their first and second spawning period. Trout were exposed to normal photoperiod (Group C) and two static, artificial light regimes (Group A, 20L:4D from January to 15 May, then 4L:20D; Group B, 4L:20D from March to August, then 20L:4D). Identical patterns of E2 fluctuations were observed in all groups; E2 levels rose from 54 days prior to spawning and kept rising to reach a peak at 18 days prior to spawning, then decreased steadily reaching basal levels at ovulation. T levels rose from 54 days prior to spawning and peaked 68 days prior to spawning and then declined sharply before ovulation, reaching basal levels 612 days post spawning. T in male trout peaked 120 days prior to milt production. No correlation was found between the steroids levels and percentage of ovulated and spermiated fish. No difference was observed in plasma E2 levels carrying ripe or overripe eggs. T and E2 fluctuations were also observed at the population level (both mature and non-mature fish). These findings support the use of plasma T and E2 levels as an ancilliary predictor index/tool for the initiation of the spawning period and for the determination of the timing for human intervention (stripping).
23734429|The material included 62 500 individuals of 179 beetle species collected during the whole course of succession (30 days) from droppings exposed in three macrohabitats (field, pine and spruce forest) in three summer months (June, July and August). The collection was divided into coprophages (50 species) and carnivores (129 species), and mean values are given for the lengths and dry weights of all species found. The trophic status of dung-inhabiting beetles is briefly discussed. Coprophages are designated as microhabitat and food specialists, and carnivores as microhabitat generalists. For coprophages the macrohabitat richest in species was the field, and for carnivores the pine forest. Probable reasons are the distribution of suitable microhabitats, and the microclimate and structure of the macrohabitat. For average values per dropping during the first 10 days of succession, carnivores (with 16 species and 191 individuals) outnumbered coprophages (with 11 and 126, respectively) but in total biomass the situation was the opposite (129 and 443 mg weight, respectively). Variation in the numbers of species and individuals, and diversity among individual droppings had a minimum from about the 2nd to the 7th day in the pooled data, including those for the macrohabitat and seasonal gradients. Presumably this reflected a decreased rate of succession and decreased influence of the weather as the surface of the dung dried into a hard cover. Coprophages exemplified a typical heterotrophic succession: after a brief peak (in species, individuals, and diversity) on the 2nd day from the beginning, there was a radical decrease. In the carnivores the peak was broader, and occurred between the 3rd and 8th days, probably because the prey (mainly dipterous eggs and larvae) available to the carnivores does not decrease during the 1st week of the succession. The structure of the community and the succession depended largely on abiotic factors, especially on weather conditions.
23734094|Lake Karhujrvi, a small, extremely humic forest lake has a perch population of 200 individuals. The growth and the composition of the diet resemble those in other, less acid lakes in the same area. The reproduction of the perch failed in the springs of 19801982 as a result of high mortality of roe caused by low pH. The fertilization of most eggs may have been inhibited by decreased activity of the sperm cells, but even fertilized eggs showed high mortality. In spring 1981, many adult fish died, probably due to the low pH and high aluminium concentration of the water.
23734241|Hipparion from the Vallesian (upper Miocene) of Hwenegg is referred to H. primigenium (von Meyer) and compared with local samples of that species from other parts of Europe and from North Africa.
23733719|Multispecies patterns in the successional occurrence of beetles in cow droppings are briefly described, and species-specific successional patterns are shown to be similar in the coprophagous species common to two localities in Northern Europe. No important differences were found between males and females, but mature females (of Aphodius, Scarabaeidae) tended to occur in older droppings than did immature females. The successional mean occurrence in six groups of dung-inhabiting beetles was related to their size, macrohabitat and seasonal occurrence, and the preferred temperature of their diurnal flight activity. Only two groups, Philonthus (Staphylinidae) and Hydrophilidae, showed any evidence of such correlations; in them the successional mean occurrence may have been influenced by size and macrohabitat selection. New goals for further research are discussed: 1) the precise relationship between the dynamics of resources and consumers in droppings; 2) the pattern of migration to and from droppings; and 3) the causal explanation of 2).
23735666|The genetic architecture of fluctuating asymmetry (FA) as an estimate of developmental instability (DI) has received much attention in the recent literature. Although some studies report significant heritabilities of FA (h2FA) and DI, generally heritability estimates are low. Summarizing available estimates in a recently performed fixed effects meta-analysis has provoked a lot of discussion. One objection is that heritabilities in general are population and even trait specific, and that they are influenced by a number of stochastic processes. Summarizing available information by an average value has therefore only limited relevance. Meta-analyzes should in addition attempt to model the underlying stochasticity and mean values should be accompanied by a measure of variability (i.e., random effects model). In this paper, I explore and apply a Bayesian method, hierarchical modeling, to model between-population and between-trait heterogeneity in h2FA, taking estimation accuracy into account. The analysis confirms the low values of h2FA, with a 95% confidence interval ranging between 0.009 and 0.104. In addition, between-species and -population differences in heritabilities were much higher than between-trait heterogeneity, indicating that the weak genetic effects relative to environmental influences and sampling error affect different traits in a comparable way. Although at present it is difficult to analyze how different potential influential factors contribute to the variation in h2FA, Bayesian modeling can provide a valuable statistical tool to model the underlying stochasticity of genetic parameters in general.
43923478|Costs of immunity are widely believed to play an important role in life history evolution, but many studies of ecological immunology have considered only single aspects of immunity. Young of altricial birds, while dependent primarily on innate immunity and maternally derived antibodies for immune defence, have to develop all components of the immune system which could generate resource-based trade-offs among different arms and between growth and immunity. We conducted a study on nestling pied flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca in which we measured levels of natural antibodies (NAbs) and hemolysis, estimated serum immunoglobulin levels and obtained a specific measure of inflammation after inoculation of an antigen, phytohaemagglutinin (PHA). Thus we obtained independent estimates to explore the relationships among different arms of the immune system. We found that no immune variable measured was associated with any other variable at the individual and brood levels. This indicates that different aspects of immunity are independent and difficult to integrate in a general measure of immune response capacity in altricial nestling birds. We found that only NAbs was negatively associated with tarsus length at the age of 7 days, but not later. Thus, the evidence for resource-based trade-offs between nestling growth and immunity is weak in our study population.
23731612|The spermatogenesis of 13 species of Dytiscidae from southern Finland is described. The highest chromosome number was observed in Rantus notatus (n = 22) and the lowest in Platambus maculatus (n = 10). F our or perhaps five of the species investigated have sex chromosomes of the Xyp type and seven of the XO type. The course of spermatogenesis is normal, and prereduction is the rule.
23734559|The cardiovascular response of rainbow trout to adrenaline was studied at 14 C and at 7 C after a 36 h acclimatization period. Before adrenaline injection the heart rate was higher at 14 C than at 7 C (Q10 = 2.5). The pulse pressures and the mean aortic blood pressures were the same at both temperatures. Adrenaline had nearly no effect on the heart rate, but increased the pulse pressure drastically at both temperatures. Furthermore, the mean aortic blood pressures rose at both temperatures, indicating increased systemic vascular resistance after adrenaline injection. The pressure gradient across the gills decreased at both temperatures after adrenaline injection, indicating decreased branchial resistance.
23733641|The toxicity of phenol to the minnow, P. phoxinus (L.), and to the crustaceans M. entomon (L.) and G. duebeni Lillj., all taken from the brackish water of the Baltic Sea, was determined at two temperatures using continuous flow bioassay. The lethal threshold concentrations (LTC) and the conventional 96-h LC50 values were estimated by the log-probit method. For Mesidotea the LTC of phenol is 85100 ppm, for Gammarus 3241 ppm and for Phoxinus 10 ppm. For the crustaceans the 96-h LC50 values were two to four times higher than the LTC, whereas for the minnow they were equivalent. In tests on Mesidotea 4-chlorophenol was two to three times as toxic as phenol. A temperature rise from 5 C to 10 C had no effect on the toxicity of phenol at LTC. At higher concentrations a temperature increase accelerated the toxic effect of both phenol (Gammarus) and 4-chlorophenol (Mesidotea).
23734081|A recent model (Hanski 1982) asserts that communities consist of two kinds of species: core species, which are regionally common and usually locally abundant, and well spaced-out in niche space; and satellite species, which are regionally and locally rare and less well spaced-out in niche space. Published results on communities of bumblebees support this hypothesis. Abundance and distribution are positively correlated, and distribution of regional distributions appears to be bimodal, as predicted by the model. The difference in the lengths of proboscis in two species of bumblebees is negatively correlated with overlap in resource use, though only 25 % of the variance in the latter is accounted for. About seven core species usually occur in one region, and these are more spaced-out in proboscis length space than are species drawn randomly from the species pool. The results suggest that core species richness is more constant than satellite species richness in northern European bumblebee communities. Other studies show that the niche relations in local communities of bumblebees are not distinguishable from those in randomly constructed communities. It is therefore suggested that interspecific competition is not strong enough to appreciably determine species composition in local communities, but it may structure the species pool itself: certain species are more likely to be or become core species than others, perhaps because of competition. These results resolve a controversy in the literature about bumblebee community structure.
23736552|The comparative biology of stream-dwelling threespine Gasterosteus aculeatus L. and ninespine Pungitius pungitius L. sticklebacks was examined in streams of eastern England. Threespine occurred throughout, but ninespine occurred < 50 km from stream source, varying from regular distribution to contagion. The species co-occurred more often than expected in macro and microhabitats, and dietary overlap occurred overall and within Callitriche beds. Threespine occurred infrequently and ninespine frequently in Apium beds, contrasting silt/detritus habitats. Threespine and ninespine microhabitat preferences differed in distance from bank, substratum composition, and amount of ligneous debris, and seems uninfluenced by bullhead Cottus gobio, which used faster flowing areas. Greater use of vegetation by ninespine is facilitated by a more stream-lined and small body, which imposes corporal space constraints on gonad size. To compensate, ninespine maintain a lower proportion of mature eggs, produce smaller batches more frequently than threespine and thus incur a lower annual investment to reproduction.
23734466|A felid skull from the Aven du Puech Margal, St. Jean de Maruejols (Gard) is referred to the large Pleistocene subsepecies of pardel lynx. L. pardina spelaea Boule. It confirms the presence of pardel lynx in southern France in the late Pleistocene. Some diagnostic characters differentiating the fossil pardel lynx from the equally large L. lynx are discussed.
23735502|The saproxylic beetle fauna was compared in two old spruce dominated forests in northern Finland. The volume of decaying wood in the forests was 32 m3 and 8 m3 per hectare. The beetles were sampled by carefully peeling the bark off all the dead trees within twenty circular sample plots of 100 m2, and by window flight trapping. The pooled sample comprised 7184 individuals of 207 saproxylic species. According to both sampling methods, common generalist species were equally abundant in both forests, whereas specialists living either on decaying spruce or birch were more abundant in the forest with a larger supply of decaying wood. The set of dominant species was, however, almost completely different with the two methods. Bark peeling yielded mostly sub-corticulous species. Window flight trapping yielded, in addition, many species living inside decaying trees, on microfungi on dead trees or on polyporous fungi. The amount of decaying wood around the traps did not affect the number of species or specimens caught. The problems involved in the sampling methods are discussed.
23735408|For the first time, complete energy budgets were established in a ground-beetle species, Abax ater, for both a "standard" individual (defined as an individual that shows complete development from egg to reproductive adult) under semi-natural conditions and a natural population. A female standard individual consumed 26.7 kJ during its lifetime. Gross (P/C) and net (P/A) production efficiencies decreased with age from 30% and 33%, respectively, in the first larval stage to 9% and 11%, respectively, during the second year in the adult stage. The adult accounted for most of the total individual energy budget (81% of consumption and 75% of production). From data on age-dependent survival and adult population density, the energy flow through a natural population of this species in a near-climax beechwood in Belgium was estimated at 8.1 kJ/m2/year. Larvae predominated in the total population energy budget (51% of consumption and 67% of production). Gross and net production efficiencies, however, remained low (15% and 17%, respectively, overall). Thus, Abax ater is characterized by a high assimilation efficiency, a low production efficiency and a relatively high adult contribution to the total energy flow. These features are well in keeping with the demographic traits of this species, i.e. a great adult longevity, a continuous reproduction, a low fecundity and a high population stability, and mark it out as a K-strategist.
23735748|I consider how adaptive changes in behaviour with population size affect the stability of the population dynamics. In any given year the behavioural rule of a member of a single-species population is determined by the value of a certain trait. I allow for the possibility that this trait value can change from year to year. The number of descendants left in one year's time by an individual depends on its trait value, the values of other population members and the population size. The population dynamics is modelled as the change in population size from one year to the next. I focus on a population that is at a fixed point of the dynamics and in which members adopt the evolutionarily stable trait value for that equilibrium size. I compare the stability of the population dynamics under the following two assumptions about the dependence of trait values on population size: (i) trait values do not change from that at the equilibrium size, and (ii) trait values change so as to be evolutionarily stable for the current size. In a range of examples, I show that adaptive behaviour tends to destabilise population dynamics in the sense that stability under assumption (ii) implies stability under assumption (i). In other words, the region of parameter space for which there is instability under an adaptive response contains the region of instability under no response. Various equivalent general criteria for this to hold are given.
23734690|The dynamics of shrew populations were studied over a period of 13 years in Central Siberia, in an area with nine coexisting species: S. araneus, S. caecutiens, S. minutus, S. minutissimus, S. isodon, S. tundrensis, S. roboratus, S. daphaenodon and Neomys fodiens. There is a highly regular four-year cycle involving both rodents and shrews. The minimum year of the cycle is the same for all species of shrew, but different species reach their peak density at different stages of the general four-year cycle. The species also differ in the seasonal changes of their numbers. There is a significant relationship between the seasonal and multi-annual cyclic abundance changes, with species of high fecundity having the earliest peaks both during each season and during the four-year cycle. The species with later peaks are suggested as being competitively superior to the earlier species, suppressing the abundance of the inferior species when they become abundant.
23734046|A skull fragment of a hipparion found in Late Sarmatian deposits at Valea Sarii, District of Vrancea, Romania, may represent Hipparion proboscideum, earlier known from deposits of about the same age at Samos.
23733642|The O2 dissociation curves of the blood of freshwater rainbow trout were determined by the mixing method at three different CO2 tensions (0.19, 0.37 and 1.47 kPa). The 0.19 kPa CO2 tension was close to the arterial and 0.37 kPa close to the venous CO2 tension of the blood, and so the dissociation curves obtained at these two CO2 tensions closely describe the oxygen dissociation characteristics of freshwater rainbow trout blood in vivo. The P50 values, determined at four CO2 tensions (0.04, 0.19, 0.37 and 1.47 kPa), with average pH values of 7.85, 7.64, 7.53 and 7.40, were 1.76, 2.85, 4.41 and 7.41 kPa, respectively. The O2 capacities, haematocrit values and P50 values were determined from blood samples taken by cardiac puncture and from cannulae implanted in the dorsal and ventral aortae. The sampling method used did not affect the values for O2 capacity or P50. However, the correlation between the haematocrit values and the O2 capacities was markedly greater for the cannula samples than for the cardiac puncture samples. The regression equations indicated that in the samples taken by cardiac puncture the red blood cells had swelled.
23733701|Renal hydromineral metabolism of two Myoxocephalus species captured from Baltic (Gulf of Finland) brackish water (BW) of about 6  salinity was studied, after catheterization of the urinary bladder, in media more dilute than the natural habitat. The glacial relict M. quadricornis differs from the marine species M. scorpius in its well-developed mechanisms for renal ion conservation and lower urine flow rate. Results suggest that both species resort, at least occasionally, to tubular water excretion. This may be an important mechanism by which the sculpins are able to resist and become adapted to extremely dilute BW.
23735423|A generalised matrix model for analysing the spatial dynamics of ground beetle populations in landscape is described. The model links simple population dynamics models for stage structured populations and their spatial distributions. The model assumes that individual populations have their own internal dynamics, but interact with each other through the dispersal of animals between them. The model consists of three components. i) age structured models describing dynamics of individual populations, ii) functional relationships linking life history characteristics to the underlying environments, and iii) a spatial process model linking populations in space. The utility of the model is assessed by analysis of the dynamics and spread of Leistus rufomarginatus through the United Kingdom over the last 30 years: the model was reasonably accurate in predicting the geographical spread of this species. Whilst the model provides only a general framework, and does not incorporate all biotic processes (e.g. inter-specific competition) it could readily be modified to model the distribution and spread of many other invertebrate species.
23736786|In European salt marshes, recent invasions by the grass Elymus athericus raise questions regarding subsequent habitat modification and its effects on the resident biota. In this study, we studied the effects of modified salt-marsh structure on occurring spider assemblages, especially on salt exposure and flood resistance. We showed that locations having tall and deep-rooted invasive vegetation contained more species able to resist tidal floods as compared with locations with natural vegetation. Dominant species displayed different temporal trends between habitat types after flooding, with some species being less affected by floods either in invaded or in natural habitats. Some cursorial species were able to (re)colonize salt marshes after a spring flood as salinity levels decreased. Finally, stand characteristics of E. athericus did not affect the distribution of halotolerant spiders. As a habitat structure relates to flood resistance and/or risk-avoiding strategies, our results indicate that the status of salt-marsh resident species should be considered according to their habitat affinity.
23735650|Foraging-group composition in the domain of an information-sharing model with individuals of distinct phenotypes differing in competitive ability was studied, using a simulation approach in which food-patch size and its predictability were varied. In addition, interference among individuals was introduced to reduce the efficiency of foraging groups. Foraging groups had a more homogeneous phenotypic composition than did randomly formed groups. Phenotypic heterogeneity as well as group size increased with food availability. The expected fitness of different phenotypes tended to increase with competitive ability, the largest fitness differences being between the best phenotype and all others. These differences, however, diminished as interference among individuals increased. In predictable environments fitness differences between phenotypes were at their greatest. Interestingly, in unpredictable environments poor competitors reached higher fitness levels than in predictable environments. Poorly performing individuals moved more between groups than did good competitors. Both increase in interference among individuals and decrease in food availability enhanced the frequency of movements.
23736029|The results of recent allozyme studies addressing the controversial hypotheses on the origin of the 'glacial relict' crustacean species in Europe and North America are reviewed. The data suggest that the time since the divergence of the lineages leading to each of the three currently recognized Pontoporeia species (P. affinis, P. hoyi, P. femorata) is of the order of tens of million years; this is in sharp contrast to recent suggestions of a late Pleistocene descent of both the European and North American fresh-water species from the marine P. femorata. The divergence of the Mysis relicta lineage from its present marine congeners is probably younger but also dates back to the Tertiary. M. relicta itself comprises a group of several distinct species, two of which coexist in the Baltic Sea.
23735355|The breeding passerine bird community in a Norwegian spruce-dominated forest (c. 63N) was studied in an area of one km2 during the years 1960 and 196272. The number of territorial species varied annually between 22 and 33 (mean = 27, coefficient of variation CV = 13%), and their combined density, the community density, from 142 to 195 territories/km2 (mean = 170, CV = 10%). About half of the territories each year were defended by the same five species. Twenty-one species were recorded every year, and their annual combined densities accounted for 8899% of the overall community density. The other 13 species recorded in the community were absent in one or more years. These were all low-density species, with a maximum of three territories/km2 recorded in any single year. The mean relative species turnover rate between two adjacent years was 0.15, CV = 42%. The variation (CV) in population density of the different species was significantly negatively correlated (r = 0.86) with their average population density during the 12 years. Although some species showed some similarity in their fluctuation patterns, none showed a wholly similar pattern, indicating that the different species were influenced by different combinations of factors.
23734228|Literature survey reveals that in Clethrionomys maturation is suppressed at high population densities. Territoriality of mature females appears to be responsible for this phenomenon. Suppression of female maturation begins when a habitable area is saturated with mature females. Hence, when a saturation density has been achieved (i.e., when all home ranges are occupied) neither the number of mature females nor suppression of maturation depend on changes in population density. The number of mature females may be modified by a variety of factors related to where in the geographical range of the species the population is, dominance relation to coexisting species, environmental capacity (especially food availability); all these factors seem to influence the home range size. A long-term study on an island population of C. glareolus has provided data which are used to formulate an analytic model relating the number of mature females to the population density (or number). The model demonstrates the existence of certain density thresholds signifying shifts from a linear increase of number of mature females (accompanied by unlimited maturation) to relative stability of number of mature females (associated with suppression of maturation), and at last, decrease of number of mature females (accompanied by inhibited maturation and cessation of reproduction (i.e., anoestrus) in mature females). These thresholds may suggest a balance between population density and environmental capacity.
23736505|Previous studies suggest that inbreeding depression may be strong enough to elevate the rate of extinction of local populations in a metapopulation of the Glanville fritillary butterfly. Laboratory experiments were conducted to assess the consequences of inbreeding for fitness components through two generations of inbreeding. Clutch size, egg hatching rate, survival of the progeny until diapause and larval weight at diapause were measured in crosses between individuals from different small populations and in within-family crosses. The magnitude of inbreeding depression did not differ significantly between the two generations, with the exception that there was a marked increase in the proportion of pairs that failed to produce any offspring in the second generation of full-sib mating. As expected, the effect of inbreeding on clutch size was evident only in the second generation, where the parents themselves were highly inbred. Inbreeding depression of the magnitude reported here can explain the increased extinction risk of natural small populations of the Glanville fritillary butterfly.
23734432|A search for bird-flies from nestlings and at bird ringing yielded 125 specimens of five species. Data are given on the time of occurrence, the host preference and the distribution of the species. Some new host species are listed, and new northern records are reported for Ornithomya avicularia and O. fringillina.
23735955|We argue that our ancestors had the nature as their only playground, therefore, the understanding of patterns of present-day outdoor recreation activities has to be considered in relation to this background. We predict that outdoor recreation activities are age and gender specific: men dominate hunting (high-risk) activities and women dominate gathering activities. These predictions are based on different gender and age roles from our evolutionary past. The results support these predictions because younger men were more involved in high-risk outdoor recreation activities as e.g. hang gliding, parachute jumping and mountain climbing, while activities like hunting and fishing were more similarly distributed among men age groups. All hunting/fishing activities were male-dominated, while gathering activities were female-dominated. No age related pattern was found in female-dominated activities. Thus we can use evolutionary theory to predict patterns and attitudes of outdoor recreation activities.
23731701|Records of 18 species of Enchytraeidae collected from the vicinity of Montreal on 19  20 July 1970 are given. Three previously unknown species are described, viz. Cernosvitoviella celere sp. n., Achaeta silvatica sp. n. and Fridericia kalffi sp. n. Apart from these and Mesenchytraeus argentatus Nurm. 1973, the species collected are widely distributed in Europe.
23734487|Kellicottia bostoniensis (Rousselet) is a typical planktonic rotifer species in North America but has been reported from Europe only a few times. The first report was from Sweden in Lake Ekholmssjn, where Carlin found it in 1943, and later it has been found in several other locations in southern Sweden. Kellicottia bostoniensis was found in phytoplankton samples from Lake Tarjannevesi (in the northern part of the Kokemenjoki river basin) in the summer of 1987. The highest density of species was 560 ind./l in the surface water (1 m). The species was found in samples from four sampling stations along the lake, which is slightly polluted by a sulphite pulp mill on the upper part of the water course. The species has only four anterior spines and its total length is <410 m (the average in the material studied was 381  23.7 m).
23731567|The geographical variation of some external morphological characters of Cottus gobio L. in Northern Europe and in the northern parts of the European Soviet Union is described on the basis of material comprising 2 293 specimens. The occurrence of prickles on the body, lateral line pored scale counts, head pore arrangements, number of rays in the unpaired fins and number of vertebrae are examined. In Northern Europe there are distinct regional features, especially in the occurrence of prickles and in the number of lateral line pores. This situation is a result of the postglacial immigration of morphologically different strains from two different directions. Between these areas there is a zone of secondary intergradation. A taxonomic examination of Palearctic specific and infraspecific taxa of the C. gobio species group is given. Although the geographic variation in some characters of C. gobio is basically subspecific in nature, it is not possible to distinguish subspecies of C. gobio, because detailed population analyses have been made only from a limited area of the whole range of the species. New synonyms: Cottus petiti Bcescu & Bcescu-Mester 1964 = C. gobio L., C. gobio var. microcephalus Kessler 1868 = C. poecilopus Heckel, C. gobio var. roseus Odenwall 1927 = Myoxocephalus quadricornis (L.).
23735813|Natural hybridisation and subsequent introgression mediate the transmission of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) from native mountain hares (Lepus timidus) to introduced brown hares (L. europaeus). We investigated mtDNA Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism among 62 Scandinavian mountain hares, 20 brown hares with mountain hare mtDNA and 19 presumed hybrids from 57 localities in Sweden and Norway. A high level of mtDNA haplotype diversity was detected (0.90  0.026). Mountain hare mtDNA haplotypes transferred to brown hares were different from those among mountain hares, both sympatric and allopatric (p < 0.05). One possible explanation is that hybridisation and introgression were more common during the initial phase of contact between the species following the introduction of brown hares, after which some haplotypes have become extinct in declining mountain hare populations, but have been preserved among the brown hares with mountain hare mtDNA.
23737084|The body condition and haematological parameters of birds are influenced by a multitude of factors. Here we investigated body mass, fat scores, ratio of heterophils and lymphocytes (H/L), red blood cell count (RBC) of reed buntings (Emberiza schoeniclus), expecting differences between spring and summer (different physiological states/energy demands in breeding/post-breeding periods), sexes (different parental duties) and age groups (different experience/social status). Fat scores and size-corrected body mass were similar in all the groups. Adults in spring had higher H/L than in summer, which may have been due to reproduction-related stress or the seasonal elevation of glucocorticoids. The lower RBC and H/L in adults in summer were associated with their complete moult. Lower H/L in adults in summer compared to immatures may have resulted from their lower stress level (greater experience/higher social status) or a complete moult. The H/L ratio was similar in both sexes, despite their different parental duties.
23735956|We sequenced and analysed variation in a 430 bp segment of the mitochondrial DNA control region of 302 Finnish capercaillies Tetrao urogallus. The data were divided into four zones representing the three suggested subspecies (T. u. urogallus, T. u. uralensis/karelicus, T. u. major), and the zone for hybrids between T. u. urogallus and T. u. uralensis. We did not find any clear evidence for different subspecies zones, or for differentiation among local populations. One major haplotype dominated in three zones and comprised 46% of all the sampled birds, and variation among individuals explained 98% of the total variance. Nucleotide and haplotype diversities tended to be high in northern and central parts of the country, whereas lower values were found at the west cost and in eastern parts of the country. Pairwise genetic differences, the low raggedness index, the form of the minimum-spanning network as well as the wide distribution of the most common haplotype supported the model of an expanding population. Hence, the results suggest that the Finnish capercaillie population is  or has been at least very recently  more or less continuous throughout the country.
23737212|The goldcrest (Regulus regulus) and the firecrest (Regulus ignicapilla) are sympatric over a large part of Europe, but with different abundance ratios. We studied the effects of geographical location, vicinity of the species range boundaries, habitat and climate factors on the goldcrest/firecrest abundance ratio. At the continental scale, a weighted multiple linear regression model resulted in four significant covariates: temperature, precipitation, forest type and occurrence rate (representing the vicinity of the species' range boundaries). The firecrest dominates in warmer and more humid areas and its dominance is more pronounced in mixed forests. The projection of the model showed that in any combination of temperature, precipitation and occurrence rate, the probability to encounter the goldcrest is higher in coniferous forests. Studies in Croatia and the Czech Republic showed regional differences in habitat preferences related to forest type. A significant effect of the seasonal dynamics of precipitation was confirmed in Croatia. Climate change and changes in forestry may influence the distribution and abundance of these two Regulus species in Europe.
23735680|We studied dispersal in the bank vole (Clethrionomys glareolus), an omnivore, and the field vole (Microtus agrestis), a grazer, in two large outdoor enclosures in Konnevesi, central Finland to explore the causes of dispersal. The competition hypothesis  that superior animals oust the inferior ones from favoured resource  predicts that species living on more scarce resource (here bank vole) should be more prone to disperse. According to inbreeding avoidance hypothesis young animals should disperse to avoid mating with their parents and dispersal should be similar in both species. Two populations, one of each species, were introduced to separate 0.5 ha enclosures. The growth of the populations and dispersal of the animals through six one-way dispersal tubes were observed for three months. Both founder populations consisted of seven females and three males. The populations attained densities similar to those in previous experiments. Most bank vole dispersers left the area before maturation when about 30 days old, whereas almost all field vole dispersers were mature animals about 60 days old and all females were pregnant. Dispersal was not sex biased in either species. The different dispersal obviously reflects different life history strategies and supports the competition hypothesis of dispersal instead of the inbreeding avoidance one.
23737135|Information about factors influencing catch per unit effort (CPUE) are not only interesting in commercial and sport fisheries contexts, but also for scientists fishing for research purposes. Here, the influence of trap type, baiting and attractors on CPUE in pond nine-spined sticklebacks (Pungitius pungitius) were investigated. The results show that baiting improved CPUE considerably, but trap type had a smaller effect on CPUE. Visual attractors (i.e. aluminium foil) did not improve CPUE. Apart from showing that nine-spined sticklebacks are likely to use olfactory cues for locating food, the results should provide useful information for those interested in catching nine-spined sticklebacks with the aid of minnow traps.
23731607|A very abundant population of Phormia terraenovae R.-D. developed in an area where several hundred tons of slaughterhouse refuse was stored in the open. It is suggested that lack of flowers or other sources of carbohydrates may have been responsible for the movements of the blowflies into the surroundings. The mass occurrence annoyed people living in rural houses over a radius of about 4 km around the storage area. No Salmonella bacteria were detected in the flies, nor was any general increase in the incidence of diarrhoeic diseases observable in the fly-infested area. Measures to control the fly population are discussed.
23731570|Similar or identical colour forms occur in the Holarctic Philaenus spumarius (L.) and the Mediterranean and Near Asiatic P. signatus Melichar (Homoptera). Of about 14 colour forms known in P. spumarius, 11 are common to both species. It is suggested that the polymorphism originated prior to the separation of the two species. The presence of parallel colour polymorphisms in the two spittlebug species is probably attributable to a common genetic basis for the different colour forms. The results of earlier crossing experiments, which indicate genic determination of the colour forms, are thus corroborated.
23736797|While the non-random capture of prey by predators is well-known, few studies have investigated or compared the individual characteristics of prey selected by predators. This is due to the difficulty in assessing prey features based on the remains from pellets or faeces. This article shows relationships between craniometric features and body mass of the root vole (Microtus oeconomus). The comparisons involved 10 skull parameters: mandible length excluding incisors (ML), rostrum breadth (RB), mandibular tooth-row length (MT), foramina incisiva length (FI), upper- and lower-incisor lengths (UIL, LIL), upper- and lower-incisor breadths (UIB, LIB), upper- and lower-incisor weights (UIW, LIW). From cranial parameters listed above, only UIL was correlated with body mass with high accurancy. In this reason we highly recommended this parameter as a good indicator for calculating vole body mass.
23731364|Techniques for the identification of enchytraeids are outlined. A key to the European littoral Enchytraeidae is presented, and references are given to papers containing descriptions of the species in the key.
23737050|Investigating the endangered badger Meles meles population in Belarus we aimed to find out in accordance with which model, i.e. bottom-up or top-down, it is structured and functions. Two important factors (low earthworm biomass and high predation risk) were considered with a view to explaining the specificity in badger spatial structure and diet. The study was conducted in a semi-natural terrain in north-eastern Belarus. We analysed 1188 scats, radiotracked seven badgers and assessed variations in earthworm biomass. In the conditions of low biomass and uneven distribution of earthworms badgers were found to act as generalist predators tending to specialize on the more readily available foods during short seasonal periods. The earthworm portion in the species diet was relatively low and correlated with earthworm biomass and we did not find any evidence of badger feeding selectivity. Data on badger distribution and activity suggest that avoidance of high predation risk forces badgers towards the security of utilising primarily straight-line routes between setts. Such tactics limit availability of earthworms and other food resources and so determine low density in badgers.
23736857|We tested the hypothesis that the absence of adult females promotes a restriction in spacing behaviour in juvenile male Calomys musculinus at the beginning of the breeding period. Our study was carried out in four 0.25 ha enclosures (two control and two experimental enclosures), between December 2004 and February 2005. Mothers were removed from the experimental enclosures. Home range size depended on the sex of juveniles and the treatment. Female home range sizes were always smaller than those of males. Male home ranges were larger in control enclosures than in experimental enclosures. Treatment and overlap type (intra- and inter-sexual) were not independent. The overlap proportions of male home ranges were lower in experimental enclosures than in control enclosures, in both overlap type (male/male, male/female). The intraand inter-sexual overlap proportions of female home ranges were independent of treatment. The results are discussed in the light of spacing behaviour and competition for resources.
23733636|Four cases of lateral gynandromorphism in spiders are described (Minyriolus pusillus, Tapinocyba pallens, Tapinocyba biscissa and Oedothorax retusus, family Linyphiidae, subf. Micryphantinae). These gynandromorphs are derived from a collection of 69 970 adult spiders (Tapinocyba pallens 11600, Minyriolus pusillus 11 550). A rough estimate of the frequency of gynandromorphy is thus possible.
23734450|A high proportion (13 %) of nymphs of the mayfly Leptophlebia vespertina in unpolluted streams in Central Sweden have been found to have malformed legs (Nilsson 1981). Gut dissections revealed that predacious caddisfly larvae (Rhyacophila septentrionis) had attacked and consumed Leptophlebia nymphs (legs recognized). Laboratory experiments showed that Leptophlebia nymphs lost legs when together with Rhyacophila and Hydropsyche angustipennis larvae, but not in the absence of the predators. Lost legs were regenerated to malformed appendages after a couple of days. The survival of nymphs that had lost legs was lower than for intact individuals, but some emerged as adults.
23734585|We censused breeding waterfowl in 58 lakes in SE Finland during 198587. Point counts (birds counted from 110 fixed points on the shore) and round counts (birds counted from a boat or when walking round the lake on foot) gave almost identical results concerning species number, diversity, evenness and community composition. The species-specific efficiency of point counts with respect to round counts was 0.881.11 in grebes, 0.661.24 in dabbling ducks and 0.671.11 in diving ducks. We do not know, however, the absolute pair numbers in our lakes and, in consequence, the accuracy of the methods is not known. Point counts seem to be suitable for nation-wide monitoring of waterfowl populations, and the field work and sources of error can be standardized more accurately using point counts than using round counts.
23734166|A description is given of the species composition and density fluctuations of the breeding bird community of 9 km2 of an apparently constant subalpine birch forest habitat, based on the results of territory mapping and line transecting every season over 20 years. The number of species appearing in the forest has shown a slightly increasing trend (average yearly addition: a third of a species) with Hippolais icterina as the most conspicuous new-comer. The dominant Phylloscopus trochilus has shown a steadily decreasing trend over the last eighteen years. The average community density is 400 territories/km2 with 260 and 550 as the extreme values (coefficient of variation 19%). The finding that species with similar migration and wintering strategies tend to fluctuate in a similar way indicates that factors operating outside the breeding season have been important in generating the fluctuation patterns of the breeding populations. Only two species, Carduelis flammea and Fringilla montifringilla, have responded clearly to recorded breeding area factors, namely superabundant birch seed crop and mass outbreak of the geometrid moth Epirrita autumnata, respectively. It is argued, on the basis of several observations and results, that the investigated bird community is not saturated.
23736773|Seasonal variation of the subtidal macrobenthic community in the lower Lima estuary was investigated at twelve sites. Univariate and multivariate analyses were used to establish patterns in species distribution, abundance, and biomass; and to determine the influence of site and season on the subtidal macrobenthic community. A total of 101 macrobenthic taxa were identified and values of diversity were generally low indicating a high degree of dominance of few species. Average abundance and biomass per site ranged from 46.7 to 8060 ind. m-2 and 0.56 to 28.96 g AFDW m-2, respectively. Abra alba was most abundant and had the highest biomass. Multivariate analysis revealed four distinct groups. Each group was represented by a specific species composition and characterised by different environmental conditions, in particular, the sediment characteristics and salinity. Abundance/biomass comparison (ABC) indicated that the lower part of the estuary is under environmental stress and is dominated by opportunistic species. The subtidal macrobenthic community of the lower Lima estuary differed between sites but not between seasons of the year.
23737132|Differential predation on certain classes of individuals within prey populations might make owls strong selective agents on their prey. We investigated selective predation of tawny owls (Strix aluco) on yellow-necked mice (Apodemus flavicollis, A.f.) and bank voles (Myodes glareolus, M.g.) for two years by comparing prey from owl nests with live-trapped individuals. The owls killed significantly more male M.g. (73%) than females, but not more than expected from traps (57%). For A.f., owls selected adults in favour of subadults, and for adults, individuals with longer femurs. Adult males of A.f. killed by owls had significantly heavier testes in relation their size than the trapped males. Prey selection did not correlate with size-adjusted body or spleen mass. Owl-killed A.f. had higher prevalences of the intestinal helminth Heligmosomoides sp. than trapped individuals, but hosted similar numbers of parasite species. Differential predation of tawny owls on yellow-necked mice and bank voles seems to reflect higher exposure to predator encounters of prime individuals rather than selection for substandard individuals.
23736154|Studying human impact on ecological communities may require monitoring of wildlife communities on many spatial scales. Monitoring based on early and sensitive indicators of ecological change can be used administratively in ensuring the sustainability of populations. Wildlife richness is a multispecies concept which describes a general change in the abundance of an assemblage of wildlife species with reference to time and space. This is measured with the wildlife richness index (WRI), which is a sum of changes in the abundance of individual wildlife species. In this study, we present the administrative background of the needs for developing the multispecies monitoring. In order to meet the administrative need for ecological information, we introduce several applications, which are based on the interplay between the wildlife triangle scheme (WTS) and the concept of the WRI. In addition, we illustrate the usability of these applications with wildlife triangle data.
23734234|Domestic movement, home range size and dispersion, spacing behaviour, sexual maturation and dispersal in Clethrionomys species are reviewed. Clethrionomys species generally do not construct tunnels and their nocturnal to crepuscular activity in summer becomes diurnal in winter. The rhythm is 2 to 6 hours. Size of the home range varies with sex, age, habitat quality and season. Home ranges of males are overlapping and larger than those of females which do not overlap. Spacing behaviour limits the density of mature females and at high density maturation rate decreases. Dispersal among mature females, in particular, is very low while dispersal rate of immatures is high and occurs at puberty. When all space is occupied by mature females in high quality habitats, animals disperse to low quality habitats. Various comparisons are made with Microtus.
23736064|Three-spined stickleback, (Gasterosteus aculeatus), larvae were exposed in brackish water littoral model ecosystems to six different bleached kraft mill effluents during three consequtive half-year periods (19821984). Survival, weight increase, diseases and parasites were studied monthly during the experimental periods. The results from the experiments showed that conventional chlorine bleaching affected survival of young larvae. External treatment, introduction of oxygen pre-bleaching and increased substitution of active chlorine as chlorine dioxide decreased or eliminated mortality. The growth pattern of the larvae differed markedly with time and effluent type; externally treated BKME from conventional chlorine bleaching caused a slower growth, oxygen prebleaching (treated/untreated effluent) sequentially inhibited and stimulated growth. Increased use of chlorine dioxide did not cause any effect upon growth. Total body fat content and liver histological analysis indicated a positive correlation between affected growth and metabolic disturbances. The exposed fish were also shown to be more infested with parasites than unexposed fish.
23735514|Mammalian fossils and subfossil stray finds are extremely scarce in Finland, the latter consisting mainly of marine mammals. Animal bones from cultural sites, the so-called refuse fauna, are far more abundant, offering more precise information especially of the faunal history of terrestrial mammals. The Holocene subfossil fauna is rather monotonous and no distinct faunal periods can be detected. The earliest postglacial finds are from the Boreal chronozone and contain species connected with young forest habitats. Mammal remains from the Atlantic chronozone are more complex, including species associated with both coniferous and mixed oak forests. Reindeer remains from Atlantic dwelling sites in southeast Finland indicate an early invasion of the wild forest reindeer (Rangifer tarandus fennicus Lnnberg) in the area. Seal remains are found not only in coastal areas but also at dwelling sites located on the shores of inland lakes. Their proportion increases in the Late Atlantic refuse fauna, but the cause of this phenomenon is not yet fully understood.
23733665|The O2 consumption of adults and nauplii of Eurytemora hirundoides has been measured. Both showed an increase in O2 consumption in hypo- and hyperosmotic media (sea-water). The O2 consumption was minimal in 6  salinity for adults, and in 3  for nauplii. The osmotic concentration of the body fluids is isosmotic with 6  NaCl.
23736175|The scaling of many aspects of mammalian biology remains to be thoroughly investigated. Isometric scaling of tooth sharpness over very large body size ranges appears unlikely from a theoretical viewpoint, as geometrically similar teeth will function differently in a masticatory system that scales isometrically. Taking into consideration developmental controls on tooth shape and the effects of tooth wear, tooth sharpness is predicted to be highest in small animals, with relatively lower tooth sharpness in medium and large animals. The results for small to large mammals (12500 kg) are reassessed to show that in this range of body size there is no isometric scaling in this body size range and that wear is probably the primary determinant of sharpness, producing sharpness that is relatively scale-independent when sufficient wear occurs. Including limited additional data on tooth sharpness for very small mammals (Microchiroptera) suggests that there may be an overall trend of isometry for functional tooth crests over the very broadest range in size (0.0082500 kg), a hypothesis that can be tested in the future with broader taxonomic sampling.
23731716|The influence of different habitats and nest sites (artificial/natural) upon breeding biology and production of offspring was investigated in a wagtail population living along the shores of a water-course in central Finland in the years 1967  1972. Of the 309 nests found, 17.5 % were built in natural holes. Of territories in which the nest was not found, 23 % were in natural habitats. Original habitats on open shores and open man-made habitats round summer cottages apparently do not differ markedly in suitability as nesting grounds. There were no differences in the start of egg-laying, duration of incubation or nestling stages, or clutch-sizes between the two habitats or types of nest site. More single eggs and nestlings were lost in artificial sites than in natural holes. In nests with eggs laid in the summer these losses were heavier than in May, and the losses during the warm summer of 1972 were especially heavy, probably owing to the high temperatures. The mean clutch-size in artificial sites was 5.7 eggs, with an average of 3.5 fledglings, in natural holes 5.7 eggs and 4.0 fledglings, respectively. Thus, artificial sites did not produce a greater number of fledged young than natural holes. In spite of this, wagtails prefer artificial sites in man-made habitats to natural ones. Reasons for this preference are discussed. It is concluded that man-made habitats are favoured because they meet the innate habitat requirements of the species, and that artificial sites act as strong nest site stimuli. Furthermore, young wagtails acquire favourable impressions of settled areas, where they commonly feed on leaving their nests, even those built in natural habitats.
23735908|Formica lugubris and F. paralugubris are sympatric sibling species of wood ants, both of which are widely distributed in Switzerland. Until 1996 they were considered the same species, F. lugubris. To investigate whether the two species can be distinguished based on discrimination cues used by the workers we used the pupa-carrying test first introduced by Rainer Rosengren. In this test workers of discriminator colonies are faced with two kinds of pupae and their preferences for one of the types are recorded based on differential retrieval. Interspecific comparisons showed that ants preferred conspecific worker pupae to those of the sibling species regardless whether the pupae were con-colonial or hetero-colonial. Hence, this test can be used as a taxonomic tool to identify wood ants hardly distinguishable by morphological characters. In intraspecific comparisons the highly polygynous (many queens per colony) F. paralugubris, the polygynous form of F. lugubris and the monogynous (single queen per nest) to weakly polygynous form of F. lugubris expressed different trends in their preference behaviour (with nestmate recognition in 14%, 20% and 31% of replicates, respectively). Only F. paralugubris presented no significant nestmate recognition.
23734277|The terrestrial Gastropod fauna of the Madeiran Archipelago is of crucial interest with regard to its high diversity and endemism, and its pronounced Tertiary relict character in connection with the Atlantic sea floor spreading. An adequate taxonomy is a basic requirement for all subsequent work. A general revision has been carried out, based on extensive material collected by the author, and on type material in museums. The revision has resulted in the description of one new genus, one new species and four new subspecies. Furthermore, specific state has been recognized for some taxa, and some species have been reduced to subspecific rank. In addition, four or five semispecies complexes have been recognized, and eight taxa (i.e. species and subspecies) have been renamed, owing to cases of synonymy or homonymy. One hundred and ninety of the estimated 2593 taxa are endemic, all of which are of SW Palaearctic origin, mainly Mid-Tertiary, and in a few cases Late Tertiary. The absence of clear NW African affinities in the endemic element is striking. Relations to the other Mid-Atlantic archipelagoes (the Azores, Canary Islands and Cape Verde Islands) are discussed, and the enigmatic distribution pattern of the genera Napaeus and Leptaxis is pointed out. Of 25 genera with endemic species, 14 are peculiar to Madeira. The subfossil faunas of Piedade on Madeira and of Porto Santo are discussed, and the rather high percentage of now extinct taxa is pointed out. Attention is drawn to the fact that in late geological time the parts of the archipelago had more species in common than today, suggesting a considerable rate of faunal change, and that the present sharp inter-archipelago endemism may be to some extent secondary. There is no case where the subfossil evidence indicates that previous reproductive barriers were weaker than today. The results of the taxonomic-nomenclatural revision are concluded in an annotated check-list. In relation to its size, Madeira probably has the most diversified island Gastropod fauna in the world, with a striking display of adaptive radiation and niche specialization. The following new taxa are described here for the first time, by diagnoses: Hemilauria nov. genus, Actinella (Faustella) carinofausta nov. spec., Leiostyla (Leiostyla) vincta mauli nov. subsp., Caseolus (Caseolus) compactus vigiae nov. subsp., Actinella (Actinella) arcinella papilloscultpta nov. subsp. and Discula (Discula) polymorpha agostinhoensis nov. subsp. The following new names for previously described taxa are introduced in this paper: Amphorella (Hypselia) cimensis, Caseolus (Caseolus) compactus areiensis, Caseolus (Caseolus) compactus betamajor, Caseolus (Caseolus) baixoensis, Caseolus (Caseolus) subcalliferus submajor, Actinella (Faustella) promontoriensis and Actinella (Plebecula) effugiens. The following previously infraspecific taxa are regarded as species: Leiostyla (Leiostyla) arborea (Lowe), Leiostyla (Leiostyla) simulator (Pilsbry), Amphorella (Amphorella) grabhami (Pilsbry), Amphorella (Fusillus) tuberculata (Lowe), Steenbergia desertae Mandahl-Barth, Caseolus (Helicomela) solidus (Lowe), Actinella (Faustella) robusta (Wollaston) and Discula (Discula) pulvinata (Lowe), in addition the renamed Amphorella (Hypselia) cimensis, Caseolus (Caseolus) baixoensis and Actinella (Faustella) promontoriensis, mentioned above. For the first time recorded from Madeira are, furthermore: Carychium tridentatum (Risso), Columella aspera Waldn, Truncatellina callicratis (Scacchi) Vertigo (Vertigo) pygmaea (Draparnaud), Vallonia excentrica Sterki, Acanthinula aculeata (Mller), Arion (Kobeltia) hortensis auctt., Arion (Kobeltia)cf. intermedius Normand, Hawaiia minuscula (Binney), Oxychilus (Oxychilus) draparnaudi (Beck), Oxychilus (Ortizius) helveticus (Blum), Zonitoides (Zonitoides) arboreus (Say), Limax (Lehmannia) valentianus Frussac, Deroceras (Deroceras) laeve (Mller), Deroceras (Deroceras) cf. lombricoides (Simroth), Helicella (Xeromicra) apicina (Lamarck), and, in addition, unidentified juveniles of two further Helicid species. Some further species have previously been recorded under other names.
23735828|Social parasites typically develop in the absence of close relatives and receive parental care from foster parents. How do these parasitic offspring later recognize their kin or conspecifics as compatible social or sexual partners? Recent evidence suggests that association of fledgling obligate brood parasitic birds with adults of their own species may be more frequent than previously thought. This early social contact has been implicated to function in cuing species-typical behaviors, including conspecific recognition. I tested assumptions and predictions of this "first contact" hypothesis using field observations and laboratory choice trials with brown-headed cowbirds (Molothrus ater). In support of the "first contact" scenario, playback experiments in the field indicated that female cowbirds were predictably detected near fledgling cowbirds. In the laboratory, adult cowbirds of both sexes spent consistently more time in the proximity of conspecific juveniles than adult hosts. Independent, hand-reared juvenile cowbirds also showed consistent biases in spatial preference for female cowbirds over hosts, even in the absence of prior conspecific experience. This preference for conspecific stimuli by juvenile parasites may have been mediated not only by phenotypic but also by behavioral cues in choice trials because the heterospecific social stimuli more frequently directed aggressive behaviors at the young cowbirds than did conspecific stimuli. These findings support the claim that, against conventional wisdom, adult brood parasites may play a role in the earliest stages of social development of conspecific young. Returning to parasitized broods to facilitate the conspecific recognition of their own offspring is likely to increase the fitness of, and represent a form of parental care by, territorial female cowbirds because most parasitic fledglings encountered within their breeding range are predictably their progeny.
23737112|Researchers have suggested that female strategies for sexual selection in humans include the promotion of sperm competition. Sperm competition entails the simultaneous presence of fertile sperm from at least two males in the female's reproductive organ competing for the opportunity to fertilise the ovum. Certain behaviour patterns near ovulation may enable such competition. In this paper, we describe relative preferences for female sexual fantasy types and explore the idea that these preferences may help us understand the settings and mechanisms that promote sperm competition, and discourage interfemale competition. To expand this exploration, we also examine whether preferences vary with respect to the menstrual cycle. Our preliminary findings indicate notable preferences among females for multiple male-partner fantasies over multiple female-partner fantasies or fantasies that include multiple male and female partners. This suggests that females find multipartner settings as arousing as males do, but the psychological mechanism relating to settings that include the presence of same sex competitors may differ from that of males. We also discovered some indications that the female preference for promoting sperm competition and avoiding interfemale competition is the highest and strongest near ovulation.
23736165|Annual climatic variation is reported to affect life history traits such as body mass and reproductive parameters of several northern ungulates. Effects of spring and summer weather conditions on body weights of domestic sheep were studied, using data on 56 584 free-ranging lambs from six coastal and inland grazing areas along a 1200 km latitudinal gradient. Nineteen weather indices, most chosen from a study of relevant literature, were used in the analyses. Linear mixed models, with a variance structure designed to take within-flock and -year dependency into account, were applied. A correlation analysis indicated that the between-years lamb weight patterns of most of the areas, even ones far apart from each other, were related to each other. All weather indices had significant effects on the lamb weights in two or more areas (on average 4.6 areas). The directions of the effects (parameter estimates) were inconsistent among the areas, and possible explanations for the area-specific effects are discussed. Suggestions on future research on climate-ungulate body weight studies are given.
23731807|Wheeler & Calhoun have designed a small mammal census program, International Census of Small Mammals (ICSM), to be used in conjunction with the IBP. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the results obtained from one (octagon census method) of the series of census methods listed in the ICSM. Trapping was conducted on the census lines for 28 days. On day 28 a 540 m assessment line was laid out across the octagon for the purpose of determining the width of the area sampled by the octagon census lines. Traps on the assessment lines were set for 4 days. Octagons were set up in four different areas of the lowland mesic-hardwood forest and first trapped during the summer and then retrapped during the winter. Theoretically, captures along the assessment lines should show a decline as the census line is approached. This was not the case; more animals were captured at assessment line stations near the census lines than at those assessment line stations farther away. The sudden appearance of animals in an area supposedly voided of inhabitants is difficult to explain. However, because of this phenomenon, the octagon census method failed in its objective of giving density estimates.
23736221|The whitefish population of Irrsee, a typical Austrian prealpine lake, is exploited exclusively by anglers, which is an unusual situation for many lakes dominated by Coregonids. Because of a significant decrease in the whitefish harvest, fishery regulations were changed between 1996 and 2002. The object of this study was to investigate whether the changed harvest regulations influence the proportion of catchable whitefish, to test the effectiveness of the size limit in force, and to investigate whether the practice of releasing undersized and hooked whitefish affected condition factors. The results from our study show a significant effect of changed harvest regulations on the number of catchable whitefish, on the proportion of hooked whitefish with typical injuries, and on the population size structure. Until now the effect of intensive angling on a whitefish population was largely underestimated in the Austrian lakes, but more attention should be paid to these effects in the future.
23737105|Improvement of invasive American mink (Neovison vison) trapping methods in the Cape Horn Archipelago is a priority for wildlife managers. We assessed the use of cubby sets (16  16  30 cm plywood boxes) containing body gripping lethal traps to control mink along the Beagle Channel. We compared effectiveness, selectivity and weather condition resistance between two cubby set designs: (i) open front, and (ii) restricted entrance (lidded with a 6 cm aperture). The effectiveness of bait was evaluated between fresh versus canned fish. Thirteen minks and no non-target species were captured with the restricted entrance systems, as compared with three minks and 25 non-target individuals (six species) in open front cubby sets. Fresh fish resulted in more captures than canned fish, and lids made traps less susceptible to false activation. Traps inside restricted entrance cubby sets, baited with fresh fish were found to be most suitable for mink control and/or eradication efforts.
23731818|Laboratory observations on the rate of maturation, body weight, onset of reproductive activity, litter size and some other parameters relevant in connection with age determination revealed a considerable seasonal variation in these characteristics. In Lagurus lagurus born in captivity, the average age of reproductive maturity depends on the date of birth and may vary from 21 to 140 days. In this species and in three species of Microtus there was a seasonal variation in litter size. The mean body weight also showed seasonal variation which was, however, different in the successive generations. In Microtus oeconomus of the same age the mean weight of the crystalline lens was 2.54 mg in spring-born specimens, but only 1.94 mg in those born at the end of the summer. Corresponding seasonal differences were observed in the state of root development of the teeth. It is concluded that seasonal and generational effects may be more important than had previously been supposed.
23734727|Morphological variation in the pine bark bug Aradus cinnamomeus Panzer was studied by making 43 metric measurements of the head, thorax and abdomen of adult males and 40 of the females. The differences between parapatric alternate-year populations (cohorts) and between the sexes were analysed using discriminant function analysis. Classification functions determined for the parapatric local majority cohorts  the cohorts reproducing in even years in eastern Finland and in odd years in western Finland  were used to identify the temporally isolated local minority cohorts from Harjavalta (western even-year) and Valkeala (eastern odd-year). The temporal variation was investigated by re-sampling three populations and classifying the individuals on the basis of the same functions. More than 80% of the individuals belonging to the even- and odd-year majority populations could be identified on the basis of multivariate morphometrics. According to the discrimination functions determined for the two majority cohorts, the two minority cohorts should be classified together with the allopatric synchronic populations rather than with the sympatric but allochronic majority populations. Variables related to snout length and head size discriminated most effectively between parapatric majority cohorts. Classification functions based on a one-year sample did not succeed in identifying the samples from another year, which differed distinctly from both the odd- and even-year cohorts previously analysed. Consequently, the identification of museum specimens seems difficult. The results show that the temporal composition of samples in morphological studies should not be ignored.
23736883|The Siberian flying squirrel (Pteromys volans) is an arboreal rodent that inhabits spruce-dominated boreal forest. The species has declined in Finland, probably due to modern forestry. We studied genetic variation in the flying squirrel (n = 159) between eight sampling sites in Finland using seven microsatellite loci. Heterozygosity levels were similar in the flying squirrel as found for other Sciurid species. There were slight heterozygote excesses over all loci. Isolation by distance was clear and genetic differentiation between sampling sites was high (overall FST = 0.115). In addition, geographical isolation of one site was observed as increased differentiation and low allele richness. Radio telemetry studies have revealed that the dispersal abilities of flying squirrels are good. However, the high differentiation between sampling sites indicates that the actual gene flow over large distances is low. Thus our results emphasize the importance of landscape-level management in the conservation of the flying squirrel.
23736957|The sex-related spatial genetic structure of a free-living population of the common vole (Microtus arvalis) was assessed using sequence and haplotype frequency data of the complete mitochondrial cytb gene in three seasons. Six haplotypes were resolved, three of them (A, B and C) were shared among seasons and sexes. The remaining three singletons did not match any of the local females. Pairwise tests did not show significant differences in haplotype frequencies between seasons. However, we observed such differences between the sexes. The aggregation index calculated for haplotype B showed a clumped female spatial distribution and revealed two clusters of the matrilineal lineage in the population. The female effective population size (Nef) estimated from shifts of haplotype frequencies between seasonal samples was quite small and the Nef/Nf ratio ranged from 0.18 to 0.35. We suggest that both factors, low Nef and female philopatry may be responsible for considerable inter-population differentiation previously reported in this abundant vole species.
23735594|Our goal was to ascertain whether fish yield differences (0.243 kg ha-1 yr-1) among 166 Northern Finnish lakes could be attributed to level and variability of 14 limnological variables. Water quality variables were assessed at shallow and deep water in winter and summer. For most of them, the greatest share of the variation (65%) was due to the season, while that of the water depth averaged 28%. Fish yield tends to increase with increasing levels of oxygen saturation, conductivity, Na and K concentrations. A decreasing fish yield was observed with an increasing chemical oxygen demand of lake water and with increasing N. Intermediate levels of water colour were associated with the highest fish yield. A variable variability accounted for a fair proportion of the total variance in the fish yield together with a variable level only in the chemical oxygen demand of the lake water. For most of the variables examined for variability, no clear covariation with the fish yield could be shown. We selected 25 lakes with the lowest fish yield (mean 0.4 kg), and 25 lakes with the highest yield (20 kg). The 14 variables were compared in the two groups of lakes. We found that the oxygen saturation, conductivity and pH were significantly higher in the high-yield lakes than in the low-yield lakes, whilst Fe levels were much lower in the high-yield lakes. We conclude that water quality affects the lake-specific fish yield. The relationship in Finnish lakes is, however, too weak to enable the usage of water quality as a lake-specific fish yield prediction tool.
23731809|A comparison of three trapping techniques, viz. 1) digging out of burrows, 2) snap-trapping combined with density evaluation by means of linear regression, and 3) live-trapping combined with the capture  marking  release technique is presented. Because the snap-trapping and the CMR technique do not give data about the young animals which live under the ground, the digging-out technique is recommended as a standard technique for productivity studies on Microtus arvalis living on agricultural land. When the density and distribution of the burrows has been estimated, digging out of 12 colonies is sufficient to calculate the population density to withing 10 % with a level of significance of 0.05 %. Differences in numbers obtained for reproductive and non-reproductive males and females are presented and their effect upon the estimations of density are discussed.
23731766|The capture efficiencies of two single Kajak-type corers with 15.2 cm2 and 54.6 cm2 tubes were evaluated in comparison with 54.6 cm2 cores taken by a diver. Samples were taken from an area with a homogeneous soft bottom in Pjrvi, a mesohumic, oligotrophic lake in southern Finland. As shown by the total numbers of animals retained on a sieve of 0.1 mm mesh, the 15.2-cm2 corer was about 80 % as efficient as the diver, the difference being statistically significant. The 54.6-cm2 corer was about as efficient as the diver.
23736107|The effect of twine (monofilament) thickness (0.15 and 0.20 mm in diameter) in six mesh sizes (30 to 55 mm, knot to knot length) on the catchability of pikeperch (Stizostedion lucioperca (L.)) in the gillnet fishery of Lake Pyhselk, eastern Finland, was examined. The study was carried out mainly during two winter seasons (i.e. under-ice conditions) in 19921993 and 19931994. The mean length of pikeperch in the catches was 38 cm (range 2251 cm, S.D. = 4.6) and the mean weight 490 g (range 701 440 g, S.D. = 190). In the mesh size range of 3045 mm, a 5 mm increase caused the modal length of the pikeperch catch to rise by 35 cm, while in the sparser mesh sizes such an increase caused the modal length to rise by 12 cm. Any given mesh size captured fish mainly within a length range of 1015 cm. The effects of twine thickness on the catchability of gillnets was significant: the thinner twine caught on average 1.9 times as many pikeperch as the thicker twine. The size composition of the catches was the same for both twine thickness. A large proportion of the fish in the experimental catches were undersized. However, the twine thickness did not effect the proportion of undersized individuals.
23735576|We studied interactions between small carnivore abundance in spring and prey population dynamics in the following summer in 10 agricultural areas during 198992 in western Finland. We estimated small carnivore and prey abundances on snow track lines in March and November and by snap-trapping small rodents in April and August. Only in least weasels (Mustela n. nivalis), we found a negative association of predator density with prey population dynamics. However, this relationship was only evident in large scale, probably because of high mobility of least weasels. This underlines the importance of proper spatial and temporal scale in small carnivore studies.
23734503|Pontoporeia affinis Lindstrm is a benthic species which, however, rises from the bottom during the night and swims around freely. This behaviour was studied under laboratory conditions in aquaria where swimming activity was recorded by counting interruptions in beams of infra-red light. The results show that the main factor regulating swimming activity is visible light, but that the animals also possess an innate circadian rhythm which influences their behaviour in this respect. The threshold for light as a Zeitgeber is extremely low (0.36  106 photons/cm2/sec at 564 nm), corresponding to an incidence of approximately 2.5 photons/sec per ommatidium of the eye.
23735997|We studied ant assembly changes after ditching of bogs with nest and pitfall sampling in the southern Finnish taiga. The study sites clustered in dendrograms to hierarchical sets: virgin bogs and young ditchings, older ditchings, and forests. Species richness was low on virgin bogs and young ditchings, and increased with the age of ditching. The number of species was highest in clearcut, and decreased in spruce forests with increasing density of wood ants. Three bog specialists, Formica uralensis, F. picea and Myrmica scabrinodis, were found only on bogs. Nation-wide draining of bogs implies severe decreases in their population densities. As a corollary, the poorly known but potentially healthy populations of the obligate social parasite of M. scabrinodis, Myrmica karavajevi, may go extinct in extensive regions, because of its need of high nest densities of the host species. The effects of habitat attributes on the local number of species were overshadowed by top-dominant, polydomous wood ants. A wood with practically no F. aquilonia harboured 11 other ant species, whereas in high-density wood-ant forest only two other species were located. Pre-emption by the slave-maker F. sanguinea may in several ways slow down the spread of wood ants to ditched bogs.
23736054|The results of our recent studies, partly as yet unpublished, of inter- and intraspecific interactions in the Baltic subthermocline benthic community are briefly reviewed. Two amphipods of the genus Pontoporeia, both considered glacial relicts, are thought to be key elements in this species-poor community.
23734583|The bird community of a 6 ha study plot in rich mountain birch forest, NW Finnish Lapland, was censused by careful nest searching supplemented by territory mapping during two successive breeding seasons. The close-to-absolute numbers of pairs so obtained (43 in 1986, 31 in 1987) were compared with the results of independent line-transects covering the same plot (five in both years; only the 50 m wide main belt used for comparison). The census efficiency of the single counts varied between 23 and 55% (mean 36%), with considerable interspecific variation (e.g. Fringilla montifringilla 56, Phylloscopus trochilus 54, Ficedula hypoleuca 31, Luscinia svecica 25, Carduelis flammea 11%, on average). The result is in good agreement with earlier similar tests made in other habitats. The reasons for the low efficiency of the line-transect method and its consequences are discussed.
23735656|By modelling an individual's gain through waiting times between subsequent prey encounters we characterise its performance when foraging alone or in a group. The larger the group, the longer the time between successful prey captures. The waiting times also depend on how the grouping behaviour affects foraging efficiency of individuals, when joining a group. With full additivity (A = 1) grouping has no effect on an individual's foraging efficiency, while with larger values of additivity individuals co-operate. When A is below one subadditivity occurs and individuals interfere each other when foraging in the patch. With A < 0 competition in the group is so hard that the intake-rate for the group is less than the rate of gain of a solitary forager. When additivity equals zero the patch corresponds to a system with continuous input and immediate consumption of the arriving prey items. The model, via waiting times, renders it possible to examine different foraging scenarios. For example, assuming that the forager already has gained k prey, for solitary foragers waiting times for the (k + 1)th prey are not affected by time in the patch, whereas for an individual in a group the waiting times get longer with increasing time. This is because other individuals affect the prey availability by their foraging activity. Using the model we were able to uncover that in depleting patches under resource matching distribution of foragers food-intake rates of individuals differed in groups of different size. Finally, via modification of waiting times the finder's advantage (the gain accumulated before others in the group arrive) can be implemented into group foraging.
23736875|The taxonomic status and evolutionary origin of subspecies is often controversial. The Carterocephalus palaemon (Pallas, 1771) subspecies complex (Chequered skipper; Lepidoptera, Hesperiidae) may be a model for taxonomic clarification by means of genetic studies. We analysed two subspecies: Carterocephalus palaemon palaemon and C. palaemon tolli (the latter one endemic to the Biaowiea Primeval Forest, Poland) at 34 allozyme loci and compared them with the northern chequered skipper Carterocephalus silvicolus (Meigen, 1829), a well-defined species. The overall FST value between C. palaemon complex and C. silvicolus was significant (0.700, P < 0.001). Significant genetic differentiation (FST = 0.191, P < 0.001) was found between sympatrically occurring forms: C. p. palaemon and C. p. tolli, confirming their phenotypic distinction. PCA and admixture analyses revealed the existence of three distinct gene pools (C. silvicolus, C. p. palaemon and C. p. tolli). The genetic differentiation between C. palaemon complex and C. silvicolus was similar to that found among the other well-defined species, while the FST value between the two genetic lineages of C. palaemon is typical for a butterfly species with subspecific structure. Observed differentiation between C. p. palaemon and C. p. tolli most likely results from long-lasting isolation between lineages rather than resulting from an initial divergence driven by strong disruptive selection.
23736152|The ortolan bunting Emberiza hortulana is a bird species that has shown a particularly dramatic decline during recent decades within the agricultural areas of Europe. We studied the population density changes and environment associations of the ortolan bunting within agricultural landscapes in southern Finland, from territory to landscape scale, in 19842002. The crash of the ortolan bunting population took place synchronously during the early 1990s in all the subpopulations, resulting in a total decrease of 72% by the end of the study period. The decline was associated with the amount of small-scale environmental heterogeneity and with agricultural practices. Bush- or tree-covered ditches and springtime non-vegetated fields (mainly spring cereal and root crops) were the habitat factors showing a clear positive effect on the occurrence of the ortolan bunting. However, the European-wide decrease of the ortolan bunting is probably also due to changes in migration and wintering areas. All these factors should be taken into consideration when planning conservation measures.
23731683|The material comprises 1 214 specimens snap-trapped in Finland, south of 65N, over a period of 14 years. Though sexually mature males were trapped in January in certain years, no winter breeding has been established; the first litters are born in May, the last in September. After living through one winter, mature voles die at the beginning of the next; the longest-lived were trapped in mid-December. Of the voles which reached sexual maturity during the summer of their birth, the last were trapped the following March. Thus the vast majority of wintering bank voles are immature. The body length of immature bank voles increases slowly throughout the winter. Mature individuals, too, continue to grow in length after the breeding season. Their weight, on the other hand, drops almost to that of the immatures by the end of the breeding season. In winter, both age groups reach their minimum weight in February, and the last individuals that were reproducing the previous summer die soon after this. A lesser drop in weight occurs in November.
23735496|The landscape structure and dynamics of NE-European forests were analysed using data from Landsat TM in combination with systematic surveys in the field. The frontier of intensive forestry meets forests undergoing natural dynamics in the image's area. In exploited areas the structural heterogeneity of the vegetation is pronounced, but the most prominent differences between the landscapes in exploited and natural areas were detected in the sizes and surroundings of stands of climax coniferous forests. The distance to the nearest vegetation edge, as measured around random points, decreases by 95% and the former landscape matrix turns to islands surrounded by deciduous vegetation. In natural areas the dynamic processes controlling the landscape structure include fires, windstorms and fluvial dynamics. Vegetation and the processes affecting it vary according to site qualities. In dry sites frequent low-intensity wildfires create small scale vegetation mosaics. In mesic sites post-fire successional stands of deciduous trees are present close to river valleys. In mature Picea abies dominated forests birches also remain essential components of the canopy layer, and forest regeneration occurs in windstorm gaps along with tree mortality through pathogen stress. These steady state boreal forests represent the climatic climax in the study area. The study suggests that some frequently cited generalizations about fire dominated boreal forest dynamics may be over-simplified.
23735802|The diet of the wood lemming Myopus schisticolor (Lilljeborg) was studied in eastern Finland in 1997 and 1998. The most preferred habitat of the wood lemming is an old spruce dominated-forest with a thick moss cover. In winter, it prefers drier areas than in summer. The wood lemming feeds mainly on moss with Dicranum and Polytrichum as the most preferred species. Different moss species and faeces were collected at the feeding places and dried. The contents of nitrogen and carbon were determined both in the faeces and in the moss species most probably fed by lemmings at a particular place. The nitrogen and carbon contents in the moss species correlated significantly with their contents in faeces. The nitrogen content was highest in the Dicranum and Polytrichum species. This may be one reason for the preference of these moss species than more common Pleurozium and Hylocomium species.
23735504|The immediate changes caused by forest fire in the beetle fauna were studied at three sites in boreal coniferous forest in Finland. In general the number of individuals and species increased after fire. The species attracted to the burnt forest included woodborers (Cerambycidae, Curculionidae, Anobiidae, some Elateridae), species developing under bark of damaged trees, species associated with fungi (Lathrididae, Cryptophagidae, Nitidulidae, Leiodidae) and certain soil- and litter-dwelling groups: Carabidae, Byrrhidae and some Elateridae. Predators utilizing diptera larvae in mushrooms increased strongly after the fire as well. Many of the species presumed to be associated with wood-fungi peaked immediately after the fire, i.e. many cryptophagids, lathridids and nitidulids, whereas the leiodids Anisotoma spp. and Agathidium spp. became commoner two years after the fire. Several species previously known to strongly prefer burnt forests were captured. The fire specialists form a hetergenous ecological group, indicating that a substantial portion of the forest species have adapted to fire cycles. A large group of species normally found only in man-made, microclimatically warm habitats, e.g. compost, were attracted to two of the burnt sites. Their absence from the third site was probably due to lack of suitable source areas in the immediate surroundings. Cholevidae associated with rodents and many litter-dwelling Staphylinidae were drastically reduced by the fire. In most cases, their numbers had not returned to previous levels two years after the burning.
23735610|Harvesting prior to the breeding season is widely considered 'unwise' since it has the bearing of deducting from the capital. However, spring hunting is still a common practice in many parts of the world, and its true effects remain uninvestigated. We present a model to investigate the range of possible effects of spring harvesting on waterfowl populations. The cost of spring harvesting is defined as corresponding loss in harvest opportunities in autumn; this cost may be sex-specific. Factors increasing the cost are monogamy, high breeding output, high summer survival and weak density dependence in summer, such that the population is mainly regulated through winter conditions. If the relative success of unpaired individuals is high (as in polygynous species if males are abundantly available after spring hunting), the cost of killing females may increase while that of killing males is reduced. Spring sex ratios may be more important in determining the cost than whether hunting occurs before or after pairing. Killing males can have surprisingly high costs and they may even exceed the cost of killing females if sex ratios are female-biased.
23734575|Accumulation of cadmium by a unionid freshwater clam, Unio pictorum, was studied under acidic (pH 4.05.0) and circumneutral (pH 8.08.3) conditions. Cd uptake in all organs studied (gills, kidney, mantle, midgut gland, the rest, and total soft parts) was lower in the acidic medium than in the neutral medium. After two weeks of exposure the effect was significant. After four weeks, the Cd concentration in most organs of Unio pictorum was three times higher in the specimens in the neutral medium than in those in the acidic medium. Shells and calcium concretions bound less Cd when clams were exposed in acidic conditions. The rate of elimination in the acidic medium was not significantly higher than that in the neutral medium. Acid exposure did not affect the amount of calcified concretions in the clams. Therefore, most of the calcium needed for buffering was probably mobilised from the shell and mantle. Exposure to acid alone for 10 days caused a transitory increase in haemolymph calcium concentration, while a Cd exposure of 3 weeks in both a neutral and an acidic medium decreased haemolymph Ca2+ concentration. Haemolymph Na+ and K+ concentrations were not influenced during 4 weeks of exposure.
23736146|Recognition systems are an integral component of the biology of all species. The highly tuned nature of many recognition systems may make them particularly sensitive to environmental and genetic changes. In this review, we examine how biological invasions influence recognition systems and discuss how plasticity in recognition systems may contribute to the success of species in new environments. Specifically we discuss how demographic and genetic consequences of the invasion process may influence allorecognition, intraspecific, and interspecific interactions. Possible research directions are discussed including the value of comparing species' recognition systems between native and introduced populations.
23734870|In a large area of sympatry, the goldcrest and the firecrest have overlapping territories. There is no evidence of interspecific territoriality or dominance by one species over the other. A close investigation of foraging behaviour, including choice of habitat, foraging postures and feeding curves, and of morphology (58 external and skeletal features measured) showed that their co-existence is facilitated by differences in feeding ecology. In a large outdoor aviary, newly caught birds were confronted with experimental trees denuded of natural food and their movements and postures were recorded. Independent of kind and occurence of prey, there are specific differences in preference for deciduous and coniferous trees and in the mode and speed of foraging. Firecrests show no particular preference between spruce and beech, whereas goldcrests clearly prefer spruce. Firecrests move more rapidly. Firecrests forage more often standing, whereas goldcrests more often cling vertically and hang. Differences in behaviour are more pronounced than differences in morphology investigated by multiple discriminant function analysis, but there are some morphological correlates: length of rictal bristles, width of gape and length of hind claw. External morphological characters discriminated best, then skeletal features and finally features of the flight apparatus. Furthermore, there are differences in the structures of the soles of the feet. Goldcrest soles are provided with deep furrows capable of gripping individual needles; firecrests have a smoother surface.
23736523|In the short term, the persistence of species depends on the continued existence of suitable habitat and protection from extraordinary causes of mortality, essentially ecological and socioeconomic problems. On a longer time-scale, however, genetic problems could become paramount. Populations that have only deleterious mutations eventually decline in fitness to extinction, because of the fixation by genetic drift of a small fraction of these mutations. This proceeds fastest in small populations, because genetic drift is a more powerful factor in these circumstances. If, as is biologically reasonable, some mutations are beneficial to the population, there will exist a critical effective size above which the population can persist indefinitely, because fixation of beneficial alleles can balance the effects of deleterious mutations. This critical effective size is likely to be in the hundreds, meaning a census population size in the thousands. If some mutations act to compensate for the detrimental effects of others, then the rate of beneficial mutations will increase as fitness declines; this causes the critical effective size to be even lower. In this paper, we review the theoretical impact of beneficial and compensatory mutations on the probability of extinction, as well as the substantial theoretical and empirical literature on compensation. There are many possible mechanisms for compensatory mutations. There are insufficient data to make quantitative predictions, but it is clear that there is more hope for preserving the genetic integrity of threatened species than previously thought.
23736086|This study was carried out in the oligotrophic lake Munksjen in South-East Norway. The lake is situated 569 m above sea level, its surface area is 48 ha and maximum depth 10 m. The fish fauna consists of perch, roach (Rutilus rutilus L.), pike (Esox lucius L.) and sparse populations of brown trout (Salmo trutta L.) and burbot (Lota lota L.). The water quality was poor due to acidification, with a pH level of about 5.0 until the summer of 1991 when 23 tonnes of limestone powder were added. Afterwards, pH > 6.0 was maintained, except for snowmelt periods when the pH dropped to 5.8. Liming was expected to improve recruitment, and to avoid overcrowding and stunting, the most numerous species, perch and roach, have been heavily fished with traps and gillnets annually since 1992. Density of the perch population was determined with the mark recapture experiment, and biomass and production in the period 19921994 were simulated by modelling. Biomass of perch was estimated to 9.5 kg/ha before the mass removal and to 2.8 kg/ha afterwards. The biomass reduction led to increased growth rate, and based on the model, 11.5 kg/ha of perch with a mean weight of 100 g may be caught annually.
23733682|Sampling apparatus are described and instructions are given for their use. Dredging is the only method recommended where Mesidotea entomon occurs very sparsely, and whenever representative samples of the whole population are needed. Baited nets and traps are recommended where dredging is laborious or impossible, e.g. for sampling from under the ice or from stony bottoms, and whenever information about the structure of the population is not important. Some Mesidotea leave the bottom to swim. They can be caught with midwater trawls and macroplankton nets.
23735950|We studied the effect of wood ants on the mountain birch canopy-invertebrate community by sampling a total of 840 trees at different altitudes on the mountain slopes in northeastern Lapland, Finland. We also estimated the degree of herbivory on birch leaves, and monitored the prey of the wood ants. We addressed three questions: (1) How invertebrates are distributed along the altitudinal gradient and on a larger regional scale, (2) how wood ants (Formica aquilonia) affect the distribution of herbivores and predators in the mountain birch canopy, and (3) how the potential prey of wood ants vary in relation to altitude, season and year. Our results demonstrate that the number of sawfly larvae and the degree of herbivory on birch leaves increases with elevation, with the largest impact on mid elevation areas previously damaged during autumnal-moth (Epirrita autumnata) outbreaks. Wood ants and ant-tended aphids (Symydobius oblongus) were most abundant at lower elevations. Wood ants affected most invertebrate groups negatively at all elevations where the wood ants existed, and the effect was quite stable in time. Further, herbivores were found to comprise a large proportion of prey of wood ants. Because birches are often killed during the outbreak years of moths, trees gain long-term protection by wood ants at reasonably low yearly costs growth reduction owing to sap sucking by ant-tended aphids. Through this protection, wood ants may prevent the recession of the timberline during outbreak years. Further, defoliated forests may recover substantially faster when birch propagules spread from the green islands of birches surviving around the ant mounds.
23736111|This study describes the occurrence and the impact of Heteropolaria sp. in intensively cultured perch (Perca fluviatilis). Heteropolaria sp., in association with Aeromonas sp., form a symbiotic complex which may induce severe pathology in intensively cultured perch. This colonial ciliate is most frequently detected in winter when it colonizes the spiny dorsal fin of young perch and spreads all over the body in older individuals. High population density favours the propagation of Heteropolaria sp.: the infestation frequency in 40 g perch after two months of rearing at 23C was 10, 50 and 91%, at stocking densities of 303, 602 and 1 974 fish m-3, respectively. High temperatures and repeated handling (e.g. sorting) also increase the risks of infestation.
23735460|A new species, Machairodus kurteni is described from the late Miocene locality Kalmakpai in eastern Kazakhstan (USSR). Other Vallesian and Turolian species of Machairodus in the USSR are discussed. Evolutionary changes appear to have taken place in the genus Machairodus during the Turolian. In the morphology of the dentition, M. kurteni is intermediate between Machairodus and Homotherium.
23732249|The spider communities of Finnish leys and winter cereal fields are analysed on the basis of 420 sweep net samples (21 areas) from the former and 179 samples (6 areas) from the latter. 61 species were caught from leys, and 49 from winter cereals. Tetragnatha extensa and Microlinyphia pusilla were the most abundant species. The effects of various ecological factors on the spider populations are analysed. Wind velocity, sampling date, distance from forest, area of clearing, and coverage of vegetation significantly influenced the numbers of spiders. The spider communities of cultivated fields are compared with each other and with those in the field layers of other habitats.
23731797|Five trapping quadrats of different sizes, grids of 12  12 trapping points, 8  8, 4  4, 2  2 and a single trapping point spacing of traps 15 m, set in a fairly homogeneous Querceto  Carpinetum stand were used to test whether quadrat size can affect the numbers per hectare calculated from the catch. The prebaiting and catching procedures were the same in all five quadrats. Three independent repetitions of this experiment revealed that the two smallest quadrats yielded higher numbers per hectare than the larger ones and that the 4  4 m2 quadrat gave practically the same numbers of animals per hectare as the largest one.
23734537|Bone lesions of unknown aetiology were detected in 3.2% of Finnish muskrat skulls (n = 758). The disease was not sex-dependent, but was more common in older individuals. When severe, this condition may cause the death of the animal through malocclusion of the incisors.
23731672|Experiments on the preferential segregation of the Y chromosome in Drosophila melanogaster females carrying autosomal translocation inversion systems gave results which were in accordance with both the distributive pairing hypothesis of Grell and the alternative hypothesis of Novitski, but which were consistent with the Merriam hypothesis only if specific assumptions were made. As a rule, the frequency of secondary non-disjunction of the X chromosomes increased when all possible large autosomal pairing partners of the Y chromosome were of cross-over type. This result was consistent with all three hypotheses. The presence of the Y chromosome in the female increased the proportion of orthoploid gametes. This is because the Y chromosome causes 3 : 1 segregations. The index of segregation preference of the Y chromosome was very significant both in meioses producing orthoploid eggs and in those producing aneuploid eggs. But it was lower in the latter than in the former type of meiosis. This is due to the competitiveness of heterologous pairing. These results are compatible with all three hypotheses, although for Merriam's hypothesis to be acceptable, specific conditions must again be assumed. The results support the view that the proximal heterochromatin is not entirely responsible for heterologous pairing. The conclusion has been drawn that heterologous and homologous modes of pairing must be separate events, either in time or in space.
23735484|Numbers or densities of a natural population typically change over time. These fluctuations result from density-dependence mechanisms in the populations or external environmental variations. According to modern ecological research, time series describing population sizes and physical environments tend to be dominated by low-frequency fluctuations, whereas, contrary to this, simple population dynamic models are mostly dominated by short-term fluctuations. We review the recent theoretical advances in this ecological research theme, referred to as the ecological colour problem. Here population dynamics are analysed in the frequency domain, and named, in analogy of the light wave length, red, white or blue. We emphasise the modern tendency of deriving population ecological insight from dynamic, non-equilibrium analyses. We first deal with deterministic and stochastic single-species population dynamics. We then study how simple communities may respond to environmental noise. We finish by raising the important problem of how the colour of the environmental noise may affect the risk of population extinction.
23735377|Many northern arvicoline rodents consume bark of woody plants in times of high population densities. However, the significance of this behaviour to voles themselves is poorly known. We fed adult field voles (Microtus agrestis) for two weeks on diets containing 15% to 20% protein mixed with birch (Betula pendula) twig powder in concentrations of 0%, 10% or 50% on dry weight basis. Addition of birch powder increased consumption, but did not affect significantly the body mass of voles. With increasing amounts of birch powder the most pronounced effects were increased liver size and activation of two microsomal detoxication enzymes. The results confirm that birch twig is low quality food for the field vole. High proportion of woody forage in the diet may cause severe physiological stress and contribute to the sudden crashes of vole populations.
23736803|We investigated the response of litter-dwelling arthropods to the effects of four forestry thinning intensities (Control, Light Thin, Light Thin with Gap, and Heavy Thin). With the balance between timber demand and maintaining biodiversity in the forest ecosystem in mind, we examined the effects of thinning on the abundance, richness, and diversity of arthropods as an indicator of how ecological processes affect forest litter-dwelling fauna. Study sites were 40- to 60-year-old stands of typical Douglas-fir plantation in the Willamette National Forest, Oregon, USA. To examine the seasonal response of the litter-dwelling arthropods, litter debris and humus samples were collected in October 2000 (wet late-growing season, Late 2000), June 2001 (wet early-growing season, Early 2001), and August 2001 (dry mid-growing season, Mid 2001) and extracted with Tullgren funnels. The abundance and diversity of litter-dwelling arthropods decreased as thinning intensity increased. The decreases in both abundance and diversity of arthropods with limited mobility within the two heaviest thinnings were correlated with an increased heterogeneity of disturbance to the forest floor (patchy litter and moss cover removal), rather than responses to thinning itself at the scale of the entire stand. The litter-dwelling fauna correlated positively with litter moisture. Under control conditions, the abundance of predators and detritivores increased during the dry summer in August. Non-metric multidimensional scaling results showed distinct clusters for the three growing seasons. The wet early-growing season clustered with the dry mid-growing season, but not with the wet late-growing season. Moisture correlated highly with the ordination axes. This study showed that litter-dwelling arthropods were correlated with stand density and seasonal litter moisture of the forest floor.
23734148|We scrutinize the arguments that can be used to explain the evolution of poly-territorial polygyny in the Pied Flycatcher. In this species, secondary females of polygynous males have highly reduced breeding success in comparison with simultaneously laying monogamous females. This reduction in offspring numbers will not be compensated for in future generations as proposed by the "sexy son" hypothesis. The polyterritorial polygyny in the Pied Flycatcher cannot be described in terms of female choice models (the Orians-Verner model and its modifications). On the present evidence the deception hypothesis (i.e. secondary females are unaware of male mating status at mating) is the most likely explanation of polyterritorial polygyny in this species.
23736907|This communication provides an illustration for the use of computer simulations in human immunology. When traditional experiments are impossible, unethical, or unfeasible, in silico modeling procedures may help to fill the gaps in our knowledge of an immune system response to a pathogen. In our study, we define terms and properties of modeled entities: "a clonotype", its distribution, and rank-frequency summaries, and describe properties associated with each of these three clonotype-related entities. We simulate a multistage dynamic process of an immune memory response to influenza. We believe that illustrated properties of fractality and self-similarity might arise due to the following process. The memory T cells operate in a complex environment of shifting pathogen concentrations, increasing and then decreasing inflammatory signals, and multiple interactions with other immune cells and their infected targets. Therefore, a fractal structure to such a population would represent an optimization in terms of percolation into immune/inflammatory space.
23734161|Breeding data of Pygmy Owls were collected from southeastern Norway in 19711982. 29 breeding sites were located. The nests were grouped according to biogeographical zones. 11 of the nests were located in the boreal zone, and the remaining 18 in the boreonemoral zone. Clutch sizes varied from 3 to 10 eggs, and the onset of breeding lasted from the end of March to the middle of May. In the boreonemoral zone breeding took place both in years of high and low vole abundance, while in the boreal zone successful breedings were only recorded in years of high vole populations. In the boreal, but not in the boreonemoral zone, there was a negative correlation between clutch size and the onset of breeding. A possible explanation for this difference is presented.
23735575|The indirect predator effect is put into the wider context of a 'general sensitivity syndrome', including e.g. variable sexual maturation, low sociability, high activity levels and larger body size in voles from cyclic populations. Such animals respond by lowered reproduction to the presence of conspecifics, related species and predators. Differences with regard to animals from noncyclic populations appear to be genetically based. The pure presence of predators may or may not, depending on intraspecific reactions, affect final densities of local vole populations negatively but regional growth rates will possibly be affected positively.
23734136|The establishment of breeding territory by the chaffinch and the brambling was studied at Utajrvi (6557'N, 2658'E) in Finland in the springs of 19671972. Chaffinch males began establishing territories almost three weeks earlier than bramblings, but egg-laying took place at about the same time, viz. after mid-May. Chaffinch males dispersed singly to their territories, usually in familiar areas. The territory serves as a food source and attracts the female. Brambling males move within loose displaying groups in a new area each spring. They disperse to the decisive breeding territory only after pairing. The female selects the nest site. This means that chaffinch males control access to females by defending territory and brambling males more directly by defending the females. The territorial system of the chaffinch develops earlier and less synchronously than that of the brambling. Fringilla males settling early clearly have a certain superiority in the competition for territories. The asynchronous settling of chaffinches may be advantageous in the early spring when the food supply is scarce and variable. Simultaneous settling leads to a rapid and more synchronized development of the reproductive activities. The time-saving mechanism at the onset of breeding in bramblings is a response to northern conditions. Sociality and time-saving are favourable when the available time for nesting is short and the abundant resources are unpredictable in space and time. Early settling may also extend time to accommodate renesting attempts following nest losses. In the study area, chaffinches and bramblings nested in the same woods and their territories overlapped markedly. The establishment of breeding territories by them takes place in different ways. The species differ from each other in respect of breeding dispersal, social tendency, mate and resource defences in relation to territory. This suggests that their reproductive tactics diverge.
23736945|Division of labour is a major feature of insect societies. Behavioural differences can be present also during non-colonial stages of the life cycle, when it is difficult to discriminate between distinct behavioural phenotypes and by-products of differences in overall activity levels. We used the social wasp Polistes dominulus to address this issue. In pre-hibernating aggregations some individuals (helpers) perform external tasks by collecting food and providing it to cluster mates. Such helpers have been so far identified using only a descriptive approach, and their behaviour was not disentangled from a possible higher level of overall activity. Here we provide an operational definition of the helper's trait and we then compare behavioural patterns of helpers and non helpers, verifying that helpers actually represent a peculiar behavioural phenotype. Our result expands knowledge on the caste differentiation issue in Polistes wasps and on the assessment of behavioural phenotypes in a non-colonial context.
23735603|A revision on the current knowledge of the genus Ammotragus is provided. There is only one species, A. lervia, which is considered an ancestor of both Ovis and Capra. Six subspecies originally distributed in the North of Africa, but also introduced elsewhere, have been described. Particularly the study of the introduced wild ranging American populations, and recent research carried out on a captive population in Spain have expanded our knowledge on the species' social behaviour, reproduction, female fitness components, behavioural ecology, feeding habits and ecology. Native and introduced populations of arruis are facing different problems; the former ones are generally threatened by human pression, and the latter ones pose a serious risk to native ungulates and plants.
23735450|The so-called "Mammoth fauna" lived during the Late Pleistocene in northern Eurasia and in Alaska. About 30 indicator species inhabited a single hyperzone of "tundra-steppe" that existed where today there is recent steppe, taiga, and tundra. The ecological structure of the mammoth fauna was similar to that of recent communities of animals in African savannas. These ecological parallels of taxa inhabiting very different climatic zones may be analogized as a pyramid, one lateral half of which consists of beasts of the tundra-steppe, and the other half beasts of the savanna. The levels of the pyramid indicate biomass and feeding ecology. The lowest level of the pyramid is made up of grazers: Eurasian horses and kulan on the Pleistocene side, corresponding to zebra and African donkey on the Recent side; along with saiga and zeren, which correspond to African gazelles; bison, yak, and muskox, corresponding to African buffalo and eland. The next level consists of mixed feeders, consumers of grass, leaves, and woody sprouts, and includes Mammoth on the Pleistocene side, corresponding to African elephant; woolly rhinoceros, corresponding to white rhinoceros; roe deer and elk, corresponding to gerenuk and kudu. The third level contains carnivores: wolf and dhole on the Pleistocene side, corresponding to hunting dog and cheetah; and cave lion, corresponding to African lion. In the fourth level are scavengers: cave hyaena, polar fox and glutton, corresponding to spotted hyaena and jackal. Reindeer, lemming, and polar bear survived the disappearing Pleistocene tundrasteppe, and had no analogues in Africa.
23734427|A 206 cm2 Muus sampler was used to assess the brackish-water macrofauna on both a soft ooze and a hard sand bottom in the coastal waters of the northern Baltic. The catches were compared with those in 42 cm2 cores taken by a diver. For taxa living near the sediment surface the Muus sampler gave abundance and biomass estimates as good as the diver's cores. But it did not penetrate deep enough for quantitative collection of all the macrofauna. On the soft bottom the resulting error was insignificant, but on the hard bottom the Muus sampler caught only a fraction of the actual biomass, as the animals beyond its reach were big individuals of the bivalve Macoma baltica. Thus the Muus sampler is well suited for special studies on taxa restricted to the uppermost layers of the sediment, but for sampling the total macrofauna it can be used only on soft bottoms.
23735417|Two studies in western Canada focus on whether carabid species specialize in use of old-growth forest habitats. In montane lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta Douglas var. latifolia Engelm.) forest, Calathus advena Lec., Carabus chamissonis Fish., Leistus ferruginosus Mnh., Nebria intermedia V. D., Platynus decentis Say, Pterostichus brevicornis Kby., Pterostichus riparius Dej., Scaphinotus marginatus Fisch. and Trechus chalybeus Dej. are common in post-rotation age forest with no history of harvesting, but scarce in or absent from regenerating sites, even 27 years after harvest. Residual populations of old-growth specialists in uncut fragments are exposed to increased contact with habitat generalists and open-habitat specialists from surrounding cut-overs and regenerating forests. Populations of several species of old-growth specialists in lodgepole pine live also in younger, fire-origin stands in boreal aspen (Populus tremuloides Michaux.) stands of the "mixedwood" zone. We hypothesize that they have recolonized from the large surrounding tracts of unburned residual forest remaining after fire. Thus, landscape-scale effects, resulting in changes in regional population size, may alter the probability of species retention in old-growth fragments, and of the recolonization of cut-blocks by particular species characteristic of old-growth.
23736522|Human activities are having a devastating effect on the survival of natural populations. The reduction in population size and changes in the connectivity of populations due to human disturbances enhance the effect of demographic and genetic factors that can lead to population extinction. This article provides an overview of our current understanding of the role of genetic factors in the extinction of populations. The three primary genetic factors are loss of genetic variability, inbreeding depression, and accumulation of mildly deleterious mutations. The effects of these factors are discussed in the context of three different scenarios: isolated populations, local populations with immigration, and metapopulations.
23736908|Computational models have been successfully applied to a wide variety of research areas including infectious disease epidemiology. Especially for questions that are difficult to examine in other ways, computational models have been used to extend the range of epidemiological issues that can be addressed, advance theoretical understanding of disease processes and help identify specific intervention strategies. We explore each of these contributions to epidemiology research through discussion and examples. We also describe in detail models for raccoon rabies and methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, drawn from our own research, to further illustrate the role of computation in epidemiological modeling.
23735855|We studied the variation in the number of chaetae of 15 characters in Saduria entomon (L.) (Crustacea, Isopoda) from the Baltic (2 samples), White, and south-eastern Barents Seas. The following parameters were analysed: (i) means, (ii) inter-individual variance, (iii) intra-individual or stochastic variance measured by fluctuating asymmetry, i.e. random deviations from perfect bilateral symmetry, which is a measure of developmental instability. The samples from the Baltic Sea were characterised by a greater number of chaetae than those from the White and Barents Seas in almost all characters. Inter-individual variance in the Barents Sea sample was lower than in the other samples, possibly because of low genetic variation. Fluctuating asymmetry was the least in the sample from the Baltic Sea (Gulf of Gdask), indicating that environmental conditions in this location are the most favourable. In juveniles the magnitude of the fluctuating asymmetry and its contribution to the total variance was higher than in adults.
23735421|An emergence arena method for estimation of within-field carabid recruitment from pupation is described. Use of the method is illustrated in a field plot experiment to assess the effect of time of soil cultivation on carabid survival in arable land. The population 'productivity' of Pterostichus melanarius (Illig.), a larval overwinterer in arable fields, was found to be reduced by 80% following spring tillage operations. In contrast, Bembidion lampros (Herbst.), an adult overwinterer in field margins, showed decreased emergence density on winter-sown plots. The value of the method in quantitative investigation of populations in fragmented habitats is discussed.
23736780|The termination of agricultural production in intensively managed fields leads to the succession of weed communities and to changes in the vegetation cover and food supply for animals. We studied a population of the common vole on a regularly managed alfalfa field in southern Moravia (Czech Republic) during two and a half consecutive years. When the field was set aside, the vegetation cover transformed significantly and we studied the same vole population for the next three years. Multi-annual variation in population size disappeared; maximal abundances decreased, and mean body size tended to be lower in the weed-filled habitat. We observed conspicuous seasonal patterns in the proportion of breeding females, sex ratio and in litter size variation; however these patterns did not depend on the field management regime. The set-aside field had a strong effect on vole population dynamics; however, other well-designed studies are needed to distinguish between the possible causal processes (immigration, natality or survival) of the observed changes.
23735716|Current concerns over the impact that anthropogenic global climate change will have on levels of biodiversity have focused mainly on tropical and temperate systems. Recently, attention has turned to polar systems, and the potential impacts these climatic changes might have on polar flora and fauna. Polar organisms have been subjected to dramatic fluctuations in environmental conditions during the Holocene and Pleistocene, so one might expect these systems to be resilient. However, little is really known of how such global climate changes will impact biodiversity in the arctic. What is known, particularly through the use of molecular markers, is that glacial cycles have impacted the evolutionary trajectories of many extant polar species. By studying these organisms, particularly those found across the Holarctic, one can examine the dynamic interaction between deterministic forces (e.g. selection) and historical processes (e.g., vicariance event) in order to better understand how these processes have impacted the phylogeography and genetic divergence among taxa. Keeping with the "northern dimensions" theme of this symposium, we review results obtained from a variety of phylogeographic studies that have examined the importance of dispersal, vicariance, and selection in shaping the distributions of arctic biota, especially among closely-related species complexes. In particular, we examine the recent debate over the importance of Pleistocene glacial cycles in influencing population genetic differentiation and speciation. Finally, we provide an assessment of how studying these arctic systems will benefit the global perspective on climate change research.
23734071|The heavy "Permeri corer" has been constructed at the Permeri Research Station for sampling the hard sand and moraine bottoms especially common in the Bothnian Bay. The inner diameter of the corer tube is 47 mm. The equipment is described in detail. Capture efficiency was tested at two stations. There were no statistically significant differences in total numbers of individuals between the samples obtained with the corer and by a SCUBA diver using the same tubes as a standard. The capture efficiency of the corer calculated on this basis was 109 % at Station I and 98 % at Station II.
23736105|A synopsis of walleye population characteristics from North American lakes is presented. Harvest, density and reproductive data from the primary literature, agency reports and personal communications were summarized, and include: sport fishing harvests, exploitation rates, population densities, relative fecundity, and age to 50% maturity. Empirical relationships between yield, population size, lake area, relative fecundity, age to maturity and growing degree-days are described. Factors affecting these empirical relationships are also discussed. Quartiles were used to describe the frequency distributions of harvest, yield and density parameters. Managers can use these empirical relationships and descriptive statistics as comparative diagnostic tools for interpreting the status of their walleye fishery. We feel this is a useful approach because managers are often having to make decisions regarding their fishery with minimal information. The interpretive value of minimal data can be enhanced when comparative information is available.
23735429|In a long-lived molluscan host, trematode adaptations that minimize the risk of parasite-induced host mortality may evolve because the residual reproductive value of a parasite would not be limited by a short life-span of the host. Two features of the host exploitation (site selection and timing of the reproductive period) were examined for the bucephalid trematodes Rhipidocotyle fennica and R. campanula in their first intermediate host Anodonta piscinalis which is a long-lived freshwater clam. The gonad, assumed to be less critical for survival of the host, was the organ most frequently parasitized by both of the parasite species. Except for the kidney in the case of R. campanula, the prevalence of infection was low in organs that were expected to be important for host survival (kidney, gills, digestive gland). We also made a literature survey on the site selection of larval trematodes of aquatic molluscs in general. We found that the longer the life-span of the host, the higher the proportion of trematode-mollusc associations where the gonad is the main site of infection. Infected A. piscinalis do not reproduce due to parasitic castration but the uninfected individuals develop their offspring, presumably, during the period of most abundant resources in the seasonally fluctuating environment. Therefore, if the parasites adjust their cercarial production to the same period as the uninfected clams they should minimize mortality caused by an energetic stress for the host. We found the reproductive period of R. fennica to co-occur with that of the host, while the cercarial production of R. campanula started 2 weeks earlier than the host reproduction. in summary, R. fennica followed a "damage avoidance tactic" but R. campanula to a lesser extent.
23736731|Within ant communities, competitive asymmetry is hypothesized to dictate, in part, the co-occurrence patterns of species. I intensively sampled ant communities from 5 upland ecosystem types in Florida, USA. I used null model analyses to test two general assembly rules and one specific to ant communities: (1) reduced co-occurrence of species among communities, (2) regular spacing of body sizes within communities, and (3) competition hierarchies. Species were segregated by habitat (species co-occurrence was reduced among ecosystems) but there was no evidence for competition hierarchies at local scales (species co-occurrence patterns were random within ecosystems). There was limited evidence that body size distributions are regularly spaced at both the regional and local scale. Thus, while competition between species may result in character displacement between similar species, it does not appear to form competition hierarchies at the local scale at which ants actually interact.
23731603|Fridericia nemoralis, Marionina asymmetrica, M. diverticulata and M. magnaglandulosa are described and six additional species not previously recorded from Finland are reported from rich forest soils in southern Finland.
23735562|Eurasian badgers (Meles meles) living in the southern boreal forest of Sweden prefer to forage in patches of agricultural land (AL). In two adjacent areas with different proportion AL, capture-recapture studies from spring 1989 and 1991, and track-board surveys from spring 1991 and autumn 1993, showed that both population density and the frequency of track-board visits were higher in the richer area. In 1993, one even richer and one poorer area were included in the track-board survey to increase the variance in proportion and patchiness of AL. Also in the richest area of these, the proportion of track-board visits was high. However, this was also the case in the poorest area. More track-boards were visited in or close to agricultural patches than expected from random. Among the areas, this preference increased with decreasing proportion of AL available, except in the poorest area where no preference could be detected. We argue that the observed pattern was a result of: 1) decreasing population density, 2) increasing activity and larger individual home ranges, and 3) a change in biotope preference, as the degree of biotope fragmentation increased and the possibility of efficient utilisation of the preferred patches decreased.
23735910|Formica truncorum is an ant species that maintains populations dominated by either single-queen (monogyne) or multiple-queen (polygyne) colonies. New queens (gynes) from monogyne colonies disperse after mating whereas gynes from polygyne colonies are philopatric. Gyne physical condition frequently reflects the overall dispersal propensity of the maternal colony, with dispersers heavier and with larger wings than philopatric morphs. Little, however, is known about the musculature that powers flight dispersal. Our histological examination of alary muscle tissue revealed that mitochondrion and sarcomere numbers did not differ in newly emerged gynes from monogyne and polygyne populations. Significantly greater numbers of mitochondria and sarcomeres were, however, detected in mature virgin gynes from monogyne nests. Within both populations, gynes that had shed their wings had significantly fewer mitochondria than winged gynes. Wingless mated gynes from monogyne nests also had greater numbers of mitochondria. As the sites of ATP production, mitochondria are critical to any biochemical process and reduced numbers are likely to influence the success of flight dispersal. Differential provisioning of new gynes post-emergence in the two populations may account for the variation in flight musculature, which may provide a reliable mechanism by which current dispersal conditions can be assessed. As flight capability generally represents a trade-off with ovarian growth for many insect species, gynes able to forgo flight dispersal and redirect resources from flight muscle development into oocyte development may gain an early reproductive edge compared to their dispersing counterparts.
23733677|The distributions of Micronecta griseola, M. minutissima, and M. poweri in Lake Pijnne, as determined at closely spaced sites showed a strong correlation with the results of studies on eutrophication and pollution of the lake. M. griseola was found only in waters that were clearly eutrophic, M. minutissima in waters with at least slight signs of eutrophy, and M. poweri in waters ranging from somewhat eutrophic to oligotrophic. M. minutissima seemed to tolerate industrial pollution better than the two other species. Possibilities of estimating the eutrophicating and polluting effects of sewage waters on the quality of shore waters in naturally oligotrophic lakes from the abundance and associations of Micronectae are discussed, and a system for classifying the waters is presented.
23734494|We studied biogeographic distribution patterns of birds breeding in coniferous forests of the western Palearctic in 24 areas ranging from the Ural Mountains to the Atlas Range. In particular, we compared patterns produced by qualitative presence/absence data with census data derived from published sources. The qualitative data showed a decreasing, albeit irregular, trend in species richness from north to south. Rarefaction analysis of the census data, in contrast, revealed no general trends in diversity. The proportion of birds typically breeding in coniferous forests ("conifer birds") was greater in the continuous boreal taiga than in more isolated southern forest areas according to the qualitative data. In contrast, census data showed that there were two separate maxima in the proportion of conifer birds: one in northern Finland and the Ural Mountains in the north, and the other in the southern European mountains. We studied the faunal similarity of the 24 areas with the Czekanowski-Srensen index of similarity (qualitative data) and detrended correspondence analysis (DCA, quantitative data). The patterns emerging resembled each other in broad outline, Central Europe and southern Fennoscandia forming a tight group with central Russia. Northern Ural had its closest affinities to the Fennoscandian taiga in the north. The border between northern and central taiga appeared more distinct in qualitative than in quantitative data. A DCA-ordination, with pine and spruce forests treated separately, showed a clear north-south gradient, but there was considerable variation in the relations between the bird assemblages of the two habitats at different localities. In general, qualitative data tended to show more regular geographic patterns than census data did. We discuss the explanatory power of theories of interspecific competition and insular biogeography in relation to the observed patterns. In several cases predictions upheld when using qualitative data but failed when using quantitative data.
23735821|Forestry has altered the boreal flora and fauna strongly during the 1900s. At present, logging methods other than clear-cutting are often applied but the ecological effects of these modifications are poorly studied. I collected carabid beetles in 8 uncut, 8 thinned (10%30% of trees removed, with the aim of generating an uneven age structure) and 8 clear-cut, spruce-dominated stands, by using pitfall traps in central Finland during 19551998. The carabid species fell into three distinctive ecological groups in the multivariate analyses: forest, open-habitat and Sphagnum bog species. The forest species further formed a continuum from forest specialists to canopyclosure generalists. Logging affected the forest species slightly, while generalists and open-habitat species benefitted from clear-cutting. Thinning maintained the forest-floor carabid assemblage well. Site characteristics, such as the amount of trees and bottom and field-layer vegetation, were important determinants of carabid assemblages. Certain within-stand habitat types (e.g. spruce mires) were shown to be important for carabid diversity and should be managed with methods other than clear-cutting, in order to avoid extinctions of local populations. Increasing distance to the nearest source habitat had a negative effect on the abundance and distribution of carabids. Therefore, landscape-level forestry planning is also important for the maintenance of forest-species assemblages.
23736014|The seasonal changes of the steroid metabolism in developing 2-year old rainbow trout ovaries were examined in vitro with 14C-pregnenolone as a precursor from females under natural rearing conditions. There seems to be some seasonal variation in the intensity of ovarian steroid metabolism. The precursor was metabolized through DHA to androstenedione and 11-hydroxytestosterone. Estrogens as metabolites could not be identified, though there was some activity in the phenolic fraction throughout the year. The percentage yield of total androgens decreased from March till September to the minimum value, after which the yield started to increase again to its maximum in the following spring. The yield of total estrogens increased to the maximum in August and decreased to the minimum in April. The metabolic activity of the ovarian tissue increased together with the increase in gonadosomatic index (GSI) value. Only the follicular tissue was metabolically active.
23735475|Developmental stability in the Kattegat population of harbour seal (Phoca vitulina) was assessed to determine whether reduced developmental stability occurred prior to the epizootic in 1988 and possibly predicted the high mortality. As a measure of developmental stability the fractal dimension of the paired maxillo palatinae suture was calculated and the degree of fluctuating asymmetry in teeth, foramina and the paired suture was estimated in 361 skulls. Moreover prevalence of three pathological changes of the skull was investigated. Reduced developmental stability and higher prevalence of pathological changes were associated with a dramatic increase in pollution after World War II. Reduced developmental stability occurred prior to the epizootic, although young seals born after levels of pollution started to decrease tended to be developmentally more stable. No relationship was found between pathological changes and developmental stability.
23735467|The effects of differences in grouping patterns (clumping vs. solitary) and habitat (open vs. forest) of reindeer on attack rates of blood-sucking flies were studied using CO2 baited "reindeer-like" silhouette traps in Finnish Lapland near the Arctic Circle. Within the grouped traps (24 traps/group) in an open habitat, flies attacked peripheral traps more frequently than middle and central ones. In an open habitat, black flies, biting midges and Hybomitra sp. preferred isolated to grouped traps. Isolated traps placed in the forest were attacked by flies less frequently than grouped ones in an adjacent open area. The results suggest that gregarious females and calves of open-country reindeer are less subject to insect attack than more solitary males. For females and calves, herd formation may be the best strategy since severe insect harassment weakens the condition of calves and reduces their moving capacity. Forest reindeer use the forest as a refuge from insects, and although clumping would be beneficial, especially when feeding on open bogs, it is avoided because gregariousness may result in increased predation.
23736758|Strong evidence indicates that in Polistes wasps, as in other social insects, epicuticular lipids are involved in several aspects of recognition, such as nest-, nestmate- and fertility recognition. This evidence is based both on the study of differences in composition between groups of conspecific individuals (members of different colonies; age groups; dominants and subordinates; fertile and infertile individuals), and on bioassays. The first part of this review considers the general characteristics of Polistes epicuticular hydrocarbons and summarises what is currently known about the non-hydrocarbon cuticular lipids. The second part concerns the most relevant contributions of the work on Polistes towards an understanding of the role of epicuticular hydrocarbons as semiochemicals in social insects. Four aspects, highlighted in 1993 by Howard, as future directions for the study of epicuticular hydrocarbons will be considered: (i) the need for a complete determination of epicuticular hydrocarbon structures (in particular chirality); (ii) the role of individual hydrocarbons as semiochemicals, or of classes of hydrocarbons in the epicuticular mixtures; (iii) the intraspecifc variability in epicuticular lipid composition; and, (iv) current knowledge about cuticular hydrocarbon perception by insects.
23735668|Forty-five common shrews, Sorex araneus, caught in 1997; and 48 S. araneus, 21 masked shrews, Sorex caecutiens, and 25 pygmy shrews Sorex minutus trapped in 1998 at Kilpisjrvi in northern Finland were examined for microparasites. Bartonella sp. was found in blood smears of S. araneus both in 1997 (prevalence 15%) and 1998 (10%) but no blood parasites were found in S. caecutiens or S. minutus. This is the first report of blood parasites of shrews from Finland. A fungal parasite, Pneumocystis carinii, was also observed in S. araneus both in 1997 (prevalence 31%) and in 1998 (58%). In contrast to previous reports, 20% of S. minutus had cyst forms of P. carinii in the lungs but none of the S. caecutiens were infected. Results of this study and related studies from elsewhere indicate that the blood parasite communities of Sorex shrews are less diverse than those found in small rodents. In this study the prevalence of Bartonella was highest in the most abundant host species in the shrew community.
23734215|Data from more than 145 000 snap-trap-nights in the summers of 1969 to 1979, and a capture-mark-release study on two grids with areas of about 6 ha in the summers of 1975 to 1979 are analysed for a population of Clethrionomys gapperi, a sympatric population of Peromyscus maniculatus, a parapatric population of C. rutilus, and an allopatric population of P. maniculatus. Mean annual relative numbers (catch per 100 trap-nights) are positively correlated in all six pair-wise comparisons; mean August relative numbers in four of six comparisons; and mean May relative numbers in two of six comparisons. Instantaneous daily rates of increase (all years lumped) were identical for three of four populations (r = 0.007). Minimum numbers alive on grids paralleled mean relative numbers in a general way, but not in detail. Population densities on islands in the Mackenzie River were consistently higher than those on adjacent mainland. Similarity of spring numbers, both intra- and interspecifically, suggests that spring numbers are a function of a more or less constant winter (= subnivean) carrying capacity. Fluctuation indices (s) ranged from 0.26 to 0.35 in Clethrionomys spp., and from 0.14 to 0.26 in P. maniculatus; therefore it is concluded that none of the populations is cyclic. Frequent, positive correlations among numbers of all populations, especially between heterogeneric but sympatric species pairs, suggests that all populations were responding to a common factor, or factors.
23735557|Early in the 20th century, the badger was permanently established throughout southern Scandinavia (except the island of Gotland), and scattered populations were thought to occur up to approximately 63N (Collet 19111912, Ekman 1922). That was also the situation in the early 1940's However, 40 years later individual badgers were reported beyond the Arctic Circle up to 67N in Sweden and 68N in Norway (Bevanger 1985), i.e. another 300 km northwards. Questionnaires completed by regional and local wildlife boards showed that the range of permanent distribution now extends along the Baltic coast to the inner part of the Gulf of Bothnia in Sweden, and through coastal and inland areas up to 64N in Norway. Here, we discuss the possible causes of this expansion, such as climate, predators and human impact.
23735453|Five nominal genera of camels have been recorded from the Pleistocene of North America. No nomenclatur problems seem evident with Palaeolama mirifica, a southern species that ranged north to Florida and the Gulf Coast of Texas. Palauchenia mexicana, described from a lower jaw in 1869, is now known only from drawings prepared from photographs. The jaw is probably lost. Titanotylopus nebrascensis is known only from a lower jaw collected in Nebraska and described in 1934. It is possible that this name is synonym of Palauchenia mexicana, but this is uncertain. The many nominal species of llamas of the genus Hemiauchenia are, except for the Hemphillian H. macrocephala vera, probably synonyms of H. macrocephala (Cope). Some of the numerous nominal species of Camelops are probably valid but available materials seem to be inadequate for a generic revision.
23733743|Populations of Arctocorisa carinata (Sahlb.) and Callicorixa producta (Reut.) were studied by regular removal netting during three successive summers. The length of the reproductive period is about 4 months. The numbers of larvae fluctuated considerably and in an apparently regular manner. In most pools the numbers of small larvae reached two distinct peaks, in June and in July  August, but sometimes there was a single peak in mid-summer. Corresponding changes were observed in the numbers of larger larvae. The numbers of adults reflected their movements from pool to pool, and considerable densities were recorded in pools with low densities of larvae. In most pools the maximal densities of large larvae were similar, and presumably often attained or exceeded the limit set by the prey populations. As the larvae developed, total biomass increased rapidly, maximal values usually coinciding with the peak numbers of the last-stage larvae. At the end of development mortality seemed to be heavy. Fluctuations in numbers were probably due mainly to elimination of small larvae by older individuals either by cannibalism or by competition. When the numbers of small larvae declined, preying behaviour changed; the older larvae grew less large and their mortality was higher. In the permanent pools, A. carinata was dominant and had a lower mortality. When the temporary pools refilled in July, they were rapidly colonized by C. producta; thus in late summer the two species partly occupied different habitats.
23731718|Breeding success in the arctic and the common tern was studied in the mesohaline Baltic Sea in 1965  1970. About 32 % of the arctic tern eggs and 20 % of those of the common tern were lost before hatching. Of the losses, 74 % were due to predators in the arctic tern and 58 % in the common tern. About 60  70 % of the lost chicks were taken by predators. In the arctic tern a chick in a brood of two had the best chance of survival, but in the common tern one of a brood of three. Thus the common tern was more often able to rear all three chicks to fledglings. The growth of the chicks of the common tern was comparable to that found in fresh water environments but faster than on oceanic islands. In the arctic tern also, the growth rate was higher in the study area than in the arctic. The average number of fledglings per pair was 1.46 in the common tern and 0.91 in the arctic tern. The breeding success of both species was high as compared with data from oceanic environments of North America and Europe, where most of the chick losses were due to shortage of food or to unfavourable weather conditions. The effect of predators and food shortage on the clutch sizes of marine and inland tern species is discussed.
23731750|Length-weight, and age-size relations for the viviparous eel-pout living in brackish water (about 6  S) are presented. All the fish were caught at 25  40 m, at depths greater than those at which this species is usually reported to live. After birth the young fish become heavier for their length than in late gestation. Adult fish show small but significant differences in length-weight ratio due to sex and seasonal cycle. Males are somewhat longer for their weight than females. Adult males are smaller than females of the same age. Age determinations from otoliths gave maximum ages up to 8 years. In the 0+ age group the sex ratio (males/females) was about even (1.07), but in the adults (4  8 years) it was 0.25. Individuals of the intermediate groups (2 to 4 years) were scarce at the depths fished.
23734527|The animal succession was investigated in test plots made of different mixtures of sewage sludge and crushed bark. Three kinds of sludge (digested, activated and limed) were compared with each other. A fresh mixture of digested sludge and bark was compared with a composted one, with each of the initial materials alone, and with a compost heap made of the same materials. All the materials were compared with cultivated field, garden grassland and forest soil. Flying insects and the phoretic nematodes and mites transported by them colonized fresh mixtures in a few days and reproduced rapidly. Later they became less numerous. Collembola increased within some weeks and remained important throughout the succession. Oribatei immigrated into more aged materials. The community at the early stages of succession was typical of dung and related accumulations of easily decomposable matter. The succession was rapid at first but gradually slowed down, the community changing through a less specialized "compost stage" into a generalist soil fauna. However, even in the oldest test material the community differed considerably from that in the adjacent arable soil. Mesostigmata showed the highest and Collembola the lowest degree of specialization to different substrates. Of the fresh mixtures, that with activated sludge showed the highest total biomass, and that with digested sludge the lowest. Digested and limed sludges proved to be harmful or toxic to lumbricids and enchytraeids. Composting was shown to accelerate the succession. The succession in a mixture of sludge and bark was more rapid than in either of the two components alone.
23734110|Four dental structures, characteristic of ancestral mustelines, found in 3 out of 254 specimens of recent Mustela nivalis L. from Poland are described. They are an additional cusp posterior to the protoconid on P4, two small second upper molars, and a large elongate two-rooted M2 with three distinct cusps. These structures have been compared with similar ones described earlier in other members of the genus Mustela. The structures are considered to be the results of the expression of genes that occurred much more frequently in the ancestors, and which are now rare but still present in the gene pools of the living species of Mustela.
23734506|Permanent and transitory changes in burrowing activity and damage to tissues caused by short-term exposure of Macoma balthica to low concentrations of different heavy metals are described. Small specimens (812 mm) of M. balthica were exposed for 24 h to Hg, Cd, Cu, Zn, Pb, Ni, and Co at concentrations ranging from 0.01 to 100 ppm at 12C and 6  salinity. Hg and Cu reduced burrowing activity at concentrations as low as 0.05 and 0.2 ppm, respectively. In the case of Co, 20 ppm was needed to produce a significant decrease. The range of concentrations from the lowest affecting burrowing activity to that producing complete inhibition was narrow for Cd, Cu and Ni and wider for the other metals. Recovery of burrowing activity in animals exposed to Hg, Cd and Ni was poor. Mortality was high in animals exposed to Hg and Cd. With all the metals tested, exposure caused losses of siphon parts in up to 30 % of the animals. Histological examination of the damaged siphons revealed such lesions as separation of the outer and inner epithelia, constriction and swelling of the siphon walls and deterioration of the well-organized structure of the siphon in the control specimens. The failure of the microvillous epithelium to ward off the effects of environmental agents is discussed.
23734116|We studied plankton predation by two fish that inhabit rock-pools, the tench (9.414.7 cm body length) and the ten-spined stickleback (small (2.3 cm) and large (3.9 cm) fish were treated separately). Fish were allowed to choose between small (1.5 mm Daphnia longispina, 0.3 J) and large (2.3 mm D. magna, 2.8 J) prey in different densities and ratios. In both fish species the net energy gain by feeding on D. magna is higher than by feeding on D. longispina. In experiments with both prey the tench preferred D. magna to D. longispina. Furthermore, the large sticklebacks proved to prefer D. magna, while the small sticklebacks had a preference for the less rewarding D. longispina. The proportion of D. magna decreased in the diet of the small sticklebacks with an increase in its abundance in the 1:1 two-prey experiments. No change in the diet composition was observed in the tench or in large sticklebacks in these experiments. In all two-prey experiments both fish species always ingested either a few or many of the less preferred prey. In experiments where fish were allowed to forage on plankton varying in size from 0.2 mm to 4 mm, the tench first eliminated large (1.54 mm) plankters, while the sticklebacks concentrated on foraging small (0.22 mm) plankters.
23733707|Web-spinning for catching prey is a plesiomorphic character in Lycosidae. Hippasinae auct., defined according to long spinnerets and correlated web-spinning habits, is polyphyletic. Small web-spinning Lycosids and their vagrant relatives from the Oriental-Australian region are revised. Venoniinae (including Anomalosa, Venonia, Zantheres, and Satta) and Zoicinae (Lysania and Zoica) are established as new subfamilies of Lycosidae. Satta gen. n. and Kwintippia subgen. n. of Zoica are described. Flanona Simon, 1898 = Zoica (Zoica) Simon, 1896. Vagellia Simon, 1899 is not a synonym of Zoica. Anomalomma Simon, 1890 is insufficiently described and therefore a dubious genus, but probably a synonym of Lysania Thorell, 1890. The taxonomic position of various Anomalomma spp. and other misplaced species is discussed. New taxa: Venonia kokoda (), V. milla (), V. vilkkii (), Zoica (Kwintippia) wauensis (), Z. (K.) bolubolu (), and Satta cannibalorum () from New Guinea, Z. (K.) falcata () from New Guinea and Borneo, Lysania sabahensis () from Borneo, and Z. (Z.) bambusicola () from Thailand. Adult  of Venonia cinctipes (Simon, 1898) comb. n., are described for the first time, as well as unknown sexes of Zantheres gracillimus Thorell, 1887 (), Lysania pygmaea Thorell, 1890 (), Zoica parvula (Thorell, 1895) () and Z. puellula (Simon, 1898) (), comb. n. Additional new combinations are Venonia muju (Chrysanthus, 1967) and V. micans (Simon, 1898).
23731720|500 mg of 14C-labelled DDT with inactive carrier DDT was pumped into a small (500 m3) polyhumous pond. During the next 2 months, bioaccumulation and transfer of DDT were observed in filtered water, suspended material, sediment, two fish species, newt, four aquatic invertebrates and two plant species. DDT was determined quantitatively by liquid scintillation counting. An applied combustion technique was used on all samples except filtered water before transfer into the scintillating liquid. Suspended material rapidly bound DDT from the water (ca. 7 % of the total amount added). In perch accumulation was rapid in the liver, but the concentration soon decreased again, indicating reactivity of the tissue. In mesenteric adipose tissue, the concentration increased throughout the test period, being 23.8 ppm at the end of the period, i.e. distinctly higher than the maxima reached in other tissues (liver 16.1, gills 3.7 and muscle 0.4 ppm). In crucian carp the concentrations were lower than in perch. Among invertebrates the highest concentration (3.0 ppm) was found in Sphaerium lacustre. The concentrations measured in Utricularia minor were 7-fold those in Drepanocladus sp. Apparently, redissolution occurred from sediment to water, the concentration thus remaining relatively stable to the end of the test period.
23734197|Certain measurements on the equid skull, teeth, and limbs which are often used for calculating indices (ratios) considered taxonomically or phylogenetically significant are analysed in bivariate plots. The aim of the work is to investigate whether or not such indices are valid as used. A major axis was fitted to the logs of the respective measurements plotted and the slope and position of the axes in different taxa were compared. Indices are considered unreliable, because: 1) an index may change progressively, simply due to allometric growth (i.e. due to shifts in size along a single growth axis); 2) different taxa may differ in the position of their growth axes (i.e. in the initial growth relationships of the dimensions analysed). Both alternatives occur in the analyses in this paper. Indices do not show which are the growth relationships between the measurements used for their calculation, and should therefore be avoided. The growth relationships between two measurements are best analysed in plots.
23735756|Males in domestic and laboratory populations usually display a lower immunocompetence than females due to differential action of steroid hormones, but information for natural populations is scant. Here we show that male Magellanic penguins Spheniscus magellanicus had a significantly lower cell-mediated immunity at hatching of their chicks than females. This was assayed through the phytohemagglutinin injection assay, a standard method of measuring T-cell-dependent immunocompetence in birds. Breeding phenology affected condition at laying and cell-mediated immunity at hatching for males, with higher values for late-breeding males. In females, condition at laying declined with breeding date, with no link with immunocompetence at hatching. Early breeding males may incur date-dependent costs in terms of condition and subsequent immunocompetence.
23737152|In low-productivity, high-altitude habitats food can become a limiting factor for the occurring amphibians. Common frog eggs deposited in ponds and the developing tadpoles represent energy-rich prey for syntopic Alpine newts that should be advantageous for storing sufficient amounts of energy to survive hibernation and breed the following spring. In our study population in the Zillertal Alps, Austria at 2100 m a.s.l., in two consecutive years we found the body mass of Alpine newts to be significantly higher in ponds containing tadpoles of the common frog than in ponds without tadpoles. As the frogs forage mostly on land, we regard their eggs as an allochtonous nutrient subsidy for ultra-oligotrophic high-altitude ponds that may have a profound effect on the fitness and distribution of Alpine newts and common frogs.
23735759|In this paper I tested the hypothesis that areas around nests of raven Corvus corax built on electricity pylons in an intensively used farmland are avoided by small birds as their nest sites. Birds were counted along 13 transects (length 1000 m, width 200 m) starting from pylons with raven nests, as well as 13 control transect lines which started from pylons without any nests. These two types of transects did not differ with respect to the number of recorded bird species. However, the proximity of raven nests positively affected the total density of bird species, including skylark Alauda arvensis, the most abundant bird species. Neither the presence of raven nests nor control pylons influenced the number of breeding bird species along 100-m sections of the transect. Total density of breeding birds decreased with the increasing distance from raven nests, whereas it increased with the distance from control pylons. Contrary to expectations, these results indicate the positive impact of raven presence on breeding bird community in an open farmland. I suggest that breeding of birds near raven nests is an antipredator adaptation against nest-robbing by other predators.
23736198|Following extinction of two populations in Scotland, the vendace (Coregonus albula) is now found in only two U.K. lakes, i.e. Bassenthwaite Lake and Derwent Water in north-west England. Although the latter remains mesotrophic, the former has undergone significant eutrophication with associated dissolved oxygen problems and vendace monitoring has shown a declining population status. Additional threats originate from land erosion with subsequent in-lake siltation, and the unconsented introduction of non-native fish species including roach (Rutilus rutilus), ruffe (Gymnocephalus cernuus) and dace (Leuciscus leuciscus). The impact of ruffe as a predator of vendace eggs is considered through diet studies during the spawning period. Climate change may also significantly impact local environmental conditions and these threats to the continued local survival of the vendace are assessed and descriptions given of resulting management measures. The latter include phosphorus-stripping, artificial spawning substratum, egg incubation in captivity, control of further introductions, and establishment of refuge populations.
23736910|The dynamics of a self-organised model of shoaling fish are explored within a Lagrangian (or individual based) framework in order to identify the key behavioural factors that shape its dynamic landscape. By exploring systematically all possible initial states we identify the transitions to and between the different possible stationary states (schooling vs. swarming or milling). The route to these stationary states is explained from an individual perspective. On the behavioural level we discuss in particular the decisive impact of two traits, the perception angle and the manoeuvrability of the fish. A key result of this study is that the fish density in certain stationary states reaches values where each fish perceives each other; local interactions actually become global interactions. We further discuss the specific value of such Lagrangian studies in comparison to analytical approaches, in particular the freedom to include any important biological trait and the importance of an exhaustive numerical investigation.
23735894|Using wild and laboratory animals, we studied the food preference of bank voles, Clethrionomys glareolus, as a function of sex and reproductive status. Wild voles were captured in winter and early spring in central Finland, and during one day of captivity, were examined for food preferences. Pregnant females consumed significantly larger quantities of food rich in animal oil and protein than did non-reproductive females and males. Food preferences of pregnant females may indicate that spring breeding is constrained by access to fat and animal protein. Non-reproductive males showed a preference for spruce seeds, which may indicate a specific value of spruce seeds for this group, possibly related to the maturation process. Species-specific food constraints can differ between sexes and across seasons. Tests with laboratory animals revealed that voles prefer both artificial and unfamiliar food items over their staple diet. These data suggest that food choice in voles may have an unlearned component, and that animals can make adaptive food choices under experimental conditions. We suggest that food preference under experimental conditions can be a useful indicator for food constraints in the wild.
23735462|By partial destruction or loss of the cartilage cover on the articulation surfaces of some joints in the carpalia and tarsalia of horses pits or elongated grooves appear. They often reach into the underlying bare bone. These fossae nudatae (or fossae synoviales) can thus be studied on macerated basipodia of living Equus species, and on fossil basipodia of mono- and tridactyl horses. The form, structure and different types of recent fossae nudatae and their palaeontological occurrences in Miocene, Pliocene and Pleistocene equids are reviewed. According to the majority of mammalian palaeontologists, the fossae are insertions of strong intrabasipodial ligaments, ensuring the immobility of the basipodial amphiarthrotic joints concerned. According to most veterinarians, the fossae are filled with synovia, the liquid acting as a joint lubricant. A dissection of a fresh horse foot strongly supports the latter interpretation.
23735911|Red wood ants of the Formica rufa group are present in many conifer and mixed-conifer forests of northern Europe and Asia. These six species are part of the Formica s. str. subgenus, and build large above-ground organic mounds. In contrast, the taxonomic usage of the F. rufa group in North America seems to have a much broader meaning than in Europe and Asia. Twenty-four species and subspecies are placed in the North American F. rufa group, but only a few build large mounds. Our survey of the literature indicates that very little is known on the abundance and distribution of North American red wood ants, under what forest conditions they are found, and what role they may have in forest ecosystems. Environmental conditions (temperature, moisture), disturbances (fire, human), predation, and competition with other ant species are all possible factors that may explain why red wood ants predominate in many Eurasian but not in North American forests. Detailed studies on the distribution and ecology of red wood ants in North America are needed, especially the interaction and possible competition from carpenter ants (Camponotus spp.) in limiting their distribution. Finally, studies on the taxonomic relationships of the North American F. rufa group to the Eurasian Formica s. str. subgenus are needed to help understand the origin and development of red wood ants in North America.
23735568|Immuno-contraception is being developed in Australia to control populations of the introduced red fox (Vulpes vulpes). One possible adverse response is compensatory reproduction which is being studied in captive and wild populations. In the Northern Hemisphere, red fox populations subject to marked changes in food supply, as experienced also in Australia, respond numerically and functionally. Ovulation rates and cub production follow suit, but the evidence on mean litter size is equivocal. At high food supplies, groups form with more cubs born to them than to mated pairs. There may be little agonistic behaviour as well, and the role of 'helpers' in groups needs elucidation. The circumstances under which home ranges are defended in whole or in part is uncertain also. No general hypothesis on territoriality in the red fox seems achievable at present, but some ideas from recent specific and general hypotheses are testable. It is suggested that the concept of 'fugitive species' should be examined for an understanding of flexibility in the socio-ecological system of the red fox.
23731772|A serological relationship exists between the agglutinins detected with erythrocytes modified by the B1 strain of Newcastle disease virus (NDV-0 agglutinins) and the T agglutinins detected with the RDE-0 test system. This relationship was studied with sera of unimmunized adult laboratory animals (rabbit, guinea-pig, sheep, mouse, rat) and of human patients infected with Mycoplasma pneumoniae. In laboratory animals all moieties of the B1-0 agglutinins were usually demonstrable with the RDE-0 test system; in contrast, the RDE-0 agglutinins frequently included a component which was not demonstrable with the B1-0 test system. This component was not found in human patients. At different temperatures the B1-0 agglutinins produced by the patients reacted in the same fashion as the natural B1-0 and RDE-0 agglutinins of the animals.
23735379|In this study I describe the seasonal patterns of the occurrence of the blackfly species inhabiting a boreal Swedish lake outlet. Ten species were present, and the numerically dominant species were Cnephia lapponica, Simulium rostratum/truncatum, and S. ornatum. Densities were very high reaching maximally >120 cm-2 in C. lapponica, and >140 cm-2 in mixed aggregations. Along with the description of the simuliid community that of their predators was investigated. The larvae of eleven insect species of four orders were found predating on simuliid larvae. The predators with the highest average simuliid consumption were the trichopterans Halesus sp.and Hydropsyche siltalai, and the perlodid plecopterans Isoperla grammatica, and Diura nanseni. Due to differences between predator and prey phenologies, predators were variously important to different prey species. Thus, Diura nanseni primarily ingested S. ornatum, whereas Halesus sp. preyed heavily on larvae and pupae of Cnephia lapponica and Simulium rostratum/truncatum. Since Hydropsyche siltalai and Isoperla grammatica were common and present nearly at all times they had the greatest influence and affected all blackfly species. Presented data suggest that the impact from predators is greatest in the summer (JulyAugust), after the main peak of blackfly larvae and pupae.
23731821|Supplementary food was added to a population of old-field mice, Peromyscus polionotus. The food treatment increased the density of the population and decreased the average distance between captures. Different levels of the food treatment had approximately the same effect on density. Movement decreased as a linear function of density.
23736811|The vertical distribution of biomass, nutrients, and concentrations of secondary defence compounds in the current annual growth of the main winter forage trees (birch and willows) of herbivores was studied in the mountain range of northern Scandinavia. In addition, forage availability in relation to snow accumulation was studied throughout winter. The quantity and quality of forage improved with the height of the trees, i.e. biomass and nitrogen concentrations increased, and fibre decreased. The concentration of defensive compounds increased with height for willow, but decreased for birch. Shoots of willow were of better quality than of birch. The negative effect of the higher levels of total defensive compounds in birch may to some extent be balanced by their higher nutrient content and total forage biomass as compared with that of willow, however willow had more available biomass within the heights browsed by herbivores. Although snow accumulation had significant effects on forage availability, the effects within the entire height range browsed by herbivores were small.
23731765|The digestion and utilization of glycerol tri (1  14C) oleate was studied in normal larvae and in larvae reared on a diet containing a sublethal concentration of gamma-BHC. The lower neutral lipid/phospholipid ratio in the poisoned larvae was attributed in part to decreased synthesis of neutral lipids. The rate of absorption appeared undisturbed. In the poisoned larvae more complete hydrolysis of triglyceride in the gut led to formation of more monoglyceride. Deviations from normal were also found in the synthesis of gut phospholipids. Lipid release from fat body into haemolymph seemed to be adversely affected by the poisoning.
23731689|Before the snow-melt and again in early June, when bark beetles were beginning to swarm, piles of fresh pine and spruce logs were placed in the different zones of a subarctic fell in NE Lapland. The degree of infestation of these breeding billets was examined in late summer. No signs of attack by bark beetles or other insects were observed on the fell in the billets placed there in spring. They had dried out very much. In the logs placed in the terrain in June altogether 11 Scolytid species, larvae of Rhagium inquisitor L. and Acanthocinus aedilis L. (Col., Cerambycidae), and larvae and pupae of Pissodes spp. (Col., Curculionidae) were recorded. Only one species (Hylastes cunicularius Er.) was found in the logs on the summit of the fell, whereas three species (Hylastes brunneus Er., H. cunicularius and Pityogenes bidentatus Hbst.) were recorded at the upper edge of the mountain birch forest zone. The bark beetles Pityogenes bidentatus, Ips acuminatus Gyll. and I. sexdentatus Brner, which are typical inhabitants of pines, and the normally spruce-inhabiting bark beetles Pityogenes chalcographus L. and Ips typographus L. were found during the present studies in both pines and spruces. It was verified that the reproduction of Rhagium inquisitor, Acanthocinus aedilis and Pissodes spp. was most active in the breeding billets on the summit of the fell. The larvae of Pissodes beetles had badly blued the timber in this area.
23735879|Among the factors contributing to defoliator population fluctuations the possible role of plant defenses depends on how defenses (secondary compounds, primary compounds, and defense cascades) are assumed to function. Delayed inducible production of secondary compounds does not seem to explain cyclic fluctuations in population density. Instead, properties of general plant defense cascades, especially of the octadecanoid pathway, suggest new potential mechanisms. Insect damage, and sunspot-related high ultraviolet radiation (UV-B), trigger the octadecanoid pathway. In birch it also contributes to defoliator immunocompetence. Therefore, the low rate of parasitism in the increase phase of an outbreak has potential connections to inducible plant defense. The octadecanoid pathway is also involved in the production of volatile plant compounds, known to modify defenses of other plants and the behavior of parasitoids. Accordingly, the octadecanoid pathway and other plant defense cascades suggest unappreciated plant-mediated connections between the environment, defoliator performance, parasitism, and spatial expansion of outbreaks.
23734089|The activities of 53-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (HSD), 11-HSD and 17 HSD as well as pyridine nucleotide diaphorases (NADH-diaphorase and NADPH-diaphorase) were studied by histochemistry in the gonads, kidney and embryos of the eel-pout, Zoarces viviparus (L.), at various stages of the sexual cycle. NAD-linked 17HSD (testosterone or oeastradiol=17 as substrate) was detected in the lobule boundary cells of the testis, and its activity was greatest at about the time of mating. On the lobule walls (interstitium) there may also be some cells/cell groups which show weak 5-3-HSD and 11-HSD activities. The histochemical reaction of the 17-HSD NADH-diaphorase system was greatly diminished by raising the incubation temperature from 22 to 37C, but the diaphorase itself was intact. In the ovary, despite the presence of diaphorases, HSD reactions could not be definitely demonstrated. However, the inter-renal tissue may be an important site for at least 3-dehydrogenation both in adults and in embryos. Both inter-renal tissue and smaller oocytes in the ovary may also store steroids, probably in a conjugated form.
23731782|The breeding bird communities of peatland bogs were censused on 112 more or less open bogs in five regions, mainly in the 1950s. Attention is paid to the frequencies, densities and constancies of the species, regional niche specialization, species-area curves and species associations. Two components are distinguished in regional species diversity: within-bog and between-bog diversity. The bogs are most heterogeneous in SW Finland and Fell Lapland. A number of the characteristics examined have regional gradients, their values increasing northwards: total density, specialization, the number of species on a bog of a certain size, and species diversity. SW Finland (raised bogs) often forms an exception to the general trends shown by the other regions (aapa fens). The regions can be combined in three groups: SW Finland, the three middle regions from the Suomenselk watershed to Forest Lapland, and Fell Lapland (palsa peatlands). Differences in species diversity in the five regions can be explained by environmental complexity and stability, which jointly produce differences in the degree of specialization.
23734639|A survey of the literature reveals that the possibility of genetic mechanisms in population dynamics occurred to animal ecologists fairly early. The paper points out that it was chiefly animal ecologists dealing with population fluctuations who gradually became convinced of the implication of genetic ingredients in population dynamics. Although genetics offered empirical material for formulating theories of the paradigm of intrinsic regulative factors, no convincing view of population regulation on a genetic basis could be reached, for two reasons: tests of the central theory by a special genetical method failed, due to the unexpected inadequacy of the method, and the theory itself did not allow formulation of models for demonstrating its plausibility. It is concluded that the truth evidently lies in the interplay between some (perhaps rather specific) extrinsic factor(s) and intrinsic genetic factors with a large number of potential regulative functions.
23737098|Closely related species may be very difficult to distinguish morphologically, yet sometimes morphology is the only reasonable possibility for taxonomic classification. Here we present learning-vector-quantization artificial neural networks as a powerful tool to classify specimens on the basis of geometric morphometric shape measurements. As an example, we trained a neural network to distinguish between field and root voles from Procrustes transformed landmark coordinates on the dorsal side of the skull, which is so similar in these two species that the human eye cannot make this distinction. Properly trained neural networks misclassified only 3% of specimens. Therefore, we conclude that the capacity of learning vector quantization neural networks to analyse spatial coordinates is a powerful tool among the range of pattern recognition procedures that is available to employ the information content of geometric morphometrics.
23736130|A revised delimitation is proposed for the Gnoristinae of the Mycetophilidae s. str. (sensu Malloch) on the basis of some neglected taxonomic characters of adults. These characters include the distribution and structure of the weakly sclerotized folds of the abdominal sternites, the presence or absence of the sharply delimited rounded sensory depression on the antepenultimate palpomere, the shape of the female front tarsi, the presence of absence of bare areas between the scutal hair stripes and the bare mediotergite. The new classification corresponds largely to Edwards' system, with the following main exceptions: Speolepta Edwards, Coelophthinia Edwards and Impleta Plassman are removed to the Sciophilinae, the first two probably being rather close relatives of Polylepta Winnertz and Phthinia Winnertz, while Syntemna Winnertz (sensu Edwards), and tentatively also Ectrepesthoneura Enderlein and Tetragoneura Winnertz, are included in the Gnoristinae.
23737046|This study aims to investigate whether forest management has an effect on reproduction, haematological parameters and blood parasites of breeding Siberian tits Poecile cinctus. Birds breeding in heavily managed forests had significantly higher heterophil and lower lymphocyte concentrations and a higher heterophil/lymphocyte (H/L) ratio than those breeding in moderately managed forests. Although this suggests the increased level of physiological stress in Siberian tits breeding in heavily managed forests, reproductive parameters of the birds did not differ between the two habitats. Nestlings in moderately managed forests had higher total leukocyte and lymphocyte counts than nestlings in heavily managed habitat. The total count of parasites and Leucocytozoon majoris was significantly higher near streams, while the count of Plasmodium circumflexum was higher both near streams and lakes. Although blood parasites were detected in the blood of 80% adult birds, this study did not reveal any parasite-related effects on haematological parameters.
23731625|A recent note on the occurrence of Gammarus inaequicauda in brackish water off the coast of Poland induced the author to re-examine a collection of the closely related G. locusta from southwestern Finland. It is concluded that there is so far no evidence of the occurrence of G. inaequicauda in Finnish waters, although parts of them are within the salinity range of this species.
23734631|The meiobenthos of the Kyrnjoki estuary (63N, 22E) in the northernmost basin of the Baltic Sea was studied in June and August at 10 sampling stations distributed over the inner, middle and outer estuary. Regional variation of the mean abundance of meiobenthos was very high, ranging from 0.04  106 ind./m2 (16 mg OC/m2) at the river mouth to 2.4  106 ind./m2 (512 mg OC/m2) in the shallow area of the outer estuary. The meiofauna sampling sites represented seven zoobenthic communities, which were discriminated by DCA-ordination of the previously published, more comprehensive data on macrobenthos. Estuarine communities were controlled by two major environmental factors, the river water and sediment quality. Due to decreasing salinity, the shallow water communities of the middle estuary were mainly composed of freshwater species. As indicated in previous studies, several benthic freshwater species found in the middle estuary were absent from the inner estuary. This paper discusses the possible reasons leading to this discontinuity in the distribution of freshwater species in the inner estuary. It was concluded that the periodical acidity of the river waters and interrelated factors, especially the high concentrations of labile aluminium (200320 /l, in places even 2300 g/l), were mainly responsible for the deteriorated fauna of the inner estuary. Species of the acid sensitive groups, such as Gastropoda, Lamellibranchiata, Hirudinea and Ephemeroptera were totally absent from the inner estuary. The absence of the meiobenthic Turbellaria and Ostracoda from this area may indicate that the freshwater species of both these groups are sensitive to acid, Al-contaminated waters.
23735731|Two microlandscapes were constructed for use in a live trapping study designed to investigate how meadow vole movement behaviour is affected by landscape structure. Each experimental system was composed of both barley and forage habitats separated by a central habitat of old-field successional meadow. Vole movement patterns in the landscapes were related to differences in the quality and boundary characteristics of each habitat. Habitat quality was shown to be an important determinant of both within- and between-habitat vole movement dynamics. Meadow voles preferred moving within habitats of higher quality and perceived boundaries between habitats of more similar quality as more permeable. Boundaries were in general avoided, thus affecting the voles' spatial distribution. Meadow voles functioning in farm mosaics will be limited in their ability to fulfill their resource needs by the presence of low quality habitats and by increase in the numbers of distinct boundaries.
23734706|In natural and semi-natural vegetation there is a spectrum of cases from those in which episodes of recruitment are tightly coupled with disturbance-events to those in which they are completely uncoupled. The dichotomy between these extremes leads to the recognition of two basically different types of seed bank. Nine means of persistence at the regional scale are spelt out, and aspects of temporal change in spatial distribution at the local scale are discussed. Finally emphasis is placed on the importance of recognizing the dichotomy between coupled and uncoupled recruitment when pursuing a quantitative understanding of population control in plants.
23734545|Gross activity, habitat selection and population fluctuations in the red fox (Vulpes vulpes), pine marten (Martes martes), stoat (Mustela erminea) and pygmy weasel (Mustela rixosa) were studied in the Vrritunturi fell area, eastern Finnish Forest Lapland, in the winters of 1968/691980/81. The populations of the food generalists, the red fox and the pine marten, fluctuated less than those of the rodent specialists, the stoat and the pygmy weasel. During the very marked peak in small rodent populations which culminated in the winter of 1978/79 there was good conformity with the trends in the predator populations. The pine martens preferred spruce-dominated mixed forests and the red foxes mixed forests characterized by juniper or pine and open bogs. The stoats occurred most frequently in forests characterized by juniper or spruce, and were found in different habitats from the pygmy weasels, probably depending primarily on the availability of food. The inter-specific differences in habitat use enable reduction of competition. No clear trends were recorded in the gross activity of these carnivores from November to April.
23735898|The presence of a predator can cause changes in the feeding behaviour of prey. These changes may have consequences on ecological systems, i.e. behavioural trophic cascades. The proximity of the prey and predator is likely to vary in nature and the intensity of prey responses may vary accordingly. Therefore the occurrence of behavioural trophic cascades may partly depend on whether the prey changes its behaviour when not in immediate contact with the predator. We conducted a laboratory experiment where we measured the foraging activity of wild-caught and laboratory-born voles at different distances from a caged weasel. Both groups responded by reduced activity at the closest distance, 0.15 m. The feeding behaviour of neither group deviated from control (no weasel) when the distance to the weasel was 3.5 metres. At an intermediate distance, 1.5 metres, only the wild-caught voles responded. The response of voles to the presence of a weasel varies between laboratory-born and wild-caught voles and seems to be restricted only to the immediate surroundings of the weasel.
23735628|The defence against predators of two closely related leaf beetle species was compared. Phratora vitellinae (Linnaeus) is known to use plant precursors in producing defensive compounds but P. polaris (Sparre Schneider) obviously synthesizes its defensive compounds from the first on its own, which is known to be true for all the other Phratora species studied except P. vitellinae. In predation experiments P. vitellinae was significantly less eaten by spiders than P. polaris. First instar larvae of P. polaris were more susceptible to spiders than older larvae. This may be explained by instarspecific defensive behaviour of the larvae.
23733744|The existence of damage-induced reactions, with adverse effects on herbivores, was tested with larvae of Oporinia autumnata (Lep., Geometridae) feeding on birch leaves. When fed on undamaged birch leaves of dwarf shoots from which one leaf had been torn 2 days earlier, the larvae grew more slowly and attained a lower final weight than those of control groups. Controls were fed on leaves from the same trees during the same period, but without previous damage to nearby leaves. Leaves from trees which had been defoliated 1 or 2 years earlier caused the same symptoms in Oporinia larvae. The authors discuss whether this was active or passive defence on the part of the birch.
23735801|Bank voles (Clethrionomys glareolus) and grey-sided voles (C. rufocanus) occur sympatrically in northern Europe and are considered competitors. Due to its larger size, the grey-sided vole is believed to be dominant. In this study, arena tests were used to study the inter-specific dominance relationship between reproducing C. glareolus and C. rufocanus females early in the breeding season. The study was conducted in the natural environment of the two species, in an area where they occur sympatrically. We found that the two species behaved similarly in dyadic tests meeting a conspecific, but that grey-sided voles behaved more dominant and bank voles more defensive in interspecific tests.
23737053|A case of natural hybridization between pikeperch (Sander lucioperca) and perch (Perca fluviatilis) was confirmed based on the intermediate morphological, anatomical and genetic characteristics of the hybrid. Microsatellite analyses ruled out the possibility that the focal individual was of either pure species, and indicated it was a S. lucioperca backcross.
23735941|Exposure to UV-B radiation has been found to have negative effects on fish, such as reduced survival and growth, but sublethal effects, such as metabolic costs of increasing UV-B irradiance, have received little attention. We studied the oxygen consumption rates of vendace and whitefish larvae under enhanced UV-B irradiance in the laboratory. In addition, we studied energy allocation for digestion and activity in whitefish larvae. UV-B exposure had no clear effect on the minimum or routine oxygen consumption rates of vendace larvae, but the metabolic scope of vendace larvae and the maximum oxygen consumption rates of both vendace and whitefish larvae decreased. In the allocation experiments, enhanced UV-B irradiance mainly decreased the oxygen consumption allocated for digestion in whitefish larvae. In the field, the direct impact of increased UV-B irradiance on coregonid digestion and growth will be negligible, but some indirect effects, such as increased risk of predation, are possible.
23735739|Body masses of the giant short-faced bear (Arctodus simus Cope) and the cave bear (Ursus spelaeus Rosenmller & Heinroth) were calculated with equations based on a long-bone dimensions:body mass proportion ratio in extant carnivores. Despite its more long-limbed, gracile and felid-like anatomy as compared with large extant ursids, large Arctodus specimens considerably exceeded even the largest extant ursids in mass. Large males weighed around 700800 kg, and on rare occasions may have approached, or even exceeded one tonne. Ursus spelaeus is comparable in size to the largest extant ursids; large males weighed 400500 kg, females 225250 kg. Suggestions that large cave bears could reach weights of one tonne are not supported.
23737035|Variation in nucleotide sequence of the melanocortin-1 receptor gene (Mc1r) is associated with melanism in several mammalian, avian and reptilian species, but no attempts have been made to understand the genetic underpinnings of melanism in amphibians. We isolated the complete coding sequence (945 bps) of Mc1r from the common frog (Rana temporaria) and compared the predicted amino acid sequence with that of fish, reptiles, birds and mammals. We investigated associations between nucleotide substitutions and the level of dorsal melanism among 28 individuals from two populations with pronounced differences in melanism. According to our results, the transmembrane regions of Mc1r are conserved across vertebrates. In the population comparison, we only found five nucleotide sites with synonymous substitutions; none is being associated with the level of melanism. Our results suggest that either other genes or regulatory regions outside the coding sequence of Mc1r are responsible for expression of melanism in R. temporaria.
23734223|A period of sterile ovulations was found to precede the onset of reproduction in sympatric populations of Clethrionomys rutilus and C. rufocanus studied in northern Norway. A period of sterile ovulations was found in both species. The length of this period appeared to differ both within and between species. An extended period of pregnancy failure in C. rutilus caused a great delay in the onset of breeding when C. rufocanus was numerous. It is suggested that frequent contacts with the numerically and competitively dominant C. rufocanus produce a stress-induced pregnancy blockage in C. rutilus.
23733712|During the summers of 19741977 about 3700 sporophores of 184 species of macrofungi, mainly Agaricales, were examined for infestation with dipterous larvae. Diptera were reared from about one-third of the sporophores and positive results were obtained from 148 fungus species. The principal families of fungivorous Diptera were Mycetophilidae (53 spp.) and Anthomyiidae (16 spp.). About 120 species of Diptera were recorded. Association with macrofungi has arisen numerous times during evolution in the Diptera; certain fungivorous species are generally saprophagous, others may feed on decomposing matter in the fungus, and among the truly fungivorous species different degrees of specialization are found, in some cases including tendencies towards monophagy. The specialized species belong to Mycetophilidae, Phoridae, Platypezidae, Syrphidae, Anthomyiidae, Fannidae and Muscidae. Developmental and reproductive strategies of fungivorous Diptera as well as protecting strategies by the fungi against the Diptera are discussed. Competition between fungus-feeding dipterous species is probably important in some cases; for example from a single sporophore of Leccinum scabrum 12 different species of Diptera were reared. The economic importance of the Diptera as pests of edible fungi in Finland is discussed.
43923433|The willow tit was studied in 1975-1981 in the Oulu area (65N, 2530'E), northern Finland. The data comprised 153 nests of' 150 breeding pairs. The tits preferred to nest in areas of spruce bog in holes which they excavated in decaying birches or stumps tied onto tree trunks. Nests in wooden nest boxes filled with decaying wood or sawdust were rare, 6.5 % of the total. The annual breeding density varied between 0.79 and 1.28 pairs/10 ha (average 1.07). The clutch contained 4-10 eggs (average 7.6). The clutch size decreased by 0.09 eggs per day when the start of lay ing was delayed. The incubation period varied between 11 and 19 days (average 14.1 ), and 79 % of the nests were successful. The main predator was the great spotted woodpecker, although the prdation pressure was low. The hatching and nestling success was 84 % in all broods and in successful broods 96 % and 91 %, respectively. The nesting success was highest in the largest initial clutches. The breeding density did not contribute to the reproductive output, nor could the density-dependent mortality be verified outside the breeding season. Nestling mortality was high in spring when the May and June temperatures were low. The reproductive output of the population was 5.4 fledglings/breeding pair/season. The willow tit seems to employ the clutch adjustment strategy in the Oulu area in most years. It also invests a great deal of energy in survival as opposed to investment in the current reproductive effort, as can be seen in the fact that it has only one brood per season and the brood is often deserted when conditions deteriorate.
23736790|We provide information on population parameters in colonies of the biscutate swift from southern Brazil using the capturerecapture technique. We captured 1020 adults, 233 nestlings and 25 subadults, totaling 1278 marked birds. Models with capture probabilities varying with time and individual animal (CAPTURE program), and with constant survival and time-dependent recapture (MARK program) best fit the data. The results of both methods were relatively similar because the models selected suggested that mortality, recruitment or movement events were unimportant. Population sizes were estimated to be between 187 and 1902 individuals in the four colonies studied. The estimated mean annual survival for the species was 0.88, a value corresponding to an average longevity of 18 years. Little individual movement occurred among the colonies; the largest displacement observed was 120 km. One of the colonies did not display the same capture pattern as that of the others, probably due to space conflicts or shelter occupation time. Our data show that in southern Brazil biscutate swifts do not migrate, possibly because food availability is more constant throughout the year than in other regions (southeast and northeast) where migration occurs.
23735347|In laboratory tests the pair formation of the sexually size dimorphic and colour polymorphic isopod Idotea balthica was non-random with respect to size, whereas colouration had hardly any effect on mate choice. When given a choice of two females, 70% of the males selected the larger female for precopula. In experimental populations, however, female size had no evident effect on mate choice, so that further confounding effects may complicate the pair formation in natural heterogenous habitats. Precopulatory males were larger than solitary males in the experimental populations, both in female- and male-biased populations. The larger size of precopulatory males may at least partly result from male-male competition, but the females may also affect the precopulatory success of the males in a size-dependent manner. Consequently, presumably both intrasexual and intersexual interactions favour larger males in I. balthica. Female size, on the other hand, may be only a second choice after female maturity. The male-biased sex ratio in early summer may in particular discourage males from being too size selective.
23736756|In primitively eusocial and cooperatively breeding societies, there is substantial individual variation in helping effort that is not accounted for by variation in genetic relatedness. In primitively eusocial wasps, helpers have a significant chance of inheriting breeding positions. Recent models suggest that because helpers with greater expected future fitness have more to lose, they should invest less in rearing the dominant's offspring. Observations and experiments on the paper wasp Polistes dominulus and the hover wasp Liostenogaster flavolineata support this prediction: helpers nearer to the front of the queue to inherit dominance, and helpers that stand to inherit larger, more productive groups, work less hard. These findings support the view that variation in social traits is best understood from a life-history perspective. Group augmentation effects, where greater helping effort leads to direct benefits through increased group size, seem less important in wasps. Further studies are required to understand how conflicts over helping effort are resolved in social wasps.
23736078|The episodic acidification of the river Kyrnjoki decreased from 1980 to 1994. During this time 0+ perch (Perca fluviatilis) abundance showed a homogeneously increasing trend in the whole estuary. Every year the 0+ perch abundances showed a clear but often uneven decrease throughout July. The decrease was frequently significant in the middle of the month. It was also evident that the habitat affected the abundance pattern. In the beginning of July most 0+ perch were found in shallow waters. In late July 0+ juveniles were more frequent in vegetated than in nonvegetated areas, where perch were also smaller. The homogeneity of sampling stations allows us to reduce the number of sampling stations when monitoring the relative abundance of 0+ perch, but then the time and habitat should be standardised more tightly.
23731587|A mass flight of Sigara nigrolineata in a previously unoccupied habitat is described and the differences between it and typical spring dispersal by immature adults is discussed.
23735896|Theory predicts that competing species cannot coexist on a single, non-replaceable resource unless the resource is partitioned. Hostparasitoid complexes (common in nature) admit hosts supporting more than one parasitoid species, a significant fraction of which specialize on that host. A simple one-host, two-parasitoid (1H2P) model indicates that stable three-species coexistence occurs under a wide range of conditions; shows that a parasitoid with attack aggregation sufficient to stabilize a one-parasitoid system can stabilize an otherwise-unstable two-parasitoid system; and contradicts, under these conditions, the generalization that the stronger competitor will draw down the resource to the point of excluding the weaker. When both parasitoid species are ecologically identical, except that one parasitoid species attacks earlier than the second, this difference alone is insufficient to cause competitive exclusion of the inferior competitor (the later attacker), under a wide range of host ecological values. For biological control purposes, our analysis illustrates potential conflict between the properties of a 1H2P system that provide the maximal absolute host suppression, and those properties that provide the maximal additional host suppression resulting from the presence of the second parasitoid.
23736845|We studied the reproductive biology of an invasive population of the bullfrog Lithobates catesbeianus by analyzing individuals captured in the central Rio Grande do Sul state, southern Brazil. Specimens were collected during 12 field trips held from May 2002 to June 2003. We analyzed gonad development stages in 216 individuals to evaluate the fecundity, reproductive effort, sizefecundity relationships, and seasonal distribution of individuals. Reproductive activity was potentially continuous, and was more intense during the spring and summer. The smallest mature male was 90.25 mm in snouturostyle length (SUL); the SUL of the smallest mature female was 120.83 mm. The invasive potential of L. catesbeianus is probably associated with reproductive traits such as continuous gonad development, extended reproduction period, high fecundity, and early sexual maturity. The data presented here form a basis for future studies on the impacts and management of bullfrogs in invaded ecosystems.
23737047|Species that are locally abundant tend to be more widespread than species that are locally rare. However, the opposite relationship has recently been observed with extensive abundance data for Finnish butterflies collected by voluntary lepidopterist. We were concerned about the suitability of these data for studying the distributionabundance relationship in Finnish butterflies. Thus, we reviewed Finnish markrecapture studies that report data for butterfly density. In these data, we found a positive densitydistribution relationship for butterflies. Our study supports the conclusion that the positive distributionabundance relationship is a general pattern for butterflies.
23737166|In this study, we compared the ostracod species diversity in selected inland-water habitats of Lapland and Poland, and assessed the relationships between ostracod occurrence and abiotic environmental variables. In total, 41 species were collected, of which only 15 species were found in Lapland, as compared with 35 in Poland. Almost all species collected from the Lapland sites were eurybiontic and no clear differences were found between ostracod assemblages inhabiting different habitat types. We hypothesize that this homogeneity might be a consequence of the raised water level during the springtime snow melt, temporarily connecting various waterbodies. The main factors limiting distribution of ostracod species in Lapland appeared to be low pH and low ionic content of water. In Poland, predominantly stenobiontic species were observed. In temporary waters and peat-bogs of this area useful indicator species were identified.
23735703|DDT has been extensively used in western Zimbabwe for the control of tsetse flies and malaria mosquitoes, and in agriculture. The input between 1967 and 1990 in the Lake Kariba area was used to do a retrospective analysis of the distribution and dynamics of the insecticide in the environment. The results are compared with trends in available data and it is suggested that the turnover of DDT in the tropics is faster than in temperate areas. It is also suggested that the residence time of DDT in Lake Kariba is comparatively short due to the lake's characteristics of being man-made and tropical. These characteristics may also influence the accumulation of DDT in the aquatic biota. Potential environmental effects from ground spraying with DDT are compared with other technically and economically feasible methods to control tsetse flies in the area, such as targets treated with deltamethrin and aerial spraying with endosulfan.
23732273|The histological structure of the testes and its changes in relation to the annual reproductive cycle of the eel-pout (Zoarces viviparus (L.)) were studied in the brackish-water area (S 5  6 ) of Tvrminne (Gulf of Finland). The results indicate that in this area mating is possible only once a year in July  August. These findings and previous investigations on Zoarces females from the same locality are used as a basis for a generalized scheme of the reproductive cycle of the species.
23736060|Distribution maps of 23 species of Sphaeriidae occurring in North Europe are presented, based on more than 11000 revised samples from ten zoological museums or other institutions (Bergen, Copenhagen, Gteborg, Helsinki, Joensuu, Lund, Oslo, Stockholm, Troms, Trondheim). Denmark has 17 sphaeriid species, the Faroes 9, Finland 21, Iceland 11, Norway 20 and Sweden 22. Moreover, one subfossil species (Pisidium stewarti Preston = P. vincentianum Woodward) is known from Denmark and Sweden. Of the 22 species found today, 15 are holarctic (4 circumpolaric included) and 7 palearctic. Iceland is the westernmost outpost of 3 palearctic species viz., Pisidium hibernicum Westerlund, P. personatum Malm, P. pulchellum Jenyns.
23733674|Fluctuating populations of C. rufocanus and M. agrestis were studied by capture-marking-recapture trapping and snap-trapping at Kilpisjrvi, Finnish Lapland during several years. All categories of C. rufocanus were nearly twice as trappable as those of M. agrestis, but differences in social status caused differences in trappability between individuals of the same category. Trappability was therefore used as a measure of the social status of the individual. In both species the population had a group structure; each group consisted of many mature females with territories and some semi-territorial or non-territorial mature males. The immatures were non-territorial. In M. agrestis these groups, increased by immigrants, changed during the summer to harem-like structures defended by highly aggressive territorial males. The numbers of reproducing females were controlled by territorial behaviour. In C. rufocanus maturation ceased when all habitable space was occupied, whereas in M. agrestis the young females emigrated to independent home ranges shortly before the birth of their first or second litter. In males of both species maturation was controlled by the aggressive behaviour of the highly mobile mature males. These formed a dominance hierarchy, and as a result some of the males that matured at a later stage were forced to emigrate. During a population decline the oldest dominant age classes survived best, whereas during a population increase the young age groups survived somewhat better. In suboptimal habitats, changes in age structure always resembled those of a declining population. In competition M. agrestis is superior to C. rufocanus, but the difference is slight, as indicated by the impact of M. agrestis upon the age structure of C. rufocanus. Neither the early cessation of breeding observed in some years nor the population declines were directly correlated with population density, but other factors must be involved, possibly nutrition.
23731742|A key is presented to the juvenile stages of Gammarus locusta, G. oceanicus, G. salinus, G. zaddachi, and G. duebenii. The key is valid for specimens of 1.8  4.5 mm body length, and thus includes even recently hatched juveniles.
23734877|Freshwater zooplankton communities are not speciose  it is rare to find as many as 10 species in even a large lake. This number is usually a small subset of the available species pool. It has been accepted for some 30 years that competitive interactions are important in limiting local species richness. Support for this view has been drawn from the fact that coexisting zooplankton species often differ in size, suggesting that size separation (and presumed reduced food overlap) is required for coexistence. In cases where species of similar size co-occur, niche analysis has shown spatial or temporal isolation. The view from nature has been reinforced by laboratory studies which have regularly shown competitive exclusion. Over the past decade evidence has accumulated to challenge this notion of strict niche separation. Co-occurring species often show significant concordance in life history traits, suggesting usage of common resources; and competition has now been documented in several cases. Studies on zooplankton species reproducing asexually have provided the most striking evidence of niche overlap. They have shown that local populations include a number of different clones. These clones are ecologically very similar, though not identical. Clonal diversity is maintained because of temporal shifts in the environment.
23734446|Morphological variation in Finnish muskrats Ondatra zibethica (L.) (n=735) was studied by taking 23 metric measurements of the cranium and the mandible, by counting the numbers of nerve foramina on ten areas of the skull, and by examining the patterns of the third upper molar teeth (M3). Differences between age groups, between the sexes and between populations were analysed using mainly multivariate statistical methods. Differentiation of Palearctic and Nearctic muskrat populations was examined on the basis of Finnish and literature data. The differential growth of various skull measurements is reflected in the comparison of age groups and in the age-related changes of correlations between different skull measurements. Among the skull variables diastema length grows relatively most; general size increase of the skull is well reflected in the growth of condylobasal length and zygomatic width. Correspondingly, both the upper and lower molar row lengths and interorbital width are fairly stable dimensions of the muskrat skull. Braincase dimensions grow less than the general size of the skull. As regards epigenetic characters, age does not affect nerve foramen numbers, but does affect molar patterns which change because of molar wear. The skull measurements of males were mostly larger than those of females, though not as much as expected from sexual dimorphism in body weight. Dimorphism was greatest in diastema length, i.e., in the same variable that exhibits most intense growth among the skull measurements. The degree of sexual dimorphism of some dimensions associated with feeding is small, probably due to stabilizing selection. Differences among Finnish muskrat populations are evident in skull measurements and epigenetic characters. Interorbital width is the variable discriminating most effectively between different Finnish and Holarctic populations. Rostrum shape in the muskrat does not seem to be as clearly determined by climatological factors as suggested earlier. Some measurements mostly related to feeding show little differentiation between the populations. Even though populations from the same region tended to be grouped relatively close to each other in the principal component space, no evident geographical patterns, such as clines, emerged. The differences between populations in muskrat skull morphology increase when going from the subpopulation level to the population level within the same country, and further to regional level in different parts of the Palearctic region, where the muskrat is an introduced species. Genetic differences between the founder individuals and rapid differentiation after introduction are more probable causes for population differences than environmental factors. However, habitat quality has a prominent effect on skull size in the muskrat.
23736882|We studied the effect of previous defoliations of Pinus sylvestris on the performance of two geometrid moths, Bupalus piniarius and Macaria liturata, using a field experiment. Prior to the experiment, we found defoliation to increase the concentrations of certain secondary chemicals and reduce the N (nitrogen) concentration of needles. Hence, it was predicted that defoliation-induced changes should decrease the performance of geometrids feeding on P. sylvestris. As B. piniarius is a monophagous species on P. sylvestris, and M. liturata is oligophagous feeding also on Larix and Juniperus species, we predicted that M. liturata should suffer more than B. piniarius from defoliation-induced changes in needle chemistry. As predicted, defoliation had a negative effect on the performance, the oligophagous M. liturata being more vulnerable. Defoliation resulted in decreased sex-specific survival of M. liturata, but did not affect the survival of B. piniarius. In M. liturata, no males survived to the pupal stage in previously defoliated trees. Defoliation also resulted in lower pupal weights in both species. We conclude that defoliation-induced changes on the performance of insects with different host ranges merit more attention.
23735901|Priorities for conservation of biological units should ideally combine ecology and genetics. The European butterfly Erebia triaria (Nymphalidae: Satyrinae) has disappeared from several sites in Europe during the 20th century. In order to assess the conservation values of this species in NW Iberia, we screened the genetic variability and differentiation of four nuclear microsatellite markers in five populations from this area. We used a Pyrenean population as an outgroup. One particular population (Xistral, NW Iberia) was significantly different from the others. Thus, the nuclear results fully agreed with the pattern found using mitochondrial DNA sequences, and the hypothesis of incipient speciation of this population, due to an ancient isolation event, gained additional support. By combining our genetic findings with morpho- and ecological data, we argue that this population be considered a distinct unit for conservation.
23734182|The Capercaillie Tetrao urogallus L. prefers pine needles with high energy and low resin (the ether-extractable fraction of needles) contents, as shown by a comparison of 32 feeding trees with 32 unbrowsed control trees. In addition, 209 trees chosen randomly were examined in order to determine the dependence of energy and resin contents on age and growth rate. There is a slight but significant correlation between the energy content of the needles and the age of the pine, which means that the lowered age structure of managed Finnish forests may prove to be a harmful environmental alteration. No predictable differences in the resin contents of the needles in fast and slow growing pines in two different habitats were found. The male Capercaillie forages mainly in the upper branches of the tree, while the female forages in the schelter of middle branches. The energy and resin contents of needles could not explain this sex-related foraging site difference.
23736031|Earlierreviews on the distribution of the crustaceans Mysis relicta, Pallasea quadrispinosa, Pontoporeia affinis, Gammaracanthus lacustris and Limnocalanus macrurus in Finnish lakes are supplemented with 180 new records, mostly from our field work in 19851988. These include records of M. relicta and L. macrurus from Lake Koitere, situated above the highest ancient Baltic shoreline in eastern Finland. The present distribution of G. lacustris, classified as a species in need of monitoring, is reviewed. Some notes on the distribution of these crustaceans outside Finland are also given.
23735948|Kin selection theory predicts that organisms should behave favourably toward their relatives, if the benefits of such behaviour, devaluated by relatedness, are larger than its costs. Under good environmental conditions, the costs of kin-biased behaviour are likely to be low, and kin-biased behaviour may lead to better average performance of related than non-related individuals. However, under poor environmental conditions, individuals should maximise their own fitness, and costly altruistic behaviour should be disfavoured. Consequently, certain environmental conditions could select for kin-biased behaviour. We tested these predictions in a laboratory experiment with common frog (Rana temporaria) tadpoles. We reared full-sib, half-sib and non-kin tadpoles in good and poor environments (constant and decreasing water levels crossed across low and high densities) and recorded time to and size at metamorphosis, both important fitness components in amphibians. Tadpoles metamorphosed earlier and at smaller size at high density. The effects of relatedness on size at metamorphosis interacted with density: positive effects of relatedness were detected at low density, whereas at high density relatedness did not affect metamorph size. Water level treatment did not affect development time, but at low density tadpoles metamorphosed at smaller size in the decreasing water level treatment. There was no interaction between relatedness and water level treatments in any of the traits. Our results indicate that the effects of kinship on fitness-related traits are modified by environmental conditions. Moreover, in the case of R. temporaria tadpoles, interactions with relatedness and density seem to be stronger than interactions with desiccation risk.
23734118|Oocytes obtained freely from coeloma of breeding Salmo gairdneri and embryos from cleavage to early somite stages (aged between 0 and 8 days at 10 C, stages 211) were incubated for 2, 4 or 15 hours with radioactive pregnenolone, progesterone, dehydroepiandrosterone or estradiol-17. The accumulation of radioactivity in embryos increased during incubation to over 50 % of the dose (about over 0.08 nmol/embryo. The yolk and chorion did not affect this accumulation, as shown by comparison of intact to yolk-free embryos. In all incubations the radioactivity was retained by oocytes more effectively than by embryos. Thin layer chromatographic analysis from embryos and medium showed minor conversion to metabolites in all cases. In embryos pregnenolone was slowly converted to progesterone. Progesterone was further reduced to 5- and 5-pregnanedione by oocytes as well as by embryos. In contrast to earlier results obtained with other vertebrates, rainbow trout embryos appeared to lack 4-steroid hydroxylases.
23737090|In the context of intraspecific competition, the distribution of key resources within a territory could influence the spatial patterns of scent deposition by territory owners, in order to maximise the defensibility of resources and reduce the costs of their defence. We investigated the pattern of spraint deposition by the Eurasian otter (Lutra lutra) in Mediterranean rivers of southern Italy, testing the hypothesis that spraints are concentrated around deep pools bordered by riparian vegetation because these represent important patchy sources of food. Otters strongly selected pools throughout the year, marking the largest ones which probably supported the highest fish biomass. Sprainting sites at pools were also marked more consistently than sites elsewhere on water-courses. A positive correlation between the percentage of spraints next to pools (pool markings) and overall volume of the main prey in otter diet confirmed the importance of pools as sources of prey. These results are consistent with the idea that territory owners should concentrate scent marks on key resources, as an adaptation to the constraints of defending long and narrow territories, which follow the shape of the rivers. Pool marking increased in the warm season and in DecemberJanuary, but was not correlated with monthly consumption of the main prey, raising the hypothesis of an additional, reproductive function of scent marking. In the absence of specific data on reproduction or births in our study area, this hypothesis needs further investigation.
23737080|The influence of some ecological and evolutionary factors on the pattern of dental polymorphism across the geographic range of the arctic fox (Vulpes (Alopex) lagopus) was studied. Dental morphotype characters (groups of morphotypes from A to S) in 12 geographically separate populations of the arctic fox were documented. Two evolutionary trends were observed: (1) simplification of the premolars and lower carnassial (M 1 ), and (2) increased complexity of the upper carnassial (P 4 ), third upper incisor (I 3 ), and third lower molar (M 3 ). Differences in dental morphology among arctic fox populations appear to be largely explained by evolutionary history, presence or absence of competition with the red fox (Vulpes vulpes), and diet, with a lesser influence of geography and climate. With respect to morphology, arctic foxes from the mainland populations of Eurasia and North America, are the most similar, followed by the partly-isolated island populations (Greenland, St. Lawrence Island). The most distinct forms are the arctic foxes from Commander Islands, that exist in permanent isolation.
23734716|Quantitative data, collected during several years from four coniferous forest sites in southern and central Finland, are presented in order to give an overall picture about the composition of the soil fauna, its annual fluctuation and vertical distribution. Most taxa have been identified to species, including groups about which previous quantitative knowledge from Finland is scarce or lacking. Due to methodological improvements, several earlier figures have been corrected. Biomass values have also been estimated. The study covers all quantitatively important animal groups, although earthworms were very scarce at the sites studied. Comparisons are made with other related studies in northern coniferous forests.
23735469|A bioenergetic model developed for coregonid larvae was used to estimate food ingestion of vendace larvae (Coregonus albula (L.)) reared in in situ enclosures. Zooplankton density, production and food ingestion of vendace larvae at different densities in net enclosures were compared in Lake Yl-Enonvesi, eastern Finland. The model was fitted for different fish densities using feeding time as an iterative parameter. The growth of the larvae was greatly affected by the fish density in the enclosures. At higher density the larvae could capture less food daily than at low density; this is obviously caused partly by a high scramble competition and the ensuing decrease in efficient feeding time. It is suggested that when the hatching of the larvae is synchronized close to the break-up of the ice, a shortage of prey animals alone should not cause the high mortality of vendace larvae. While death of larvae as a direct result of the low food density is suggested to be rare, scarce or variable food conditions, high intra- or interspecific competition for food or predation disturbance may result in increased energy costs, weak growth and decreased survival of the larvae.
23733658|Drumming sites of the Pacific ruffed grouse, Bonasa umbellus sabini, were studied in 1974  1977 at three locations in western Washington, and a total of 112 logs were inspected. Forest vegetation at the sites and log characteristics are described. The mean number of logs per territory was 1.83. The mean coverage of forest crown was 62 %, that of the understorey 52 % and of the shrub stratum 46 %. The dominant species were: Alnus rubra and Tsuga heterophylla in the forest crown, Acer circinatum and T. heterophylla in the understorey, and Polystichum munitum and Rubus spectabilis in the shrub stratum. The means of main log and site characteristics were: diameter 69.5 cm, stage height 63 cm, length 10.5 m, height of overhead cover 94 cm and visibility radius 15.5 m. The mean distance to the nearest log within a territory was 24 m and to the nearest opening or edge about 27 m. The distance to Populus trichocarpa varied from 5 to about 150 m (mean 46 m). The grouse seem to aggregate in mixed stands 4050 years old. The sites differed in several respects. These differences mainly indicate that the Pacific ruffed grouse can exploit a wide spectrum of habitats. Grouse habitats can easily be managed in connection with modern forestry practices without significant losses to the industries involved.
23735916|Red wood ant (Formica rufa group) mounds release high amounts of carbon dioxide (CO2). As red wood ants and other invertebrates living in mounds are poikilothermal organisms, their metabolism and therefore CO2 emissions are affected by changes in temperature. Thus, seasonal or diurnal changes in air temperature could affect CO2 emissions from mounds. We found that seasonal mound CO2 emissions and air temperature were correlated, both peaking in mid-summer. In contrast, diurnal CO2 emissions and air temperature were inversely correlated, as we observed highest C fluxes during the night when air temperature was lowest. This CO2 emission pattern can likely be explained by higher metabolic rates of ants resulting from their clustering, and increased numbers of ants in the mound when outside air temperature drops at night. Changes in microbial decomposition of mound organic matter or thermal convection of warm CO2-rich mound air to the colder surface at night likely do not play a major role in the diurnal C fluxes observed in our study.
23735354|Small mammal dynamics vary geographically, with differences in annual variations of total numbers, species composition, body weight and reproduction. Such differences have previously been related to large-scale variations in predator numbers and species composition as dependent on landscape composition. Landscape effects on locally equivalent habitat types were examined in this study for a distance as short as 50 km. Different landscape types were compared  first, taiga and agricultural landscapes and second, agricultural landscapes with different predation pressures. Taiga landscapes supported typically cyclic small mammal populations, agricultural landscapes more non-cyclic populations and a predator-free area unusually large small mammal populations. Differences in the relative numbers of small mammal species, seasonal dynamics and demography were consistent with predictions of varying predator impacts. Our study demonstrated that even short-distance differences in dynamics can be distinguished and interpreted in terms of community interactions.
23735457|Alluvial deposits from the late Pleistocene First Street Terrace of the Colorado River at Austin, Texas, U.S.A. have produced fossils representing a diverse vertebrate fauna. Four extinct forms, Mammut americanum, Mammuthus sp., Glossotherium sp. and Equus sp. are represented. In the deposit are fossils of six extant taxa of mammals that no longer occur in the Austin area. They currently occur to the north and/or east in either cooler or more humid climates. The taxa represented suggest a marsh-like situation. Three radiocarbon dates give an approximate age of 15 000 years BP.
23734587|L. R. Taylor (1986 and earlier) has suggested that the slope b of the regression log V = a + b log x of variance V against mean density x is a species-specific constant. We attempt to relate the regression slopes for British birds to 13 life history and population ecological parameters. Spatial regression slopes are found to be unreliable, because the relatively constant average densities across sites in most bird populations do not allow a sufficiently large range of mean densities to be sampled. In temporal regressions, the only parameter apart from overall mean density that unequivocally affected the slope was territoriality, territorial species having significantly lower slopes (1.08) than non-territorial species (1.28). This result demonstrates large-scale population dynamic consequences of territoriality, but we conclude that the variance-mean regression analysis is not a generally useful tool in bird ecology.
23731792|Lengths of small intestine (from gizzard to cloaca) and caeca, and body weights were recorded in 282 willow grouse (Lagopus lagopus) killed in winter in Finnish Lapland. Males weighed more than females. When juveniles and adults were considered separately, the mean absolute lengths of small intestines and caeca were greater in the males, whereas in relation to body weight the lengths of these organs were greater in the females. More generally, the birds of the lighter categories tended to have relatively longer small intestines and caeca. The reason is suggested to be that, to survive at temperatures below the lower critical temperature, the smaller birds have to consume relatively larger amounts of food.
23735452|Analysis of the morphology of the cheek teeth of Capra suggests that four fundamental types occur among some Late Pleistocene populations of Southern France. Two of these correspond to populations craniologically close to the caucasicacylindricornis group and form part of the lineage leading towards pyrenaica: Portel and Bouxs. The other two succeed each other in time and correspond to the lineage towards Capra ibex ibex: Pcheurs and Adaouste. In the C. i. ibex lineage, the third lower premolar and the third upper molar are the teeth that best register the evolutionary tendency of the group, which, in the Wrmian, consists of an increase in the complexity of the lingual structure of the lower cheek teeth and a development of the metastylar "wing" of the upper M3. There is thus evidence of some geographic isolation in Provence in the final Wrmian.
23731736|The epifauna of Cladophora rupestris was studied in samples collected from a rock pool situated on the open-sea side of an off-shore island. The average number of animals per 100 mg of algae decreased from nearly 700 specimens in October to 180 by February and then began to increase again with the beginning of the new growing season of the algae. Throughout the winter Nematoda and Copepoda, the most abundant groups, together formed from half to three-quarters of the fauna. Certain Turbellaria, Annelida, Ostracoda, Acarina, and Mollusca can also be regarded as permanent inhabitants of the pool. Several truly marine animals appeared in the samples occasionally; these had been thrown into the pool by waves and splashes, but apparently could not survive there continuously, because the salinity of the water fluctuated between 5 and 32 .
23736075|Perch (Perca fluviatilis L.) spawn in lakes, rivers and estuaries and even in the brackish water of the Baltic Sea. In the outer archipelago of the Baltic the selection of unexposed spawning sites can be explained by the genetic component in larval dispersal and the return to inshore waters. The larvae were found to be active, at least in initiating the dispersal. Nevertheless, currents probably aid in the dispersal process. Although the shift back inshore has been documented in all lakes studied, it was here noted to be a gradual process. The timing of the return to littoral areas varies somewhat from one lake to another, and it may also depend on the size and trophic state of the lake. Perch thus appears to be adapted to variable environments. It is suggested that the shift may be a sensitive period in the formation of year-class strength, since the 0+ perch are then more exposed to predator pressure. The dispersal strategies of roach and perch larvae differed, and only after perch returned to the littoral did the distribution area of 0+ perch overlap with that of 0+ roach.
23734528|Previous work has shown that some ecological characteristics of tundra upsik that are important to small mammals can be expressed by a mathematical model or a "Snow Index". Using results of my own and other investigators' earlier work, plus results of some 460 snow profiles taken in winter 197677 in the vicinity of Vrri Subarctic Research Station in Northeastern Finland, in relation to the semi-domesticated reindeer of Salla North association, I have derived a mathematical model which relates reindeer activity to features of the snow cover. The Vrri Snow Index (VSI) incorporates the hardness of the hardest layer in in the upper half of the snow cover, the hardness and thickness of the basal layer, the vertical hardness of the snow cover surface, the thickness of the topmost layer, the hardness and thickness of the hardest layer in the snow cover and the total thickness of the snow cover. The VSI agress well with the winter feeding activities of reindeer near the Research Station and also correlates with the puzzling late-winter movement of the reindeer through the altitudinal tree line into the alpine zone of Vrritunturi. A field check of the VSI in the central part of northern Finland in the northern part of Kyr association, where herding is practiced, revealed further agreement, and indicated additional, classifiable snow-reindeer relationships.
23732263|Analysis of signals recorded at various temperatures showed that changes in temperature affect pulse and pulse-train rates, as well as signal duration and number of pulse-trains per signal in stridulation of the various Cenocorixa species. The temporal pattern of pulses or pulse-trains, and the frequency of the sounds produced are not affected. The value of the various aspects in conferring specificity on the signals is discussed.
23731622|The ecology of H. sarsi was studied in 1966  1969 in the -mesohaline waters near Tvrminne, southern Finland. The bottom stages of this marine worm were most abundant at depths of 21  40 m, and their occurrence was independent of the type of bottom. High temperature probably restricts the occurrence of the species in shallow water. The worms rise above the bottom regularly at night. Their food, studied on the basis of the gut contents, consisted mainly of crustaceans, more than a third of the food being of pelagic origin. Distinct seasonal as well as age-dependent variations in the diet were noted. Between different localities, differences in the rates of size growth and segment proliferation were found, for which differences in temperature were probably partly responsible. Some of the worms developed gonads during their first winter, but most did not mature until their second winter. The sex ratio was approximately balanced. Temperature, light and endogenous factors were possibly involved in the control of gonad development and in the timing of spawning. The larvae of H. sarsi were found in the plankton between February and August, although they were only numerous from April to June-July. The larvae were very sparse at temperatures above + 6 C, and the highest densities were found near the bottom. Larval development averaged 1.5  2 months, metamorphosis taking place in June. The main period of settling was in late June and early July. From the density decrease in each age group it is estimated that 16  19 % of the settled worms reached the age of one year and less than 1 % survived for as long as two years.
23737131|Protura, an almost neglected taxon in ecological studies of soil microarthropods, were examined at highly vulnerable sites of fluvial forest stands of the Transcarpathian Lowland. To compare the effects of different hydrologic disturbance regimes on Protura assemblages, we examined part of a river floodplain subjected to periodical inundation, and a non-inundated part with limited fluvial activity, behind the river embankment. Ten sites were selected for sampling, with four sites dominated by oak and one dominated by poplar in each part. The type of hydrologic disturbance regime in the river floodplain shaped Protura assemblages and influenced their variability. Highest abundance and species richness were correlated with the non-inundated part of the floodplain under oak stands, although Protura also tolerated soil conditions of exposure to regular inundation. We present and discuss several hypotheses concerning the causes of distribution patterns of Protura in the river floodplain with different hydrologic disturbance regimes, including sensitivity to mycorrhizal associations and the role of Protura assemblages as a potential ecological bioindicator of pedogenic transformations in riverine wetlands.
23736039|The recent distribution of Mysis relicta, Pallasea quadrispinosa and Pontoporeia affinis have been investigated and compared with distribution data from the 1920s. P. affinis has not been found recently. M. relicta occurs frequently in only one lake, while at two other sites its presence is now questionable. Only P. quadrispinosa exhibits a distribution similar to that which it had 60 years ago, but its frequency is decreasing. The decrease in the range of all these species is caused by a decrease in the oxygen concentration in the profundal of the lakes following increasing eutrophication.
23731651|The food of three crossbill species was studied in NE Lapland during the period 20. VII  11. VIII 1971. The contents of 47 crops were examined. The main food items found were new (60  89 %) and old (9  30 %) spruce seeds and larvae (3  26 %) of Gilpinia polytomum Htg. and Pristiphora spp. (Hymenoptera, Tenthredinidae). Small amounts of several other insects and spiders had been eaten. There were no significant differences in the composition of the food between the three crossbill species. In addition, the chemical composition of spruce and pine seeds collected in the same area was studied. The new pine seeds were richer in ash, nitrogen, potassium, calcium and phosphorus, whereas the new spruce seeds contained more organic matter and magnesium than the new pine seeds. The old spruce seeds collected in March contained more organic matter, nitrogen, phosphorus and magnesium than the new spruce seeds, whereas the latter contained more ash and potassium. The proportion of calcium was the same. It is concluded that in the present case the crossbills did not select their seed food according to its nutritive value.
23733655|The small numbers of gastropod species in the inland lakes of South Bothnia is enigmatic. The whole snail fauna consists of only 5 species, the mean number in 14 lakes studied being 1.1 species. Northernmost Lapland is the only other part of Finland where the snail fauna is as poor as in South Bothnia. The lakes, which became separated from the ancient Baltic Sea about 37006800 years ago, have been regarded as analogous with land-bridge islands. The present paucity of snail species is attributed to postglacial changes. The consequences of land uplift are clearly seen in South Bothnia, where the land rises at a rate of 0.80.9 m per 100 years. Correspondingly, the shoreline of the Baltic Sea has receded from the lakes by about 1 km per 100 years. Evidently the number of species was greater in ancient times than today, and has gradually decreased to the present level primarily as a consequence of the increasing isolation of the lakes. The immigration rates and the species pool have been reduced. As the lake water has changed towards oligotrophy and dystrophy, the extinction curves have steepened. In addition to the palaeo-ecological processes, a further factor that has probably influenced the numbers of species is the adaptation of the snail populations to the changing conditions, which should be incorporated into the equilibrium model of island biogeography.
23735544|We studied patterns of prey size and abundance among 60 lakes that differed with respect to occupancy by mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) and teal (A. crecca crecca). Size distributions of prey in lakes with and without mallards did not differ in the way they deviated from the prey size distribution found in the average diet of the species; the same was true also for teal. However, in lakes with abundant food, average teal diet differed more from what was found in the environment than in lakes with less prey; in the mallard there were no differences in this respect. The densities of mallard and teal correlated positively rather than negatively with each other irrespective of food abundance, suggesting that interspecific competition, at least in ecological time, between the species may not be important in determing their abundance and distribution.
23735537|Using 360 harvested wolverines, we examined techniques to separate juvenile and adult age classes using canine pulp cavity size or ossification of cranial sutures, and assessed which of 3 tooth types provides the most reliable counts of cementum annuli. Greatest confidence in age estimates from counts of cementum annuli were obtained using lower canine teeth rather than first premolars or third incisors. Percent closure of internasal or zygomatic sutures separated 71100% of sex and age classes into juveniles and adults. While percent pulp cavity (pulp width/tooth width  100) of canines decreased with age, overlap in tolerance limits among all adult year classes meant that percent pulp was only useful in separating juveniles ( 16 months) from adults (> 18 months). Calculated percent pulp dividing points between juveniles and adults (juveniles > dividing point) were 51.7% and 45.6% for males and females, respectively. These dividing points correctly aged > 97% of wolverines as juveniles or adults. Examination of percent pulp may provide a relatively rapid, inexpensive and reliable method for identifying juvenile and adult age classes of wolverines in the harvest.
23735545|The attraction of beetles (Insecta: Coleoptera) to odours of the wood-decaying polypore fungi Fomitopsis pinicola and Fomes fomentarius was studied at one spruce-dominated and one birch-dominated locality in a semi-natural forest in central Sweden. Beetles were caught in window traps without a bait (control) or baited with chopped, living fruiting bodies of either of the two polypores. The pattern of attraction was analyzed for 96 taxa, which were assigned to different categories according to the substrate they utilize. The attraction patterns were compared with catch data from window traps beneath living fruiting bodies and with rearing data. Beetles of the family Cisidae breeding in F. pinicola were strongly attracted to the odour of this fungus. In contrast, the species of a similar cisid guild associated with F. fomentarius was not attracted to any of the fungal odours. Two monophagous species of the anobiid genus Dorcatoma associated with F. pinicola and F. fomentarius respectively, were not significantly attracted to odour host but were caught in large numbers at living fruiting bodies. This aggregation was probably due to response to attractive pheromones. Knowledge about the precision in orientation as well as the capacity of dispersal of these insects is considered important for evaluating how they are affected by forestry practices.
23736917|Exploitation by humans impacts wildlife in many ways. Selective harvesting regimes affect demography of the remaining population, and increased mortality shortens life expectancy affecting optimal life-history strategies. We studied this in a Finnish moose (Alces alces) population using harvest data on age, carcass weight, antler spread and tine number, and compared the growth in body weight and that of antlers in male moose after adult-biased and mixed age class harvesting. According to our results, both body weight and antler growth of young males increased after mixed age class harvesting. Changes in growth patterns were affected by population density and sex ratio, but as the period effect still remained in the growth patterns after removing the effects of density and sex ratio, we suggest that the change in male moose growth patterns might have resulted from the harvest-induced young-male age structure and higher harvest pressure among young male moose.
23735849|Considering the well-known two-fold cost of males associated with sexual reproduction, the maintenance of sex despite natural selection remains an enigma for population biologists. The prevalence of sex among eukaryotes is most commonly explained by hypotheses associated with either the purging of deleterious mutations, the generation of favorable gene combinations, the fixation of beneficial mutations, or, less frequently, ecological theories dealing with the coexistence of competing populations. Almost all these hypotheses ignore the fact that in stochastic environments, asexual populations exhibit higher rates of extinction than sexual populations because the latter generally exploit a wider spectrum of resources than their asexual counterparts. Here we develop a model to demonstrate, in populations where mutations from sexual to asexual reproduction are possible, that three reproductive phases  sexual, mixed, and asexual  naturally arise among competing sexual and asexual lines. The particular phase observed is related to the level of stochasticity in the environment experienced by the population complex in question (e.g. a partially competing group of congeneric species) and is a manifestation of the tension that exists between the reproductive superiority of asexual populations and their higher rates of extinction. I term this explanation the demographic balance hypothesis and suggest the endeostigmatid mites provide a suitable taxon for testing this hypothesis.
23735388|The species of the genus Euophrys (s. lat.) in Siberia and the Russian Far East are described and differentiated. Color differences have proven to be reliable in distinguishing species in the E. frontalis group which have very similar genitalia. Currently 11 species of the genus are recorded: in the E. erratica group E. erratica (Walckenaer), E. iwatensis Bohdanowicz and Prszynski, and E. obsoleta (Simon); in the E. frontalis group E. flavoater (Grube), E. frontalis (Walckenaer), E. proszynskii sp. n., E. uralensis sp. n., and E. sp.; in the E. petrensis group E. aequipes (O. P.-Cambridge), E. petrensis C. L. Koch, and E. thorelli Kulczynski.
23736147|Recognition system theory was developed as a tool to investigate kin selection and mate choice, but can be applied to a wide variety of biological systems. Recognition behavior is central to species persistence, and might contribute to understanding and solving some problems in species conservation. In this paper I identify the role recognition behavior can play in some problems central to species conservation, including survey methods, habitat selection, mating success, maintaining genetic variability, predator avoidance, and pest deterrence and control. For each topic I identify ways in which taking advantage of the recognition template, threshold position, discrimination, or cue manipulation might be used to resolve species conservation problems. The framework that has been developed for studying recognition systems shows promise as a research framework for refining study of the behavioral issues affecting species persistence.
23735402|Traditionally, genus Pelophila Dejean has been placed in the tribe Nebriini, along with Nebria Latreille and Leistus Frlich. A phylogenetic analysis of basal grade caraboid lineages, based on 244 characters of adult morphology, suggests that this classification does not reflect accurately the phylogenetic relationships of Pelophila. A clade including the Notiokasiini (Notiokasis Kavanaugh & Ngre), Notiophilini (Notiophilus Dumeril), and Opisthiini (Opisthius Kirby and Paropisthius Casey) is more closely related to a clade including Nebria and Leistus than either clade is to Pelophila. Within supertribe Nebriitae, a new tribe, the Pelophilini, is proposed to include the two known species of Pelophila.
23731728|Incorporation of tritiated leucine into the retinular cells of a terrestrial isopod, Oniscus asellus L., was studied by electron microscope autoradiography. After a single subcuticular injection of tritiated leucine, the radioactivity per unit area in sections of the rhabdomeres of animals kept in darkness was 8  10 times as great as in the cytoplasm of the retinular cells. In animals kept to light it was 4  5 times as great. Autoradiographic grains were most numerous in the rhabdomeres of animals exposed to light before a period of incorporation in darkenss, the number of grains being three times as great as in animals kept in darkness until after the injection and then exposed to light. Radioactivity was also found in the rhabdomeres of animals kept in continuous light or darkness for six days before and two days after the injection. Thus protein was transported to the rhabdomeres both in continous light and in darkness. Light probably promotes the breakdown of the microvillus material. Presumably a great part of the leucine is incorporated into the membranes of the microvilli. The changes in the length of the microvilli are dependent on the net rate of accumulation of material in the rhabdomeres. The hypothesis is submitted that renewal of the microvillus material is associated with renewal of the photopigments.
23734177|Investigations by the author on Neotropical grebes are reviewed with emphasis on threats to the populations and their management. Podiceps andinus died out in the 1970's due to habitat destruction. Podiceps taczanowskii (300 ind.) is threatened by environmental contamination and plans to regulate its only breeding lake. P. gallardoi (250 ind.) is apparently vanishing for natural reasons. The appropriateness of using strong manipulation for saving vanishing populations may depend on whether they are subject to man-made threats or to processes of natural community evolution.
23734196|The distribution of carabid beetles on habitat islands in Dutch polders was tested against the hypothesis that the habitat islands receive a 'continuous influx' of carabid beetles. The probability that a species colonizes islands is assumed to be proportional to its frequency in the species pool. All the characters (number of species, community diversity, size distribution of beetles, and frequency of macropterous dimorphic and brachypterous beetles) analysed in the communities of carabid beetles on the habitat islands deviated from the pattern expected on the basis of random sampling of carabids from the species pool. The results suggest that some species are more successful than others in invading habitat islands. Smaller body size and long wings characterize these successful carabids.
23737146|Human disturbance is thought to be a major source of stress for animals but breeding status, social interactions and food availability are also potential sources. Long-lasting stress may adversely affect the fitness of animals and for that reason the evaluation of stressors is important for conservation of threatened species. The aim of our study was therefore to assess which factors cause stress in wolves (Canis lupus). We evaluated the stress levels of wolves from six packs by measuring the concentration of glucocorticoid metabolites in 59 faecal samples with a cortisol enzyme-immunoassay. During the breeding season, stress hormone concentration was higher than during the rest of the year, with two peaks around mating and begin of denning, respectively. Multiple regressions ranked by AIC showed that breeding had the highest impact on the wolves' stress levels, followed by human activity, pack size, and prey density. We conclude that human activity is only one of several factors contributing to stress in wolves and that intraspecific competition during breeding is likely to cause elevated levels of glucocorticoids.
23731584|A great invasion of Sitta europaea asiatica into Fennoscandia in winter 1962/63 is described and all earlier observations of this form in Fennoscandia are discussed. Quite regularly in the early autumn this form moves north-west along the taiga zone and then chiefly invades the northern parts of the Fennoscandian taiga. Because in the autumn the species becomes territorial and because pairing and breeding have been observed, invasions are regarded as emigrations connected with population density. In Fennoscandia the birds mostly perish during severe winters, but the surviving individuals remain in the wintering area the following winter. In respect of feeding, aggressive behaviour, storing of surplus food and selection of sleeping places nuthatches resemble tits. Measurements of the birds found in Finland show that the origin of the invasion is probably in southern Central Siberia. Nuthatches are met with in Finland nearly every year. The majority belong to the Siberian race, and even the individuals of the nominate race have come from the east. Breeding of the species in Finland seems only occasional.
23736508|Predicting the effects of invasive species demands detailed studies on intra and interspecific trophic interactions. To better understand the trophic role of Procambarus clarkii in rice fields, I quantified stomach contents and assessed temporal, ontogenetic and sexual trophic selection of macroinvertebrates. Detritus and plants occurred frequently in the stomach of P. clarkii, but animals formed the highest fraction of the diet. A seasonal pattern in the proportion of animals in the diet was observed for the total population, different sizes and both sexes. Pre-adults and adults tended to be more herbivorous, whereas juveniles tended to be predatory. Trophic selection of macroinvertebrates appeared related to their availability. Food choice by different life stages indicates that alterations in the demography or abundance of P. clarkii may change its structural and functional trophic role in rice field aquatic ecosystems.
23735661|A recurring positive field correlation of deformity incidence (DI) in sediment dwelling chironomid larvae with environmental contamination suggests that DI is a potential indicator of the impact of contaminants in aquatic systems. Several researchers have developed indexes that take into account the severity of deformities to supplement the information that is obtained from the DI alone. Five such indexes are reviewed in this paper. The indexes can be reformulated into an identical general form that expresses a product of the DI and average severity of deformation. Assessment of the severity of deformities appears to be poorly grounded and subjective. Indexes and the DI are highly redundant, partly due to mathematical necessity. In the data sets of the proponents of the indexes there was a strong linear relationship (r2 = 0.77  0.99) between index values and DI. Along with this, other empirical evidence as well as tenuous foundation of the indexes suggest that the presented indexes are likely to be useless, albeit relatively harmless.
23731666|The bulk of the food of common lizards collected in a peat bog in southwestern Finland in 1969 consisted of spiders and insects, mainly Homoptera, Diptera, Hymenoptera and Corrodentia (about 95 % of the individuals and 97 % by weight). Small juveniles seemed to eat more Corrodentia, Collembola, Homoptera and small Gastropoda than the adults. Invertebrates were eaten in about the same proportion as they were available in the ground layer, but the proportion of Collembola, Acarina, Coleoptera and ants was smaller.
23737083|Knowledge of the diet selection by coexisting herbivores is of prime importance in order to draw guidelines for livestock management alongside wildlife conservation. In this study, diet selection by coexisting cattle (Bos taurus), feral horses (Equus caballus), European hares (Lepus europaeus) and white-fronted geese (Anser albifrons) was evaluated in coastal grazing lands of the Evros Delta, Greece. Graminoids constituted the primary forage category for all herbivores, since they contributed more than half in the herbivores' diets. Even though legumes and forbs constituted a substantial part of their diets, selection indices of these forage categories did not exceed the value of 1, which indicates significant selection. Halophytes were selected by all herbivores to a much smaller degree than expected in view of their availability. Increasing the abundance, primarily of graminoids and secondarily of legumes and forbs, is expected to benefit all the studied herbivores.
23736527|Most studies of extinction risk and modelling of population viability do not take into account that higher organisms generally have two sexes, and that sex-specific demographic and other variables may play an important role in determining risks of extinction. I briefly review recent analyses of the importance of sex in demographic stochasticity and assessment of minimum populations required for maintenance of viable populations. Secondly, I review sex-specific factors that may influence such sex-specific demographic parameters. Thirdly, I review sex-specific extrinsic and intrinsic mortality factors that may contribute to increased risks of extinction. Finally, I review sex-specific genetic factors that may influence risks of extinction. Future empirical and theoretical approaches to assess extinction thresholds should consider the importance of sex.
23736806|I review studies relating to the question of whether kin selection is prevalent on leks and may help to explain their evolution. This is not a comprehensive review, instead my aim is to give an account of how kin selection became incorporated in lek research. 1 hope to show that theoretical modelling provoked empirical research, which in this particular case substantiated many of the the theoretical predictions. However, some recent empirical studies have found results indicating kin clustering beyond what was anticipated by theory. The debate on the importance of kin selection and kin clustering in the case of leks is still in its infancy. New models and data will no doubt spur further research in this area.
23735946|The changes in range margins of birds breeding in Finland was analysed from published atlas data for a 12-year period (19741979 to 19861989). The change in range margin was statistically corrected for changes in species' distribution using linear regression. For species predominantly occurring in southern Finland (n = 116), the expected range margin shift, if their distribution would not have changed, was 18.8 km northwards. Northerly species (n = 34) showed no such significant range margin shift. A similar result was found earlier for UK birds. Recent range margin shifts in birds therefore seem to be a general phenomenon, which may be related to climate change.
23734581|We discuss methodological problems in assessing the minimum requirements of breeding birds in a mosaic-like forest patchwork, created by modern forestry. In a small-scaled mosaic, the area of the habitat patches is not necessarily the most important characteristic to be measured  the birds may include several patches of different habitat types in their territories. We propose the following survey method, applicable within a region with characteristic habitat types: Locations of bird territories in different types of environments are mapped over several years and "frequency landscapes" constructed that show how frequently various habitat patches have been included within the territories of different species. Minimum combinations of habitats required by the species can then be identified, and detailed population studies directed at species that are threatened because of human-induced habitat changes.
23731789|Observations on reproduction of Nereis diversicolor in shallow waters at Tvrminne (south Finland) and Kristineberg (west coast of Sweden) following the warm winter of 1975 indicate that exposure to air temperatures and to warming by the sun may lead to early reproductive ripeness even though regional water temperatures are still low. In regions of higher salinity such as Kristineberg, where part of the population of N. diversicolor is restricted to an "intertidal" zone by interspecific competition, the breeding season may be limited by high temperatures, except where locally lowered salinities may permit the species to maintain itself at subtidal and cooler depths. In the inner Baltic Sea, where N. diversicolor is not limited to shallow waters, breeding in deeper, cooler waters probably continues for a longer period than previously suggested. The ratio of male to female N. diversicolor is low (1516 %), but males appear to continue to ripen sperm even after the production of viable eggs by females has been blocked by high temperatures. These facts support the still unproved possibility that some breeding by N. diversicolor may occur in early autumn.
23735383|As a poikilothermic animal, the common frog (Rana temporaria L.) must attempt to shelter from the winter cold. Frogs winter in Finland mainly in a water habitat (Koskela & Pasanen 1974). But there have also been some observations of frogs terrestrial wintering. Collin mentions an observation made in the last century concerning male frogs wintering on land (Hagstrm 1970). Three frogs on one occasion and one on another have been found in the wintering dens of the viper (Viitanen 1967). In Middle-Europe and in England, for example, frogs may winter in water or on the ground, and in midwinter they have been observed moving about the wintering areas on warm days and even foraging (Smith 1950, Smith 1954, Savage 1961). During 198893 while studying the population ecology of the common frog in Laikko, Rautjrvi, Finland (6122'N, 2917'E) (Pasanen et al. 1989, 1990, 1993), we made observations, which suggested that part of the population may winter terrestrially. Some frogs wander toward the spawning site while the wintering place and the surrounding forest are still iced and under snow. In spring some frogs were found under logs and planks as if wintering. An pilot experiment was carried out in the autumn of 1992 to determine whether the common frog can winter terrestrially.
23736789|Predator home-range size may serve as a proxy of resource abundance and spatial structure of home range may also reveal information about diet composition of predators. We studied the diet of American mink Mustela vison, an introduced predator in Europe, to explore diet composition and to examine the association of diet with home-range characteristics. We collected scats of radio-tracked mink (two males and nine females) in summers 20042005 in the Archipelago Sea, SW Finland. The most important prey groups were fish (33% occurrence), birds (28%) and small mammals (mainly voles; 15%). The proportion of small mammals in female mink diet correlated positively with home-range size, which indicates that larger home ranges include larger islands, where vole populations are more persistent. Our results highlight the importance of fish as main prey for survival and invasion of mink in the outer archipelago, subsidising mink impact on other prey.
23737213|The killer whale (Orcinus orca) is a top predator and one of the most contaminated marine mammal species in the world. Due to different prey preferences and life styles, killer whale populations accumulate persistent pollutants differently, and therefore are exposed differently to this stress. Stress may express itself in a population as an increase in the relative number of individuals with asymmetric presentation of a trait that is normally symmetrical. This phenomenon is called fluctuating asymmetry. There are many environmental and genetic factors that can cause fluctuating asymmetry. We have used the symmetry of the killer whale's saddle patch pattern behind the dorsal fin as an indicator of fluctuating asymmetry in six Pacific Ocean populations. The southern resident killer whale population seems to be remarkably more asymmetrical than the other studied populations. Although many possible environmental factors could cause asymmetry, we suggest that small population size, development of reproductively isolated ecotypes and possible inbreeding as genetic factors are causing asymmetry in the southern resident population.
23736215|Three endemic species of Prosopium inhabit Bear Lake. These are the Bonneville cisco (Prosopium gemmiferum), Bonneville whitefish (P. spilonotus) and Bear Lake whitefish (P. abyssicola). Only P. gemmiferum can easily be distinguished from the other two by simple morphological characteristics. Until recently P. abyssicola and P. spilonotus could only be distinguished from each other because of the temporal differences in their spawning times or at total lengths greater than approximately 280 mm. Samples of the two whitefish were collected during their respective spawning seasons to verify the results of recent research which demonstrated that a combination of lateral line and above lateral line scale counts could be used to separate the species. Results indicated that P. abyssicola and P. spilonotus could be positively separated using scale counts, and we suggest a modification of the recently published method regarding counting scales to determine whitefish identity to species. In 19992001, samples of whitefish were collected from standardized gillnetting to determine if any differences in life histories and diets were apparent. Significant differences existed between the diets and depth preferences of the two species. P. abyssicola were found in greater abundance in depths greater than 30 m and fed mainly on ostracods while P. spilonotus preferred depths less than 35 m, were omnivorous in their diets, and became picivorous at total lengths of 350 mm and greater.
23734453|The muscle fibres of the siphons of Macoma balthica (L.) have lateral projections, which contain mitochondria. The nuclei are also laterally located in the fibres. Connective tissue is not abundant in the siphonal walls and mucous gland cells are present only sparsely in the proximal inner wall of the exhalant siphon. A glandular area below ciliated cells is present at the inner base of the exhalant siphon. The epithelia of the siphons are richly vacuolated. Acid phosphatase activity, and sometimes also -glucuronidase activity, was detected in the epithelial cells of the siphons. The microvillous layer of the epithelia often showed alkaline phosphatase activity. Certain cells, probably amoebocytes, within the siphonal walls showed strong -glucuronidase activity and sometimes a weaker activity of acid phosphatase. The zinc iodide  osmium tetroxide (ZIO) method revealed plenty of nerve fibres among the musculature. The six main longitudinal nerves send out branches laterally. Nervous connections with the outer parts of the siphonal walls run along the radial muscles. Bodian's silver impregnation method revealed the nerve fibres of sensory receptors, but in the main longitudinal nerves, and also among the musculature, it stained fewer nerve fibres than ZIO did. Hill-like sensory receptors, the hill organs, are composed of a side cell which envelops two ciliated dendrites. One dendrite end is semicircular in cross section and it bears 7  9 cilia, and the other within the semicircle has a group of cilia. The perikarya of the neurones are far below the epithelium. More complicated sense organs, the goblet organs, which are arranged as six longitudinal rows, have two-cell-thick epithelial side walls and a few central cells with long, stiff cilia projecting out of the organ. There could be up to five collar receptors of one kinocilium and nine stereocilia surrounded by up to dozens of supporting cilia in a goblet organ. A group of ganglion cells with thick nerve fibres was present further down beneath the goblet organ. There were also simpler receptors with different numbers of cilia in the epithelia of the siphons.
23735640|We used a simple discrete-time population model to investigate how temporally structured density-dependence influences a population's response to loss due to harvesting. We assumed that reproduction is a relative discrete event in time, followed by density-dependent mortality and then harvesting, or followed by harvesting and then density-dependent mortality. Such an ordering of events in time may have profound influences on the dynamics of the population. The extra mortality due to harvesting may either be additive or compensatory depending on the strength of the density-dependence and the ordering of events. Population stability is also strongly affected by the temporal structure of density-dependence. Moreover, the yield and the (unconstrained) optimal harvest rate will vary depending on when harvesting occurs in the annual cycle. We argue that a correct identification of the temporal structure of density-dependence may be of great importance for understanding population dynamics in general and population management in particular.
23735890|Recent progress in molecular systematics that assists species identifications, and in on-line databases of ecological and museum collections that enable the integration of insect distribution data represent important developments facilitating beta diversity studies. The increase in alpha and gamma diversities of insect herbivores from temperate to tropical communities is driven largely by a parallel increase in plant diversity while the diversity of insect herbivores per plant species remains constant. Likewise, the high beta diversity of insect herbivores along altitudinal gradients is only partially explained by changes in plant diversity, while abiotic factors and the abundance of natural enemies may also be important. The high alpha diversity of insect herbivores in lowland tropical forests is not matched by beta diversity as locally co-existing species represent a large proportion of regional species pools. The role of dispersal limitation in the distribution of herbivorous insects in tropical forests could be minor, as short-lived insects are efficient colonisers of their mostly long-lived woody hosts.
23736159|The issue of time scaling in conservation biology and ecology is rarely considered, yet has crucial implications. If time scale is inappropriate, it impedes the search for generalities. Data on threatened species are typically limited, so the search for generalities is important in conservation biology where extrapolations from well studied taxa to threatened species are often needed. When time scale is specified in conservation biology and ecology it is typically defined in years. However, theoretical and empirical evidence indicates that extinction risk scales to generations, as do catastrophes, and environmental and genetic stochasticity. Examples are given of important insights achieved by analyses using generations. Conversely, human social and political considerations are more likely to require scaling to years, so the purpose of studies needs to be carefully defined. Progress in conservation biology and ecology will be impeded if the issue of time scale is not addressed carefully.
23734216|Clethrionomys gapperi attained high fall numbers following high spring numbers (the result of winter breeding) in 1974; high fall numbers following average spring numbers in 1976; and average fall numbers following low spring numbers in 1978. Numerical increase was exponential in all three years, but the highest instantaneous rate of increase occurred in 1978. Survival of the overwintered (OW) cohort was also best in 1978. Spring growth in length and weight of the OW cohort was best in 1976, which was characterised by a very warm May and June. Late summer body weights for each sex and age class did not differ among years except for age class 2 males, which were larger in 1978 than in the other years. In 1978, the number of litters per OW females was higher, mean litter size (all ages of females combined) was larger, and the number of young of the year that attained sexual maturity was greater, than in the other years. Overall, the results of 40 three-way comparisons do not support the concept of a "peak syndrome". Rather, they suggest the occurrence of a "low density" syndrome.
23734637|The seasonal dynamics of small mammal populations was studied in an isolated 2.6ha woodlot surrounded by agricultural "desert" in central Germany in 198488. The CMR method with monthly live trapping was used in 198486. In the autumn of 1986 all captured animals were removed and the recolonization of the woodlot was monitored until the spring of 1988. The bank vole (Clethrionomys glareolus) and wood mouse (Apodemus sylvaticus) were dominant species in the woodlot. Wood mice exhibited a seasonal habitat change between woodlot and field, together with the less abundant yellow-necked mouse (A. flavicollis). The striped field mouse (A. agrarius) normally occurred in the forest in low numbers. During high densities of the common vole (Microtus arvalis) on the surrounding fields it also penetrated the inner parts of the woodlot. Contrary to expectation Clethrionomys was the most effective colonizer of the woodlot after the removal of rodents. The sex ratio of Clethrionomys was 1:1 at all seasons, that of Apodemus-species male-biased during the autumn immigration. The total densities of the rodent community were much higher during the autumn and winter than during the breeding season. The number of shrews was very low during the entire study and these seem to have a poor ability to colonize isolated areas. The study supports the idea of the importance of isolated woodlots in the agricultural mosaic, especially as overwintering refugies for rodents.
23735844|Even after considerable effort and debate, it remains unclear why honey bee queens frequently mate with 10 or more males. We address both why polyandry is adaptive to queens and how queens obtain such extreme numbers of mates. We review a manipulative experiment which tested the hypothesis that multiple mating reduces the genetic load caused by the honey bee sex determination system. Our results suggest that multiple mating (i.e., mating more than once) increases a queen's fitness by lowering the probability that she produces a high proportion of inviable, diploid males within her brood. Furthermore, we examined the relationship between a queen's mating behavior and her mating number. We propose that "extreme" polyandry in honey bees (i.e., mating numbers  10) may be inadvertent consequences of a queen's mating behavior, therefore additional adaptive arguments are not needed to explain why honey bees have some of the highest mating numbers among the social insects.
23734225|Clethrionomys voles are in the middle of a small rodent gradient from the folivorous, partly bryophagous, lemmings and Microtus to the granivorous, and even insectivorous, mice. Also within the Clethrionomys genus there is a similar but less diverse gradient from the partly folivorous Clethrionomys rufocanus to the partly granivorous Clethrionomys rutilus. Both Clethrionomys gapperi and Clethrionomys glareolus show regional differences in diet, with emphasis on, respectively, seeds and fungal tissues in deciduous and coniferous forests. Fungi are important in decomposition in taiga forests and may constitute a rich source of food.
23734077|This is a study of the population structures and dynamics of the polymorphic spider Enoplognatha ovata. It is based on samples of females with their progeny from populations in southwestern Finland. The populations were found to be internally heterogeneous, consisting of at least two separate groups, both of which include all three traditional colour forms of the species. The groups differ from each other in the size of the females, in the number of eggs laid and in the rate of development of the offspring. The variation in these characters between the populations is largely due to the different proportions of the groups. A few other morphological characters, i.e. the number of black abdominal spots, the colour of the egg cocoon and the size of the eggs did not correlate with these groups, with the colour forms, with the size of the female or with the number of eggs laid. The colour polymorphism and the distribution of the population into the groups mentioned obviously arise from the same genetic basis. Of the two genes red I and red II known to affect the colour polymorphism, the red producing dominant alleles also influence the smaller size of the female, lower number of eggs and, apparently only in the case of red I, retarded development of the offspring. The gene red I is responsible for the distribution of the populations into the two above-mentioned groups. The absence of the red pattern is proposed as arising from the absence of the required allele(s) and, in addition, from the presence of a factor inhibiting the penetrance of the colour. A general hypothesis on the roles of genes red I and red II in the heterogeneity of the populations is presented and suggestions on the adaptive value of the different phases are briefly discussed.
23736503|A simple equation relates mean population size (N), mean initial size of cohorts (n0), and life expectancy at birth (${\mathrm{\Sigma }}_{0}^{\mathrm{\infty }} \ {\mathrm{l}}_{\mathrm{x}}$) in persisting populations that are fluctuating between upper and lower boundaries: $\overline{\mathrm{N}}={\overline{\mathrm{n}}}_{0} \ {\mathrm{\Sigma }}_{0}^{\mathrm{\infty }} \ {\mathrm{l}}_{\mathrm{x}}-{\overline{\mathrm{n}}}_{0}$. This equation indicates that the study of differences in size between two populations, of global and local commonness and rarity, and of the limitations to population growth should focus on ecological factors affecting n0 and ${\mathrm{\Sigma }}_{0}^{\mathrm{\infty }} \ {\mathrm{l}}_{\mathrm{x}}$. The equation also has a potential practical application for those countries, such as China, interested in designing policies for limiting population growth.
23735558|The American mink Mustela vison is widely distributed in several European countries, mainly as a result of the escape of animals from mink farms. In 1985, an analysis of Norwegian mink farming history (Bevanger & lbu 1986a) revealed an excellent correlation between the development of mink farming and the dispersal of feral mink populations in the wild. Up to 1950, mink mainly existed as rather isolated populations in areas where there had been or still were mink farms, but they colonized most of the country in the 1950's and 1960's. Based on questionnaires and other sources of information, the 1985 investigation concluded that only some islands off the coast of central and northern Norway, together with the greater part of Finnmark, were mink-free. In 1993, a questionnaire was sent to every local authority in Troms and Finnmark asking whether mink had been observed. All 25 authorities in Troms and 18 of the 19 in Finnmark confirmed that there were mink populations in their area. The only one reporting no mink populations was Hasvik, which is completely devoid of mainland territory. It is concluded that the Norwegian mainland has now been fully colonized and that only some island areas are mink-free.
23735572|Pine marten Martes martes  prey relationships were studied in 1985/861992/93 in Biaowiea National Park (E Poland), which protects the last remnants of the pristine deciduous forests of European lowland. Winter densities of martens, surveyed by snowtracking (in 1985/861988/89 and 1990/91), were from 4.44 to 6.49 inds/10 km2. In 199193, six martens were radiotracked. Their winter densities were 7.57 inds/10 km2 in 1991/92 and 3.6 inds/10 km2 in 1992/93. Mean home range of male martens was 2.23 km2 and that of females 1.49 km2. Martens' ranges were smaller (by 33% on average) in autumnwinter than in spring-summer. Forest rodents, the bank vole Clethrionomys glareolus and the yellow-necked mouse Apodemus flavicollis, were the main prey of martens. Autumn densities of these rodents were moderate in 198589 and 1992 (2678 inds/ha), extremely high in 1990 (315 inds/ha, as an effect of heavy crop of tree seeds in 1989), and very low in 1991 (11 inds/ha). Numbers of marten correlated with those of rodents with 1-year time lag. Every year, during 197 days of autumn-winter (1 October15 April), martens removed from 2 to 8 rodents from an average hectare (mean 5.5), which constituted from 2% to 31% (mean 15%) of autumn densities of rodents. Predation impact was heavy in years of low densities of rodents and rather small during rodent outbreak. Martens' predation on 4 alternative prey in the cold seasons was estimated. During autumnwinter, they removed 0.010.18 birds, 0.12.0 shrews, and 0.23.7 frogs, and consumed 1.468.7 g of ungulate carcasses from 1 ha. Martens took the largest quantities of alternative prey during the rodent crash year.
23735519|We cultured Daphnia magna, D. pulex and D. longispina at 15C and 20C at low and high food levels. Individuals of different ages were measured for body size and body shape. Growth of the three Daphnia species was linear. Both food level and ambient temperature affected daily growth rate. Variation in shape was mainly due to species-specific differences and age(body size)-related differences in relative head and caudal spine length. Although temperature affected Daphnia body shape, food density did not. D. magna had the shortest caudal spine relative to core body length. It was also more spherical in body shape than the two other species. The length of the caudal spine increased with body length body in D. pulex and D. longispina, but D. magna showed a weak negative correlation between the two variables. Newborn individuals tended to have a longer caudal spine and longer head than mature individuals. The core body was spherical in mature individuals, whilst newborns of the three species were thin and elongated.
23734112|The dimensions, composition and energy contents of 41 great tit and 48 pied flycatcher eggs, collected as freshly laid from nestboxes in the Oulu area, are presented. Egg volume as well as egg weight correlated with calculated energy contents in both species studied. The proportion of yolk correlated well with egg size in the great tit but to a lesser extent in the pied flycatcher. The eggs of the pied flycatcher contained more lipids and energy than those of the great tit. The positive correlation between egg size and its energy contents was due to a higher proportion of albumen in the pied flycatcher but due to higher proportions of both yolk and albumen in the great tit. In the great tit the egg size affected chick survival in two out of five years, but no such relation was noted in the pied flycatcher. This effect may result in situations where food supplies are unpredictable at the time of hatching, although generally the between-female differences in egg size must be considered as parts of the reproductive strategy in each species.
23734085|The intraspecific and interspecific variation in the morphometry of Pisidium (25 recent and 11 fossil populations of 17 species) and Sphaerium (2 fossil populations of 2 species) was studied. Two simple indices, height index (100 height/length) and roundness index (100 diameter/height) were calculated and plotted against shell length. Both indices show a linear correlation with shell length: in the case of the roundness index the correlation is almost always positive but in the height index the correlation coefficient is lower and the correlation again usually positive but negative in 5 species. These kinds of morphometric index give an additional quantitative character which could be more widely used in identification. The effect of environment on shell shape and the possible relation between fecundity and shell shape are discussed. The length of the pre-siphonal suture in P. casertanum and P. subtruncatum were measured and shown to be c. 10 % and 2025 % of shell length, respectively. The tissue around the foot slit was clearly thickened in P. subtruncatum and could be used in species identification in case of material in which the hard shells are totally corroded e.g. after preservation in formalin.
23733718|The patterns of movement between droppings were analysed in six common species of Cercyon (Hydrophilidae). The rate of immigration declined exponentially as a function of the age of the dropping, whilst an assumed constant rate of departure descriped the observed rate of emigration well. Interspecific variation in a group of three closely related species was correlated with size, the largest species having the latest successional occurrence. A hypothesis is put forward that these three species (C. obsoletus, C. impressus and C. haemorrhoidalis) feed on the same resources, the differences in their successional occurrence reflecting the fact that individuals of any shared prey species necessarily grow larger in the course of succession. Mature females of Aphodius (Scarabaeidae) show a similar rate of immigration but a slower rate of emigration than immature females. This difference probably reflects differences in the behaviour of immature (feeding) and mature females (copulating and egg-laying). By staying longer in a single dropping, mature females reduce the cost of movements, and can copulate, and if necessary feed, while the dropping is still fresh.
23735503|Saproxylic beetle assemblages on dead birch trunks decayed by Fomes fomentarius, Phellinus igniarius (coll.) and Fomitopsis pinicola were studied using trunk-window traps. As controls served dead birch trunks without polypore sporocarps, living birches and dead spruce trunks with F. pinicola. Six data sets with varying combinations of trunk types were collected from southern and eastern Finland and Russian Karelia. The species-abundance distributions in all trunk types and data sets resembled log-series distribution. Two-way indicator species analyses (TWINSPAN) indicated that distinct beetle assemblages were associated with different polypore species, although variation among the samples was considerable. Both the median number of beetle species and individuals per trap were higher on F. fomentarius and F. pinicola compared to other treatments. Individual beetle species occurred unevenly among the trunk types, presumably indicating association with the polypore species decaying the trunk. The living conditions of many saproxylic beetles could probably be improved in the managed forests by leaving dead and dying wood in the thinning and clearcutting phases of the stand rotation. If such a practice were to become standard, the continuity of decaying trees of particular kinds could be secured which, in turn, is necessary for viable populations of specialized saproxylic beetles.
23735667|Life history characteristics of a common fish ectoparasite Argulus foliaceus, poorly studied in the northern part of its range, were investigated. Field data on the seasonal occurrence, host preference, sex and size of Argulus foliaceus populations from interconnected lakes in Central Finland were analyzed together with experimental data on egg laying, hatching, and mating behaviour. Demographic characteristics of A. foliaceus from a commercial fish farm (high host density) with a water supply from the same lake system differed significantly from those of the lake population where the hosts are scarce. Extended periods of egg laying and hatching were documented in the lake population which possibly prevented the appearance of summer peaks in juveniles that were observed in the farm. The elevated activity of the males, which was most clearly observed in their high attachment/detachment rates, is suggested to result in lower survival and growth than in females. The flexibility, in both behaviour and life cycle strategy, allows A. foliaceus to utilize a broad spectrum of habitats of differing host abundance.
23736959|We conducted visual surveys of the red squirrel Sciurus vulgaris in 2005 in 11 parks and city forests of Warsaw with particular focus on the population in azienki Park in the city center. We found a significant association between the size of the park and the number of observed red squirrels, with the highest number occurring in azienki Park. In this park, the abundance index of the population in 2005 was 1.8 individuals per ha, which was three times higher than in 1956 and 1986, when similar surveys were carried out. The number of red squirrels observed in azienki Park was influenced by season, temperature, air humidity and tree species, the seeds of which are a potential food source for red squirrels.
23735382|In the summer of 1992, 18 males and 20 females were equipped with mortality transmitters. In the course of the summer 7 of the 18 males dispersed average 722 meters pr. dispersing (4501000 m) night. None of the females showed any long distance dispersal. The dispersing animals seem to have a very high mortality rate during or immediately after dispersal, but survived as resident if they made it through the first couple of days.
23735495|'Biodiversity' has become a popular term in conservation biology. We review the history of the term. It has several historical origins from ecology, genetics and evolutionary biology. The term 'biodiversity' refers to the fact that heterogeneity at different ecological levels is a fundamental property of natural systems. The term itself is abstract and descriptively complex, i.e., several alternative criteria can be used to operationalize the term. Consequently, the term is context-specific when used in conservation and management. The term 'biodiversity' should be used cautiously and carefully in management, and it is desirable to try to combine multiple-scale and multiple-level approaches simultaneously. Idiosyncrasies of particular systems and environments should be recognized and it seems unlikely that 'biodiversity' could be measured using a simple, single index.
23735593|The distance between opistokranion and zygomatic process of frontal bone (A), the condylobasal length (X), and the total length of the mandible (M) were measured in skulls of the Eurasian otter collected in Denmark and in the east of Germany (Lausitz). The Danish population showed a strong reduction in size of the traits in males, and an increase with time in the variances of the traits in females, whereas in the Lausitzian population, no significant changes in the same traits over the same time period were observed. The skulls were also investigated for fluctuating asymmetry (FA) and a negative correlation was found between the size of a skull and FA in the males from both populations, whereas no correlations were found in the females.
23736002|A species rich and prevalent larval digenean fauna was found in lymnaeid snail populations from two lakes in northern Finland (Kuivasjrvi and Pyyksjrvi populated by L. stagnalis and L. peregra, respectively) and ten years later in a third lake in central Finland (Kuuhankavesi populated by L. stagnalis). Echinostomes were common to all lakes, one species overlapping between Pyyksjrvi and Kuuhankavesi (Echinostoma revolutum). All three lymnaeid populations also harboured xiphidiocercariae of Plagiorchis elegans, furcocercariae of Diplostomum pseudospathaceum and Trichobilharzia ocellata and the monostome Notocotylus attenuatus. A consistent seasonal pattern of infection was recorded for four of the parasites in Pyyksjrvi, although annual variation in mean prevalence was generally significant. Annual parasite species composition within the three lakes was relatively stable despite the long dormant winter. This may be due to the over-wintering of larval digeneans in infected snails that then act as a source of reinfection of bird definitive hosts each spring.
23735780|Spacing behaviour of male field voles was studied by radio-telemetry during spring and autumn. Spacing patterns were different during the two periods with great overlap between ranges in spring, and exclusive ranges during autumn. Regarding movement activity males were stationary and made regular excursions in the surroundings during spring, whereas they continuously moved around in their exclusive ranges during autumn. Contradictory to the theoretical models on male spacing behaviour, the shift in male spacing behaviour could neither be attributed to distribution of females nor to female reproductive synchrony. Instead female density seemed to be the most influential factor, although sex ratio, dominance relations and predation may also be important.
23734498|To assess spatial variation in the composition of local biotas, we analyzed data on the distribution of 29 species of granivorous desert rodents among 202 sites in the southwestern United States. Throughout its geographic range, each species occurred with many other species as a member of many different combinations. The number of species with which each species coexisted was positively correlated with the number of sites at which it was found and with its area of geographic range. Most species were found at less than 30% of the sites within their geographic ranges. Nevertheless, they cooccurred locally with more than half of the species with overlapping geographic ranges. Although most local assemblages consisted of only two to five species, 124 different combinations were observed. These results have several implications: 1) Species distributions are highly individualistic, 2) composition of local biotas is highly variable, 3) rodents (especially rare species) respond to environmental change on a small spatial scale, 4) single, local samples of assemblages may not be representative of communities of larger regions, and 5) opportunities for coevolution between pairs of continental species are limited.
23734220|The literature is surveyed with respect to proximate factors determining reproduction in Clethrionomys. On this basis models for predicting evolutionarily optimal rates are discussed: several ideas which have been misunderstood are restated in a more clear form. A section with technical recommendations on how various parameters entering these evolutionary models best should be estimated is included. Ideas for how the study of optimal reproduction and optimal dispersal may be intergrated are also presented. Recommendations for further work are given: these relate to both theoretical and empirical issues.
23734095|One-year-old flounders, Platichtys flesus (L), were exposed to kraft pulp mill effluent during a two-month period in an artificial ecosystem corresponding to the littoral zone of the Baltic Sea. The fish were exposed to 1 or 2.5 % concentrations (v/v) of different types of total effluents from mills producing bleached and unbleached pulp, respectively. Fish caught in the vicinity of the discharge pipe of a pulp mill were used as reference field material. Structural differences in gill and liver tissue were detected in the exposed fish. These seemed to be positively correlated with the chlorine bleaching in the process of pulp production. The reference fish were most heavily infested with a tricodinid ciliate, followed by the fish exposed to effluents from mills using oxygen and chlorine in the bleaching process.
23735454|A mitochondrial-DNA-based timetable for the branching of the extant species of the genus Equus (Perissodactyla, Equidae) is compared with the record of dated fossils of that genus. Agreement and discrepancies between the two timetables are identified and discussed.
23735468|Species diversity and composition of the assemblages of butterflies and day-active moths were studied using a belt transect method on a concentric raised bog in southeastern Finland. The species richness of the mire was lower than that of the adjacent mineral land. On a vegetational gradient across the mire, the highest number of species and individuals were found on the lagg and marginal slope. The fauna appeared very similar along separate mire transects, while the mineral land samples differed more distinctly from each other. Multivariate analyses grouped the study sites into open minerotrophic mires, open raised bogs, pine bogs, coniferous forests and mineral lands with clear-fellings. Similar analysis of vegetation divided the transect section more distinctly into mires and mineral lands. The composition of the species assemblages of Lepidoptera was mostly related to the structural characteristics of the mire, especially to the tree height, and to a lesser degree to the floristic characteristics of undergrowth. The floristically poor pine bogs near the forest-mire edge maintain a peculiar and diverse fauna of butterflies and moths.
23733647|Tissue esterases of Pieris brassicae were classified into 14 groups according to their relative electrophoretic mobilities in polyacrylamide gel. The haemolymph, midgut, fat body, and integument showed marked differences in the esterase patterns so produced. The different regions of the larval midgut contained esterases in different titres. The tissue containing the greatest number of esterase isozymes (11) observed at any stage of development was the integument of late fifth instar larvae. At this stage the dorsal parietal fat body and haemolymph contained 810 esterases. The haemolymph esterase pattern underwent distinct changes during development: ecdysing fourth-fifth instars had only four esterases, late wandering fifth instars eight, and 2-day pupae five. Slowly migrating esterases were prominent in the haemolymph and more rapidly migrating esterases in the midgut.
23736711|This study tests whether living in different lake habitats in benthic and limnetic sticklebacks (Gasterosteus aculeatus complex) has resulted in divergence of antipredator traits and habitat-associated survival trade-offs. Adult benthics were larger than limnetics, had poorly developed defensive armour and showed no tendency to school with conspecifics. Limnetics, in contrast, were smaller, had well developed defensive armour and demonstrated strong schooling behaviour. In littoral arenas, juvenile limnetics were significantly more vulnerable than juvenile benthics to predation by adult benthics and backswimmers (Notonecta sp.) but not dragonfly larvae (Aeshna sp.). This pattern was reversed in open water arenas when adult benthics and limnetics were exposed to diving avian predators, double-crested cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus). These findings show that divergence in antipredator traits between benthic and limnetic sticklebacks has accompanied divergence in foraging traits, resulting in survival trade-offs in addition to those previously observed for foraging success and growth rates across habitats.
23736855|Spatial and temporal interaction between medium-sized carnivores (raccoon dog Nyctereutes procyonoides, red fox Vulpes vulpes, European badger Meles meles and domestic cat Felis silvestris catus) was studied in southeast Finland using radio-telemetry to estimate the risk of contact and contact rate (number of contacts) between individuals. There was a high level of overlap between home ranges both within and between species and individuals had frequent contact. The risk of contact was high for members of raccoon dog pairs, individual cats and badgers, but also for raccoon dogs and badgers and for raccoon dogs and cats. The lowest risk of contact was for neighbouring raccoon dogs and for male foxes. In this carnivore community the transmission of disease, such as rabies, both within and between species is likely. The role of the badger as a vector of rabies is probably much greater than previously assumed.
23736034|A basic assumption of behavioral ecology is that the variation observed in behavioral traits is shaped by selection. The pattern and rate of response of a trait to selection depends on the presence of genetic variation, its mode of inheritance and genetic correlations with other traits. Quantitative genetic analysis provides a methodology to examine the genetic architecture of behavioral trait variation in natural populations. Studies of fish behavior have documented substantial additive and non-additive genetic variation. Genetic architectures with important implications for patterns of response to selection such as sex-linkage and pleiotropy have been uncovered. Morphology and behavior are often inherited as a suite of traits which may share a common genetic basis. However, environmental factors can yield correlated variation in both morphology and behavior and experimental study separating the inheritance of each is necessary to determine if their genetic basis is held in common. Quantitative genetic analysis permits the prediction of microevolutionary patterns of local populations over limited time scales.
23735909|The behaviour of reproductive ant females and males was examined in mating experiments in laboratory conditions. The aims were to identify mechanisms affecting sexual selection in ants in general, and to explore more specific issues applicable to the reproductive strategies present in ants like F. aquilonia characterized by a multinest/multiqueen (polydomous/polygynous) organisation of colonies. The mating process was described from video recordings. Multiple mating by both sexes was demonstrated and the observed mating frequency was in good agreement with results for the effective number of matings based on allozyme motheroffspring analyses. For females and males random mate choice was indicated. In choice experiments neither differences between the frequencies of intra- and interpopulation copulations occured, nor did the mating status of males and females affect the pattern of random mating. However, the number of preceding copulations affected the duration of different parts of the mating process in both males and females. Thus, female mating resistance tends to increase after several matings, whereas in males the duration of genital contact increases with the number of previous copulations. Also, male mating experience reduces the time used to get into genital contact, except when multiple copulations occur within a short time. The operational sex ratios in the experimental chamber did not affect the pattern of random mate choice. Spermathecal sperm counts correlated with the number of female matings and were comparable with both the estimated number of sperm for virgin males, and the spermathecal counts for old and young queens collected in the field. The findings are discussed in relation to general patterns of sexual selection in ants. Selection acting on male mating behaviour might drive both female and male multiple mating in F. aquilonia.
23733690|Qualitative samples of aquatic Oligochaeta were taken from the deepest areas of 36 Finnish lakes. The commonest species were Pelescolex ferox, Tubifex tubifex and Stylodrilus heringianus. Lamprodrilus isoporus, Stylodrilus heringianus, Peloscolex ferox and Psammoryctides barbatus preferred oligotrophic lakes (oxygen content high and total phosphorus content low), whilst Potamothrix hammoniensis preferred eutrophy. Tubifex tubifex, Chaetogaster diaphanus, Vejdovskyella comata and Slavina appendiculata preferred more or less dystrophic waters. Lamprodrilus isoporus and Psammoryctides barbatus preferred deep lakes, while L. isoporus, Stylodrilus heringianus and P. barbatus preferred lakes that were both deep and large.
23731785|The numbers, biomass and community respiration of soil invertebrates were investigated in two series of clear-cut areas of increasing age (3  13 years) at two latitudes in Finland (66 20' N and 61 00' N), and compared with those in untreated spruce stands. The groups of soil animals react differently to felling. There is a strong transitory increase of total biomass after cutting, which is mainly attributable to Lumbricidae and Enchytraeidae, or (in northern Finland) to Enchytraeidae alone. The Arthropod biomass does not exceed the control level at any stage. By the 9th  13th year the biomass again lies at, or even below, the original level. The course of community respiration parallels that of biomass, but shows relatively higher values in the clear-cut areas. It is concluded that the patterns observed are largely determined by the amount of decomposable organic matter.
23733633|One new and eight previously known nematodes are described and redefined on the basis of observations of living and fixed animals from the benthos of the brackish waters in the southern archipelago of Finland: Chromadorita fennica sp.n.; Desmolaimus zeelandicus De Man, 1880; Sphaerolaimus balticus G. Schneider, 1906; Microlaimus globiceps De Man, 1880; Calomicrolaimus honestus (De Man, 1922); Chromadorita guidoschneideri (Filipjev, 1929); Sabatieria pulchra (G. Schneider, 1906); Ethmolaimus pratensis De Man, 1880; Bathylaimus longisetosus (Allgn, 1929). The excretory system of S. pulchra shows sexual dimorphism, which is regarded as a generic character. This is the first report of the feature in a free-living nematode. The occurrence of microorganisms adhering to the nematode cuticle is briefly described and bacteria figured. The systematic position of Ethmolaimus is discussed.
23735420|The life cycle and seasonal adult activity patterns of Pterostichus melanarius (Illig.) in Ireland are described. Pitfall trap catches are analysed using a multiple linear regression model to test the hypothesis that time of soil cultivation influences the breeding success and population production of this species. Whilst total seasonal catches were not strongly influenced by soil cultivation history, catches made during the main emergence phase of the new generation were lower in spring cultivated fields compared with uncultivated or autumn cultivated fields. The analysis suggests that spring soil cultivation reduces larval/pupal survival but that rapid inter-field dispersal by adult P. melanarius following emergence from pupation masks the effect of soil cultivation on individual fields.
23731815|In 1969  1970 there was a great lemming outbreak in northern Finland. In autumn 1969 lemmings emigrated from the large fell areas in Lapland into adjacent parts of the coniferous forest zone. Successful overwintering took place, particularly on the upper forested slopes of isolated fells. In the spring lemmings continued their movement deeper into the forest zone, where they bred in large numbers, the densest populations being found on the peatlands. As a result of the autumn emigrations of 1970, many lemmings reached areas to the south of the Arctic Circle. These wanderings which were in part due to overexploitation of food in the former areas, are compared with the great eruptions known from the 1930s and 1940s.
23736129|The genus Parakiefferiella includes the following Fennoscandian species which are all described in detail (male or male and pupa): P. bathophila (Kieffer) (male, pupa), P. bilobata sp.n. (male), P. coronata (Edwards) (male, pupa), P. fennica sp. n. (male, pupa), P. finnmarkica sp. n. (male), P. gynocera (Edwards) (male, pupa), P. minuta sp. n. (male), P. nigra Brundin (male, pupa), P. scandica Brundin (male, pupa), and P. smolandica (Brundin) (male, pupa). A key to the males and pupae is presented and the taxonomy and ecology of the species is briefly discussed. The other European species of the genus, P. dentifera Wlker and P. gracillima (Kieffer), as well as published unidentified exuviae and unpublished males are discussed.
23737115|Nine-spined stickleback (Pungitius pungitius) is a good model species for studying personality traits such as boldness and aggression as large variation in these behaviours has been observed in populations from different habitats. Here we used genomic information from three-spined sticklebacks to identify and characterise 13 new nine-spined stickleback microsatellite loci which are located close to candidate genes for behaviour. All loci were polymorphic with 331 alleles per locus and expected heterozygosity varied from 0 to 0.97 and observed heterozygosity from 0 to 1. These markers should provide a useful resource for better understanding the genetic basis of behaviour in stickleback fishes.
23734047|In Nephila clavipes (L.), N. maculata (Fabr.), Azilia affinis (O.P.-Cambridge) and Cyrtophora moluccensis (Doleschall) the anatomy of the musculature and of the intestinal caeca of the prosoma characterizes these spiders as typical Araneidae without any tetragnathid features. In Comaroma simoni Bertkau, classified by recent authors as a theridid, the tergocoxal and endosterno-coxal musculature appear to be unique (three symmetrically arranged tergo-coxal muscles; no upper endosterno-coxal muscles). Dissection of Ceratinella brevis (Wider) (Micryphantinae), Crustulina guttata (Wider), Steatoda bipunctata (L.), Dipoena tristis (Hahn) and Pholcomma gibbum (Westring), Theridiidae, suggests that the peculiarities of Comaroma cannot be interpreted as an adaptation to the strong sclerotization of the prosoma or as a general character of the smallest Theridiidae. The isolated taxonomic position of Comaroma is thus brought out. Comaroma lacks lungs and is perhaps related to the very heterogeneous Symphytognathidae complex. The anatomy of Psechrus argentatus (Doleschall) and two other Psechrus spp. (not determined with certainty), Psechridae, is described (prosoma and opisthosoma).
23734629|In Yukon, female wolverine did not breed as young of year and only 7% of subadults were pregnant. Of the adult females, 53% of 2+ year-olds were pregnant or post-partum and between 62% and 92% of 3+ year-old and older wolverine were pregnant or post-partum. The mean in utero litter size was 3.2  0.8 SD (n = 22). Natality increased with age, ranging from a mean of 2.8 to 3.4 fetuses per adult female. Pregnant females were caught in all months of the trapping season (1 November to 31 March) indicating implantation occurred at least as early as November. Males were sexually mature by 2+ years of age. Bacula length and weight should not be used as criteria of age without other evidence.
23734469|Body silvering, condition factor, blood haematocrit value, concentrations of blood haemoglobin, glucose and lactate, liver glycogen content, muscle water content and concentrations of plasma protein and ions were determined in young salmon seven successive times from the second summer of the fish brood beyond the normal releasing time of reared smolts. Connections between external smolt indicators, energy metabolism and osmotic balance were estimated by examinining their correlations in individual fishes. The salmons silvered, their condition factor decreased, liver glycogen was mobilized and the concentrations of blood glucose and plasma protein and ions were radically altered during the course of smoltification in spring. The significant correlations between these changes suggest that an altered ionic and osmotic balance is coupled with changes in energy metabolism in the early stages of smoltification.
23735400|The neotropical carabid genus Agra contains more than 2 000 species. One monophyletic lineage, the cayennnensis group, was selected for phylogenetic analysis to underpin a biogeographic study pertaining to the Amazon Basin. The cayennensis group containing 10 subgroups and more than 150 species, arose and radiated in the basin, subsequently invading Central and Middle America 3 times, and as far as Texas once. The fact that such major radiation occurred within the basin, not only at the species level, but to a higher plain, the subgroup level, forces us to look for evolutionary driving forces that act relatively quickly and at a fine geographic resolution in order to account for the megadiversity found there today.
23736914|The inference of the interactions between organisms in an ecosystem from observational data is an important problem in ecology. This paper presents a mathematical inference method, originally developed for the inference of biochemical networks in molecular biology, adapted for the inference of networks of ecological interactions. The method is applied to a network of invertebrate families (taxa) in a rice field.
23736162|While much is known regarding the role of chemical alarm cues in the mediation of predatorprey dynamics within aquatic ecosystems, little is known regarding the production of these critically important information sources. In a series of laboratory experiments, we tested the possible effects of diet, body condition and ontogeny on the production of chemical alarm cues in juvenile convict cichlids (Archocentrus nigrofasciatus, Cichlidae, Acanthopterygii). Juvenile cichlids were fed one of two diets, tubifex worms (Tubifex spp.) or brine shrimp (Artemia spp.). Shrimp fed cichlids grew longer and heavier and were in better condition than were tubifex fed cichlids. In Experiment 1, cichlids exhibited a stronger antipredator response to conspecific skin extracts from donors fed shrimp versus tubifex, regardless of test cichlid diet. In Experiment 2, juvenile cichlids were exposed to the skin extracts of high versus low condition donors fed either tubifex or shrimp diets. Cichlids exhibited a significantly stronger antipredator response to skin extracts of high condition donors, regardless of donor diet. Finally, in Experiment 3, juvenile cichlids were exposed to skin extracts of similar sized juvenile conspecifics, adult conspecifics, swordtail (Xiphophorus helleri) or a distilled water control. We found no evidence of an ontogenetic change in the production of alarm cues as cichlids exhibited similar intensity antipredator responses when exposed to juvenile and adult conspecific alarm cues. Taken together, these data suggest that individual diet may influence body condition with the consequence of influencing chemical alarm cue production in juvenile cichlids.
23736761|The ability of social insects to discriminate between nestmates and aliens on the basis of scent has been the selective pressure favoring the evolution of chemical strategies to facilitate integration into host nests by social parasites, i.e., by organisms which rely on the nests and workers of others to rear their brood. As a result of the coevolutionary arms race, obligate social parasites of Polistes wasps have evolved complex mechanisms of mimicry. Social parasites mimic host chemical signatures at the level of species, colony, and possibly rank. Social parasites possess diluted recognition cues and apply compounds to the host nests that may result in host manipulation. The origin and evolutionary pathway to host/parasite chemical similarity is discussed by making comparisons with the tactics used by facultative social parasites, and with the development of the cuticular signature in free-living species.
23736553|Different evolutionary hypotheses have been proposed to explain variation in offspring sex ratios among mammalian populations. The Trivers and Willard and local resource competition hypotheses, which are based on adaptive modification by maternal investment, are two opposing hypotheses commonly used for ungulates, but empirical patterns often do not fit either hypotheses' expectations. We investigated sex ratio variation in 1658 reindeer (Rangifer tarandus) calves in relation to their mothers' mass and age, while accounting for potential density-independent factors such as climate. The most parsimonious model included only the effect of maternal age, the proportion of males increasing with increasing maternal age. Similar models in terms of parsimony included (in addition to maternal age) the winter temperature or the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO) index when the mothers were in utero, indicating that climatic conditions experienced by mothers in their year of birth, have the potential to influence variation in a cohort's offspring sex ratio. Thus, a combination of both density-dependent and density-independent factors may influence sex ratio variation in reindeer and perhaps in other ungulates. We suggest that, if an adaptive maternal strategy is present, it may be induced and/or inhibited by, or interact with other factors such as climate.
23736862|The nest-site requirements of the great bittern Botaurus stellaris females in relation to habitat availability were studied in 20032006 at fish-pond complexes located in the Lublin and Podlasie regions (eastern Poland). The structure of emergent vegetation and water depth were measured and described in 230 control squares and 98 squares with occupied nests. Water depth, vegetation cover, the height and diameter of reed shoots, the number of flowering shoots, the density of old (dry) and new (green) reed shoots were measured. Great bittern females nested in all available types of emergent vegetation and most of the nests were located in reedbeds. Using the logistic regression model it was shown that when choosing the place for nesting the great bitterns preferred reedbeds with a high density of old-reed stems.
23735757|Many species of insects have been reported to show seasonally declining size at emergence. This has been explained as an adaptive response to time constraint between size and age at maturity (emergence). We studied seasonal variation in the size of damselfly Calopteryx virgo L. in six different creeks in central Finland. The length of hind wings was measured for 942 males and 285 females covering the flying period from mid June to mid August. The length of the hind wings of damselflies did not decrease towards the end of flying period in any river or either sex. In light of this study, seasonal reduction of body size is not a general phenomenon among odonates contrary to common understanding.
23737181|Limited data exist on ecology of European hedgehog (Erinaceus europaeus) at the northern edge of the species' range. In our study, spatial analysis using radio-tracking data from Finland showed that sex and season had significant effects on the home-range size of hedgehogs. Although males were heavier than females, body weight had no effect on home-range size. Total home ranges (male 98, female 55 ha) were larger than those in southern areas. Thus, male home ranges were larger than those of females during the mating (male 72, female 21 ha) and post-mating seasons (male 48, female 20 ha), but the differences were small and reversed before hibernation (male 17, female 29 ha). Home ranges of individuals of both sexes overlapped, but females shared core areas with other females only during the mating season. Our results imply possible differences in hedgehog ecology probably due to a less productive and harsh northern habitat.
23734484|The growth of perch (Perca fluviatilis L.) was studied in 16 oligotrophic lakes at different stages of acidification. The lakes were divided into three groups according to their pH: I Very acid lakes (6 lakes, pH < 5), II Moderately acid lakes (5 lakes, 5  pH < 6) and III Circumneutral lakes (5 lakes, pH  6). Perch was the only fish species caught from most of the very acid and moderately acid lakes. The mean weights of the perch were higher and numbers/catch smaller in very acid lakes than in other lakes. The perch grew faster in very acid lakes than in two other acidity groups, where the growth rates did not differ from each other. The most probable reason for the rapid growth in the most acid lakes was increased availability of food due to thinning of the perch populations as a consequence of acid induced reproduction failures. An exception was Lake Hauklampi (pH 4.8), where the perch did not grow as fast as in the other very acid lakes. This may have been due to the stress attributable to a high total aluminium content in the water (400 g/l).
23735583|The aim of the present study was to establish whether acid water affects the behaviour and physiology of the wintering common frog. Frogs were caught from two biotopes ("neutral" and "low-pH" populations). Initially frogs were kept in containers in water with different pH where they could chose whether to be in or out of water. Then altogether 210 frogs were over-wintered at different pH and after winter the liver and muscle glycogen contents were determined from 106 frogs. In the biomonitoring experiments we tested if changes in water pH had had an effect on the total activity of wintering frogs. The same monitoring apparatus was also used to measure the heart rates of the frogs at pH 4 and pH 6.5. Following metamorphosis the common frog is very well adapted to cope with environmental acidity. It does not avoid water at pH 4 and wintering success occurs also in acid environment. In fact it is a matter of concern that mature frogs react so slightly to water acidity and therefore they obviously do not avoid acid habitats.
23734711|Mosses in the family Splachnaceae grow primarily on dung and have spores that are dispersed to dung by Diptera. Mechanisms of coexistence were examined at local, regional and continental scales in four species of Splachnaceae, two species in the genus Tetraplodon and two species in the genus Splachnum. On the local scale, few mechanisms appear to promote the coexistence of Splachnaceae on a dropping. Competition between mosses is strong and individual droppings tend to be occupied by a single species. On the regional scale, dispersal may promote habitat separation between the genera while coexistence in Splachnum species appears to be influenced by a tradeoff between dispersal and competitive ability. Coexistence in Tetraplodon species is facilitated by temporal separation of sporophyte production. Resource fluctuations may also promote the coexistence of Splachnaceae species. The ranges of the species studied overlap extensively and there is no evidence that large scale continental processes such as climate influence the occurrence of these species.
23735827|Although effects of physical barriers to animal movement are well established, the behavioral inhibition of individuals moving across habitat gaps, ecotones, and interpatch (matrix) habitat has received little attention. Birds are often cited as a taxon in which movements should not be disrupted by gaps in landscape connectivity. Here we synthesize evidence from the literature for behavioral inhibition of movements by birds, and find that a wide variety of behavioral inhibitions to movements have been observed. We also present a model for describing edge or gap permeability that incorporates the propensity of an individual to cross an ecotone or enter a gap, and the effect of gap width. From published observations, we propose five ecologically based patterns of behavioral inhibition of bird movements as hypotheses: that habitat specialists, understory-dwellers, tropical species, solitary species, and non-migratory species are more inhibited than are species that are their ecological counterparts. Understanding what animals perceive as impediments to movement will contribute to efforts to maintain populations through landscape design, and will allow us to predict the types and degrees of habitat fragmentation that will cause persistence problems for various species.
23731674|Ixodes trianguliceps Birula has been found in Finland on eight small mammal species. A study of 797 small mammals (Sorex araneus, S. minutus, Apodemus flavicollis, Micromys minutus, Mus musculus, Clethrionomys glareolus, Microtus agrestis and Arvicola terrestris) collected from a study area in southern Finland in 1969, 1970 and 1971 revealed that all these species were infested by I. trianguliceps, which has not previously been reported from Finland. The rate of infestation was highest in the bank vole (20.4 %), less high in the field vole (15.0 %) and yellow-necked mouse (15.4 %), and lower still in the common shrew (5.1 %). The ticks were active at all seasons, the seasonal occurrence of the larvae showing two peaks, viz. in early summer (May  June) and in autumn (October). The nymps had one maximum in summer (July  August). Mixed forest were the habitat preferred by ticks. The northernmost record of I. triangulicaps was from Sodankyl (67 43 N).
23736190|Eggs of Peipsi whitefish Coregonus lavaretus maraenoides Poljakow were artificially inseminated and reared in sea water of 0.26.2 ppt salinity. Egg fertilisation rate was 97%99% at 0.23.3 ppt but declined to 75%85% at 4.06.2 ppt. Survival until hatching remained high at 0.21.3 ppt. Normal embryos hatched at salinity  4.8 ppt. Salinity did not affect the timing of development except for hatching, which occurred earlier when salinity increased. The length of free embryos was highest at 2.1 ppt.
23735959|The genetic consequences of age structure were investigated in five populations of the bank vole, Clethrionomys glareolus, using 18 variable allozyme loci. Temporal samples and age cohorts were analysed to detect seasonal differences in population genetic structure and relatedness between individuals. Changes in allele frequencies between seasons were found in one population. While over-wintered cohorts were genetically homogenous in all study populations, there were within year differences in allele frequencies among cohorts in two of the populations. Pairwise relatedness changed throughout the year and differed between sexes in some populations. The Ne/N ratio was high, presumably due to the promiscuous mating system in C. glareolus. Lack of correlation between genetic distance matrices from different seasons revealed that the pattern of interpopulation genetic structuring was not stable over time. The tendency for higher genetic differentiation among populations in autumn than in spring, as well as large differences between FIS and FST in autumn indicated lower dispersal rate at the end of the breeding season than in the spring.
23734520|Macrozoobenthos was surveyed in August 1982 close to Tvrminne Zoological Station on the SW coast of Finland. In a stratified random design 117 core samples were taken from 41 stations at a depth of 15 m to 47 m. Abundance was high (mean at 9 200 ind /m2) and biomass was low (mean at 69.1 g/m2). While the single remote corer used has a high sampling efficiency, the high abundance may indicate a community change in the Baltic Sea during the last 50 years or it may be related to the maximum abundances in the 67 year population fluctuation pattern. The depth gradient was the most important environmental variable affecting the faunal composition at the stations and within the geographical strata. In an optimal sampling design in the study area, the stations should be randomly distributed within strata defined by depth. Only one sample unit at each station is recommended, whereas the number of stations should be high, especially in shallow (< 20 m) areas.
23731719|A 16 to 35-day course of treatment with adrenaline, but not with 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), increased the rate of oxygen consumption in intact frogs as well as the activity of the thyroid and of the tissue succinic dehydrogenase. The 5-HT treatment, but not the adrenaline treatment, lowered the thermal maximum of oxygen consumption. Neither treatment changed the metabolic sensitivity to adrenaline, whereas both treatments increased the metabolic sensitivity to 5-HT and decreased the chronotropic sensitivity of the heart to adrenaline. Because all the changes observed as a result of the repeated amine injections resemble those seen on exposure of frogs to cold, it can be concluded that the previously observed increased utilization of these amines in the cold is coupled with the initiation and control of the adaptive changes found in cold acclimation.
23736117|To assess its usefulness for stock identification and resolving post-Pleistocene recolonization events, mtDNA variation was examined in three economically important North American percids: walleye, sauger and yellow perch. Forty-two walleye mtDNA haplotypes were identified which could be divided into five groups that showed distinct geographic distributions. Sauger showed very little genetic variation with only four haplotypes being found across the species' range. Thirteen yellow perch mtDNA haplotypes were identified, with one haplotype predominating in all populations examined. These results suggest that mtDNA analysis will be useful for stock identification in walleye, but less so in sauger and yellow perch.
23735810|The ecology of shrews is better understood in the boreal forest of Eurasia than in similar regions of North America. In this study, the abundance, reproduction, population structure, and diet of Sorex cinereus (Masked shrew) were analyzed in jack pine plantations in the southern boreal forest of eastern Canada over two years. Abundance of S. cinereus showed variations between years. The seasonal pattern of capture was unimodal with the peak occurring at the end of the summer. Breeding began in May or earlier with litter sizes averaging 6.7  0.3 (mean  SE) embryos per pregnant female. The breeding season was at least six months long (MayOctober). Two distinctive cohorts were identified. The spring cohort, primarily produced by overwintering shrews, had a higher reproductive value than the summer cohort because they may have reproduced in the year of birth. The summer cohort was produced by both overwintering individuals and shrews of the first generation in that year. Lepidopteran larvae (moth) were the primary food type in stomach contents of immature shrews, followed by coleopterans (beetles) and arachnida (spiders). The mean percentage volume of lepidopteran larvae in shrew stomach contents was similar between years, months, and sites. The patterns identified for S. cinereus are compared with those of the most common Eurasian shrew (Sorex araneus).
23734560|Seasonal changes in the levels of oestrogens and testosterone in the plasma of mature brown trout (Salmo trutta lacustris) were determined using a radio-immunoassay technique. Steroid metabolism in the skin of brown trout was investigated in in vitro incubations using testosterone and 17-hydroxyprogesterone as precursor and analysis in tlc. The metabolites were separated into ether and watersoluble fractions. Levels of oestrogens and testosterone in females were low from February to May and were at their maximum in August. In males the levels of oestrogens were at their maximum and the level of testosterone at its minimum in February. In August the level of testosterone was at its maximum and the levels of oestrogens at their minimum in the plasma. The metabolism of testosterone in the skin was at its minimum when the daylight period was shortest and at its maximum in May. In late August, when the day was becoming shorter the metabolic efficiency was reduced. The efficiency of 17-hydroxyprogesterone metabolism seemed to decrease while that of testosterone increased. No watersoluble metabolites were detected.
23735569|This is a study of the food habits of the arctic fox Alopex lagopus by analyzing scats (faeces) collected at seven arctic fox dens in Sylane at the border between Norway and Sweden (n=518 scats), and at one den at Finse (n=100), both in south Norway. A note on the food habits of the red fox Vulpes vulpes in the alpine region (2 dens in Sylane) is also included (n=60). Most scats contained only hairs of small rodents and they represent primarily the food of pups. The scats of arctic foxes in Sylane contained on average 73.9% (of occurrence, range 4787%) lemmings Lemmus lemmus and 21.3% voles. At Finse, lemmings constituted 94% and voles 3%. The scats of red foxes contained 10.6% lemmings and 89.5% voles. Other prey species were infrequent both in arctic and red fox scats. Arctic foxes consumed least lemmings at the den of lowest altitude and in years of less abundance of lemmings, but the proportion of lemmings and voles in the field was not known in any year. Consequently, the hypothesis that arctic foxes prefer lemmings and red foxes prefer voles needs further study.
23734582|The Finnish line-transect method has been used generally in Latvia since 1980, and since 1983 it has been used in ornithological monitoring and in computing relative densities of common species in different habitats. Because of the longer breeding season in Latvia than in Finland, each route was counted four times during the breeding season. Only material from Latvia was used for calculating species-specific coefficients of detectability (k). The data were grouped according to the value of the total main-belt percentage of the observations in the counts, and this has several advantages. It is suggested that the coefficient k obtained in such a way compensates for the influence on the total breeding density results, on the density and development of the vegetation, on bird singing activity, on the relative number of "loud" birds, and on the variation in the individual skills of the observers. The results show that it is important to adapt the Finnish line-transect method for application in different situations.
23736108|Three different procedures have been used to propagate pikeperch in Germany, all requiring spawners that have been reared in ponds at favourable nutritional conditions. The simplest method of propagation is to spawn pikeperch in ponds. Semi-artificial reproduction is possible in cages or basins. Good results are obtained by inducing spawning after hypophysation and artificial insemination. Egg adhesiveness must be neutralized and eggs incubated in Zug jars at water temperatures of about 1618C. It is advisable to use well-prepared nursing ponds for advanced fry rearing. To produce one-summer-old fingerlings in polyculture, the proper food supply in the pond is very important. An adequate density of prey fish is a prerequisite for the harvest of large fingerlings in autumn which are well suited for a successful stocking in natural waters.
23736701|Salamandra salamandra is a polymorphic species with seven endemic subspecies in the Iberian Peninsula. Assignment of populations to subspecies in many areas is controversial because of discrepancies between morphological or molecular datasets. One potential intermixing area includes the Sistema Central Mountains, inhabited by S. s. almanzoris, a subspecies with a restricted distribution. In order to delimit the distribution area of S. s. almanzoris, we obtained sequences of the cytochrome-b gene in 84 individuals representing 26 populations covering the potential range of this subspecies and scored variation at 33 nuclear loci in ten of these populations through allozyme electrophoresis. S. s. almanzoris is fragmented into three disjoint groups of populations in the Sierras of Gredos, Guadarrama and San Vicente. The observation of (i) discordance between mtDNA and allozymes; (ii) coexistence of divergent mtDNA haplotypes in two populations; and (iii) discordance between external morphology and mtDNA haplotypes in different populations suggests recent events of secondary contact between S. s. almanzoris and other lineages within S. salamandra in the lowlands of the Sistema Central. We discuss the implications of these findings for the management of S. s. almanzoris populations in central Spain.
23736096|We developed a series of relationships between components of fish bioenergetic model and environmental variables using data for twenty-six combinations of three age classes and eleven perch populations. Perch growth decreased as total fish numerical abundance increased. Growth, consumption, and activity rates decreased with the increase of the percent contribution of small prey to the invertebrate community. Furthermore, consumption and activity rates were negatively related to the biomass of the total invertebrate community but positively related to water transparency. Our analyses offer a more quantitative framework to the suggestion that perch growth and consumption rates may be negatively affected by eutrophication.
23731749|When the haematocrit reading increased during in vitro incubation of blood of rainbow trout (Salmo gairdneri Richardson), the plasma K+ concentration fell and Mg++ concentration rose.
23734108|Predation by Potamonectes larvae was investigated in temporary rock pools. Of 350 prey individuals collected, 84 % were chironomid larvae and 8 % Potamonectes larvae. The main factor influencing prey selection was the ability of other prey types to escape approaching predators. Successive developmental stages of the predator preferred different size classes of prey, small individuals being reluctant to attack large prey. Chironomid larvae in bottom sediment were not attacked. Prey refuges and cannibalism contribute to the stability of predator-prey interaction.
23734186|79 short sediment cores were taken from surficial sediments of eutrophicated Lake Vanajavesi, which for a hundred years has been under pressure by waste water loading, mainly from the wood-processing industry. The grain-size distribution, water, organic and zinc contents were analyzed from the uppermost centimetre of these cores in order to map the surficial sediments and to locate representative coring sites. The standard deviation of the grain-size distribution of the surficial minerogenic matter was the most useful parameter indicating the dynamic energy level of the overlying water layers. Unexpected current activity was noted in the deepwater area and the area of accumulation bottoms was small. Four cores were selected from the accumulation bottoms for detailed investigations. Of the analyzed heavy metals, zinc, cadmium and copper showed clear enrichment in the selected profiles. For these elements the max. cultural enrichment factors were 84.6, 6.1 and 2.9, respectively. Zinc was the best tracer for mapping the areal distribution and for giving historical records of industrial waste waters due to the high point-source loading from the chemical industry that has occurred since 1943. Analyses of the dehydroabietic acid content in sediment indicated an abrupt increase since the 1940s in the loading from the wood-processing industry. To check the sedimentation and mixing conditions and the dating possibilities the distribution on 137Cs, 239,240Pu and 210Pb was determined from four profiles. One of them was partly annually laminated, giving an accurate time scale since 1957. In this case dating based on 137Cs and 210Pb (constant initial concentration model, C.I.C.) agreed well with the varve chronology. Other profiles were strongly mixed mainly due to the bioturbation, which decreased the time resolution of historical events. In these cases it proved possible to estimate the mean sedimentation rates (54-72 mg dry matter /cm2/a), mixing depths and time resolution of the cores using the steady-state mixing model of 210Pb distribution. Due to mixing, the peak of 137Cs and 239,240Pu was deeper than expected on the basis of mean sedimentation rate. The time scale derived from 137Cs and 239,240Pu distribution was in accordance with the zinc stratigraphy and known history of zinc loading.
23736769|Many animals, especially mustelids, show a spacing pattern known as intrasexual territoriality in which territorial animals defend areas against individuals of the same sex and there is extensive overlap between sexes. It has been argued that this overlap leads to sharing of food resources between territorial individuals of different sexes which has a net cost for territorial individuals. Several mechanisms have been proposed to reduce competition between sexes, many of them derived from sexual dimorphism, which is closely related to intrasexual territoriality. Among the suggested mechanism is spatial segregation between animals with overlapping areas, although it remains largely untested. We hypothesized that sexual spatial segregation in mustelids could be a consequence of a niche partition in habitat between sexes due to different optimums. We conducted a fine-grained radio tracking survey of seven feral American minks in winter. We compared home ranges, relative spatial positions and characteristics of radio-locations of different sexes. We also considered relative distances between simultaneous locations of overlapping individuals to test for dynamic territorial interactions. There were differences in the home range composition of males and females, and in their relative spatial location, proving spatial segregation between sexes. The comparison of locations showed that females preferred smaller streams as opposed to males that preferred large streams. In addition relative spatial position of female locations was independent of location of males in overlapping pairs, suggesting niche segregation caused by different sexual habitat preferences. Sexual habitat segregation is discussed as a powerful means of avoiding intersexual competition in species exhibiting intrasexual territoriality as a spacing pattern.
23734199|A revision of material previously determined as Wideria antica (370 ad.) revealed the occurrence of 26 adult specimens of W. alticeps (Denis). The distribution probably covers the entire southern part of Finland, but the species is restricted to a very narrow habitat range: very wet, deep, fluffy Sphagnum moss or sodden debris in places with some canopy.
23731669|During the short time since the turn of the century, considerable changes have taken place in the ground-beetle fauna of Fennoscandia. These have mostly involved immigration of new species or expansion of the ranges of those already present. In some cases contraction or fragmentation of the range, due to human activities, has occurred, but only two or three species appear to have become extinct during the period. The expansion of ranges is here attributed either to the transformation of the landscape by human activities, which has favoured species of open land, or to the amelioration of the climate in some parts of Fennoscandia, such as eastern Sweden, where higher temperatures in spring have prolonged the annual period of activity. The result has been a northward shift of the northern limits of certain thermophilous species, notably on the Swedish side of the Baltic Sea. To what extent climatic changes outside Fennoscandia have induced emigration could not be demonstrated. A few cases of human introduction are suggested.
23736850|We studied whether the timing of hatching in the mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) and the common goldeneye (Bucephala clangula) is associated with the timing of lake ice break-up (a local climate index) and the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO, a large-scale climate index), and if the strength of these associations differ between southern and northern populations of the species. In both species, the date of hatching was associated with the date of ice break-up; more clearly so in northern Finland than in southern Finland. The date of hatching was neither associated with the winter NAO (DecemberMarch) nor with the spring NAO (MarchMay). There was no difference between southern and northern populations in terms of the annual differences (in days) between the timing of ice break-up and the timing of hatching. However, in both species, this difference decreased with increasing lateness of the spring in the north, the corresponding trend being less clear in the south.
23736113|The swimming activity of a Baltic population of perch Percafluviatilis was studied by gillnet fishing during a 13 year period in an experimental enclosure receiving cooling water from a nuclear power plant. A distinct seasonal rhythm was observed, correlated with temperature and day-length except for a peak during the spawning period in spring. The timing of the spring activity peak was not affected by the large differences in temperature between years and seemed to be more synchronized by day-length. Swimming activity was strongly related to consumption predicted by a bioenergetics model. The hypothesis that fish abundance may influence the cost of swimming through social interactions could not be supported by the studies, as growth rate remained unchanged although fish abundance increased considerably.
23736869|Human introductions of non-native plants, and subsequent colonization of these plants by herbivores, can be used to study the ecological processes influencing the evolution of insect diet. The seed beetle Stator limbatus has colonized non-native Texas ebony (Ebenopsis ebano) that is grown as an ornamental in Arizona (USA). Texas ebony is not used as a host by S. limbatus where the beetle and plant are naturally sympatric but is used by the sister species to S. limbatus (S. beali). Lines created in an artificial selection experiment were used to test for genetic variation in the ability of S. limbatus larvae to survive on Texas ebony and to examine the role that a native host (blue paloverde, P. florida) plays in facilitating the colonization of Texas ebony. Genetic variation in survival on Texas ebony was present in this S. limbatus population, but the major factor affecting survival was maternal experience with the alternate host  females that encountered paloverde during egg maturation produced offspring that survived > 10-times better on Texas ebony as compared with offspring of females that did not encounter paloverde. This difference was because paloverde stimulated a plastic change in egg composition. Absence of paloverde in the community will reduce larval survival and limit the ability of S. limbatus populations to incorporate Texas ebony into their range of suitable hosts. Blue paloverde provides a stepping stone for colonization of Texas ebony; exposure of mothers to P. florida seeds during egg maturation can increase offspring survival enough that populations do not go extinct before evolving increased survival on the new host, Texas ebony.
23737155|Chemical cues released into the environment from injured prey animals provide a rich source of information about ambient risk. However, these cues could also provide information not associated with predation risk. Here we exposed wood-frog tadpoles (Lithobates sylvaticus) to a control diet and one that was soaked in chemical cues released from injured conspecifics, and documented growth and development of the tadpoles. If animals perceive repeated exposure to injured conspecific cues as indicating a high risk environment, then we predict that tadpoles would reduce foraging, prolonging time to metamorphosis, reducing growth rate and initiating adaptive changes in tail morphology. Conversely, if tadpoles interpret repeated exposure to these chemical cues as an indicator of competitor density, they should increase growth rate and body size to become better competitors. We found that tadpoles exposed to chemical cues exhibited significantly larger body width and body length relative to the control. These patterns are inconsistent with a response to risk but correspond with observed responses of wood-frog tadpoles to increased competition.
23736876|Patterns and variations in the overwinter population change of small mammals (shrews, voles, and mice) were studied on the basis of long-term data collected using snap trapping in autumn and spring 19812005 in southern Finland. In particular, attempts were made to reveal possible negative effects of mild winters on the wintering success of populations. The winter decline in density varied considerably both within and between species and groups. It was not significantly steeper in the coastal than in inland vole populations, but there were significant differences between the local populations of the southern coast. Small mammals seemed to overwinter more successfully in forests than in fields, and the negative effects of mild winters seemed to impact the populations of field habitats. The direct contribution of high ambient temperatures on the overwinter population change seemed to be largely restraining, but especially so in the depth of winter. There seemed to be indirect inverse effects involved. Population density exhibited only minor effects.
23735532|The original chromosome arm nomenclature of the chromosomal races of Sorex araneus L. is based on the Kuhmo (Kuusijoki) population, of Northeastern Finland (Halkka et al. 1974). The North-Finnish and North-Swedish chromosome races have prior to this study been thought to be the same chromosomal race, with racial arm combinations gm, lj, hn, ip, kq and or. We have earlier (1987) cautioned of possible differences in the use of arm symbols m and o in Finland and the rest of Europe. The International Sorex araneus Cytogenetics Committee (ISACC, 1991) has decided to adopt the nomenclature most widespread in Europe, based on the figures of Fredga & Nawrin (1977) from Sweden. Thus, the original Finnish racial nomenclature has to be converted to that suggested by the ISACC. Now, we have found a new chromosome race in Finland from Kilpisjrvi, in the Finnish Lapland. This finding corroborates the racial difference between Northern Finland and Northern Sweden. This race is apparently the same as the race N of Swedish Lapland (S-race N = FIN-race N), with racial arm combinations gm, jl, hn, ip, kq and or (ISACC). The other Finnish races have been converted to the following (ISACC): FIN-race I (Northern Finland): go, jl, hn, ip, kq and mr; FIN-race II (Eastern tip of Finland): og, jl, hn, ip, kr and mq; FIN-race III (Southeastern Finland): gq, jl, hk, ip, mo and nr; FIN-race IV (Central and Southern Finland): gq, jl, hn, ip, ko and mr; FIN-race V (Western coast of Finland): g, k, jl, ip, mq and or; FIN-race VI: (land Islands): jl, ip, g, h, k, m, n, o, q, r. A revised hypothesis on the evolution cascade in the eastern racial group of Sorex araneus L. is presented and discussed.
23734086|Hipparion from Los Valles de Fuentidueas, Segovia, Spain, described as H. primigenium melendezi Alberdi, is compared with H. concudense Pirlot and H. sp. from the Teruel area, Aragon, Spain, and with H. depereti Sondaar from Montredon, Herault, France. Hipparion from Los Valles is not closely related to H. depereti, but is, together with H. sp., considered conspecific with typical H. concudense, the stratigraphic range of which is briefly discussed.
23737110|Most of the boreal forest in Norway is used for forestry, and only 2% of the productive forest is protected. However, low spatial coverage of reserves may be compensated for by higher species' densities and higher number of species so that larger fractions of total population sizes occur inside reserves than their area alone suggests. We compared densities of boreal birds and proportion of known sites for species found within boreal forest reserves and unprotected boreal forest in SE Norway. Point counts showed that neither mean density nor species numbers differed between areas, and only a few species were more common inside reserves. To increase data quantity for rarer species, we used species lists from 429 sites. Several species occurred more frequently inside reserves than outside, and reserves most often had 5%35% of known sites of individual species. Many of the reserves were protected in 1993, when a number of other areas, still unprotected, were proposed as reserves. Logging has occurred in 74% of proposed reserves and 28% of their total area has been logged after 1993. Although boreal forest reserves had higher proportions of known sites for many species than the size of the reserves would suggest, the majority of the populations of most species occurred outside reserves. Thus, the future of boreal bird species in Norway will to a large degree depend on how unprotected forest is managed.
23731367|The variation of the postfrontal pileus in Lacerta vivipara Jacq. is described on the basis of a material of 216 adults or juveniles and 151 embryos from Finland. The frequencies of the different anomalies are presented, and the relations between environmental conditions and the occurrence of the different head-shield patterns are discussed.
23734548|Coniferous forests, shore alder thickets, deciduous forests, shores and meadows were sampled in three regions in S Finland (60N) to survey the earthworm assemblages and their structural and energetic characteristics in relation to environmental and regional variables. Coniferous forests and shores are extreme habitats for earthworms: five species were found in both, and regional means ranged between 32115 ind./m2 and 411 g/m2 (wt. of preserved worms) in coniferous forests and similarly between 46150 ind./m2 and 610 g/ m2 on shores. Epigeic species, particularly D. octaedra, comprised 8997% of the total numbers and 6293% of the earthworm biomass in these biotopes. Meadows and deciduous forests both hosted eleven species. Meadows had 338464 ind./m2 and 47164 g/m2 and deciduous forests had 167265 ind./m2 and 65131 g/m2. The characteristic species comprised deep-burrowers, viz., A. caliginosa, A. rosea and L. terrestris and the epigeic D. octaedra and L. rubellus. L. terrestris totalled 3851% of the earthworm biomass. Shore alder thickets represented an intermediate biotope; the ranges were 56219 ind./m2 and 16 70 g/m2. D. octaedra, L. rubellus and O. tyrtaeum dominated there. The assemblages also differed in their energetics: the estimated mean oxygen consumption ranged from 699 in coniferous forests to 5127 mm3 O2/h/m2 in meadows. The mean rate was, however, about twice as high in coniferous forests as in meadows (97 vs. 52 mm3 O2/h/g of wet wt. of worms). In all biotopes the number of species declined eastwards, and, particularly in rich soils, the numbers and biomasses of epigeic species increased while those of deep-burrowers declined. Southern Finnish earthworm assemblages resemble those of S Sweden but differ from those in central and northern Finland, where the numbers of species and individuals are much lower. Several environmental factors of forests and open biotopes correlated with the number of species and individuals according to the generally increasing fertility of the biotopes in them, but no key factor common to all the different biotopes was found. The species have unequal habitat requirements: epigeic species preferred coniferous forests and/or shores, whereas anesic and endogeic species preferred deciduous forests and/or meadows. In extreme biotopes hardly any significant associations, either positive or negative, between the species were found. In fertile soils negative interactions between some species may occur, but the many positive associations found between the numbers of individuals of several species and of ecological groups of species may be due to the general improving impact of earthworms upon the soil which can facilitate the habitat occupancy of additional species. Most structural differences in earthworm assemblages are, however, attributed to dissimilar habitat requirements of the species.
23735489|The influence of introduced mink (Mustela vison) on an island race of muskrat (Ondatra zibethicus obscurus) was studied in insular Newfoundland using harvest statistics, habitat surveys, and food habits. More mink than muskrats are now being harvested, contrary to elsewhere in North America and predatorprey theory. Paucity of cattail (Typha spp.) in Newfoundland for building and food evidently reduces habitat quality for muskrats, probably rendering them susceptible to mink predation. Muskrats use bank burrows almost exclusively in Newfoundland. Density of muskrats is higher where they build houses with water horsetail (Equisetum fluviatile). Circumstantial evidence suggests that predation of introduced mink on a race of muskrat unadapted to mink, combined with marginal habitat conditions, probably has caused muskrat populations to decline in Newfoundland.
23735784|We show that sustained population oscillations do not necessarily stem from the dynamic properties of a population, or from periodic environmental fluctuations. In particular, we demonstrate that population fluctuations may be sustained by random non-cyclic environmental disturbances. These perturbations reduce breeding success in otherwise stable populations with overshootings in their transient dynamics. When the transition phase from non-equilibrium to equilibrium states is slow, as compared with the frequency and strength of the random fluctuations, and includes overshootings, the dynamics may show fluctuating patterns that are hard to tell apart from regular fluctuations. Population dynamics which include overshootings during transient phases are common in a large variety of population models. As a specific example, we consider the effect of delayed density dependence in a Ricker type model. However, to show that the process can be generalized to different types of models, we also use a nonlinear autoregressive model containing density dependence.
23735670|Several recent field experiments have demonstrated that ambient ultraviolet-B radiation (UV-B; 280315 nm) may cause severe mortality of amphibian embryos. We investigated the effects of ambient UV-B on early embryonic performance of the common frog (Rana temporaria) in subarctic Finland (ca. 6903N, 2050E), where levels of UV-B radiation during the egg laying period are roughly twice as high as those in southern Fennoscandia. We found no evidence for decreased embryonic mortality, decreased frequency of developmental anomalies or improved growth performance of embryos shielded from UV-B as compared with embryos exposed to ambient levels of UV-B. Our results concur with the results of earlier studies with this species conducted in more southern populations, and suggest that current UV-B levels alone are not likely to pose significant threat for the well being of subarctic common frog populations.
23734044|Arctic terns of different ages and their eggs were collected in the archipelago of SW Finland. The DDT and PCB residues of the samples were analysed by gas chromatography. In the adults there was a significant difference between the sexes, contamination being higher in the males, whose livers contained on average 31.4 mg/kg DDT compounds and 80.1 mg/kg PCB compounds in extractable fat. In the females the amounts of these residues were significally smaller (21.4 mg/kg and 38.7 mg/kg, respectively). The reason for the difference is probably that laying females are able to shed part of their pesticide loads, including DDT and especially PCB, into the eggs. DDT contamination of tern eggs was 8.1 mg/kg of lipid weight and that of newly hatched chicks 10.5 mg/kg, the corresponding values for PCBs being 27.7 mg/kg and 44.0 mg/kg, respectively. In chicks 23 weeks old, in contrast, contamination had decreased (mean DDT 2.8 mg/kg and PCBs 10.8 mg/kg). For these reasons, when drawing up models of the accumulation of environmental pollutants along food chains, it is important to state the stages of the life cycle at which samples were taken. No developmental defects in arctic terns could be attributed to chlorinated hydrocarbons during the productivity study in 196573.
23737137|Crossing dispersal barriers with hostile environments is difficult for species with low environmental tolerance. Thus low environmental tolerance could result in small geographic ranges. In the case of mainland biotas, where mountain ranges are important dispersal barriers, this means species range size would decrease with the species inability to tolerate high altitude conditions. This idea predicts endemic species are more sensitive to elevational barriers than non-endemic species, other things being equal. Here, I test this prediction in the Mediterranean herpetofauna (southern Europe), using reported maximum altitude as a surrogate for tolerance to altitude. After correcting for sampling effects (influence of range size on reported altitude), phylogeny, and topographic biases (regional availability of maximum altitudes), a strong pattern is revealed: endemic amphibians and reptiles reach lower maximum altitudes than non-endemic counterparts. This suggests range size is controlled by the species ability to cross elevational barriers. Available data suggest this may be a general trend among endemics from mainland biotas.
23734127|The morphological variation and population structure of muskrats were studied using muskrat carcasses (n=637) collected in spring from trappers in four areas in Finland. In the cohort born during the previous summer ("young"), males were larger than females (body and carcass weight, skull length); in animals that were one year older ("old"), sexual dimorphism was less prominent in weight but significant in skull length. Tooth wear was greater in males (young), resulting in lower molar index values. Muskrats showed greater body dimensions during the first half of the trapping season (April) than during the second half (May), probably because of intraspecific competition (social dominance). The animals differed in size and molar wear between the localities and also between several habitats within a local population. Large size correlated with low molar wear, both characteristics depending on the availability and quality of food in the habitat. In order to describe habitat suitability, growth index values were calculated by dividing the carass weight by the amount of the tooth wear. The relative densities of muskrat populations were highest and the animals were largest and had the highest growth indices in habitats with a good supply of high quality food. In southern Finland Scirpus lacustris is a valuable food for muskrats. Besides macrophyte species composition, the animal condition depend on mussel supply and on water level fluctuations (especially combined with a shallow waterside profile). Muskrats of largest size and high growth index were trapped in rivers with high diversity and abundance of preferential food plant species, relativelity good mussel supply and moderate water level fluctuations. Most (91 %) individuals in the spring populations were young; 9 % were one year older. Only one individual seemed to have overwintered three times. Males predominate over females in catch numbers in both cohorts. The sex ratio remained constant during the spring trapping period.
23737074|During the first few weeks of life, chicks of the capercaillie (Tetrao urogallus) and black grouse (T. tetrix) subsist mainly on insects, of which lepidopteran and hymenopteran larvae are the main components. We studied the breeding phenology of these two species and examined how the timing of breeding was related to the temporal distribution of their larval food source. During a five-year survey, capercaillie mated and hatched consistently four to six days before black grouse. Depending on the vegetation type, the number of larvae ( 2 mm in length) increased between five and ten times within 10 days, and hatching coincided roughly with the peaks in larval numbers. Due to body growth, however, larval abundance in terms of volume was reached later and occurred 89 and 1314 days after the mean hatching dates in the two species, respectively. Slightly later development of Hymenoptera as compared with that of Lepidoptera contributed in extending the period of high larval abundances for more than one week. The timing of breeding of the two species appears, therefore, to match the temporal distribution of insect food for the fast-growing chicks as they hatch several days before the peak in larval volumes. In one year, when mating was advanced, presumably due to exceptionally warm weather before mating (yet the temporal abundance of larvae was unchanged), breeding success was higher than in years when mating occurred later.
43923480|Due to their reclusive nature, information on the population structure of many bat species is lacking or scarce. The pattern of small scale population genetic structure could reveal the degree of gene flow among colonies, and the evolutionary consequences of short-distance dispersal. In this study, we used nine microsatellite loci to assess the small-scale genetic population structure of Daubenton's bats in the Archipelago Sea comparing it to samples from sites elsewhere in Finland and Europe. The Archipelago Sea is a highly variable environment with possible dispersal barriers. Our results indicate a low level of population genetic structuring among the populations sampled. We found significant isolation by distance in both sexes, indicating a gradual increase of population differentiation across a large geographic scale. In Finland alone, isolationby-distance was also found, with high levels of gene flow among local populations. Isolation-by-distance was stronger in females, suggesting that males disperse longer distances.
23731646|In the bottom sediments of the profundal of Lake Pijnne the maximum of all species or groups of the macro- and meiofauna at depths below 30 m seems to be near the surface of the sediment. On an average 58.4 % of the macrofauna was in the 2 uppermost and 86.7 % in the 6 uppermost cm. For the meiofauna the corresponding figures were 78.3 and 99.1 %. In the more polluted areas the macrofauna lives deeper in the sediment than in the cleaner parts of the lake. It is suggested that here the redox potential is less favourable near the surface of the sediment than in the deeper layers. Differences in numbers of individuals of the bottom macrofauna and meiofauna in different parts of the lake are discussed, as well as the relations between the numbers of bottom fauna and the primary productivity. In the most polluted northern part of the lake the dominant forms of the macrofauna are Tubifex tubifex and Chaoborus flavicans, in the clean southern part Pisidium conventus, Peloscolex ferox, Tanytarsini, Tanypodinae, Lumbriculidae, and Tubifex tubifex. In the northern part the dominant forms of the meiofauna are Cyclopoida, in the southern part Nematoda, Cyclopoida and Harpacticoida.
23736210|We reviewed growth, annual survival, length distributions, and age distributions for unexploited lake whitefish (Coregonus clupeaformis) populations. We compared Von Bertalanffy growth curves, catch-curve annual survival, and age distributions based on fin-ray and scale ages for 10 populations and found that growth was slower, annual survival higher, and there were many more age groups in the populations when using fin-ray ages than when using scale ages. The average annual survival of populations based on scale ages was 47% yr-1 and 74% yr-1 based on fin rays. Independent markrecapture estimates of annual survival for two populations were almost identical to those based on fin-ray ages. We believe that growth has been overestimated and annual survival underestimated for many unexploited populations when these have been based on scale ages.
23734551|The effect of beaver flood on the riparian vegetation, aquatic invertebrates and waterfowl broods of a creek was studied in southern Finland in a barren watershed area. The vegetation and invertebrate communities, as well as waterfowl brood use, in a section of a creek were monitored before artificial damming in 1984 and thereafter during the first three years of inundation (19851987). The flooding tolerance of floodplain trees differed markedly. As early as 1985, grey alders exhibited pronounced signs of stress, whereas willows were still in fairly good condition in 1987. Most of the macrophyte stands became considerably thinner during the three years of inundation, although the species composition was not radically altered. Potentilla palustris tolerated flooding very well. The benthic invertebrate communities of the littoral and river bed changed in slightly different directions during inundation. In the littoral, the most numerous forms were chironomids and Asellus. In the river bed Pisidium abounded, together with chironomids. The limnic forms of the littoral, particularly Eurycercus, were most abundant during the first year of flooding. The study suggests that the beaver can act as a keystone species by affecting the structure of riparian communities. The waterfowl can take advantage of these changes.
23736871|Based on the geographic location of male and female bears shot in Finland in 19542003, we examined regional differences in the population structure of peripheral brown bear (Ursus arctos). More bears were shot in western and northern locations in 19541963 than in 19931998. Between 19541963 male and female bears were shot in equal proportions, whereas between 19932003 more males than females were shot in western and northern locations. During 19681995, the population growth rate was strikingly higher in southern than in northern parts of Finland. Our results provide evidence that the peripheral Finnish brown bear population increases towards both the north and west, which may occur because of a higher harvesting rate in the north and a recent population expansion from the east.
23734459|Laboratory experiments confirm that protein-starved red wood ants of the Formica rufa group and Formica truncorum Fabr. react to the presence of protein baits in the foraging area with alerting and orienting signals resulting in directional recruitment. Evidence is presented that the cause of directional recruitment in F. rufa group ants is a scent trail laid from the bait toward the nest, while "centripetal" recruitment, due to orienting signals provided by scouts returning to the bait from the nest, is of negligible importance. An interesting complication was detected in F. truncorum, which showed adequate communication of direction to a food source in the light, but not in the dark. Alternative explanations for the latter phenomenon are discussed. The laboratory results are related to field observations of red wood ant colonies, which indicate a rather limited use of directional recruitment, because of the stable distribution of resources. It is pointed out, however, that temporary shortages of resources, especially in spring, may have favoured evolution of mechanisms for directional recruitment.
23733738|Blackfly larvae (Diptera: Simuliidae) in a lake-outlet in Finland ingest large quantities of bacteria. The population density of bacteria decreases markedly from the anterior to the posterior of the mid-gut and, if all the digested bacteria are utilised in nutrition, they would provide 14% of the measured total assimilation of larvae.
23735629|Extensive field data show that avian and mammalian predators take more Microtus epiroticus than coexisting Microtus agrestis voles. The different vulnerability of these vole species may arise from prey selection or susceptibility differences between the two vole species. We studied the prey selection and hunting behaviour of the kestrel Falco tinnunculus on two Microtus voles, in addition to how behaviour and group structure in voles affect their vulnerability. The main results were that 1) kestrels do not select either of these species, but 2) susceptibility of the vole species deviates significantly. Falcons were more successful in catching M. epiroticus than M. agrestis, indicating that the latter is better in escaping avian predators and thus may have a lower cost of predation. During the experiment M. epiroticus aggregated more than M. agrestis but group size did not significantly explain capture success. However, solitary M. epiroticus seemed to be predated faster than those in groups. Although our results suggest that the high density of conspecifics may provide protection for vulnerable M. epiroticus, the aggregative distribution in the field and the preference for an open uncovered habitat may expose them to patch-searching predators.
23735574|We examined selection of resting and denning sites by the Eurasian pine marten (Martes martes) in southern boreal Scandinavia. We radio-instrumented and monitored 25 pine martens during 1987 and 19891991 in two managed forest areas at Grims, Sweden, and Varaldskogen, Norway. Pine martens were radio-located at 299 resting sites 358 times, and at 49 denning sites 109 times. Cavities in trees and rotten snags were preferred by adult females as dens for birthing and early rearing of juveniles. Such cavities were rarely used as resting sites. Use of underground resting sites was negatively correlated with mean 24-hour ambient air temperature (Ta). During winter, marten rested underground at Ta significantly lower than when they rested in trees. Selection of resting and denning sites may be influenced by predation risks and energetic constraints. Arboreal cavities for denning and underground sites at thermal cover appear to be important for Scandinavian pine marten. We hypothesize that in areas with cold winter temperatures and/or an abundance of enemies such as the red fox (Vulpes vulpes), the lack of such sites may limit pine marten distribution and abundance.
23733734|Line transect censuses of breeding land birds were made on the mainland of land (about 60N, 20E) in 1975. Over 3000 pairs were observed in a total area of about 8.5 km2. Sixteen different habitats were distinguished in the field, and the census results are given. As a result of a cluster analysis, nine major communities emerged (six forest and three open habitats), with densities ranging from 124 pairs/km2 (rocky pine forest) to 925 pairs/km2 (deciduous grove). Habitat associations of different species were studied numerically, and four main groups were distinguished. These were the species favouring pine forests, spruce forests, luxuriant deciduous and mixed forests, and open habitats. In abundant species habitat amplitude tended to be wide, though a number of rather scarce species also had wide habitat amplitudes. Species favouring spruce forests were generally habitat specialists. Bird species diversity was correlated with vegetation structure (vertical foliage structure and vegetation cover), but lack of a predictive theory makes it difficult to interpret this correlation in causal terms, and it is equally difficult to find causal explanations for certain discrepancies from previous values for the proportions of different taxa as a function of community density.
23732516|During some winters, e.g. 1956/57, 1958/59, 1962/63 and 1966/67, Redpolls remained in Fennoscandia in greater numbers than usual. A statistically significant regression model shows that the number of wintering Redpolls is dependent on the seed crop of birch and rises steeply whenever the crop is above average. The main migration regularly occurs in October. Most migrants (78 %) are young birds. The migration flight is rapid, with an average speed of 70  100 km/day. In addition to the fairly regular migrations, the Redpoll also changes wintering areas. This seems purposeful in the light of its high mortality rates during migration, short life and great reproduction potential.
23731649|The nutrition of the arctic hare in the fjeld district of NE Lapland was studied by trailing 147 hares for about 147 km in winter in 1969/70 and 1971 and carrying out 30 food selection experiments with the help of three hares in summer 1971, offering fresh plants collected from a heath and from a brookside. The most important winter food plants were also analyzed chemically. In winter in 46-62 % of the trails the hares fed on birch. The consumption of juniper varied with the snow depth (0 - 28 %) and in the two winters (3 and 19 %). In 15 % of the trails the hares had fed on willows, especially Salix caprea. The shoots of the juniper and the twigs of S. caprea were found to be more nutritious as food than the twigs of birch. The low consumption of juniper and willows in relation to birch is concluded to be due to their relative scarcity and limited availability in the study area. Arctostaphylos alpina, Empetrum nigrum, Vaccinium myrtillus, V. vitis-idaea, Calluna vulgaris, grasses and mosses served as interseasonal food. In the food selection experiments captive hares preferred the leaves and young stems of willows collected both from the heath (S. caprea and S. repens) and from the banks of the brook (S. caprea, S. lapponum and S. phylicifolia). Solidago virgaurea took second place in both sets of experiments. Carex spp. (C. aquatilis, C. canescens and C. rostrata) and Cornus suecica were preferred to birch. The hares consumed Vaccinium spp. and other twigs in small amounts.
23734126|A revision of Finnish material of the spiders determined as Philodromus aureolus and Xysticus cristatus proved that both groups consisted of two species: Ph. caespitum (Walckenaer) from all over Finland, Ph. aureolus (Clerck) from the land Islands in the SW, X. audax (Schrank) from all over Finland to the coast of the Arctic Ocean, and X. cristatus (Clerck) to ca. 66N. X. audax is found mainly in coniferous trees, X. cristatus in meadow vegetation. The diagnostic characters of the species are given.
23735546|In the dance fly species Empis borealis (L.) (Diptera, Empididae), females (140) gather to swarm at landmarks and males carrying an insect prey visit these swarms for mating. Sun exposure was necessary for swarming and windy conditions abrupted swarming totally. Under favourable climatic conditions, swarming persisted for most of the day, starting at 08.00 and continuing until 19.0020.00 (local time), at temperatures ranging from 8 to 21C. Swarming activity during the day showed no major variation. The mean number of swarming females at the swarm-sites and the number of swarm-sites used declined during the flight period. During female swarming activity, male visiting rate and mating frequency were independent of temperature. The number of males visiting swarm-sites, mating frequency and male visiting frequency calculated per female (used as a measurement of the operational sex ratio) declined during the flight period. The male visiting frequency declined more rapidly than the number of swarming females, indicating that males may have a higher mortality rate than the females. The proportion of visiting males which mated in swarms was independent of date although prey availability and female mating status varied. Thus, the male degree of choosiness was similar throughout the flight period. Swarming behaviour in the female sex is an adaptive behaviour in E. borealis and does not seem to be influenced by resource availability, habitat quality, mating frequencies, sex ratios, or abiotic factors.
23731663|Fresh cow droppings were placed in a field, in a pine forest site and in a spruce forest site in southern Finland, in order to study the habitat selection of the dung-inhabiting Staphylinids in relation to the age of the dung and to certain environmental factors, such as season, temperature and light. A material comprising 133 Staphylinid species (49317 individuals) was collected during regular inspections performed 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 15, 20, 25 and 30 days after the deposition of the dung. The differences observed in the local distribution and abundance of the species are described and the environmental factors causing these differences are discussed. On an average, the coprophagous species remained in the droppings for a shorter time than the carnivores. The maximum abundance of the Staphylinids was observed in four-day-old heaps, but different species showed different preferences as to the age of the dung. Some changes occurred in the local distribution of the species during the season, probably mainly owing to the changes in temperature and light conditions. The reasons for the differences in abundance and habitat preference of the various species are discussed and some data on the phenology of the species are given.
23732514|The diel periodicity of the drosophilid Chymomyza costata (Zett.) was examined in the subarctic by trapping with malt-fruit baits. In the continuous daylight prevailing on 17. VII the species exhibited only one activity peak in the afternoon. In a shady locality this peak coincided with the diel thermal maximum but in an open field it occurred considerably later. It is suggested that low temperature and bright sunshine inhibit the activity of C. costata, whilst low relative humidity does not seem to be inhibitory.
23735913|Little is known about how anthropogenic changes in nature affect reproduction in social insects such as ants. We studied the effects of clear-cutting on the production of sexual offspring and on the mound size in Formica aquilonia, using neighbouring uncut forests as controls. Nest mounds were smaller in clear-cuts, apparently because they tended to be new bud nests. The basal area of nest mounds decreased towards forest edges. The production of sexual offspring increased with nest mound size. Clear-cutting reduced the production of sexual offspring also when the effect of nest mound size had been factored out. Our results show that anthropogenic changes do have the potential to modify the production of sexual offspring in social insect.
23734715|Seasonal changes in the food of the Tengmalm's owl during the first half of the year were studied in western Finland from 1973 to 1985. In peak vole years the proportion of the most preferred prey (Microtus voles) in the food peaked at the end of March but after the middle of April their number was relatively constant. In other years their proportion was highest in winter and thereafter it decreased continually. In good vole years, bank voles were most often taken at the turn of AprilMay but in other years as early as the end of March and the beginning of April. The proportions of shrews and birds in the diet increased as the breeding season proceeded. Nestlings and young birds formed an important prey group in June. The results showed that the Tengmalm's owl reacts opportunistically to the changes in the availability of prey. These changes were caused by variation in the snow and vegetation cover, and in the abundance and behaviour of prey animals. Foraging theory predicts that a predator should widen its food niche when the preferred prey types become scarce, and shrink it when they become abundant. This was observed in the Tengmalm's owl during the breeding period.
