10.2307/2395210|Trichilia verrucosa C.DC. is considered distinct from Trichilia cipo (A. Juss.) C.DC. Both species are described and the differences between them are discussed. Their range and a list of specimens cited is also given.
10.2307/3298531|Tropical island ecosystems appear to be especially vulnerable to invasive species as indicated by the often high numbers and percentages of exotic species on oceanic and continental islands. Here I reexamine hypotheses offered to account for the apparently high invasibility of tropical islands and suggest a simple synthesis based on resource availability, propagule supply, and relative competitive abilities of exotic and island species. This review suggests that fundamentally two interacting processes-high net resource availability and poor ability of native species to preempt those resources-make island communities vulnerable to the establishment and spread of alien species. In addition, historically high rates of introduction have provided opportunity in the form of a diverse and abundant propagule rain of exotic species. The combination produces a scenario that is not an optimistic one for island ecosystems. It suggests that these native ecosystems on islands are particularly vulnerable to naturalizing exotics growing on their borders, and that while disturbance from a variety of causes, including pigs, fire, grazing, and natural dieback of the canopy dominants, increases the opportunities for exotic incursions, even intact forests are not immune. Unless these forests are aggressively managed and alien propagule pressure reduced, they will be highly modified by expanding exotic plant populations. Tropical islands are an effective early warning system of the impacts that successive waves of exotic species invasions may cause to isolated ecosystems. As mainland natural areas become fragmented, degraded and depauperate, they acquire many of the ecological attributes of islands, including limited habitat area, missing functional groups, declining species diversity, and disturbed habitats. A better understanding of invasions on islands may improve our attempts to protect both mainland and island ecosystems from the impacts of exotic species.
40035727|Plant microfossil and macrofossil associations obtained from six dated sections from the area of the basin of Bogot (2550 m, Eastern Cordillera, Colombia) show the evolution of the late Neogene Andean montane forest, triggered by the Andean orogeny. Progressive adaptation of warm tropical taxa to cool montane conditions, evolution of new neotropical montane taxa, and immigration of temperate Laurasian, Holarctic, and Austral-Antarctic elements gave shape to the present-day montane forest. Vegetational characteristics inferred from fossil plant associations reveal the altitude at the time of deposition. Neogene forests are floristically compared with contemporary forests at comparable altitudinal intervals in the surroundings of the Bogot basin; however, the absence of taxa that had not yet arrived, or evolved, is most salient and shows that non-analogue plant communities are common. The main phases of montane forest development are: (1) pre-uplift phase of the late Miocene with abundant lowland taxa with tropical or neotropical affinities (Mauritia Kunth, Amanoa Aubl., Ceiba Miller, and representatives of Humiriaceae); montane forest rich in Podocarpaceae (potentially including Nageia Gaertn., Podocarpus L'Hr., Prumnopitys Phil., and Retrophyllum C. N. Page) covered other previously uplifted areas in the region; (2) toward the early Pliocene the area was uplifted to ca. 1000 m; the relative proportion of temperate taxa of North American and southern South American stock increased and occupied the slopes of the low mountains; and (3) by the middle Pliocene uplift had proceeded to ca. 2000-2200 m and tropical lowland taxa, which are now restricted to altitudes below 1000 m, are no longer recorded in the fossil plant associations; the increase in the number of newly appearing montane taxa (Myrica L., Turpinia Vent., Gunnera L., Bocconia L., Gaiadendron G. Don f., Daphnopsis C. Martius, and Monnina Ruiz & Pav.) suggests a significant increase of diversity. Until the late Pliocene there is little to no evidence for the existence of the pramo; taxa such as Xyris L., Hypericum L., Carex L., Montia L., and Ranunculus L. might have formed swamp or bog vegetation only. It is believed that these taxa colonized mountaintops with half-open vegetation; these areas extended when the mountains reached above upper forest line elevations. The distribution areas of the endemic genera of the Espeletiinae largely coincide with the youngest parts (< 5 Ma) of the northern Andes. Changing climatic conditions forced individual plant species to migrate vertically. Composition of plant communities changed continuously and vegetation belts frequently were altitudinally squeezed or offered possibilities for expansion. This long process stimulated speciation and provoked sequential non-analogue vegetation types. Thus, the biodiversity hotspot of the northern Andes has a dynamic history. /// Los microfsiles de plantas y asociaciones de macrofsiles obtenidos de seis secciones fechadas del rea de la cuenca de Bogot (2550 m, Cordillera Oriental, Colombia) demuestran la evolucin del bosque andino del Negeno tardo, accionado por la orogenia andina. La adaptacin progresiva de taxones tropicales calidos hacia las condiciones fras montanas, la evolucin de nuevos taxones neotropicales montanos y la migracin de elementos templados laursicos, holrticos y austral-antrticos dieron forma al bosque montano actual. Las caractersticas de la vegetacin deducidas de las asociaciones de plantas fsiles revelan la altitud al momento de los depsitos. Los bosques negenes se comparan florsticamente con bosques contemporneos a intervalos altitudinales comparables en los alrededores de la cuenca de Bogot; sin embargo, la ausencia de taxones que todava no haban llegado, o desarrollado, es sobresaliente y demuestra que las comunidades de plantas no anlogas son comunes. Las fases principales del desarrollo del bosque montano son: (1) fase pre-levantamiento del Mioceno tardo con abundancia de taxones de las tierras bajas con afinidades tropicales o neotropicales (Mauritia Kunth, Amanoa Aubl., Ceiba Miller y representantes de Humiriaceae); un bosque montano rico en Podocarpaceae (potencialmente incluyendo Nageia Gaertn., Podocarpus L'Hr., Prumnopitys Phil. y Retrophyllum C. N. Page) cubra otras reas previamente levantadas en la regin; (2) hacia el Plioceno temprano el rea se elev ca. 1000 m; la proporcin relativa de taxones templados de origen norteamericano y suramericano meridional aument y ocup las vertientes de las montaas bajas; y (3) hacia el Plioceno medio, el levantamiento haba llegado hasta ca. 2000-2200 m y taxones tropicales de las tierras bajas, que actualmente se restringen a las altitudes bajo los 1000 m, ya no se registran ms en los registros fsiles de asociaciones de plantas; el aumento del nmero de taxones montanos nuevos (Myrica L., Turpinia Vent., Gunnera L., Bocconia L., Gaiadendron G. Don f., Daphnopsis C. Martius y Monnina Ruiz y Pav.) sugiere un aumento significativo de la diversidad. Hasta el Plioceno tardo, hay poco a ninguna evidencia de la existencia del pramo; taxones como por ejemplo Xyris L., Hypericum L., Carex L., Montia L. y Ranunculus L. pudieron haber formado slo vegetacin de los pantanales o las turbas. Se cree que estos taxones colonizaron las cimas de las montaias con vegetacin semi-abierta; estas reas se extendieron cuando las montaas alcanzaron elevaciones sobre el lmite superior del bosque. Las reas de distribucin de los gneros endmicos de Espeletiinae coinciden en gran parte con las regiones ms jvenes (< 5 Ma) de los Andes del norte. Condiciones climticas cambiantes forzaron a especies individuales de plantas a migrar verticalmente. La composicin de las comunidades de plantas cambia continuamente y los cinturones de vegetacin fueron comprimidos altitudinalmente o se ofrecieron posibilidades de expansin. Este largo proceso estimul especiacin y provoc tipos de vegetacin secuenciales no anlogos, As el punto caliente de biodiversidad de los Andes del norte tiene una historia dinmica.
10.2307/2395337|The taxa of Ficus are classified on the basis of the specificity and morphology of their symbiotic wasps (Agaonidae), systems of pollination, and morphology and physiology of the figs. The new classification is a modification of Corner's system with the following changes. In subgenus Ficus, subsection Eriosycea is elevated to sectional rank. Series Rivulares and Pseudopalmae do not belong to the group of Blastophaga-pollinated figs and are transferred to the new Cerotosolen-pollinated complex of subgenus Sycomorus. Two subsections, Scabrae and Varinga, are recognized in section Sycidium, and series Phaeopilosae and subsection Paleomorphe are recognized as sections. The subgenus Sycomorus is much expanded to include eight sections: Adenosperma, Neomorphe, Prostratae, Pungentes, Pseudopalmae, Rivulares, Sycocarpus, and Sycomorus.
10.2307/2399816|A revision of the South American woody bamboo genus Atractantha is presented, including a key to the species, and descriptions, illustrations, and distribution maps for all five recognized taxa. The Bahia (Brazil) species A. aureolanata and A. cardinalis, both with large, attenuate florets but differing in culm leaf morphology, foliage leaf blade width, and lemma indument, are newly described. Possible affinities of Atractantha with Alvimia, Arthrostylidium, and Elytrostachys are discussed.
10.2307/2395258|Wood anatomy of Epilobium colchicum subsp. colchicum, Fuchsia excorticata, and Hauya heydeana is described qualitatively and quantitatively. For the latter two species, large logs were available and wood portions from both inside and outside were analyzed. Although these three species offer no features new for Onagraceae, each adds features new for its respective genus. By means of numerical indices which are termed vulnerability and mesomorphy, respectively, values are presented to show the range in ecological characteristics of woods of the three species, as well as of all Onagraceae studied earlier. Onagraceae show a wide range in these indices and probably form a good model of what use indices in families with a broad ecological range will demonstrate. Wood from inside of logs of Fuchsia excorticata and Hauya heydeana is more xeromorphic than wood from the periphery.
10.2307/2394925|This monograph recognizes 29 species, 2 subspecies, and 14 formae in the Americas. Conventional means have been employed in determining species limits. The genus is divided into five sections, of which two are described variety is accorded specific rank. Eleven taxa have been altered in rank, 17 proposed names are reduced to synonymy under other taxa of ageratum, and eleven names are removed from the genus. Chromosome numbers are reported for the first time for four species, three chromosome numbers are confirmed, and corrected determinations are made for vouchers of nine previously published chromosome numbers. Taxonomic literature, history of cultivation, economic uses, common names, geography, and generic relationships are discussed. New keys, ecological data, and flowering and fruiting dates are included for the species and the intraspecific taxa. There are 16 distribution maps and illustrations of the new species.
10.2307/2399403|As determined from root tip mitoses, three of the four species of the endemic Cape genus Oldenburgia have the same diploid chromosome number, 2n = 36, and a similar karyotype of small submetacentric to metacentric chromosomes. Base number in the genus is presumed to be x = 9, and Oldenburgia is probably a paleotetraploid relict. It has no close relatives in Africa, and it seems to be most closely related to a group of arborescent South American genera of Gochnatiinae, perhaps the most primitive subtribe of Mutisieae.
10.2307/2399796|The coastal desert of north-central Chile supports a rich but poorly known flora. Here, we document the importance of the annual and perennial habits in the flora of Lagunillas (30
10.2307/2399268|Chromosome numbers are reported for 19 species in eight families of flowering plants of Madagascar. Included are first reports for 14 species. First counts for the genera Kaliphora (n = 16) and Haronga (n = 10) also are presented. A new low number (n = 7) is reported for the genus Vernonia, and the possible allopolyploid origin of New World taxa of the genus based on x = 17 is discussed.
10.2307/2399070|Experimental studies demonstrate that up to 20% of the individuals of Atriplex canescens and other species of the genus can alter their sexual state from one season to the next. Approximately 5% of the A. canescens individuals changed from an exclusively pistillate phenotype to an exclusively staminate phenotype or vice versa. Another 5% of the individuals changed their primary sexual emphasis, e.g., from an exclusively pistillate condition to a dominantly staminate, monoecious condition. In addition, 10% of the population changed from a unisexual state to a monoecious state in which staminate and pistillate flowers were approximately equal in number (or vice versa). In Atriplex canescens, sex change occurred in response to three stresses: an unusually cold winter, drought, and prior heavy seed set. When placed under stress, pistillate individuals are significantly more likely to change sex than staminate individuals. The ability to change sex appears to confer a survival advantage to the individual. Plants which change sex also appear to begin reproducing earlier than pistillate plants while producing as many seeds as pistillate plants do. Thus individuals that change sex appear to have some reproductive advantages in the population studied.
10.2307/2992086|The temperate deciduous forest of North America is more diverse than the deciduous forest of western Europe. This difference has traditionally been explained by greater survival in North America of deciduous species during the Quaternary. More recent investigations have shown, however, that late-Tertiary forests of Europe had already become dominated by conifers, with deciduous angiosperms a minor component. During the Quaternary, coniferous species and genera were lost from the European flora, leaving a few species and genera of angiosperms as the dominant trees. Cold, dry, continental climate during the glaciations caused the extinction of conifers; deciduous trees apparently survived these climatic conditions in pockets of favorable habitat in the eastern Mediterranean region. In eastern North America, in contrast, temperate deciduous forests are quite similar to the forests that were present in the late Tertiary. During the Quaternary, relatively few extinctions occurred, although deciduous angiosperms were displaced from the Appalachian mountains, surviving in small populations in the lower Mississippi valley or on the southern coastal plain. Coniferous forests dominated by spruce grew in the Great Plains, and forests dominated by pine grew on the southern part of the Atlantic coastal plain. At the opening of the Holocene, and presumably at the beginning of all the previous interglacials, tree distributions changed dramatically as temperate species rapidly extended their ranges northward. Range boundaries have continued to change throughout the Holocene, as expansions and contractions of range have occurred as the result of climatic change. Quaternary climatic history caused dramatic changes in the forests of both areas, indicating that modern species distributions can no longer be considered relicts of Tertiary distributions. Throughout the Quaternary, species ranges have changed in response to changes in regional climate; many forest communities are of recent origin, having received their present complements of tree species within the last 5,000 years. Forest communities in Eastern North America and in Western Europe as well have been invaded repeatedly during the Holocene by forest species expanding from refuges far to the south.
10.2307/2398790|Populations of Fuchsia lycioides Andrews are composed of small-flowered female plants and an equal number of larger-flowered hermaphrodites, which may be female fertile, or morphologically or physiologically female sterile. A major selective force driving the evolution of separate sexes in F. lycioides is suggested to be the partitioning of limited resources associated with pollinator maintenance and fruit production in a semi-arid mediterranean climate. The hummingbird Rhodopsis vesper atacamensis is the only known pollinator, and appears to be energetically dependent upon F. lycioides. Hermaphrodites are facultative in their fruit production, produce as much as six times more nectar than females, and feed birds both prior to flower opening and during anthesis. Females bear abundant fruit and produce only a relatively small amount of nectar during anthesis. Nectar production is extremely variable in both sexes but is unpredictable in hermaphrodites and apparently predictable in females. The unpredictability of hermaphrodite nectar production may be a key factor permitting the evolution of resource partitioning into large-flowered bird-feeding pollen plants and small-flowered reproductive individuals.
10.2307/2992093|The biovulate subfamily Oldfieldioideae of Euphorbiaceae, characterized by spiny pollen, is an otherwise apparently diverse assemblage of mostly Southern Hemisphere trees and shrubs that traditionally have been allied with genera of Phyllanthoideae and Porantheroideae sensu Pax and Hoffmann. Although fairly diverse anatomically, the following structures characterize the subfamily with only a few exceptions: pinnate brochidodromous venation with generally randomly organized tertiary and higher order venation; foliar and petiolar glands absent; unicellular or unbranched uniseriate trichomes; latex absent; mucilaginous epidermis or hypodermis; brachyparacytic stomata; vessel elements with simple perforation plates and alternate, often very small, intervascular pits; thick-walled nonseptate imperforate tracheary elements; numerous narrow heterocellular rays; and abundant axial xylem parenchyma in diffuse to somewhat banded patterns and often bearing prismatic crystals. Anatomically, the shrubby Australian ericoid genera form a well-defined group with obvious affinities to the more arborescent Australasian genera, which show clear relationships to each other; the African and neotropical genera bearing compound leaves form another distinct group; the remaining genera are somewhat more isolated and seem to represent, in various cases, elements that are primitive within the subfamily or elements derived from the group bearing compound leaves. Presence of theoid teeth and palmately compound leaves in Oldfieldioideae are features consistent with Dilleniid origin for Euphorbiaceae.
10.2307/2992084|The close floristic relationship and disjunct occurrence of many plant taxa between eastern Asia and eastern North America has been given special attention by many botanists. Formerly some people thought that this close floristic link was a result of extensive migrations mainly through Beringia, but recently plate tectonic studies demonstrated that the opening of the North Atlantic Ocean was completed as late as the middle Eocene and the land bridge (Beringia) between Asia and North America was not available until the Miocene. Thus the extensive migrations via Beringia did not occur before the Miocene. The present paper reviews the Late Cretaceous and Cenozoic vegetation in China, enumerating plant megafossils of the Late Cretaceous and the Cenozoic Periods so far recorded there. One-half to two-thirds of the Late Cretaceous plants and one-fourth to one-half of the Late Eocene taxa seem similar (or nearly identical) to those of North America, and some plants are cosmopolitan in Laurasia. This indicates that these plants must have migrated directly between eastern Asia and eastern North America via Europe. So far as the megafossils are concerned, after the Eocene only a few Chinese species are common with those of North America. So most of the isolated and disjunct genera of eastern Asia and eastern North America are remnants of ancient plants widely distributed all over the Northern Hemisphere. Eastern Asia and eastern North America at present are two relic temperature centers of the Northern Hemisphere.
3298513|This study was designed to investigate phylogenetic and morphological relationships within Cleome, focusing on the South American species. Relationships were inferred from the chloroplast genomic trnH-psbA. Phylogenetic analyses support the monophyly of Cleome and the recognition of three clades within it, which are supported morphologically by seed and pollen characters. The African clade contains only African species (Old World); the Andean and Tarenaya clades include all the New World species, most of which are distributed in South America. The well-suported Andean clade groups the Andean species and contains Podandrogyne nested within it. The Tarenaya clade is formed mostly by species of the spiny section Tarenaya. Although there is little resolution in the deeper nodes of the phylogeny, the results do suggest that some sections/groups are not monophyletic. In general, seed and, to a lesser extent, pollen characters were found to be systematically useful within Cleome.
10.2307/2399759|Generic classification of North American Lycopodiaceae is analyzed in terms of the general factors that govern the recognition of the rank of genus, the character states that determine affinities, the hypothetical common ancestral groundplan, a tree based on these data, and a translation of this information into a classification scheme. The genera segregated here are based primarily on numerous characters of anatomy, chromosomes, spores, and gametophytes. Those groups that are recognized as genera have many distinguishing features, strong gaps separating them from other groups, monophylesis, uniquely derived states, inability to hybridize, and a level of segregation consistent and comparable with generic division in other pteridophytes. The classification adopted is as follows: subfamily Huperzioideae (Phlegmariurus, Huperzia), subfamily Lycopodioideae (Lycopodium, Diphasiastrum), and subfamily Lycopodielloideae (Pseudolycopodiella, Lycopodiella, and Palhinhaea).
10.2307/2398925|The following chromosome counts are reported: Ferraria glutinosa 2n = 40 (Iridaceae); Mortoniella pittieri 2n = 32 (Apocynaceae); Nemopanthus mucronata 2n = 20 (Aquifoliaceae); Balanites aegyptica 2n = 18 (Balanitaceae); Balanops australina 2n = 42 (Balanopaceae); Neochamaelea pulverulentum 2n = 36 (Cneoraceae); Wendtia gracilis 2n = 18 (Ledocarpaceae); Grevea eggelingii 2n = 24 (Montiniaceae); Trophis phillipinensis 2n = 28 (Moraceae); Uncarina grandidieri 2n = 36 (Pedaliaceae); Holodiscus discolor n = 18 (Rosaceae); Meliosma panamensis 2n = 32 (Sabiaceae); Trigonia virens 2n = ca. 20 (Trigoniaceae); Vochysia lomatophylla 2n = 22 (Vochysiaceae); Teedia lucida 2n = 38 (Scrophulariaceae). Counts include three first reports for a family and 10 first reports for genera.
10.2307/2399288|We present an overall study of the seed morphology and anatomy of all Rhizophoraceae (10 inland and 4 mangrove genera). Morphologically seeds are arillate, winged or nonappendaged; both arillate and winged seeds are borne in capsular fruits, and nonappendaged seeds in baccate or indehiscent hard-walled capsules. Seed coat anatomy is diversified in correlation with the seed and fruit morphology, but a well-developed exotesta and a fibrous exotegmen are common to all inland genera. Despite certain minor divergences, the seed coat of different genera of Rhizophoraceae is defined as exotestal, exotestal-exotegmic, or undifferentiated. Different combinations of seed morphological and anatomical features characterize different genera or groups of genera. An overall comparison of seeds and other reproductive characters confirms that in Rhizophoraceae arillate seeds and the presence of a fibrous exotegmen are plesiomorphic features that can be used in searching for related families. Seed morphology and anatomy also support grouping Rhizophoraceae with Elaeocarpaceae and Celastraceae, and the exclusion of Elaeocarpaceae from Malvales. Our comparison further suggests that the seed morphology and anatomy of Rhizophoraceae have evolved as the result of adaptation to different methods of seed dispersal from ant dispersal to dispersal by wind, bird, mammal, or water. We carried out a cladistic analysis of the genera of Rhizophoraceae on the basis of 16 reproductive characters (including those of seed morphology and anatomy). Blepharistemma, Cassipourea, Comiphyton, Anopyxis, Macarisia, and Sterigmapetalum, all inland genera that have been assigned to Macarisieae, are characterized by having many plesiomorphies (particularly a superior ovary). The last three genera have winged seeds and a thinner seed coat (apomorphies), whereas the first three have arillate seeds. Among the four remaining inland genera, which have been assigned to Gynotrocheae, Crossostylis (with arillate seeds) differs greatly from the others in having only one apomorphy (i.e., an inferior ovary); it retains many plesiomorphies. In contrast, Carallia, Gynotroches, and Pellacalyx share a nonappendaged seed and a persistent meso- and endotegmen, both clearly synapomorphies, and Gynotroches and Pellacalyx further share some distinct synapomorphies, suggesting their close affinities. The four mangrove genera-Bruguiera, Ceriops, Kandelia, and Rhizophora-which have been segregated as Rhizophoreae, share many synapomorphies (e.g., an undifferentiated seed coat and the complete lack of the tegmen), and therefore the coherence of Rhizophoreae is not in doubt. Cladistically the mangrove genera are more closely related to Carallia, Gynotroches, and Pellacalyx than to Macarisieae. Based on our cladistic analysis, the traditional infrafamilial classification is revised, and a new tribe Crossostylideae, which consists of Crossostylis only, is proposed.
10.2307/2394839|One novelty, Cienfuegosia rosei, is included in the 24 species recognized in this taxonomic revision of the genus. A new subgeneric classification is presented, with two subgenera and seven sections.
10.2307/2399225|Leaf dimension, degree of leaf rolling or folding, and stomatal densities on adaxial and abaxial leaf surfaces were measured on herbarium specimens of 39 grass species from a range of dry to wet habitats in western Canada. Stomata were counted on vinyl leaf impressions taken from the herbarium specimens. Representative surfaces also were examined using scanning electron microscopy. All species from dry habitats had narrow rolled or folded leaves (4 mm or less). The proportion of stomata on the abaxial surface of species from dry habitats ranged from 0 to 65%, but 56% of the species were strongly amphistomatous. The results were compatible with a conceptual model predicting that rolling, amphistomatous leaves would be selected for habitats in which water supply and demand fluctuate widely on seasonal or diurnal time scales.
10.2307/2395309|A diploid number of 2n = 20 is reported in Carpolyza, in the four species of Strumaria, and four of the five species of Hessea studied. One species, Hessea zeyheri, has 2n = 22. Similarity of karyotypes in all the species with 2n = 20 appears to indicate a close relationship between them. Hessea zeyheri with 2n = 22 may be a link between the x = 10 group and the remainder of the tribe Amaryllideae in which x = 11 is basic. The possible systematic significance of the difference in base number in Hessea zeyheri is explored and a reevaluation of generic limits is suggested.
10.2307/3298558|The three missions of Systematics Agenda 2000 (SA2000)-to inventory Earth's species, to understand their relationships, and to use the latter to create predictive information systems-define an agenda of research for systematic biology. The recognition that systematic knowledge underpins biological knowledge in general, and applied biology in particular, has resulted in an amazing growth in systematics over the past decade. Increasingly, systematics is being used to solve societal problems. This paper describes seven great questions within systematics and discusses their relevance for, and contribution to, conserving and sustainably using biodiversity. These questions fall into four broad categories: Questions about diversity: What is a species? and How many species are there? Questions about phylogeny: What is the Tree of Life? and What has been the history of character transformation? Questions about biogeography: Where are Earth's species distributed? and How have species' distributions changed over time? and Questions about phyloinformatics: How is phylogenetic history predictive?
3298605| El grupo Eriantha de Paspalum comprende cinco especies: P. ammodes, P. erianthoides, P. erianthum, P. guttatum y P. paucifolium, que se distribuyen desde Mxico, en Amrica del Norte, hasta Brasil, Bolivia, Paraguay, Argentina y Uruguay. En el presente tratamiento se definen los caracteres morfolgicos del grupo y se incluye una clave para identificar las especies, descripciones, ilustraciones, fotografas y mapas de distribucin de las mismas. Se discuten las relaciones de Eriantha con taxones afines de Paspalum. Finalmente, se designa un lecttipo para Paspalum erianthum Nees var. strictum Dll. /// Eriantha is an American group of Paspalum with five species distributed from Mexico in North America to Brazil, Bolivia, Paraguay, Argentina, and Uruguay: Paspalum ammodes, P. erianthoides, P. erianthum, P. guttatum, and P. paucifolium. Morphological characteristics of the group are defined, and a key to identify the species, descriptions, illustrations, photomicrographs, and distribution maps are provided. Relationships of Eriantha with related taxa of Paspalum are discussed. Finally, a lectotype was designated for Paspalum erianthum Nees var. strictum Dll. 
10.2307/2399199|Campanulaceae (excluding Lobeliaceae) in North America comprise four genera and 35 species of annual, biennial, and perennial herbs. Generic and specific circumscriptions have been treated variously, and studies of seeds have been few and limited. In this study, seeds of all but one of the native North American species and of selected Eurasian putative relatives were examined with the light and scanning electron microscope. Characteristics of the seeds and their surface cells are described and compared. The seed-coat morphology was found to be relatively uniform, but there are recognizable generic patterns and a number of distinctive individual species. Seeds of Campanula americana, C. divaricata, and the other eastern species of Campanula are each distinctive and do not show the relative uniformity seen within Githopsis, Triodanis, Heterocodon, and the western species of Campanula. Seeds of the recently rediscovered C. robinsiae and of the wide-ranging C. aparinoides are highly distinctive and would appear to set each of these species apart within the genus. However in Triodanis, T. texana stands apart. Seeds of Campanula reverchonii resemble those of Triodanis coloradoensis more than those of other campanulas. Brief speculation on the adaptive significance of seed-coat sculpturing and ornamentation is given.
40035760|Darwin's panoramic view of biology encompassed two metaphors: the phylogenetic tree, pointing to relatively linear (and divergent) complexity, and the tangled bank, pointing to reticulated (and convergent) complexity. The emergence of phylogenetic systematics half a century ago made it possible to investigate linear complexity in biology. Assumption 0, first proposed in 1986, is not needed for cases of simple evolutionary patterns, but must be invoked when there are complex evolutionary patterns whose hallmark is reticulated relationships. A corollary of Assumption 0, the duplication convention, was proposed in 1990, permitting standard phylogenetic systematic ontology to be used in discovering reticulated evolutionary histories. In 2004, a new algorithm, phylogenetic analysis for comparing trees (PACT), was developed specifically for use in analyses invoking Assumption 0. PACT can help discern complex evolutionary explanations for historical biogeographical, coevolutionary, phylogenetic, and tokogenetic processes.
10.2307/2399143|Vasculature and structure of calyces in Lycianthes and some related genera are analyzed to derive more generalized hypotheses on evolutionary trends in similar calyces. The generalized solanaceous calyx is seen as a whorl of five lobes enervated by five primary traces that branch in the lobes to form a pair of lateral veins and minor leaf-like venation. The adjacent laterals fuse basally to form an interconnector vein but are separate distally. There has been a tendency in these genera for the calyx lobes to fuse to higher levels, sometimes right to the top (perfect prefloration). There has been a tendency to fusion of lateral veins to higher levels, which gives rise to ten main traces or ribs in the fused area. The flower must egress from the bud and may do so in several ways. Where calyx prefloration is complete or nearly so, egress must involve stretching or tearing. Thus in Lycianthes, Witheringia, and Capsicum, the calyx becomes thin, with reduced, distorted venation under stretching stresses of floral egress in a region termed the sleeve. A tooth, here meaning any pointed structure accessory to a flower or inflorescence, is nearly ubiquitous in vascular plants, perhaps for protection. When the calyx teeth are completely fused, they no longer function as teeth. In some Solanaceae, this deficiency is remedied by enation of 'secondary' teeth below the sleeve. In Lycianthes they may be enervated by primary traces and fused laterals leading to the ten teeth in two series. These sequences of calyx evolution can be seen in some other families such as the Ericaceae.
40035762|Diadromy, broadly defined here as the regular movement between freshwater and marine habitats at some time during their lives, characterizes numerous fish and invertebrate taxa. Explanations for the evolution of diadromy have focused on ecological requirements of individual taxa, rarely reflecting a comparative, phylogenetic component. When incorporated into phylogenetic studies, center of origin hypotheses have been used to infer dispersal routes. The occurrence and distribution of diadromy throughout fish (aquatic non-tetrapod vertebrate) phylogeny are used here to interpret the evolution of this life history pattern and demonstrate the relationship between life history and ecology in cladistic biogeography. Cladistic biogeography has been mischaracterized as rejecting ecology. On the contrary, cladistic biogeography has been explicit in interpreting ecology or life history patterns within the broader framework of phylogenetic patterns. Today, in inferred ancient life history patterns, such as diadromy, we see remnants of previously broader distribution patterns, such as antitropicality or bipolarity, that spanned both marine and freshwater habitats. Biogeographic regions that span ocean basins and incorporate ocean margins better explain the relationship among diadromy, its evolution, and its distribution than do biogeographic regions centered on continents.
10.2307/2398867| Borrichia Adans. (Compositae: Heliantheae) is a small North American genus of two well-collected species and their hybrid and one species known only from the type collection. Borrichia frutescens (L.) DC. grows in saline habitats along the Atlantic and Gulf coasts from Virginia to the Yucatn. Borrichia arborescens (L.) DC. occurs along the coasts of the northern West Indies and tropical Florida where it hybridizes with B. frutescens. The hybrids were first described as a species B.  cubana Britton & Blake (pro sp.). Borrichia peruviana DC. is known from the vegetative type collection. Borrichia demissa DC. has been excluded from the genus. 
10.2307/2398819|Burmeistera hammelii Wilbur and B. mcvaughii Wilbur are newly described from Panama. Burmeistera obtusifolia, previously known only from Costa Rica, is recorded for the first time from Panama. A key to all Panamanian species of Burmeistera is included.
10.2307/2398989|Control-pollinated interspecific hybrids between Liquidambar styraciflua and L. formosana and between Liriodendron tulipifera and L. chinese were verified by comparison of isoperoxidase banding patterns developed by starch gel electrophoresis of cambial extracts.
10.2307/2398811|The appearance of fossilized silica bodies derived from the leaf epidermis of grasses and of mammalian fossils having high-crowned teeth was nearly simultaneous in lower to middle Eocene strata of Patagonia, where these fossils are associated with dry land sediments that indicate the presence of savannas containing shrubs and traversed by rivers that provided mesic habitats. In North America, the earliest clearly identified grass fossils are stipoid fruits of lower Miocene age, while the oldest mammals having high-crowned teeth are rhinoceroses of Miocene age. The abundant stipoid fruits known from the Miocene and Pliocene Epochs in the central United States indicate that the earliest Miocene species were quite different from modern counterparts, but that early Pliocene species have modern counterparts in the pampas of South America. During the Pleistocene, stipoid grasses ceased to be dominant elements of North American grasslands, being replaced by grasses belonging to the tribes Chlorideae and Andropogoneae. This change was associated with the appearance of a drier, more continental climate and with the appearance of bison and sheep on the North American plains. The evolutionary significance of these coordinated changes is discussed.
10.2307/2399806|Species diversity of neotropical Araceae is greatest in northwestern South America along the Pacific slopes of the Andes in Colombia and adjacent regions of northern Ecuador. This region is the wettest part of the continent and has some of the largest tracts of relatively undisturbed forests. Colombia is the most species-rich area for Araceae. The family occurs virtually throughout the country, but is much more diverse from sea level to about 1,500 m in the Cordillera Occidental. Of the 15 study sites in Colombia, containing eight different Holdridge Life Zones, the most species-rich was the wettest life zone (premontane rainforest transition to tropical wet forest) at near sea level. Species diversity diminishes substantially at higher elevations even in very wet forests, but is moderately rich to at least 1,100 m. The Cordillera Central of Colombia is substantially drier, particularly during a certain part of the year, and has fewer, more widespread species. It is also the area most heavily disturbed. The Cordillera Oriental is the most poorly collected, but appears to be much less diverse in Araceae than the Cordillera Occidental. The one site studied on the eastern side of the Cordillera Oriental showed the presence of an Amazonian element in the flora. This, coupled with its complement of endemic species at higher and middle elevations, may be an indication that the eastern range will prove to be more species-rich than the central range of the Andes in Colombia.
40390048|Analyses of distribution, diversity, endemism, and taxonomic effort for Rubiaceae are reported, based on queries from a World Rubiaceae Checklist database. Rubiaceae are widespread and occur in ail major rgions of the world except the Antarctic Continent, but are predominantly a group in the tropics with greatest diversity in low-to mid-altitude humid forests. A count of Rubiaceae species and genera is given (13,143 spp./611 genera), which confirms that this is the fourth largest angiosperm family. Psychotria L. is the largest genus in the Rubiaceae (1834 spp.) and the third largest angiosperm genus. Most genera (72%) have fewer than 10 species and 211 are monotypic. Calculation of relative species diversity and percentage endemism enables areas of high diversity and endemism to be enumerated, and identifies areas where further field collecting and taxonomic research are required. Endemism is generally high in Rubiaceae, which supports data from recent studies showing that many species have restricted distributions. Given th assumed ecologie sensitivity of Rubiaceae, in combination with a range of other factors including restricted distribution, we suggest that species in this family are particularly vulnerable to extinction. The rate at which new species are being described is inadequate; more resources are required before the diversity of Rubiaceae is satisfactorily enumerated.
10.2307/2399813|In 1961-1962, the author studied the lower Trinity River, Texas, for palynomorph content, as a model of how pollen, spores, and palynodebris reach depositional areas for incorporation in sedimentary rocks. The river was selected partly because it was at that time relatively undisturbed by industry and damming. Three stations were selected for surface and mid-depth water sample collection, 00 in Trinity Bay, 04 on the Trinity River delta, and 09 on the lower Trinity River. Palynomorph loads at 04 and 09 were especially high, often reaching 10
10.2307/2395201|A lineage of short-cycled rusts, Puccinia species, is recorded on 10 genera and 86 species of Saxifragaceae, including 10 sections and various subsections of Saxifraga. These rusts can be arranged approximately in evolutionary sequence. From the rust data it is inferred that Saxifragaceae originated in eastern Asia; migrants radiated early in the Himalayan Region and western North America; a return migrant from North America established Saxifraga in or near Japan; migrants from Japan established slightly advanced Saxifraga groups in the Himalayas and western North America; migrants from the Himalayas (related to Melanocentrae) established moderately advanced Saxifraga groups in Europe and North America; finally Himalayan migrants (related to sect. Kabschia) established sect. Trachyphyllum in Beringia and sects. Xanthizoon, Euaizoonia and Porphyrion in the Alps. These last sections probably evolved during the Pleistocene.
10.2307/2398838|Trinidad and Tobago support populations of three Erythrina species: E. pallida, E. fusca, and E. poeppigiana. We obtained data on visit frequencies of potential avian pollinators over two flowering seasons, as well as supplementary data on pollen loads, nectar secretion and availability, breeding systems, and extrafloral nectaries. These data show that E. pallida is pollinated exclusively by long-billed hummingbird species, whereas passerine birds are apparently more important than hummingbirds as pollen vectors of the large trees E. poeppigiana and E. fusca. Characteristics of flowers and nectar in the three species correlate with these contrasting modes of pollination. Inflorescences of all three species are protected from herbivores through extrafloral nectaries, which attract belligerent ants.
10.2307/2398861| The Madagascan vascular flora which is composed of over 160 families is exceptionally interesting not only because it is prodigiously rich and diversified, but because it has preserved a number of relicts. In this review, presented roughly according to the phylogenetic system of Cronquist, every family has been tentatively, although shortly, analyzed with regard to its composition, origin, and affinity. The hypothesis that the Madagascan flora was a part of the large Cretaceous Gondwanian flora at the time when Angiosperms originated and that the flora became greatly impoverished on the African continent due to far-reaching climatic changes accounts for many present characteristics of the Madagascan flora. In this context the existence of a Madagascan region sensu lato (Madagascar, Mascarene Islands, eastern and southern Africa), where many austral genera or taxa of higher taxonomic rank exist--some of which belong to Magnoliidae and to the most primitive parts of Dilleniidae and Rosidae--becomes understandable. Equally understandable become many discontinuities of range and the existence of many endemic uni- or paucispecific genera. Briefly, the present Madagascan vascular flora probably resulted from a progressive differentiation of the autochthonous Gondwanian stock and natural introduction of taxa in time through long-distance dispersal. 
10.2307/2399088|Several geologic and edaphic factors as well as climate appear to exert control over types of fossil assemblages in successive stratigraphic sequences in the Miocene of eastern Oregon and western Idaho. Direct geological control of plant communities included volcanic activity (gaseous, pyroclastic, and liquid ejecta), which may have killed plants and disrupted communities by explosive force, noxious gases, and the burial or smothering effect of cinder and ash falls and mudflows (lahars). Indirect, longer-term effects are caused by tectonism in the immediate area (graben-horst shifts, regional uplift, basin development, etc.), and at a considerable distance (climatic modification, rain shadow, continentality). Fossil representation is also modified by transportability, distance of transport, and durability of plant matter; availability and permanence of favorable sites for preservation; the nature, rate, and continuity of sedimentation; and the extent of selective destruction of the vegetation. In the Succor Creek Formation, volcanism, tectonic activity, and fire have affected vegetation dynamics, resulting in the presence of successional communities that might otherwise be attributed to significant climatic change if stratigraphic control were lacking. Typically successional communities tend to develop toward stable forests unless or until disrupted by further disturbance. Intervals of non-deposition and/or erosion leave gaps of varying and unknown magnitudes in the stratigraphic sequences. The time represented by each of the several stratigraphic units is only a fraction of the total Succor Creek time (1-2 m.y.), probably a thousand to a few thousand years.
10.2307/2395090|Four new species of Calathea (Marantaceae) are described from Costa Rica and central Panama. Synonymies and misidentifications are discussed. Data on pollination are given.
10.2307/2399492|Four new species of Mouriri and one of Votomita are described and illustrated. Mouriri coibensis is reduced to a variety of M. gleasoniana. The relation of Votomita to Mouriri is discussed in the light of new information on seed structure; no change in generic boundaries is recommended for the present. Supplementary descriptions and drawings of M. longifolia and V. pubescens are provided.
10.2307/2399954|The tribe Juanulloeae has traditionally consisted of nine genera of rarely collected, epiphytic shrubs and small trees: Juanulloa, Markea, Schultesianthus, Trianaea, Dyssochroma, Hawkesiophyton, Rahowardiana, Ectozoma, and Merinthopodium. Here we present the results of a cladistic study of the relationships of the species of these genera and provide a conspectus of the genera as we define them. The number of genera in our treatment is reduced to six: Dyssochroma, Juanulloa, Markea, Merinthopodium, Schultesianthus, and Trianaea. Included in the key and conspectus is the genus Solandra, which at present is treated as a separate tribe, Solandreae. We also discuss the groupings on the tree and point out areas for future research in this group. A key to the genera is provided and for each genus a list of component taxa and their distributions is also given. Many of these genera have previously been illustrated, but illustrations are provided for some of the previously unillustrated taxa or for taxa where illustrations are difficult to find.
10.2307/2399410|The following species of Axonopus sect. Axonopus are described: A. rupestris, from Goias, Brazil, A. casiquiarensis from Guainia, Colombia, and Amazonas, Venezuela, A. chimantensis from Bolivar, Venezuela, and A. jeanyae from Cocle, Panama.
10.2307/2992083|Rearrangement of landmass configurations has profoundly affected the evolution of mammals and other organisms in the Northern Hemisphere. At the north end of the Atlantic Ocean, evidence is very strong for a now sundered landmass of Euramerica. This landmass existed toward the end of the Paleocene but began to separate into at least two landmasses in early Ypresian time at the beginning of the Eocene. Throughout most of the Eocene, Western Europe south of the Baltic Sea remained fragmented and separate from both Asia and the part of Europe and the attached Barents Shelf that lies north of the Baltic. Northern Scandinavia may have been essentially a peninsula of North America until the end of Eocene time. Thus at the end of the Paleocene and until some point very early in the Eocene, two land bridges may have simultaneously connected North America with separate parts of Europe across the north end of the Atlantic: one dominated by compression in the Greenland/Svalbard area plus any excess lava pile generated by early activity of the Yermak hotspot northwest of Spitsbergen, the other by the early activities of the Icelandic hotspot. Possibly a connection from western Asia and Europe to the northeastern end of North America existed at about 37 million years ago (Ma) through the combined activities of the Yermak hotspot, waning compression between Greenland and Svalbard, and the drying of Eurasian seaways. Throughout nearly all of the Cenozoic a land connection between Asia and Alaska existed at the Bering Strait, but the paleolatitude of the Bering Bridge was initially high and climate must have exerted a strong filtering action on mammals and other terrestrial organisms. It is possible, but only weakly supported on geological grounds, that a second northern Pacific bridge between Asia and North America existed via the Aleutians at the time the Kula Ridge was subducted. Other rearrangements that have strongly affected the composition of northern mammalian faunas and presumably would have affected many other organisms as well have been the reconnection of South America to North America in the Pliocene, the collision of India with Asia in the early Cenozoic (possibly earlier), and various Tethyan microplate transfers. Although paleobotanists and others have sometimes suggested that the warm polar climates of the early Cenozoic were the result of a lower mean spin axis obliquity of the Earth than the present 23.5
10.2307/2399538|Cnemidaria suprastrigosa and Cnemidaria varians are named as new species in the fern family Cyatheaceae.
10.2307/2395072|The genera Wunschmannia and Anomoctenium are united with Distictis. Necessary new combinations are D. staminea (Lam.) A. Gentry, D. stipularis (Mart. ex DC.) A. Gentry, and D. scabriuscula (Mart. ex DC.) A. Gentry. A new species, D. steyermarkii A. Gentry, related to the former members of Anomoctenium, is also described. A synopsis of the species of Distictis is included.
25488215|Chromosomal evolution in Veronica L. and related genera (Wulfenia Jacq., Wulfeniopsis D. Y. Hong, Paederota L., Lagotis Gaertn., Picrorhiza Royle ex Benth., and Veronicastrum Heist. ex Fabr.; Veroniceae, Plantaginaceae; formerly Scrophulariaceae) is presented. To this end, we conducted an extensive literature survey of more than 400 publications covering ca. 300 out of 500 species in the tribe. We also report 44 new chromosome counts. Chromosome numbers of Veronica hispidula Boiss. & Huet. (2n = 18, 36) and V. reuteriana Boiss. (2n = 28, 42) are reported for the first time, and both species exhibit intraspecific ploidy level variation. Other new counts confirm chromosome numbers reported previously. The evolution of chromosome numbers in Veroniceae is discussed in light of recent results from DNA-based phylogenetic analyses. Most of the subgenera of Veronica exhibit only one single basic number, i.e., x = 6, 7, 8, 9, 12, 17, or 20/21. In this genus, the putative ancestral base number of 9 has been reduced several times to 8 and 7, respectively (aneuploidy/dysploidy), often associated with transition to annual life history. In contrast, no unambiguous increase of chromosome base number has been inferred. A table that includes all species of Veroniceae and, if known, their chromosome number and full sectional and subsectional classification in Veronica is provided. For this purpose, three new combinations have been introduced (Veronica sect. Acinifolia (Rmpp) Albach, Veronica sect. Glandulosae (Rmpp) Albach, and Veronica subsect. Cochlidiosperma (Rchb.) Albach).
10.2307/2399240|Nine species of Stenandrium Nees are recognized as occurring in the southern United States, Mexico, and northern Central America (Guatemala, Belize, El Salvador, Honduras, and Nicaragua). One of these species, S. manchonense T. F. Daniel from Guerrero, distinguished by its erect, caulescent habit and large, whorled leaves with undulate to angular margins, is described as new to science, and two new combinations, S. nanum (Standley) T. F. Daniel and S. pilosulum (Blake) T. F. Daniel, are made. Stenandrium is circumscribed in relation to its closest relatives, Aphelandra and Holographis. Each of the nine species is described, mapped, and distinguished from its relatives. Illustrations are provided for S. manchonense, S. barbatum, and S. dulce.
10.2307/2992042|A revision of the genus Dicoma (Asteraceae: Cichorioideae: Mutisieae) in the Horn of Africa (Djibouti, Eritrea, Ethiopia, and Somalia) is provided. This area is probably a major center of radiation for this genus, and nine of the twelve species present are endemic here. The revision is based on both field observations and micro- and macromorphological study of herbarium specimens. Six of the twelve species recognized have been described recently by the first two authors. For each species, data are presented on morphological characteristics, area of distribution (of particular interest in view of the incorrect information previously published for several of the species), ecology, and local names. One new species, D. thuliniana, is described and illustrated, one new combination, D. schimperi subsp. cinerea, is proposed, and D. lanuginosa is lectotypified.
42703707|The results of a morphological and molecular systematic investigation of the poorly known Sicilian endemic species Peucedanum nebrodense (Guss.) Nyman (Apiaceae subfam. Apioideae) are presented in order to better characterize the species and clarify its phylogenetic position. Morphological, karyological, anatomical, and ontogenetic studies indicate that this species is taxonomically distinct. Phylogenetic analysis of combined morphological and nuclear ribosomal DNA (nrDNA) ITS sequence data suggests an affinity with Dichoropetalum Fenzl, whereas an unweighted pair group method with arithmetic mean (UPGMA) analysis, based on 36 morphological characters, suggests that P. nebrodense is similar to Ormosolenia Tausch. Given its unusual life cycle; distinct suffruticose, evergreen, and dwarf habit; and peculiar fruit anatomy, we recognize P. nebrodense as distinct from Ormosolenia and Dichoropetalum, and we treat it as the new monotypic genus Siculosciadium C. Brullo, Brullo, S. R. Downie & Giusso based on S. nebrodense (Guss.) C. Brullo, Brullo, S. R. Downie & Giusso [ Pteroselinum nebrodense Guss.], which is lectotypified herein.
10.2307/2399696|Recent expeditions in the Venezuelan Guayana have resulted in additional new taxa in the genus Mendoncia (Acanthaceae). The following is an effort to place these novelties on record for the convenience of other taxonomists prior to the publication of the Flora of the Venezuelan Guayana. Four new Venezuelan Guayana species of Mendoncia, M. steyermarkii, M. neblinensis, M. williamsii, and M. coriacea, are described, illustrated, and compared with their closest relatives.
10.2307/2399314|Arundoclaytonia dissimilis Davidse & Ellis, gen. et sp. nov. is described from Amazonian campinas in Amazonas and Para, Brazil. It represents the second genus of the tribe Steyermarkochloeae (Poaceae: Arundinoideae). Morphologically it is characterized by a caespitose growth habit, proliferation and lignification of the numerous basal culm internodes, normally developed leaves with spiral phyllotaxy, unisexual hemispherical inflorescences aggregated into a false panicle, 3-9-flowered male spikelets with 2 anthers per flower, 3-flowered female spikelets with only the middle floret fertile and its palea convolute and many-nerved, lack of lodicules, terminal exsertion of the stigmas and stamens, and fusiform caryopsis with an elliptic-punctate hilum. Anatomically this species is characterized by C
10.2307/2399009|Twenty-seven arborescent species of Bauhinia native to Middle America, of which 20 species are endemic, are recognized in a systematic treatment. It is postulated that the high endemism is the result of introduction of a few ancestral species from South America, followed by rapid speciation in the new habitat. Bauhinia fryxellii sp. nov., endemic to San Luis Potosi, Mexico is described and illustrated and Bauhinia chapulhuacania nom. nov. (= B. dipetala var. macrophylla Wunderlin) is proposed. Keys, descriptions, distributional data, and taxonomic index are provided.
10.2307/2399106|Four new species of Solanum section Geminata are described: S. pastillum, S. heleonastes, S. dasyneuron, and S. aphyodendron. Two of these are Central American, one from Guatemala and one from Costa Rica. The third is only found along the Rio Parana along the border of Argentina and Paraguay. The fourth is a widespread species that has long been confused with S. nudum H.B.K. ex Dunal. Nomenclature and details of natural history are discussed.
10.2307/2399375|Chromosome numbers and meiotic behavior are reported for 8 Namibian and 55 South African grass collections representing 30 genera and 45 species. First chromosome counts are reported for the following 13 species: Andropogon amethystinus, n = ca. 30; Anthephora argentea, n = 9; Brachiaria chusqueoides, n = 9; B. glomerata, n = 9; Centropodia glauca, n = 24; Danthoniopsis parva, n = 12; Digitaria diversinervis, n = 18; Ehrharta longigluma, n = 12; Miscanthidium capense, n = 15; Panicum monticolum, n = 27; P. schinzii, n = 9; Triraphis fleckii, n = 10; T. ramosissima, n = 10. Chromosome counts differing from any previously reported numbers were obtained for six species. Of the 45 species, 57% are polyploid and 43% are diploid.
10.2307/3298561|Hotspots of biodiversity have become priority areas for land conservation initiatives, oftentimes without recognition that these areas are hotspots of cultural diversity as well. Using the Colorado Plateau ecoregion as a case study, this inquiry (1) outlines the broad geographic patterns of biological diversity and ethnolinguistic diversity within this ecoregion; (2) discusses why these two kinds of diversity are often influenced by the same geographic and historic factors; and (3) suggests what can be done to integrate traditional ecological knowledge of indigenous peoples into multicultural conservation collaborations.
40389954|Due in part to its distinctive and variable morphology, traditional taxonomy has not resolved the systematic position of Aethionema trinervium Boiss., which has been previously placed in several different genera including Aethionema R. Br., Eunomia DC, Hutchinsia R. Br., and Thlaspi L. Using sequence data from the ITS-1 and ITS-2 regions of ribosomal DNA, A. trinervium has been added to a previously published data set composed of proposed congeners and related taxa in order to clarify its phylogenetic relationships. Our molecular analysis indicates that A. trinervium is not a member of Aethionema, but is instead highly nested within Vania F. K. Mey., a segregate lineage of the nonmonophyletic Thlaspi s. l. Based on these results and subsequent taxonomic recommendations, we transfer A. trinervium to Vania, described from Iran, as the new combination V. trinervia (DC.) Khosravi, Jacquemoud, Menke, Mumm. & Mohsenz. Furthermore, we have lectotypified the species.
10.2307/2399958|A literature survey was made of chromosome number counts for Rubus species. Numbers are presented for 387 species, representing about 40 percent of the total number, and including 11 of the 12 subgenera. The basic number is universally 7 and ploidy levels include 2x, 3x, 4x, 5x, 6x, 8x, 9x, 10x, 11x, 12x, 14x, and, questionably, 13x and 18x. In a few species, more than one chromosome number has been reported. Attempts were made to provide the currently accepted taxonomic designation for each species as well as the outdated synonyms used in original publications. The objective was to provide a summary of available information on chromosome numbers of Rubus species and to point out the gaps that need to be addressed.
10.2307/2394760|The flowers and pollen of Amoreuxia and Cochlospermum have been studied anatomically to contribute to determining trends of specialization and relationships of the Cochlospermaceae. Perianth vascularization consists of 10 traces in some species of Cochlospermum but is reduced to 6 or 5 in other species. Androecial development is centrifugal with the vascularization consisting of 5 or more trunk bundles. The ovary has a single, 3-5 carpellate, ramified locule in all species examined. Pollen is mostly intectate to semitectate and tricolporoidate. Floral morphology of Bixa is more specialized in some ways and less specialized in others and its placement in a separate family from Amoreuxia and Cochlospermum can be justified. While the Cochlospermaceae show similarities to many parietalian families, the floral anatomy is also compatible with that found in the Malvales.
10.2307/3298598| A systematic treatment of the entire genus Piptochaetium, which complements that of Cialdella and Arriaga for the South American species, is presented herein. A synopsis of 36 species and 2 varieties, a key to identify these species, as well as synonymy and geographical distribution, are given. Illustrations and photographs of diagnostic characters are presented for the North American species for the first time. We propose a phylogenetic hypothesis for the genus based on morphological and anatomical characters. Monophyly of Piptochaetium was supported by the combination of three synapomorphies: a grooved palea, involute lemma margins that fit into a longitudinal palea groove, and the palea protruding from the lemma. Two sections were previously recognized in Piptochaetium: Podopogon and Piptochaetium. The cladistic analysis showed that only South American species of Piptochaetium sect. Piptochaetium, together with P. brevicalyx, form a monophyletic group (Obovoid group), while Piptochaetium sect. Podopogon is polyphyletic. Therefore, the taxonomic recognition of sectional taxa cannot be supported. Phylogenetic relationships of two varieties of Piptochaetium stipoides (var. stipoides and var. echinulatum) were not clearly resolved. Furthermore, based on cladistic analyses, taxonomic observations, and the study of type material, Piptochaetium tovarii subsp. pilosa is raised to specific rank (= P. pilosum). /// Se presenta un tratamiento sistemtico de todo el gnero Piptochaetium, que complementa el propuesto por Cialdella y Arriaga para las especies sudamericanas. En este trabajo, se presenta una sinopsis de las 36 especies y 2 variedades, una clave para identificar las especies, su sinonimia, distribucin geogrfica y observaciones. Se incluyen por primera vez ilustraciones y fotografas de los caracteres diagnsticos para las especies norteamericanas. Se propone una hiptesis filogentica basada en caracteres morfolgicos y anatmicos. Mediante el anlisis filogentico, fue confirmada la monofilia de Piptochaetium sobre la base de tres sinapomorfas: una plea surcada entre los nervios, los mrgenes de la lemma involutos insertos en el surco longitudinal de la plea y la plea asomando por entre los mrgenes de la lemma. Dos secciones fueron previamente reconocidas para Piptochaetium: Podopogon y Piptochaetium. Como resultado del anlisis cladstico, slo las especies sudamericanas de la seccin Piptochaetium, junto con P. brevicalyx, conformaron un grupo monofiltico (grupo Obovoide). Consecuentemente, en este tratamiento, no se considera vlido el reconocimiento de categoras formales infragenricas. En el anlisis, se incluyeron 2 variedades de Piptochaetium stipoides (var. stipoides y var. echinulatum) y la posicin filogentica de ambas variedades no fue claramente resuelta. Piptochaetium tovarii subsp. pilosa fue elevada al rango de especie (= P. pilosum), sobre la base del estudio filogentico, las observaciones taxonmicas y el estudio del material tipo. 
10.2307/2399032|Well-preserved fossil angiosperm reproductive organs from the Upper Cretaceous of Sweden provide increased knowledge of structure and evolutionary relationships of Cretaceous angiosperms. The material includes a diverse assemblage of angiosperm flowers, fruits, seeds, and anthers representing more than 100 taxa. This paper focuses on the level of organization of the reproductive organs with special attention directed to the various types of flowers. The flowers are all very small, usually actinomorphic and bisexual. The position of the perianth is hypogynous or, more commonly, epigynous. Some of the flowers are of simple construction with only one whorl of perianth parts, apparently adapted to wind-pollination. Others have well-developed calyx and corolla, sometimes together with the presence of a disk, suggesting adaption to insect-pollination. A number of floral diagrams are presented for the fossil flowers of Sweden, and their systematical position is discussed.
10.2307/2399376|A preliminary survey of the Mwanihana Forest Reserve, Tanzania, has yielded 440 angiosperm species. These are listed systematically, and by habitat and habit. The forests are rich in species of restricted distribution, and have affinities to the Guineo-Congolian forests of western Africa.
10.2307/2399447|Evidence of land plants before the appearance of flowering plants near the end of the Early Cretaceous is spotty. Seas covered much of the land during the Paleozoic and early Mesozoic, but certain areas were exposed, perhaps as islands. Evidence of Devonian vegetation from Beartooth Butte, Wyoming includes rhyniophytes, trimerophytes, zosterophylls, and lycopsids. Fossils from several different deposits show Late Mississippian to Pennsylvanian age vegetation like that of coal swamps to the east. The floras include lepidodendrids, calamites, ferns, seed ferns, and cordaites, with conifers present at some localities. Triassic and Early Jurassic land vegetation is poorly known in the region, as most strata are marine; but Late Jurassic sediments reflect the general emergence of the land concurrent with uplift along the Nevadan orogenic zone at the western edge of the present northern Rocky Mountains. The interior basin supported bryophytes, horsetails, cycads, caytonialeans, ginkgoes, and conifers, with bennettitaleans and ferns dominating. This was followed in the Early Cretaceous by similar flora but with the swamp vegetation dominated by conifers. These plants apparently grew under a generally arid but seasonally wet frost-free climate. It was into this environment that the first flowering plants of the region migrated.
10.2307/2398844|The Erythrina species of southern Africa range from small suffrutices to tall trees, up to 24 m in height. One species is a geophyte. All possess brightly colored flowers in the scarlet, crimson and orange range, while some species produce a few plants bearing cream or almost white, pink, and a variety of red flowers. All species discussed appear to produce a fair to plentiful supply of nectar, and, from observation, several species of indigenous and exotic birds are the pollinating agents. The two species of Erythrina sect. Humeanae, E. humeana and E. zeyheri, which have flowers that resemble those of the American hummingbird-pollinated species of the genus, are visited by sunbirds and white-eyes, whereas larger birds are also frequent at the flowers of the other species. The means of distribution of the usually brightly colored and poisonous seeds is unknown as yet.
10.2307/2666164|An unusual Begonia that sheds staminate flowers prematurely at bud stage was collected from several localities in northern Taiwan. Observations on morphology, pollen stainability, and seed set of this species initially suggested a hybrid origin. Morphological comparisons, distribution patterns, chromosome cytology, and experimental hybridization showed that such plants are F
10.2307/2992022|Despite a recent taxonomic treatment of Styrax from North America and the Caribbean, the taxonomy of this genus has remained poorly understood. In an effort to clarify the taxonomy of Styrax from western Texas through Mesoamerica, morphological characteristics of over 2500 specimens from 29 herbaria were examined. The previous treatment emphasized vegetative characters for circumscription, whereas the present revision includes heretofore poorly characterized features of the androecium. This revision comprises 19 species and 24 taxa in the area considered, nearly three times as many species as recognized previously. It includes six new species (S. gentryi, S. incarnatus, S. nicaraguensis, S. radians, S. steyermarkii, S. tuxtlensis), two new subspecies (S. platanifolius subsp. mollis, S. nicaraguensis subsp. ellipsoidalis), three new combinations (S. platanifolius subsp. stellatus, S. platanifolius subsp. texanus, S. platanifolius subsp. youngiae), and two new species names (S. austromexicanus, S. lanceolatus). Two names (S. glabrescens var. pilosus and S. jaliscanus) are lectotypified. Nearly 70% of the species recognized in the revision are narrow endemics. This work has provided the basis for a taxonomic revision of all neotropical Styrax that is currently under way.
10.2307/2399875|Comparative sequencing of the maturase-encoding chloroplast gene matK has great potential for reconstructing phylogenetic relationships not only within families, but also within genera of land plants. This gene of 1550 bp is easily amplified due to highly conserved, flanking coding regions that include the trnK exons, rps 16, and psbA. Several available sequencing primers also have wide applicability. Parsimony analysis of 45 matK sequences representing Saxifragaceae sensu stricto provides a level of resolution comparable to that obtained via chloroplast DNA restriction site analysis. Furthermore, this analysis suggests relationships among genera and species that are highly concordant with the results of separate analyses of rbcL sequences and chloroplast DNA restriction sites, and with those of combined analyses of these three chloroplast DNA data sets. Parsimony analysis of 31 matK sequences representing all six sections of Gilia (Polemoniaceae) and 10 allied genera provides strong evidence for the polyphyly of Gilia and suggests relationships among sections of Gilia that are highly concordant with a recent ITS sequence analysis of the Polemoniaceae. Our analyses suggest that matK sequences are not strongly biased toward transitions, and the frequency of mutations at the first and second codon positions approach the frequency of mutations in the third codon position.
10.2307/2394748|An examination of the palynological (and other paleoecological) literature provides interesting perspectives on a number of North American disjunction problems. A great body of paleoecological data demonstrates that significant southward displacement of biota took place during glacial maxima. Thus necessary conditions for a southward movement of "northern" disjuncts can be verified. In a few cases we have direct evidence of the disjuncts being displaced into or beyond regions where they now occur as isolated populations. In other cases we have indirect evidence in the form of modern associates of the disjuncts. The data suggest the probability of arrival of the disjuncts during the full-glacial and late-glacial with survival until the present. The same body of information suggests that components of the mixed-mesophytic forest (often considered as a disjunct community) were displaced some distance south and that the present community is a function of reimmigration and reassociation during the late-glacial and postglacial. The relict populations in the Gulf of St. Lawrence are probably not glacial survivors; some probably dispersed eastward in a discontinuous zone of instability south of the ice margin during full-glacial and late-glacial time. Such an eastward dispersal is known for many vertebrates. The evidence suggests that the prairie disjuncts could have arrived either during the late-glacial when boreal woodland and/or tundra bordered the retreating ice or during the hypsithermal when there was a pronounced eastward movement of the prairie-forest border (at least in the upper Midwest (Minnesota)). Many explanations are possible for the Atlantic Coastal Plain disjuncts, some of which would have found favorable sites for inland dispersal during full-glacial times, others of which, notably the strand and dune plants, may have dispersed inland along the shores of the Champlain sea during the early late-glacial. Paleoecological approaches are clearly essential to illuminate the historical environmental context of the disjunction, but must be used in conjunction with other disciplines to provide definitive insights.
10.2307/2399739|Begonia buimontana Yamamoto has been considered an endemic species with a restricted distribution at elevations between 1,000 and 1,600 m in southern Taiwan. Studies of morphology, flowering habit, pollen stainability, and meiotic chromosome behavior suggest a hybrid origin. Morphological comparisons, distribution patterns, chromosome cytology, and experimental hybridization show that B. buimontana consists of F
10.2307/3298526|Biological invasions are increasingly recognized as a key problem for the conservation of biological diversity. However, the scientific recognition that some species, when introduced outside their native range, cause a decline in indigenous species, goes back to at least the writings of Charles Darwin. In the 1950s another British biologist, Charles Elton, wrote the first book attempting to describe the biology of invasive organisms. It was not until the 1980s, however, that the field of invasion biology as a discipline began to emerge. This emergence has resulted from two forces: the development of the scientific basis for invasion biology based on a substantial and accumulating literature, and the urgency of the invasive species issue because increased world trade and travel are increasing the frequency of invasions.
10.2307/2399081|This paper sets out to achieve three objectives. A brief introduction gives the present position of cladistic biogeography. Secondly, the most recent developments in cladistic biogeography for resolving complex and apparently incongruent species cladograms are presented. Thirdly, the methods as applied to the interrelationships of endemic areas in Mesoamerica with particular respect to the data of Rosen (1975, 1978, 1979) on poeciliid fishes is given.
10.2307/2399736|Ixioideae, the largest and most derived of the four subfamilies of Iridaceae, is distinct in the family in having specialized pollen grains with tectate-perforate and scabrate sculpturing. This is in contrast to the prevailing tectate-reticulate exine in the rest of the family and its putative allies. In addition, most species have monosulcate grains with a 2-banded operculum, a feature that is probably synapomorphic for the subfamily. Exceptions among taxa with monosulcate grains having either a 1-banded or disorganized operculum are seen as most probably derived. Important exceptions to this pattern are Micranthus, which has zonasulcate grains with reticulate exine; one of seven species of Thereianthus, T. racemosus, which also has a reticulate exine except on the operculum; Zygotritonia, which has 3-aperturate inoperculate grains; and Savannosiphon, in which the grains have an irregular distribution of the exine and may be described as inaperturate but functionally omniaperturate. The origin of the operculum and the significance of the variation within Ixioideae is considered in relation to the systematics of Ixioideae.
40033785|A taxonomic treatment of Eragrostis Wolf for Peru is given. Twenty-three species and three subspecies of Eragrostis are recognized in the study area. Fifteen species of Eragrostis are native to Peru, and eight are adventive or introduced. Eragrostis attenuata Hitchc, E. pilgeri Fedde, and E. magna Hitchc. are endemic to Peru. Eragrostis lurida subsp. contracta (Pilg.) P. M. Peterson & Snchez Vega, native to Ecuador and Peru, and E. pilgeri subsp. ancashensis (P. M. Peterson, Refulio & Tovar) P. M. Peterson & Snchez Vega, native to Peru, are new combinations. Keys for determining the species, descriptions, distributions, specimens studied, illustrations, synonymies, and a brief discussion of caryopsis morphology for all native and adventive species of Eragrostis in Peru are provided. The names E. andicola R. E. Fr., E. contracta Pilg., E. tristis Jedwabn., and Poa mexicana Hornem. are lectotypified. /// Se presenta un estudio taxonmico de Eragrostis Wolf para Per. Veintitrs especies y tres subespecies de Eragrostis se reconocen en el rea de estudio. Quince especies de Eragrostis son nativas de Per y ocho son advenedizas o introducidos. Eragrostis attenuata Hitchc, E. pilgeri Fedde y E. magna Hitchc. son endmicos de Per. Eragrostis lurida subsp. contracta (Pilg.) P. M. Peterson y Snchez Vega native de Ecuador y Per, y E. pilgeri subsp. ancashensis (P. M. Peterson, Refulio y Tovar) P. M. Peterson y Snchez Vega native de Per son combinaciones nuevas. Se incluyen claves para determinar las especies, descripciones, distribuciones, los especmenes estudiados, las ilustraciones, las sinonimias, y una breve discusin de la morfologa de la cariopsis para todas las especies nativas y advenedizas de Eragrostis en Per. Los nombres E. andicola R. E. Fr., E. contracta Pilg., E. tristis Jedwabn. y Poa mexicana Hornem. fueron lectotipificados.
10.2307/2399602|The monotypic genus Panamanthus Kuijt (P. panamensis (Rizz.) Kuijt) is proposed to accommodate the Panamanian mistletoe previously known as Struthanthus panamensis (Rizz.) Barlow & Wiens; an expanded description and illustrations are provided. It is suggested that Panamanthus is related to Gaiadendron G. Don, another monotypic genus found in approximately the same ecological zone.
40390054|New generic circumscriptions of th Paleotropical tribe Vanguerieae in the subfamily Ixoroideae s.l. (Rubiaceae) have recently been established as a resuit of a series of phylogenetic studies conducted by Lantz and Bremer. The genus Canthium Lam. was shown in their study to be highly polyphyletic, and a largely dioecious group was for the first time identified within Vanguerieae. The dioecious group sensu Lantz and Bremer comprises about 140 species classifed in eight genera: Canthium (Canthium subg. Bullockia Bridson), Dinocanthium Bremek., Leroya Cavaco, Neoleroya Cavaco, Peponidium (Baill.) Arnes, Pseudopeponidium Homolles ex Arnes, Pyrostria Comm. ex Juss., and Scyphochlamys Balf. f. We sequenced 79 Vanguerieae taxa and performed phylogenetic analyses based on squence data from two nuclear (ETS and ITS) markers to: (1) pinpoint the phylogenetic positions of the Comorean and Indian Ocan Canthium and the Southeast Asian Canthium confertum Korth. group in Vanguerieae; (2) evaluate the phylogenetic utility of three taxonomic characters (bract type, locule number, and fruit shape) previously and currently used for delimiting genera in the dioecious group; and (3) assess the volution of functional dioecy in Vanguerieae. The results support a further disintegration of Canthium s.l., as the Comorean and Malagasy Canthium species are shown for the first time to be closely related to Peponidium. Similarly, C. confertum appears to have a close affinity with Cyclophyllum Hook. f. The combined analyses show that the dioecious group can be subdivided into four morphologically distinct clades formally recognized as genera: Bullockia (Bridson) Razafim., Lantz & B. Bremer, here elevated from Canthium subgen. Bullockia Bridson, as well as Cyclophyllum, Peponidium (including ail Comorean, Malagasy, and Seychellean Canthium species), and Pyrostria (including Dinocanthium, Leroya, Neoleroya, Pseudopeponidium, and Scyphochlamys). AH described species of Canthium subgen. Bullockia are transferred to Bullockia: B. dyscriton (Bullock) Razafim., Lantz & B. Bremer, B. fadenii (Bridson) Razafim., Lantz & B. Bremer, B. impressinervia (Bridson) Razafim., Lantz & B. Bremer, B. mombazensis (Baill.) Razafim., Lantz & B. Bremer, B. pseudosetiflora (Bridson) Razafim., Lantz & B. Bremer, and B. setiflora (Hiern) Razafim., Lantz & B. Bremer. Furthermore, the results seem to point to a single origin of functional dioecy followed by subsquent reversais back to the hermaphroditic conditions at least within the Cyclophyllum-Canthium confertum clade and Pyrostria s.l. The Malagasy Bullockia species seem to hve an African ancestor, whereas the Comorean Peponidium and the African Pyrostria appear to have originateci from Malagasy progenitore.
10.2307/2398842|Erythrina oliviae, a dry-season-flowering tree from Mexico, is primarily pollinated by perching passerine birds. Other pollinators have also been noted. The nontubular flowers are directed to the ground, and the keel and wings function as nectar containers. The perch is vertical. The flowers produce large amounts of nectar, which contains a low percentage of sugar and a high number of amino acids.
10.2307/2992081|The awareness and study of eastern North American-eastern Asian plant disjunctions is traced from the time of Linnaeus to the beginning of the twentieth century. Thomas Nuttall's previously overlooked contribution to this topic is discussed, and an annotated appendix of the taxa that he attributed to eastern Asia and North America is presented. Charles Darwin's influence on the thoughts and writings of Asa Gray is also discussed, based on published and unpublished letters and manuscripts in the Archives of the Gray Herbarium of Harvard University; the role that this correspondence played in the development of Gray's phytogeographical ideas and Darwin's theory of evolution is considered. A brief summary of the writings of Adolf Engler, and other nineteenth century botanists, pertaining to these disjunctions and their bearing on an understanding of vegetational patterns in the northern hemisphere is also given. The significance of the late nineteenth century explorations in China in making known the full extent of disjunctions between eastern Asia and North America has provided the basis for further work beyond the exploratory and theoretical stages of this fascinating pattern of plant disjunction.
10.2307/2395311|The available evidence is used to produce a revised taxonomy for Onagraceae tribe Epilobieae, with two genera, Epilobium and Boisduvalia. Zauschneria is a specialized, bird-pollinated taxon closely related to one group of Epilobium, and it is consequently reduced to the status of a section of that genus. It is treated as comprising a single species with three tetraploid (n = 15) and three octoploid (n = 30) subspecies, between which extensive intergradation occurs. Chamerion (Chamaenerion), a Eurasian group of seven species, two reaching North America, is closely related to and doubtless shares a common ancestor with Epilobium sect. Epilobium; the other four sections are more distantly related. They include a total of seven species, all xerophytes confined to western North America, the probable place of origin of the tribe. Boisduvalia is treated as comprising two sections in place of the three recognized earlier, based upon further morphological studies and evidence obtained from artificial hybridization. The taxonomy proposed for the tribe Epilobieae appears to provide a balanced classification for the group that brings it into line with the other five tribes and 15 genera of the family.
10.2307/2666173|Parasitic plants in Scrophulariaceae and Orobanchaceae have been traditionally depicted as forming a linear evolutionary series beginning with hemiparasitism and ending with holoparasitism. The genera Lathraea, Harveya, and Hyobanche have been viewed as transitional links between the parasitic members of Serophulariaceae and the strictly holoparasitic habit of the traditional Orobanchaceae. Phylogenetic analyses of plastid rps2 and matK sequences were performed. The transitional genera are not transitional to the traditional Orobanchaceae, but represent multiple independent origins of holoparasitism. Within Scrophulariaceae, the two traditional subfamilies Rhinanthoideae and Antirrhinoideae are defined by the arrangement of the corolla lobes during aestivation. However, neither of the two subfamilies is monophyletic in our analyses, suggesting that corolla lobe position is a homoplastic character. While the traditional Orobanchaceae are monophyletic, tribes Buchnereae and Rhinantheae are clearly not, and genus Orobanche probably is not. Clades of parasitic genera correspond well with biogeographic provinces. One strongly supported clade contains the parasitic Scrophulariaceae, the traditional Orobanchaceae, and Lindenbergia. It is proposed that this clade be defined as the Orobanchaceae.
10.2307/2394954|The new genus, Sanango, shows affinity to the genera Buddleja, Nuxia and Peltanthera, of the Loganiaceae, though the five-lobed corolla with only four stamens is more characteristic of other families, such as the Scrophulariaceae. Various features of Sanango durum are discussed and illustrated.
10.2307/2399871|The Lauraceae, with more than 2500 species in over 50 genera, and with the general lack of agreement in their recent classification, make an ideal candidate for a global study based on leaf cuticles. A technique for preparing cuticles is presented, and three types of characters of use in such studies (cell form, stomatal complex, and special cell types) are discussed. Preliminary results demonstrate the utility of these cuticular characters in defining genera such as Endiandra and Beilschmiedia and in sorting out biogeographical anomalies, such as found in Caryodaphnopsis, where the cuticles confirm placement of disjunct species within one genus. Potential challenges/problems posed by larger genera such as Litsea, Cryptocarya, Cinnamomum, Ocotea, and Nectandra are discussed.
10.2307/2399732|Stigmatopteris contains 24 species with no varieties or subspecies. It is distinguished from all other genera of Dryopteridaceae (sensu stricto) by numerous punctate glands in the lamina, scales with uniseriate teeth or cilia, glandular cells terminating the apices of the teeth or cilia, and clavate vein apices that end behind the leaf margin. Other characteristics shared by all or nearly all species of the genus but also found in other dryopteroid ferns are nonindusiate sori, thin-textured leaves, glabrous laminar tissue, acuminate-serrate pinna, apices, thin, flaccid, tan or orangish scales, erect or short-creeping stems, and minutely pubescent adaxial grooves of the axes. Within the Dryopteridaceae, Stigmatopteris forms a clade with Cyclodium, Olfersia, and Polybotrya, held together by the synapomorphy of pubescent adaxial grooves of the axes. The genus is entirely neotropical and primarily montane, ranging from the Antilles and southern Mexico to southern Brazil but conspicuously absent from most of the Amazon basin. The Andes are the center of diversity for the genus, harboring eleven species, two of which are endemic. The coastal mountains of southeastern Brazil are another center, with six species, all of which are endemic. The Greater Antilles have also been important in the diversification of Stigmatopteris because they contain three species, all of which are endemic. All members of the genus grow in wet forests, generally from 200 to 2,000 m.
10.2307/2399472|Chromosome numbers of 15 species in four of the six genera of Velloziaceae were counted from root tip squashes. The family was previously known cytologically from a single count, although our preliminary findings have been reported elsewhere. The American Barbacenia has n = 17, while Vellozia has species with n = 8 and 7. The African Xerophyta has n = 24 in two species examined, and the monotypic Talbotiopsis has n = 24, a count substantiating an earlier record of n = 24-26. A base number of x = 9 is proposed for Velloziaceae. Barbacenia appears to be a paleotetraploid genus, Vellozia a hypodiploid, and Xerophyta and Talbotiopsis are possibly paleohexaploids on the derived base of n = 8.
10.2307/2399667|A cladistic analysis of Iridaceae, a family of some 1,630 species and ca. 77 genera, and the closely allied Geosiris and Isophysis, both monotypic and sometimes accorded family status, suggests a phylogeny in which there are four major lineages, recognized as subfamilies. Characters used in the analysis include vegetative and floral morphology, anatomy, embryology, pollen ultrastructure, chromosome cytology, and flavonoid and amino acid chemistry. Isophysidoideae, with a superior ovary, include only the Tasmanian Isophysis. Nivenioideae include the Afro-Madagascan Aristea, three woody Cape genera, the Australasian Patersonia, and Geosiris. The last-mentioned, a saprophyte, restricted to Madagascar, appears to be most closely related to Aristea and is not recognized at the tribal level. Iridoideae have four reasonably well differentiated tribes and a worldwide but predominantly southern distribution. The subfamily is specialized in floral and phytochemical features. Ixioideae, which comprise slightly more than half the total species of Iridaceae, are predominantly southern African and have derived leaf anatomy, pollen exine, flavonoids, and inflorescences. Three tribes are recognized in Ixioideae and four in Iridoideae in both of which some subtribal groupings are suggested. Described formally here are Nivenioideae and Pillansieae.
10.2307/2399536|Twentieth-century pteridologists (e.g., Copeland, Pichi Sermolli) have criticized the work of William Jackson Hooker, Director of Kew Gardens (1841-1865) and author of Species Filicum, claiming that his fern classification was regressive and that he impeded 19th-century progress in pteridology. In particular, Hooker's critics have objected to his large genera based almost exclusively on characters of the sorus. To test the contention that Hooker's system was regressive, we compared it with those of his contemporaries Presl, Fee, and Smith. We found that, although Hooker preferred to use reproductive characters to circumscribe genera, he made good use of vegetative features to delimit natural groups within them. His large genera are comparable to the tribes of other authors of his day, and his subgenera and sections are similar to their genera. Hooker's system is at least as modern as those of Presl and Fee, based on a comparison of the authors' treatments of the polypodioids. Smith produced the most insightful treatment of the group, but his work was largely ignored in his time. Of the four authors we discuss here, Hooker alone had a substantial impact on 19th-century pteridology; only his system was widely adopted, and it was not effectively challenged until the turn of the century. We note that many of the issues that surrounded generic classification in Hooker's time, e.g., what size of genus to accept, are still unresolved today.
10.2307/2399797|Lamprothyrsus, a ditypic arundinoid, South American grass genus, consists predominantly of populations of exclusively female plants in which seeds are set by autonomous apospory. Lamprothyrsus peruvianus is a high polyploid-2n = ca. 136, the highest chromosome number so far recorded in the Arundineae. The hypothesis favored here for the evolution of apospory involves a mutation for apomixis spreading through to fixation in an old, dioecious, polyploid genus resulting in generations solely of female plants. This proposal is consistent with reproductive pathways already recognized in some aposporous species of the related genus Cortaderia, and in some diplosporous species of Poa and Calamagrostis. It is another example of the association between apomixis and dioecism outlined by Gustafsson 45 years ago.
10.2307/2399792|Comprehensive reevaluation of herbarium material of the genus Malvaviscus yields two widespread species, M. arboreus of North America and M. concinnus of South America, two localized species, M. achanioides of Mexico and M. williamsii of Peru and Colombia, and a widespread cultivar of unknown origin, M. penduliflorus.
10.2307/2399059|This paper, in effect constituting a revision of the genus Klainedoxa, is a byproduct of ecological studies of tropical forest diversity carried out at the CENAREST laboratory near Makokou, Gabon in 1981. Collections from the rain forest canopy included at least 69 taxa new to the field station, a number new to Gabon, and several apparently undescribed species. In the case of Klainedoxa, as well-known but taxonomically difficult genus of large trees, these collections indicate a clear resolution of the heretofore problematical taxonomic relationships.
10.2307/2399060|Two species of Psychotria, P. pubescens and P. hebeclada, occur sympatrically in Central America and have been erroneously combined in several recent floras. Distinctions are drawn between these two species, primarily using characters of the flowers and inflorescences, and a description, range map, and illustration of each species is presented.
10.2307/2666186|Approximately one-third of the Earth's vegetative cover comprises savannas, grasslands, and other grass-dominated ecosystems. Paleobotanical, paleofaunal, and stable carbon isotope records suggest five major phases in the origin of grass-dominated ecosystems: (1) the late Maastrichtian (or Paleocene) origin of Poaceae; (2) the opening of Paleocene and Eocene forested environments in the early to middle Tertiary; (3) an increase in the abundance of C
40035478|The genus Ancistrocladus Wall. ranges from Africa to southeastern Asia and comprises 16 species found in evergreen tropical forests. Unusual morphological features include its dimorphic juvenile and adult habits; an adult sympodial liana habit, climbing by hooks formed from modified stem apices; epidermal pits each containing a single trichome that secretes wax; glands of various forms found on both vegetative and reproductive structures; variously convolute or imbricate corolla aestivation; nutlike fruits with enlarged accrescent sepals; and deeply ruminate seeds. This is the only genus of the Ancistrocladaceae; the family is currently classified in Caryophyllales together with the closely related Dioncophyllaceae. Eleven species are found in Africa, and five in Asia. No infrageneric classification is recognized here. Ancistrocladus abbreviatus Airy Shaw subsp. lateralis Gereau of Nigeria is newly described herein based on its pedunculate inflorescences that are borne well below the stem apex and its geographic distribution that is disjunct from A. abbreviatus subsp. abbreviatus. The occurrence of four sepals and petals in the family is reported here for the first time, in A. grandiflorus Cheek, as are an additional type of gland found on the leaves, continuous variation from convolute to imbricate corolla aestivation, and the possible occurrence of stipules. Lectotypes are newly designated for Ancistrocladus stelligerus Wall. ex DC. and Bigamea thwaitesii Tiegh., and a neotype is designated for A. hainanensis Hayata. Ancistrocladus pachyrrhachis Airy Shaw is reduced to taxonomic synonymy under A. barteri Scott-Elliot; A. uncinatus Hutch. & Dalziel is reduced to taxonomic synonymy under A. guineensis Oliv.; and A. carallioides Craib, A. cochinchinensis Gagnep., and A. harmandii Gagnep. are reduced to taxonomic synonymy under A. tectorius (Lour.) Merr.
10.2307/2395316|Nicotiana cutleri D'Arcy, belonging to subgen. Rustica, sect. Paniculatae, Witheringia exiguiflora D'Arcy, and W. morii D'Arcy are newly described. Two new transfers are made: Jaltoma viscosa (Schrad.) D'Arcy & Davis from Saracha, and Lycianthes sanctaeclarae (Greenman) D'Arcy from Solanum. Solanum stramoniifolium is newly recorded for Panama.
10.2307/2399135|A systematic, ecological, and evolutionary study of the Monimiaceae of the islands in the Malagasy floristic region, southwest Indian Ocean (Madagascar and the Mascarene and Comore archipelagos), is presented. The Malagasy Monimiaceae are here taken to comprise four genera and 55 species, all endemic: Monimia (3 spp., Mascarenes); Decarydendron (3 spp., Madagascar); Ephippiandra (6 spp., Madagascar); Tambourissa (43 spp., Madagascar, Mascarenes, Comores). Madagascar, a large, ancient continental island, is the regional center of diversity with three genera and 35 species. The smaller, younger volcanic islands harbor fewer taxa: Mauritius (2/11); Reunion (2/5); Anjouan (1/2); Grand Comore (1/1); Mayotte (1/1); Moheli (1/1); Rodrigues (0). Synopses of the family's taxonomic history, biogeography, and distribution are given. The regional setting is defined and summaries of the geology, geomorphology, and climate of each island given. Distribution of species according to habitat is discussed for each island and ecological observations are presented. Vegetative and floral morphology and anatomy are described from both the literature and original observations. A synopsis of the palynology is given. Cytological investigations of ten species of Tambourissa revealed all to have n = 19. Results were inconclusive for Monimia but suggest it is polyploid with n = ca. 44-48. Field studies on floral biology of Tambourissa revealed that variations in floral morphology, color, and odor are responsible for several different pollination syndromes involving Coleoptera and Diptera. Breeding experiments demonstrated a strong tendency towards outcrossing via self-incompatibility in most monoecious species. Population density was related to pollinator systems in the three species studied.
10.2307/2399104|Taxonomic studies in the Saptotaceae of the Southeastern United States support the recognition of three infraspecific taxa of Bumelia reclinata (Michaux) Ventenat: var. reclinata, var. rufotomentosa (Small) Cronquist, and var. austrofloridensis Whetstone, var. nov. A key to the infraspecific taxa and distribution map are included.
40033787|Poa subg. Andinae Nicora (Poaceae, tribe Poeae) is raised to the rank of genus, here renamed as Nicoraepoa Soreng & L. J. Gillespie. Six specific and one infraspecific combinations are made: N. andina (Trin.) Soreng & L. J. Gillespie, N. chonotica (Phil.) Soreng & L. J. Gillespie, N. erinacea (Speg.) Soreng & L. J. Gillespie, N. pugionifolia (Speg.) Soreng & L. J. Gillespie, N. robusta (Steud.) Soreng & L. J. Gillespie, N. subenervis (Hack.) Soreng & L. J. Gillespie, and TV. subenervis subsp. spegazziniana (Nicora) Soreng & L. J. Gillespie. Lectotypes are designated for N. pugionifolia and N. subenervis. Taxonomy and nomenclature of similar Southern Hemisphere island species of Poa L. and other related genera are discussed. Poa sect. Parodiochloa (C. E. Hubb.) Soreng is emended to include, in addition to P. flabellata (Lam.) Raspail, P. cookii (Hook, f.) Hook, f., P. foliosa (Hook, f.) Hook, f., P. hamiltoni Kirk, P. ramosissima Hook, f., and P. tennantiana Petrie. The one species of Tzvelevia E. B. Alexeev is reunited with Poa, and the genus is transferred to Poa sect. Tzvelevia (E. B. Alexeev) Soreng & L. J. Gillespie. Morphological and anatomical characteristics of Nicoraepoa, Poa sect. Parodiochloa, and similar genera in Poinae are compared. Leaf blade morphology and anatomy were found to be particularly useful in characterizing Nicoraepoa and related taxa. A key is provided to distinguish Nicoraepoa, Poa sect. Parodiochloa, and morphologically similar perennial genera of Poinae.
10.2307/2399265|A total of 18 species, four subspecies, and one variety are newly described from the Venezuelan Guayana, nearly one-half of them originating from Cerro Marahuaca of Territorio Federal Amazonas, while the others are from Cerro de la Neblina, Guaiquinima, Huachamacari, Auyan-tepui, Ptari-tepui, and Sipapo. The following new taxa are included: Brocchinia oliva-estevae (Bromeliaceae); Peperomia gentryi, P. marahuacensis, and Piper gentryi (Piperaceae); Euphronia acuminatissima (Vochysiaceae); Ilex liesneri (Aquifoliaceae); Sauvagesia marahuacensis, S. guianensis subsp. sipapoensis and subsp. guaiquinimensis (Ochnaceae); Bonnetia bolivarensis, B. guaiquinimae, B. ptariensis, and B. tristyla subsp. nervosa (Theaceae); Lissocarpa stenocarpa (Lissocarpaceae); Chomelia stergiosii, Coccocypselum croatii, Pagameopsis maguirei subsp. neblinensis var. pirapucuensis and subsp. pusillus, Psychotria guanchezii and P. ronaldii, Schradera marahuacensis, and Sipanea setacea (Rubiaceae); and Gongylolepis terramarae (Compositae). A reevaluation of Euphronia gives evidence for the maintenance of three species, instead of one as previously treated by Lleras, and provides a key to the known species. A study of the variation in Sauvagesia guianensis (Ochnaceae) reveals the occurrence of five morphologically closely related but geographically separated subspecies isolated on different sandstone table mountains. A key to the subspecies and the newly described Sauvagesia marahuacensis is provided, as well as a key to the newly described species of Bonnetia.
10.2307/2399521|Two new species are described, two new combinations are made, and two species are typified within the family for the Flora de Nicaragua. Also a new combination is made for the Flora de Oaxaca, Mexico. These belong to the Papilionoideae, of which Styphnolobium caudatum belongs to the tribe Sophoreae, and Lonchocarpus bicolor belongs to the tribe Millettieae. Of the two combinations, Styphnolobium conzattii belongs to the Sophoreae, and Diphysa americana to the Aeschynomeneae. Two species belonging to the Millettieae are typified: Lonchocarpus macrocarpus Benth. and L. parviflorus Benth.
10.2307/2399566|In this work the generic limits of Streptostachys Desv. are discussed, considering exomorphological and anatomical characters. Streptostachys is mainly defined here by the thickening of the rachilla, caryopsis with a linear hilum, ornamentation of the upper anthecium and with the ligule ciliate or absent. Three species are treated within the boundaries of Streptostachys: S. asperifolia, S. macrantha, and S. ramosa. Streptostachys acuminata is treated as Urochloa acuminata and S. robusta is discussed and considered as a doubtful species of Ichnanthus.
10.2307/2399600|Six new species of the pantropical genus Panicum subg. Dichanthelium (Poaceae: Paniceae) are described, illustrated, and compared with the putative most closely related species. Five of these species, P. heliophilum, P. adenorhachis, P. cabrerae, P. petropolitanum, and P. cucaense, are found in campos rupestres, which are high-altitude rocky fields of Brazil. Panicum davidsei is restricted to elevated savannas of Venezuela and northwestern Brazil.
3298618|The genus Stapelianthus Choux (Asclepiadoideae-Ceropegieae), which is endemic to the arid southern parts of Madagascar, is revised and seven species are recognized. Morphological characters and characters derived from one chloroplast gene region (trnL-trnF) and one nuclear gene region (ITS1) are used in a combined analysis to show that, in its present circumscription, Stapelianthus is a monophyletic entity. The molecular characters clearly suggest that the species of Stapelianthus form a distinct evolutionary lineage from the remainder of the stapeliads in Africa. However, there are relatively few characters separating the species. Consequently, within the genus the relationships remain largely unresolved and are weakly supported where they are resolved. Although the genus remains morphologically difficult to circumscribe, it is defined by its unique coronal structure. Stapelianthus calcarophilus Morat is placed in synonymy under S. arenarius Bosser & Morat and S. hardyi Lavranos under S. montagnacii (Boiteau) Boiteau & Jean Bertrand. Lectotypes are selected for S. insignis Desc. and S. decaryi Choux.
10.2307/3298632|Relationships within Apocynaceae s.l. (Apocynaceae s. str., Periplocaceae, and Asclepiadaceae) were investigated by maximum parsimony analysis of morphological and molecular sequence data. Sequences of the plastid trnL intron and trnL-F spacer for 152 accessions for representatives of all major tribes were included in this study; 96% of these sequences represent new data. Two outgroups were selected from the closely related Loganiaceae. The total evidence matrix incorporated trnL intron and trnL-F spacer sequences, insertion/deletion information, and propagule characters. The phylogenetic hypothesis derived from this data set was used to evaluate the most current classification systems and was also used to investigate trends in seed dispersal. Apocynaceae s.l. are a strongly defined monophyletic group, a finding that should be reflected in taxonomic treatments. The recognition of three of the five subfamilies proposed by Endress and Bruyns in 2000 is supported by the monophyletic Periplocoideae, Secamonoideae, and Asclepiadoideae, whereas the paraphyletic Rauvolfioideae and Apocynoideae are not supported. The precise position of the Periplocoideae, however, remains unclear. Traditional tribal delimitations were less congruent with our total evidence phylogeny. The evolution of seed comas and enhanced long-distance dispersal within the Apocynaceae s.l. probably contributed to accelerated cladogenesis, ultimately giving rise to the majority of the extant genera within the family. Phylogeographic analysis of our data provides some evidence for a Gondwanan origin of the family.
3298651|The study of nearly 400 syntype, other type, and probable type elements of Crataegus, in the context of over 4000 other Missouri specimens examined for the Flora of Missouri Project, provided a unique opportunity to look at putative hybridization in the Missouri Crataegus flora. These specimens collectively represent essentially all the taxonomic variation observed to date for the state. Each type specimen was studied and then categorized as being either: (a) a primary species (orthospecies); (b) a synonym of an orthospecies; or (c) representing a wide hybrid (nothospecies). These nothospecies, all putative, constitute the totality of alleged hybrids for Missouri. Computation of hybrid frequency yielded the conclusion that wide hybrids occur between about 15% of the possible interserial combinations, and field and herbarium studies show that populations of these hybrids are usually small and non-persistent. Working with weaker data, roughly similar results were generated for the whole of the Crataegus-rich northeastern quadrant of the United States (and adjacent Canada). Interestingly, the very small surviving, or even extinct, nature of the populations of these hybrids, together with their high reliability of correct identification, indicate that known hybrids do not contribute significantly to "The Crataegus Problem" routinely touted by North American authors.
10.2307/2399969|A guild of 28 winter- and spring-flowering species of two plant families, Iridaceae and Geraniaceae, with intense purple to crimson flowers and extremely long and slender perianth tubes, is pollinated exclusively by two long-tongued flies of the family Nemestrinidae. The two species of flies, Prosoeca peringueyi and P. sp. nov., are active in the late winter and spring, have large bodies, mouthparts 20-50 mm long, and forage for nectar while hovering. Plants pollinated by these two flies share a suite of convergent floral characteristics, including a straight or slightly curved floral tube at least 20 mm and up to 70 mm long, relatively short petals or tepals colored predominantly dark blue- or red-purple with pale nectar guides, and anthers and stigmas exserted from the tube and usually unilateral in orientation. With one exception, the flowers of all species secrete large amounts of nectar of relatively constant total sugar concentration, mostly 24-29%, and high sucrose:hexose ratio. Most members of the guild have odorless flowers. The long floral tube makes nectar unavailable to most insects, including a variety of bees, wasps, and other flies that pollinate plants which co-occur with members of the long-tubed flower guild. The two Prosoeca species have mouthparts long enough to forage effectively on these long-tubed flowers, and they are also effective pollinators because pollen adheres to their bodies and is transported from flower to flower. The flies visit a wide range of plants but are effective pollinators only of those with tube lengths greater that their proboscis lengths. We have identified four mutually exclusive sites of pollen deposition on the insects' bodies: when two or more members of the guild co-occur, each species typically utilizes a different pollen deposition site. This suggests that pollen contamination is detrimental to reproductive success. Differential pollen deposition sites may have evolved in response to selection for reduced pollen contamination. Since 27 of the 28 plant species appear to depend exclusively on these two species of Prosoeca for pollination, these flies must be considered keystone species in the ecosystems where they occur.
10.2307/2398794| Based on 563 excursions from 1954 to 1971, 393 synanthropes (adventive plants not native to the flora of Missouri) were discovered on the railroad network in St. Louis. The majority were weeds and escapes from cultivation. The plants belonged to 59 families. The best represented families were Gramineae (74), Compositae (52), and Cruciferae (28). During this study 129 new taxa to the flora of Missouri were discovered of which 39 taxa are reported for the first time in this paper. The results of this study are quite similar to comparable European studies. There was a preponderance of annuals (254 of 393); most species were rare (208 were deemed very rare--no more than 5 localities in 18 years); the majority of plants were ephemeral (47 were seen only once as a single plant, 52 were seen only as a single colony); and there is much fluctuation in the frequency of most species. Eighty-nine species were considered to be naturalized. Other characteristic features of these railroad plants were nanism and seed dormancy. It was not possible to determine the exact means of introduction for the great majority of synanthropes. Many synanthropes were found along classification or switching tracks in freight yards, fewer along trunk lines. The habitat preferences and gregarious behavior of various species is discussed. The most common synanthropes were: Bromus tectorum, Digitaria sanguinalis, Setaria viridis, Kochia scoparia, Amaranthus retroflexus, Capsella bursa-pastoris, Melilotus officinalis and Convolvulus arvensis. Native species were studied also, but in less detail. Some of the most common native species were: Eragrostis pectinacea, Hordeum jubatum, Aristida oligantha, Lepidium virginicum, Euphorbia dentata, Erigeron canadensis, Ambrosia artemisifolia and Helianthus annuus. The devastating effect of the extensive use of weed killers in modern railroad management on railroad plants is discussed. 
40035486|Se realiz una revisin taxonmica del gnero Acaena en Chile, utilizando caracteres morfolgicos clsicos. Se reconocen veinte especies para Chile continental y Archipilago de Juan Fernndez, las que se ubican en seis secciones. Los caracteres de mayor utilidad para reconocer las especies son el tipo de inflorescencia, forma de los fololos, asi como la forma y ornamentacin de la cupela. Las siguientes especies son lectotipificadas: A. alpina Poepp. ex Walp., A. caespitosa Gillies ex Hook, et Arn., A. integerrima Gillies ex Hook, et Arn., A. macrocephala Poepp., A. magellanica (Lam.) Vahl, A. pinnatifida Ruiz et Pav., A. platyacantha Speg., A. splendens Hook, et Arn. y A. tenera Alboff. Las siguientes especies fueron neotipificadas: A. lucida (Aiton) Vahl, A. sericea J. Jacq. y A. trifida Ruiz et Pav. var. glabrescens Regel et Krn. Los siguientes sinnimos fueron lectotipificados: A. argentea Ruiz et Pav. var. breviscapa Bitter, A. argentea Ruiz et Pav. var. coriacea Bitter, A. argentea Ruiz et Pav. var. interrupte-pinnata Bitter, A. argentea Ruiz et Pav. var. lanigera Bitter, A. argentea Ruiz et Pav. var. subcalvescens Bitter, A. cadilla Hook. f., A. canescens Phil., A. cuneata Hook, et Arn., A digitata Phil., A. digitata Phil. var. latifoliolata Bitter, A. digitata Phil. var. subpinnata Bitter, A. euacantha Phil., A. fuegina Phil., A. glandulifera Bitter, A. grandistipula Bitter, A. hirsuta Phil., A. ischnostemon Bitter, A. krausei Phil., A. krausei Phil, subvar. glabratula Bitter, A. longiaristata H. Ross [= A magellanica (Lam.) Vahl], A. lucida var. villosula Bitter, A. macrostemon Hook. f. subsp. longiaristata (H. Ross) Bitter var. basipilosa Bitter, A. macrostemon Hook, f., A. magellanica (Lam.) Vahl subsp. pygmaea Bitter, A. magellanica (Lam.) Vahl var. glabrescens Bitter, A. microcephala Schltdl., A. multifida Hook. f. subsp. intercedens Bitter, A. neglecta Bitter, A. petiolulata Phil., A. pinnatifida Ruiz et Pav. subsp. hypoleuca Bitter, A. pinnatifida Ruiz et Pav. subsp. nudiscapa Bitter, A. pinnatifida Ruiz et Pav. var. uspallatensis Bitter, A. quinquefida Phil., A. splendens Hook, et Arn. var. brachyphylla Bitter, A. splendens Hook, et Arn. var. brevisericea Bitter, A. tenuipila Bitter, A. trifida Ruiz et Pav. var. argentella Bitter, A. trifida Ruiz et Pav. var. brachyphylla Bitter, A. trifida Ruiz et Pav. var. mollissima Bitter y A. venulosa Griseb. Los siguientes sinnimos fueron neotipificados: A. calcitrapa Phil., A. closiana Gay, A. hirta Citerne y A. macrostemon Hook. f. subsp. closiana (Gay) Bitter. /// A taxonomic revision of the genus Acaena in Chile was carried out, using morphological characters. Twenty species belonging to six sections are recognized for continental Chile and Juan Fernandez Archipelago. The most useful characters for recognizing species are inflorescence type, the form of leaflets, as well as the form and ornamentation of the fruit. The following species are lectotypified: A. alpina Poepp. ex Walp., A. caespitosa Gillies ex Hook, et Arn., A. integerrima Gillies ex Hook, et Arn., A. macrocephala Poepp., A. magellanica (Lam.) Vahl, A. pinnatifida Ruiz et Pav., A. platyacantha Speg., A. splendens Hook, et Arn., and A. tenera Alboff. The following species were neotypified: A. lucida (Aiton ) Vahl, A. sericea J. Jacq., and A. trifida Ruiz et Pav. var. glabrescens Regel et Krn. The following synonyms were lectotypified: A. argentea Ruiz et Pav. var. breviscapa Bitter, A. argentea Ruiz et Pav. var. coriacea Bitter, A. argentea Ruiz et Pav. var. interrupte-pinnata Bitter, A. argentea Ruiz et Pav. var. lanigera Bitter, A. argentea Ruiz et Pav. var. subcalvescens Bitter, A. cadilla Hook, f., A. canescens Phil., A. cuneata Hook, et Arn., A. digitata Phil., A. digitata Phil. var. latifoliolata Bitter, A. digitata Phil. var. subpinnata Bitter, A. euacantha Phil., A. fuegina Phil., A. glandulifera Bitter, A. grandistipula Bitter, A. hirsuta Phil., A. ischnostemon Bitter, A. krausei Phil., A. krausei Phil, subvar. glabratula Bitter, A. longiaristata H. Ross [= A. magellanica (Lam.) Vahl], A. lucida var. villosula Bitter, A. macrostemon Hook. f. subsp. longiaristata (H. Ross) Bitter var. basipilosa Bitter, A. macrostemon Hook, f., A. magellanica (Lam.) Vahl subsp. pygmaea Bitter, A. magellanica (Lam.) Vahl var. glabrescens Bitter, A. microcephala Schltdl., A. multifida Hook. f. subsp. intercedens Bitter, A. neglecta Bitter, A. petiolulata Phil., A. pinnatifida Ruiz et Pav. subsp. hypoleuca Bitter, A. pinnatifida Ruiz et Pav. subsp. nudiscapa Bitter, A. pinnatifida Ruiz et Pav. var. uspallatensis Bitter, A. quinquefida Phil., A. trifida Ruiz et Pav. var. quinquefida (Phil.) Reiche, A. splendens Hook, et Arn. var. brachyphylla Bitter, A. splendens Hook, et Arn. var. brevisericea Bitter, A. tenuipila Bitter, A. trifida Ruiz et Pav. var. argentella Bitter, A. trifida Ruiz et Pav. var. brachyphylla Bitter, A. trifida Ruiz et Pav. var. mollissima Bitter, and A. venulosa Griseb. The following synonyms were neotypified: A. calcitrapa Phil., A. closiana Gay, A. hirta Citerne, and A. macrostemon Hook. f. subsp. closiana (Gay) Bitter.
10.2307/3298636|Evolutionary innovation is an important mode of morphological diversification. Because explicit phylogenetic analyses are lacking for most evolutionary innovations, the patterns of origin, diversification, and homoplasy of innovations are poorly understood. Asclepiadaceae are a large angiosperm family characterized by a suite of putatively novel features that contributes to extreme floral complexity and diversity. In this paper, I use a preliminary phylogenetic hypothesis for Asclepiadaceae to explore the patterns of diversification in two novel floral characters, the pollinarium and the corona. The presence, number, and orientation of pollinia and the presence and form of corolline and gynostegial coronas are analyzed. Comparison of the histories of these structures suggests a contrast between relatively conserved evolution of pollinaria and labile evolution of coronas. I examine prior homology assessments of pollinaria and coronas and evaluate the sensitivity of evolutionary reconstructions to errors in homology assessment. These analyses point to crucial areas where additional ontogenetic studies, interpreted in a phylogenetic context, are required. This is particularly true in the phylogenetic assessment of the homology of corolline and gynostegial coronas. I also investigate the sensitivity of evolutionary reconstructions to phylogenetic uncertainty, and find this source of error to be slight.
10.2307/2399724|The chromosome number of Ticodendron incognitum is reported for the first time as 2n = 26, and the phylogenetic significance of this number within Fagales is discussed.
10.2307/2399751|Morphological, anatomical, and reproductive characteristics of the modern lycopsids are of great value in tracing the ancient lineage of the group. The sporangium is the principal character: lack or misinterpretation of it in fossil specimens places an investigator in a predicament. An informed choice of a group of characters must be made from all those that remain. There are, of course, pitfalls and the defining characters of fossil species of the lycopsids have become confused. Differences in ontogeny of sporangia in early land plants are suggested as a way of separating the early rhyniophytoids with terminal, fusiform, indehiscent sporangia from the cooksonioid plants with terminal, globular or reniform, dehiscent sporangia. The rhyniophytoids are the source of later plant groups other than the lycopsids. Among the cooksonioids, change in the ontogeny of the sporangium in relation to the apical meristem is suggested as the point of differentiation and separation of the zosterophyll and lycopsid lineages. A reinterpretation of Kaulangiophyton suggests that its sporangia are borne adaxially on the leaves rather than terminally on stalks. The apical meristem of Asteroxylon is illustrated and described for the first time and compared with the apical meristem seen in species of Lycopodium. The genus Baragwanathia, questionably the earliest in the lycopsid lineage, is discussed in light of specimens ostensibly dated as of Gorstian age (lower Late Silurian) in Australia. Drepanophycus is perhaps the earliest recognizable member of the lycopsid lineage as opposed to Baragwanathia. The variation in the morphology of lycopsid leaves is of taxonomic value only in differentiating genera, particularly among those in the Devonian. Lineages are suggested diagrammatically.
10.2307/2399411|Two new Mesoamerican species of Chusquea are described and illustrated, both from complete collections of vegetative and flowering material. Chusquea grandiflora, a cloud-forest species from Panama and northwestern Colombia, has infravaginal branching, long, relatively narrow foliage leaves, open panicles, and rather large spikelets. It is allied to C. longifolia Swallen and related species. Chusquea aperta occurs in pine-oak cloud forests in Oaxaca, Mexico. It also has infravaginal branching and open panicles, but its foliage leaves are smaller, wider, yellowish-green, and strongly tessellate abaxially. This species is probably most closely related to C. nelsonii Scribn. & Smith, and C. muelleri Munro.
10.2307/2399766|The concept of Asteridae can be traced back to the Monopetalae of Tournefort (1694) and de Jussieu (1789). This group, later better known as the Sympetalae, was essentially based on a single character, the united petals. A closer look at the floral morphology and the study of embryology (especially of the ovules) by Van Tieghem and Warming led to the exclusion of some families (e.g., the Cucurbitaceae). Moreover, it became clear that only the "Tetracyclicae" (with one series of stamina alternating with the petals) may probably form a coherent group. Formal recognition of this group as a subclass was proposed by Takhtajan in 1964 and has been accepted by Cronquist (1968). Recent studies have emphasized chemical characters, although embryology is still important. Because of a combination of characters, the following orders are good candidates for monophyletic groups: Gentianales (including Rubiaceae, but excluding Retziaceae, Buddlejaceae, and probably Menyanthaceae), Dipsacales, and Scrophulariales (including Plantaginaceae, Lamiales). Still controversial is the circumscription of the Solanales and Campanulales sens. lat. There have been some "imports" of families with strongly reduced flowers (mostly wind-pollinated water plants) formerly placed in orders outside the Asteridae: Hippuridaceae, Callitrichaceae, and Hydrostachyaceae. In these groups, flower morphology alone has been misleading in determining the proper taxonomic position. The position of the Dialypetalanthaceae and Loasaceae, with some characters pointing to an Asteridae affinity but with polyandry, is not clear. More important and much more controversial is the question of the nearest allies outside this group. Several orders in the Rosidae (Rosales, Geraniales, Cornales, Apiales) have been named as probable relatives for part of the Asteridae or for the whole group. However, the evidence is unequivocal neither from morphology nor from phytochemistry.
10.2307/2992019|The genus Steinchisma Raf. (Poaceae: Panicoideae: Paniceae) is revised. Six species are treated in this work, in which exomorphological and anatomical characters are analyzed cladistically. Steinchisma comprises perennial species that grow in open areas or near borders of rivers and streams. The plants possess membranous ligules, leaves lanceolate to filiform, inflorescences lax and diffuse to contracted, with spikelets solitary on short or long pedicels; ellipsoid spikelets, glabrous, with the lower glume 1/3 to 1/2 the length of the spikelet, upper glume and lower lemma subequal, lower palea as long as the upper anthecium, expanded at maturity, lower flower present, with three stamens, or absent; indurate upper anthecium; and a basic chromosome number of x = 10. A similar anatomical pattern, intermediate between Kranz and non-Kranz species, was found in all species. A cladistic analysis of Steinchisma was conducted in order to test its monophyly, and relationships with the subgenera of Panicum. A key to the species is provided, as well as an anatomical description of the genus and photomicrographs of two species; morphological descriptions, illustrations, and distribution maps are presented for all six species of Steinchisma. A new combination is made, Steinchisma stenophylla (Hack.) Zuloaga & Morrone.
10.2307/2992001|The federal threatened Asclepias meadii Torr. (Asclepiadaceae) is a perennial, self-incompatible prairie forb imperiled by habitat destruction and population fragmentation. Many large populations persist in prairie haymeadows in Kansas and Missouri despite removal of seed pods by annual summer mowing. Only a few small populations remain in Illinois, Iowa, and northern Missouri. Recovery of these small populations and restoration of new populations are recovery objectives for this species. This study was conducted to determine habitat differences among populations, to understand how hay mowing and fire management affect the structure of A. meadii populations, and to test the effects of different management treatments on restoration of this species. Soils analysis showed a geographic gradient, with southern populations on acid, nutrient-poor soils, and northern populations on calcareous, nutrient-rich soils. Milkweed ramet densities were lower in fire-managed prairies than in haymeadows; but burned sites had 68% flowering ramets while haymeadows had only 19% flowering ramets. This suggests that burning has selected for greater resource allocation toward sexual reproduction, while annual hay mowing has selected for greater resource allocation toward clonal spread. The Morton Arboretum is conducting experimental restoration of Asclepias meadii in the eastern part of its range, an objective of Federal Recovery Planning. In greenhouse and garden experiments, competition from oats significantly reduced seedling growth, with greater growth in artificially outcrossed seedlings. At seven restoration sites in Illinois and northern Indiana, significant variation in milkweed germination, survivorship, and growth was caused by weather, differences among sites, and site management. Seedlings were vulnerable to drought, with greater survivorship when rainfall was 200% of normal. Planted juvenile milkweeds had greater survivorship than seedlings, and less sensitivity to drought. Greater growth and survivorship also occurred in burned than in unburned plots at three sites, but not in all life-stages. Propagated plants from Missouri seed sources were larger than Kansas plants in the garden, but not in the field. Continued work is needed to determine if restored populations can become viable, and if there are negative effects of crossing and translocating genotypes.
10.2307/2399592|Knowledge of the plants of Africa has been obtained by exploration and taxonomic study. While west Africa is dominated by the River Niger, northeast Africa has the famous Nile, with its major branches of the White and Blue Niles. This paper outlines more than two centuries of botanical exploration by individuals and organizations in these regions, relating them to the colonial and governmental history of each period, and links the value of the knowledge gained to the environmental concerns of today.
10.2307/2395000|Chromosome numbers of 2n = 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, and 37 are reported for Claytonia virginica L. from the St. Louis, Missouri area. Those plants with 2n = 24 and 30 are by far the most frequent. Morphologically the species separates into two groups: plants having narrow leaves which are characteristic of the lower polyploid cytotypes, and those having broad leaves which are typical of the higher polyploid races.
10.2307/2399146|The Moraea fugax complex, widespread in the winter rainfall area of southern Africa, is treated here as comprising three species, M. gracilenta and the new M. macrocarpa, both of restricted distribution and morphologically and cytologically uniform, and the very widespread and variable M. fugax. The latter comprises two subspecies: larger flowered populations of robust plants with large capsules and one or two channeled leaves are referred to subsp. fugax while small-flowered forms with small capsules and usually two filiform leaves are referred to subsp. filicaulis. Cytologically M. fugax is remarkably variable. Basic chromosome number in Moraea and in the complex is x = 10, and n = 10 is the only number known for M. gracilenta and M. macrocarpa. Moraea fugax subsp. fugax has a base number of x = 10 but exhibits an extensive aneuploid series with populations or races having n = 9, 8, 7, 6, and 5. Subspecies filicaulis has haploid numbers of n = 9, 6, and 5, the former perhaps basic for this taxon. Some correlation of morphological and karyotypic variation suggests that aneuploid decrease occurred in several morphological lines as geographical races differentiated from the ancestral stock during alternating dry and wet phases of the Quarternary. A revised classification of the complex is presented in the second half of the paper, following a detailed description of the karyological and morphological variation. The karyology of M. fugax is not completely known, but the major features are probably reflected in the data presented here.
10.2307/2399996|The development of new technologies is increasing our understanding of prokaryotic and eukaryotic microbial diversity in terms of abundance, diversity, and ecological function. New studies reveal greater diversity than was previously known and have highlighted the importance of these organisms in ecosystem function. There is no consensus on the phylogenetic relationships of the various unicellular organisms at the phylum and kingdom level, and, as long as new taxa and characters are discovered, innovations in classifications of the kingdoms will likely continue. Some general conclusions are already clear. First, it is obvious that classifications that divide organisms into just two, three, four, or five kingdoms are too simplistic. In all of these simple schemes, one or more of the kingdoms ultimately contains a heterogeneous group of diverse taxa and is either paraphyletic or polyphyletic. Alternatively, a multi-kingdom system provides a more realistic view of the diversity of life. Concomitant with this is the realization that some traditional categories such as monera, algae, protozoa, or fungi can no longer be considered distinct phylogenetic groups. An overall scheme of classification that reflects our growing databases will hardly look like those followed in many textbooks, but it will reflect more accurately the relationships of the unicellular microorganisms.
10.2307/2399006|Traits characterizing those proteas adapted for pollination by nonflying mammals include: bowl-shaped heads bearing fleshy bracts, these borne on short, flexible peduncles, often at or near ground level (geoflorous) and hidden beneath dense overlying foliage (cryptic), and producing copious nectar (ca. 1.8 ml/head, standing crop); individual florets with wiry, yet flexible styles and a nectar-stigma distance of 10 mm; a distinctive yeastlike odor; nocturnal anthesis; sucrose-rich nectar with a high total carbohydrate content (ca. 36%) and a relatively low proportion of amino acids. Evidence of small-mammal visitation to protea flowering heads includes: the presence of pollen on the rostra (carried in a position to effect pollination when foraging for nectar); the transport of fluorescing powders to flowering heads both within and between plants; the accumulation of small-mammal feces in flowering heads, and the destruction of exclosure bags containing nectar-rich heads. The period of greatest small-mammal activity (1800 hr.) coincides with maximum flower opening. T maze experiments showed that small mammals, when given a choice between typically bird-pollinated proteas and those having characteristics of flowers pollinated by nonflying mammals, always foraged on the latter. That small mammals can effect pollination is indicated by their foraging behavior on flowering heads while in captivity, the morphological "fit" between individual florets and the rostra of small mammals, and by selective exclosure experiments that reduced seed set (50% and 95%) when small mammals were excluded and visitation was limited to insects (mostly honey bees). The nectar produced by these proteas meets the energy requirements of the small-mammal community for only several days annually, thus coevolution is impossible. Proteas adapted for pollination by nonflying mammals have evolved unilaterally, probably from bird-pollinated prototypes, possibly in response to progressive decrease in population size. Recent discoveries in the Neotropics of flowers with some similar characteristics and also pollinated by nonflying mammals support the existence of a worldwide class of flowers adapted for such pollinators.
10.2307/2399430|The monotypic southwestern Cape genus Pillansia is a taxonomically isolated member of Iridaceae subfamily Ixioideae. It shares some synapomorphies with Ixioideae, although it differs in its unspecialized leaf anatomy and inflorescence structure, a panicle rather than a spike. The pollen is typical of Ixioideae in having a micropunctate exine with minute supratectal papillae. Exine of most other genera and subfamilies of Iridaceae is reticulate. Membership of Pillansia in Ixioideae is thus supported by pollen morphology. Micropunctate exine must be regarded as the basic condition for the subfamily and an additional feature separating Ixioideae from other Iridaceae.
10.2307/2992097|Laticifer distribution is described in several genera of Euphorbiaceae, particularly in subfamily Crotonoideae, previously neglected in this respect. Branched, nonarticulated laticifers are common in both Crotonoideae and Euphorbioideae, sparse in Acalyphoideae (occurring in, e.g., Omphalea), and absent in the other two subfamilies. However, many genera without latex have elongated, highly branched sclereids in the mesophyll, which may in some instances be homologous with laticifers. Typical articulated laticifers (consisting of numerous fused cells) are currently known in only three genera of Crotonoideae, although several anomalous and transitional forms are reported. Crotonoideae differs from Euphorbioideae in that nonarticulated laticifers originate in the protophloem, and are in general more abundant in the phloem, in common with articulated laticifers. Laticifer evolution is discussed in relation to the phylogeny of Euphorbiaceae.
10.2307/2666218|Barnadesia is a South American genus with 18 species of trees and shrubs, mainly distributed in the Andes. This work represents a modern revision, which comprises taxonomic and phylogenetic aspects. The taxonomic aspect includes a description and history of the genus, keys for identification of the genera of the subfamily Barnadesioideae and the species of Barnadesia, descriptions, an account of morphological and anatomical characters (spines, leaves, hairs, corollas, anthers, achenes, pappi, and pollen), synonyms, illustrations, and distribution maps for each species, as well as a list of doubtful and excluded taxa. Two new subgenera, subg. Bacasia (Ruiz & Pav.) Urtubey and Barnadesia, and a new combination, Barnadesia lehmannii Hieron. var. villosa (I. C. Chung) Urtubey, are proposed. The following new synonymies are established: Barnadesia media D. Don = B. arborea Kunth; B. wurdackii Ferreyra = B. arborea Kunth; B. caryophylla (Vell.) S. F. Blake var. macrospinosa (Loefgr.) I. C. Chung = B. caryophylla (Vell.) S. F. Blake; B. hutchisoniana Ferreyra = B. lehmannii Hieron. var. lehmannii; B. polyacantha Wedd. var. velutina I. C. Chung = B. polyacantha Wedd. The phylogenetic analysis of Barnadesia was proposed using morphological characters. Polarity of characters was based on outgroup comparison with the genus Fulcaldea. The genus Huarpea was included to test the monophyly of Barnadesia. Two monophyletic groups were resolved: (1) B. corymbosa and B. parviflora, and (2) B. lehmannii, B. reticulata, B. caryophylla, B. polyacantha, B. glomerata, B. odorata, B. macbridei, B. jelskii, B. aculeata, B. horrida, B. macrocephala, B. pycnophylla, B. spinosa, B. arborea, B. dombeyana, and B. blakeana.
10.2307/2399448|Synchronous first occurrences of pollen and leaves indicate that angiosperms entered the Northern Rocky Mountain (NRM) region during the Middle Albian, approximately 8 Ma later than such shifts in floras from southern Laurasia. The earliest angiosperm pollen and leaf flora corresponds to the Potomac sub-Zone IIB in that it exhibits a pretricolporate palynoflora and a comparable grade of evolution based on leaf rank. The Albian megaflora is characterized by abundant leaves of the Platanophyll, Protophyll, and Pentalobaphyll morphotypes. Sapindophylls are common and diverse. The flora contains early North American occurrences of the widespread Upper Cretaceous leaf form genera Trochodendroides and Cinnamomoides. Pentalobaphylls (Araliaephylls) appear early and assume a more important position in the lowland vegetation of the NRM region than in other regions. Magnoliidae, Hamamelididae, and Rosidae are represented in the Albian flora. The Albian megaflora is a regional variation of a largely cosmopolitan Laurasian flora. Latest Albian and Cenomanian megafloras suggest the development of north-south provincialism within the region. Post-Cenomanian to Campanian floras show gradual diversification with various Platanaceae and Hamamelidaceae as numerical dominants. Pinnate palms are present by the early Campanian. Higher-level taxa present in the region in the Early Campanian include Magnoliales, Laurales, Chloranthales, Nymphaeales, Menispermaceae, Trochodendrales, Platanaceae, Hamamelidaceae, Cercidiphyllales, Fagales, Rosidae, and palmate Dilleniidae.
10.2307/2399295|The lower Miocene Culebra Formation of central Panama consists of lignites and lignitic shales in a predominantly estuarian sandstone sequence. Forty-one palynomorphs have been identified from the lignites, and the following ten are most abundant: Monolete fern spore type 2 (20%), Manicaria-type palm pollen (10%), Cyathea (8%), Cryosophia-type palm pollen (8%), Selaginella (7%), Synechanthus-type palm pollen (6%), Rhizophora (6%), monolete fern spore type 1 (5%), Hampea/Hibiscus (4%), and Lycopodium (2%). Ferns constituted 25% of the fossil flora, palms 24%, and lowland vegetation types totaled 71%. The most prominent paleocommunities were the tropical moist forest represented by 30 genera that can occur in this vegetation type (including an only moderately developed mangrove swamp), premontane wet forest (25 genera), tropical wet forest (22 genera), and possibly some form of the premontane moist forest (12 genera). Communities of higher elevations and dry to arid habitats (including savannahs) were poorly represented to absent. Paleoenvironments were similar to those of the present, including annual rainfall estimated at about 275-325 cm (107-128 inches). The rainfall probably decreased slightly with elevation, similar to the pattern shown in a transect from sea level to about 1,172 m from present-day Atlantic Costa Rica (353.6-188.9 cm). Annual temperature probably ranged between about 21
41238116|The genus Salvia L. (Lamiaceae) encompasses about 1000 species, approximately two thirds of which are in the New World. Bees and birds are known as pollinators, but a more detailed analysis of the pollinator groups is lacking. This paper presents a complete list of all currently accepted New World Salvia species and their classification according to their pollination syndromes, focusing particularly on bird-pollinated species. The concept of pollination syndromes is used and complemented by field investigations, morphometric measurements, and experiments to reconstruct the process of pollen transfer and to confirm the fitting or exclusion of a given pollinator group. Within the 602 New World Salvia species, 58% are identified to be melittophilous (bee pollinated) and 31% to be ornithophilous (bird pollinated). Salvia whitehousei Alziar is assumed to be psychophilous (butterfly pollinated/long-tongued fly pollinated). About 11% of the species show characters of two or more syndromes and eight species are not assignable to any group. Bird-pollinated Salvia species occur from North America southward to Chile and Argentina. They usually grow as shrubs or perennial herbs (97%) and have red flowers (at least 49%) of an average size of 34 mm (7-130 mm). With respect to their floral diversity and phylogeny, parallel evolution is evident. El gnero Salvia L. (Lamiaceae) comprende unas 1000 especies, de Ias cuales aproximadamente dos tercios habitan en el Nuevo Mundo. Abejas y aves han sido descritas como polinizadores en este ciado, sin embargo, hasta ahora no se han realizado estudios detallados acerca de los grupos de polinizadores involucrados. El presente trabajo entrega un registro completo de Ias especies de Salvia del Nuevo Mundo actualmente aceptadas y su clasificacin de acuerdo a los sndromes de polinizacin, con nfasis en las espcies polinizadas por aves. De Ias 602 espcies de Salvia del Nuevo Mundo, 58% se identifican como melitfilas (polinizadas por abejas) y 31% como ornitfilas (polinizadas por aves). Slo S. whitehousei Alziar es considerada como psycfila (polinizada por mariposas/moscas de larga probscide). Cerca dei 11% de Ias espcies presenta caracteres de dos o ms sndromes distintos y ocho especies no son asignables en ningn grupo. Especies de Salvia polinizadas por aves se encuentran desde Norteamrica hasta Chile y Argentina por el sur. stas adoptan generalmente una forma de vida arbustiva o de herbceas perennes (97%) y evidencian flores rojas (al menos 49%) con un tamano promedio de 34 mm (7-130 mm). Acorde a la filogenia, la diversidad floral observada evidencia evolucin en paralelo dentro del gnero.
10.2307/3298591|The monophyly and phylogenetic relationships of the tribe Euphorbieae (Euphorbiaceae) were evaluated using separate weighted maximum parsimony analyses of nucleotide sequences of the nrDNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region and cpDNA coding region ndhF. The study included 223 ingroup species representing nearly all of the previously recognized genera, subgenera, and sections within the Euphorbieae and 4 outgroup taxa from the tribe Hippomaneae (Euphorbiaceae). Both the ITS and ndhF analyses support the monophyly of Euphorbieae in addition to the monophyly of its three subtribes, Anthosteminae, Neoguillauminiinae, and Euphorbiinae. Within Euphorbiinae, there are four major clades, only one of which corresponds with a previously recognized taxon; the three remaining clades are conglomerates of various subgenera and sections. The majority of the subtribe is composed of a paraphyletic Euphorbia. All other genera currently recognized in the subtribe are nested within Euphorbia. In addition, Synadenium and Endadenium are nested within Monadenium. Within Euphorbia, the majority of the currently recognized subgenera are either paraphyletic or polyphyletic. Biogeographical patterns examined in light of the molecular evidence suggest that the tribe Euphorbieae arose in Africa, possibly before the breakup of Gondwanaland, at which time the major lineages of subtribe Euphorbiinae were already present. It is argued that the best solution for Euphorbia classification is a broad circumscription of Euphorbia that contains all of the about 2000 species of the subtribe Euphorbiinae.
10.2307/2398783|This is a taxonomic revision of the grass genus Dichanthelium as represented in the United States and Canada. Keys and descriptions are provided for the 45 taxa (26 species and 19 varieties) of the United States and Canada recognized by the writers. A total of 26 new combinations and changes of status are proposed. Many species of the genus Dichanthelium (Panicum subgenus Dichanthelium Hitchc. & Chase) are widespread through the eastern half of the United States and the center of diversity appears to be in southeastern North America. At least some species are present almost throughout the cool, subtropical and tropical regions of North America and the Caribbean, and a few species range throughout much of South America. The genus also is represented in the Hawaiian Islands. This publication represents the first major revision of the Dichanthelium grass group since the monograph of Panicum by Hitchcock and Chase in 1910.
10.2307/2399055|Analyses of foliar flavonoids have been completed for approximately half of the species of Onagraceae and preliminary surveys have been carried out for at least one species of each of the 17 genera. Some 40 flavonoids, including glycoflavones, flavonols, and flavones, have been isolated and identified. Flavonols occur in all genera and in most species. Glycoflavones, either as the sole flavonoid constituent or co-occurring with flavonols, characterize the more generalized tribes, whereas only flavonols are found in the relatively specialized tribe Epilobieae. Glycoflavones, presumed primitive, occur in some members of all tribes except Fuchsieae and Epilobieae, whereas flavones occur only in Circaeeae, Fuchsieae, and Onagreae. In general, flavonoid data are strongly supportive of conclusions drawn from other lines of phylogenetic investigation about the relative degree of advancement of taxa, but they do not provide strong indications of phylogenetic relationship between genera or tribes.
10.2307/2992017|Weinmannia (Cunoniaceae) is a woody genus of about 150 species widely distributed in the tropics and the southern temperate zone. Herbarium and living specimens were examined to determine characters for a cladistic analysis to test the monophyly of the genus and its sections. A matrix of 28 taxa and 31 morphological characters was analyzed to find the most parsimonious trees. The strict consensus cladogram supports the monophyly of the genus Weinmannia and sections Leiospermum, Weinmannia (including sect. Simplicifolia), Inspersa, and Spicata, but section Fasciculata is paraphyletic with respect to a highly derived section Weinmannia. Section Leiospermum from the South Pacific is the sister taxon to the rest of the genus. Some of the most parsimonious trees support a monophyletic clade from Madagascar of sections Inspersa and Spicata, but this node is unresolved in the strict consensus tree. Although the deep nodes of the phylogeny are not well supported, and few evolutionary interpretations are ventured, it appears that dioecy has arisen independently at least three times in the genus. The method and theory used to analyze variation in inflorescence architecture, which emerges from the metameric construction of plants and positional homology, are emphasized. The cladistic coding of positional characters and the tracing of their evolution on the cladogram are a study in heterotopy, i.e., evolutionary change in the position of development. Heterotopic evolution in the inflorescence is common in Weinmannia, suggesting a role for an evolutionary-developmental process that has typically been overlooked in favor of heterochrony.
10.2307/2399381|Collections made in the last two decades have added 9 genera and 42 species to the 35 genera and 100 species included in the Flora of Panama treatment of the Euphorbiaceae published in 1968. The new taxa and combinations proposed in this paper are Richeria dressleri Webster, Phyllanthus gentryi Webster, Tragia correae Huft, Dalechampia canescens Kunth subsp. friedrichsthalii (Muell. Arg.) Webster & Huft, Tetrorchidium costaricense Huft, Tetrorchidium microphyllum Huft, Croton pachypodus Webster, Croton speciosus Muell. Arg. subsp. tacarcunensis Webster, Croton draco Cham. & Schldl. subsp. panamensis (Klotzsch) Webster, Croton billbergianus Muell. Arg. subsp. pyramidalis (J. D. Smith) Webster, Croton santaritensis Huft, Sebastiania panamensis Webster, Gymnanthes dressleri Webster, and Gymnanthes farinosa (Griseb.) Webster. In addition, new or updated keys are provided where appropriate, as well as descriptions and specimen citations.
10.2307/3298566|Comprising a land area of ca. 90,000 km
10.2307/2666179|Studies of five mesofossil floras from the Early Cretaceous (Barremian or Aptian?) of Portugal document a previously unrecognized diversity of angiosperms exceeding that currently known from other localities of this age. At the Famalicao, Vale de Agua, and Buarcos localities angiosperms are represented by about 100 different kinds of flowers, fruits, seeds, and stamens. At the other two localities (Torres Vedras and Catefica) angiosperm diversity is lower but still significant. At each of the five localities between 7 and 26 types of angiosperm pollen have been recognized based on pollen grains in situ within anthers, or on stigmatic or fruit surfaces. Monocolpate, dicolpate, periporate, and tricolpate angiosperm pollen have been recognized, but in all cases monocolpate grains, of probable magnoliid or monocotyledonous affinity, are the most diverse element. The diversity of angiosperm pollen in situ, or associated with other angiosperm reproductive structures, is greater than that of the dispersed palynoflora from the same localities. The diversity and abundance of angiosperms in the Portuguese mesofloras contrast strongly with the apparent paucity of angiosperm pollen in dispersed palynofloras, as well as the scarcity of angiosperm wood and leaves in Barremian-Aptian fossil plant assemblages. This discrepancy may reflect the widespread occurrence of both insect pollination and herbaceous habit among the angiosperms in the initial phases of their Early Cretaceous diversification.
10.2307/2398846|Fourteen species of Erythrina were characterized for the total alkaloids content, both in the free form and as glycosides, by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Thirteen alkaloids were identified in all, the most common being erysodine, erysovine, and erysopine. A number of unknown or unidentified were also noted.
10.2307/2666157|Flowering phenology, floral morphology, nectar features (chemical composition, secretion pattern, standing crop, removal effects), breeding system, and flower visitors were analyzed in seven populations of Erythrina crista-galli from Argentina and Uruguay. Its flowering phenology corresponds to the sub-annual frequency class of Newstrom et al., with a major burst in November. Flowers lasted for 3 to 4 days and produced abundant hexose-dominant nectar with its chemical composition and concentration (ca. 22%) constant across all flowering stages. Most of the total nectar was secreted by buds. When the flowers first opened, most (> 50%) of the total nectar was available to pollinators. As flowers faded, a resorption period began. The overall sugar production was not affected by nectar removal. Hand crosses showed that this species is self-compatible. Crossed fruits showed significant differences from hand-selfed ones (autogamy and geitonogamy). Xenogamous fruits and seeds showed the highest values for many traits (fruit mass, total seeds per fruit mass, mean seed mass, and seed germination percentage). Approximately 6% of the flowers set seeds in natural populations. Hymenopterans (carpenter bees and honeybees) and hummingbirds (four species) assiduously visited the trees in all the areas sampled and can be assumed pollinators. Almost 93% of recorded flowers were visited by bees, with the rest visited by hummingbirds. Phylogenetically, this species was included in the basal clade for the genus and characterized as passerine/hummingbird pollinated. However, we found that not only birds but bees functioned as major pollinators. This observation may indicate that this basal clade may represent an intermediate step from entomophily (typical of tribe Phaseoleae) to ornithophily (typical of Erythrina).
40035480|The phylogenetic relationships of Cordiaceae were investigated using ITS1 sequences from 50 ingroup taxa and three outgroup taxa. Molecular analyses suggest that Coldenia procumbens, traditionally placed in Ehretiaceae, is more closely allied to Cordiaceae and is sister to their core representatives. Cordiaceae segregate into four major monophyletic assemblages, more or less corresponding to established taxonomic units as previously inferred from morphology, ecology, and biogeography. (1) Varronia (currently recognized as Cordia sect. Varronia) is a well-differentiated taxon and has a sister-group relationship to the other three clades (Cordia s. str.). The (2) Collococcus clade comprises the New World species of Cordia sect. Myxa (excluding Cordia dentata and Cordia lutea), all of Cordia sect. Superbiflorae, and Cordia varronifolia (from Cordia sect. Rhabdocalyx). The (3) Myxa clade includes all of the Old World species of Cordia sect. Myxa and the New World species Cordia dentata and Cordia lutea. The (4) Sebestena clade includes Cordia sects. Cordia and Gerascanthus, three species of Cordia sect. Rhabdocalyx, and Auxemma, Patagonula, and Saccellium. Pollen morphology and wood anatomy lend additional support for the close relationship of Auxemma, Patagonula, and Saccellium with Cordia sebestena and its allies. Thus, Auxemma, Patagonula, and Saccellium are no longer tenable as separate taxa and should be reduced under Cordia. A set of ancestral characters (including apomorphies and plesiomorphies) is reconstructed for Cordiaceae based on the phylogenetic hypotheses as inferred from the congruence between morphological and ITS1 data.
10.2307/2399752|This evolutionary cladistic analysis of the arborescent (wood-producing) lycopsids, an exclusively fossil group of vascular plants, is confined to the strongest available data: anatomically preserved fossils that have been painstakingly reconstructed into conceptual whole plants. Ten Carboniferous genera are represented by 16 species: four pseudoherbs/"shrubs" and 12 of the arboreous (tree-sized) species that epitomize the Pennsylvanian coal swamps of Euramerica. The 69 vegetative and 46 reproductive characters are described in detail; several key terms are redefined and homologies reassessed. Binary coding was imposed throughout the data matrix, which contained only 5% missing values despite limited X-coding. Lack of an acceptable outgroup necessitated construction of a hypothetical ancestor for character polarization and tree rooting. Our experimental approach analyzed the full data matrix plus four submatrices (growth habit characters excluded, Chaloneria excluded, vegetative characters only, reproductive characters only) and screened topologies of subminimal as well as minimal length. Interpretation focuses on the ten monophyletic genera and marginally favors the topology ((Paurodendron, Oxroadia) (Anabathra (Chaloneria (Sigillaria ((Diaphorodendron, Synchysidendron) (Hizemodendron (Lepidodendron, Lepidophloios))))))). Other parsimonious topologies allow dissociation of the Paurodendron-Oxroadia clade (probably justified), transposition or unification of Anabathra and Chaloneria, and addition of Sigillaria to the Diaphorodendron-Synchysidendron clade. The analysis confined to vegetative characters translocates Hizemodendron close to the base of the clade, thus uniting the non-trees as an ostensibly paraphyletic basal group. The analysis confined to reproductive characters more closely resembles the analysis of all characters, but fails to resolve relationships among the four basal, bisporangiate-coned genera, and between Hizemodendron and Lepidodendron. These observations cast doubt on the value of partial-plant and isolated-organ phylogenies. Parsimonious use of the increasingly sophisticated and K-selected reproductive strategies as the basis of the overall phylogeny inevitably renders homoplastic the partly discordant vegetative architectures (including the tree habit). Consequently, a poorly resolved paraphyletic plexus of four primitive, bisporangiate-coned genera (Paurodendron, Oxroadia, Anabathra, Chaloneria) subtends a monophyletic monosporangiate-coned clade of three well-supported, monophyletic families: the Sigillariaceae (Sigillaria) are primitive relative to the Diaphorodendraceae (Diaphorodendron sens. str., Synchysidendron) and the Lepidodendraceae (Hizemodendron, Lepidodendron sens. str., Lepidophloios), which together are characterized by a single functional megaspore per megasporangium. This apparently progressive evolutionary trend toward seedlike reproduction increased ecological specialization and is consistent with adaptive scenarios. In contrast with reproductive features, vegetative features such as the determinate growth, centralized rhizomorphic rootstock, and small number of module types that constitute the bauplan (rhizomorph and stem essential, lateral and crown branches optional) apparently predisposed the arborescent lycopsids to nonadaptive saltational evolution. Mutation of genes controlling early development allowed radical changes in growth architecture, and consequent epigenetic readjustment and adaptive honing affected many other vegetative characters. The progenetic (heterochronic) origin postulated for the pseudoherb Hizemodendron may also apply to Chaloneria and the other pseudoherbs (Paurodendron, Oxroadia), arguably comprising their value in scoring habit characters for the hypothetical ancestor. Other limitations of the present data matrix are the large number of genus-level autapomorphies (at least partly reflecting the absence of pre-Pennsylvanian arboreous species), the inclusion of only one bisporangiate-coned tree (Anabathra) and of only one putative isoetalean (Chaloneria). More primitive OTUs are needed to investigate the origins of profound character states shared by all OTUs in the present study (e.g., secondary thickening, determinate growth, centralized rhizomorph, heterospory), and to confirm the crucial hypotheses of monophyly for the monosporangiate cone and the single functional megaspore. Repeated simplification of growth architecture by progenesis and of megaspore ornamentation by functional redundancy show that evolution did not consistently increase morphological complexity among the arborescent lycopsids. Synapomorphies of highest burden (and therefore lowest homoplasy) tend to represent features of intermediate scale. We have not identified any significant drawbacks of cladistically analyzing an exclusively extinct set of OTUs. Rather, we recommend further study of some under-researched aspects of phylogeny reconstruction in general: (1) the effect of missing values on tree length calculations and on character state optimization; (2) the minimum acceptable level of empirical support (apomorphic states per OTU); (3) means of recognizing heterochrony in cladograms; and (4) less methodologically constrained phenetic adjuncts to strict cladistic analyses.
10.2307/2399768|A parsimony analysis of 57 angiosperm rbcL sequences was conducted to test the monophyly of the Asteridae and to identify major lineages within the Asteridae. Three major clades, the Caryophyllidae, the Rosidae plus Dilleniidae, and the Asteridae sensu lato, emerge from an unresolved radiation in the "higher" dicots. The Asteridae sens. lat. include the Ericales, Cornales, and Apiales in addition to the Asteridae sens. str. Two major lineages within the Asteridae sens. lat. are identified: the Dipsacales, Apiales, Asterales, and Campanulales in one, and the Gentianales, Scrophulariales, Lamiales, Boraginales, and Solanales in the other. This analysis demonstrates the utility of molecular phylogenies to help place problematic taxa, such as the Menyanthaceae, Oleaceae, and Callitrichaceae, within the Asteridae. Implications from this phylogenetic analysis and evidence from the fossil record lead to the suggestion that the origin and diversification of the major higher-dicot lineages occurred during a relatively short period of time about 80-95 million years ago.
40982877|Symbioses of grasses (Poaceae) with fungi of family Clavicipitaceae vary widely in relative benefits and detriments to the plant, and include mutualisms characterized by vertical transmission and protective effects of the fungus and its metabolites against vertebrate and invertebrate herbivores. This review focuses on the epichloae, a group of fungi within the Clavicipitaceae that are symbiotic with members of the grass subfamily Poideae and comprise sexual fungi of genus Epichlo (Fr.) Tul. & Tul. and their asexual derivatives (form genus Neotyphodium A. E. Glenn, C. W. Bacon & R. T. Hanlin). Most epichloid fungi are vertically transmissible, and many produce antiherbivore alkaloids belonging to any of four distinct chemical classes: lolines, peramine, ergot alkaloids, and indole-diterpenes. Like many plant-associated Clavicipitaceae, fruiting of Epichlo species chokes host inflorescences, preventing seed production on the affected tillers. However, most Epichlo-infected grasses also produce asymptomatic inflorescences, which produce normal seeds that vertically transmit the symbiont. Vertical transmission provides the main or sole means of dissemination for asexual epichloae. Molecular phylogenetic evidence suggests that the origin of Poideae-Epichlo symbioses was approximately coincident with the origin of this grass subfamily, with considerable cophylogenetic evolution since then. Most asexual epichloae arose from a more complex process of interspecific hybridizations, which can provide evolutionary diversification and counteract accumulated deleterious mutations in otherwise clonal symbionts. Evolution of the Poideae-epichloae symbioses required a break in the link between virulence and transmission, by establishing highly vertical transmission without negative effects on the colonized seeds and seedlings.
10.2307/2398854|Thunberg's South African collections contain the type material for four species which conform to current concepts of Homeria. A detailed examination of the type material in the Thunberg Herbarium has resulted in selection of lectotypes for three of these species, where more than one sheet of a species was present. Homeria collina (Thunb.) Vent and H. umbellata (Thunb.) Lewis remain as presently interpreted. However, the name Moraea polyanthos L.f., as currently understood is misapplied and is an earlier name for H. lilacina L. Bol. The species at present called M. polyanthos now becomes M. bipartita L. Bol. The type of the fourth species, M. crispa, is incomplete, but it is very likely that it is simply a crisped-leafed form of the widespread Karoo species H. rogersii L. Bol. for which it is an earlier synonym. No new combinations in Homeria are made here. The genus is currently under investigation, and the definition of Homeria and the related Moraea is being revised.
40035495|Ainsliaea DC. is an Asiatic genus of Mutisieae Cass. Forty-nine species and 19 varieties are recognized. Twenty-six species are endemic to China, four to Japan, four to Indo-China, two to the Himalayas, and one to Taiwan. The genus is characterized by its stems unbranched, with leaves basally rosulate or congested at the median part of the stem (only one species has stems branched, with alternate leaves), capitula few-flowered, florets deeply 5-cleft with unilateral lobes, and plumose pappus. Three new combinations are made: Ainsliaea bonatii Beauverd var. multibracteata (Mattf.) S. E. Freire, A. glabra Hemsl. var. sutchuenensis (Franch.) S. E. Freire, and A. henryi Diels var. subalpina (Hand.-Mazz.) S. E. Freire. One variety, A. latifolia (D. Don) Sch. Bip. var. taiwanensis S. E. Freire is described for the first time. The following taxa are newly synonymized: A. macroclinidioides Hayata var. secundiflora (Hayata) Kitam. and A. secundiflora Hayata with A. apiculata Sch. Bip. var. acerifolia Masam.; A. aptera DC. f. paniculata Kuntze with A. aptera DC.; A. pteropoda DC. var. platyphylla Franch. with A. bonatii Beauverd; A. mattfeldiana Hand.-Mazz. with A. bonatii var. multibracteata; A. cleistogama C. C. Chang with A. cavaleriei H. Lv.; A. asarifolia Hayata, A. cordifolia Franch. & Sav. var. integrifolia Maxim., A. fragrans Champ, ex Benth. var. integrifolia (Maxim.) Kitam., A. integrifolia (Maxim.) Makino, A. ningpoensis Matsuda, and A. rubrifolia Franch. with A. fragrans Champ, ex Benth.; A. lancifolia Franch. with A. glabra Hemsl.; A. tenuicaulis Mattf., A. glabra var. tenuicaulis (Mattf.) C. C. Chang, and A. plantaginifolia Mattf. with A. glabra Hemsl. var. sutchuenensis (Franch.) S. E. Freire; A. angustifolia Hook, f. & Thoms, ex C. B. Clarke with A. glumacea (Fr.) Sch. Bip.; A. gracilis Franch. var. robusta Diels with A. grossedentata Franch.; A. morrisonicola Hayata, A. reflexa Merr. var. morrisonicola (Hayata) Yamam., A. henryi Diels var. ovatifolia C. C. Chang, A. reflexa Merr. var. nimborum Hand.-Mazz., and A. latifolia (D. Don) Sch. Bip. var. nimborum (Hand.-Mazz.) Kitam. with A. henryi var. subalpina; A. petelotii Merr. with A. hypoleuca Diels ex H. Limpr.; A. hui Diels ex Mattf. with A. kawakamii Hayata; A. heterantha Hand.-Mazz. with A. latifolia (D. Don) Sch. Bip.; and A. tonkinensis Merr., A. longipetiolata Merr., and A. reflexa Merr var. lobbiana Beauverd with A. reflexa Merr. Lectotypes are newly designated for Ainsliaea DC, Ainsliaea sect. Aggregatae Beauverd, A. apiculata Sch. Bip., A. aptera DC, A. cordifolia Franch. & Sav., A. crassifolia C C Chang, A. dentata Koidz, A. dissecta Franch. & Sav., A. elegans Hemsl., A. elegans var. strigosa Mattf., A.fulvipes Jeffrey & W. W. Sm., A. glabra Hemsl., A. hypoleuca Diels ex H. Limpr., A. macroclinidioides Hayata, A. multibracteata Mattf., A. ovalifolia Vaniot, A. pertyoides Franch., A. pertyoides var. albotomentosa Beauverd, A. pertyoides var. intermedia Beauverd, A. plantaginifolia Mattf., A. pteropoda DC, A. pteropoda var. macrocephala Mattf., A. pteropoda var. platyphylla Franch., A. pteropoda var. silhetensis DC., A. scabrida Dunn, A. tenuicaulis Mattf., A. yadismae Koidz., and Hieracium glumaceum Fr. Neotypes are designated for A. apiculata Sch. Bip. var. acerifolia Masam., A. apiculata Sch. Bip. var. ovatifolia Masam., A. cordifolia Franch. & Sav. var. integrifolia Maxim., and A. linearis Makino. Epitypes are designated for A. cordifolia Franch. & Sav., A. dissecta Franch. & Sav., and A. pteropoda DC. Phylogenetic analysis of Ainsliaea based on 30 morphological characters produced three most parsimonious trees that support the monophyly of the genus. Pertya Sch. Bip., Myripnois Bunge, and Macroclinidium Maxim, are the genera closest to Ainsliaea, and it is hypothesized that Pertya is ancestral to the latter three. Ainsliaea is distinguished from Pertya, Macroclinidium, and Myripnois by its usually plumose pappus bristles (vs. scabrid pappus bristles in the other three genera). Phylogenetic analysis also supports the existence of two subgenera, i.e., Ainsliaea subg. Ainsliaea, with distinctly uniseriate pappus bristles, and the monospecific Ainsliaea subg. Diaspananthus (Miq.) Kitam. (A. uniflora Sch. Bip.) from Japan, characterized by its pappus of biseriate bristles. Phylogenetic resolution within subgenus Ainsliaea is weakly supported. However, the best supported resolution divides subgenus Ainsliaea into three subclades: two agree with two of three previously proposed sections, and the remaining basal third subclade is monospecific (A. lancangensis Y. Y. Qian). Two sections previously recognized, section Ainsliaea (= section Scaposae Beauverd including section Frondosae Beauverd) and section Aggregatae Beauverd, are tentatively proposed until more appropriate characters have been found. A key to the species of the genus is provided, as well as morphological descriptions, illustrations, and distribution maps.
3298573|A phylogenetic study of Vulpia, fine-leaved Festuca (Festuca subg. Festuca p.p.), and other related genera of the tribe Poeae (Poaceae) has been conducted using both separate and combined analyses of DNA sequences from the nuclear ITS region and the chloroplast trnL-F region. All five sections of Vulpia (sects. Vulpia, Monachne, Spirachne, Loretia, Apalochloa) and three sections and one subsection of fine-leaved Festuca (sects. Eskia, Festuca, Aulaxyper, subsect. Exaratae) were included in the analysis. Six minor annual genera that have been considered in the past to be related either to Vulpia or to these fescues (Psilurus, Ctenopsis, Cutandia, Narduroides, Micropyrum, Wangenheimia) were also analyzed in order to estimate an evolutionary framework for this poorly known group of ephemeral or thin-leaved grasses. Single representatives of other less related groups of Poeae (Festuca subg. Schedonorus and Drymanthele, Lolium, Dactylis, Poa, Puccinellia, Sesleria), Triticeae (Secale), and Brachypodieae (Brachypodium) were also studied. Phylogenetic analyses were performed based on parsimony and Bayesian inference criteria using Brachypodium distachyon as outgroup. Our results indicate that Vulpia and the fine-leaved Festuca are, respectively, polyphyletic and paraphyletic assemblages of several taxa. A well-supported monophyletic group that encompasses the fine-leaved Festuca and Vulpia lineages as well as the other six ephemeral genera (FEVRE) has been obtained from both the separate and the combined ITS and trnL-F analyses. Within this FEVRE clade Festuca sect. Eskia is shown to be a paraphyletic assemblage basal to the other taxa; the core of the FEVRE clade contains four supported clades representing, respectively, the lineages Aulaxyper + Vulpia pro parte (diploid), Festuca + Wangenheimia, Psilurus + Vulpia pro parte (polyploid), and Spirachne + Monachne + Loretia. Vulpia unilateralis (Apalochloa) constitutes a monospecific lineage with apparent but unsupported affinities to some of its potential closer relatives. Representatives of all the Vulpia sections except those belonging to typical section Vulpia join in a paraphyletic poorly supported assemblage that also includes Cutandia, Festuca plicata, and Ctenopsis. Two of the studied annual genera, Micropyrum and Narduroides, show distant evolutionary placements in the ITS and trnL-F trees. The Festuca subsect. Exaratae taxa belong to a phylogenetic lineage diverging from those of the Festuca ovina (sect. Festuca) and F. rubra (sect. Aulaxyper) fescues. Nucleotide substitution rates show significant differences between most perennial and annual lineages; stabilized selection is maintained in the slowly diverging perennial groups, whereas the rapid adaptive evolutionary processes shown by the annual taxa may have resulted in an increased rate in cladogenesis. The Mediterranean region is hypothesized as the likely place of divergence of these grass lineages.
10.2307/2395234|Striking convergent evolution for a hidden (cryptic), ground flowering (geoflorous) habit in distantly related, low shrubby Australian and South African Proteaceae is interpreted as an adaptation for pollination by nonflying mammals. The cryptic, geoflorous habit is especially well developed in species groups of Dryandra in southwestern Australia and Protea in the Cape region of South Africa. Considerable circumstantial evidence exists in both regions for pollination by mouselike, often arboreal marsupials in Dryandra and true rodents in Protea. Evidence from inflorescence structure suggests the cryptic, geoflorous habit is derived from bird-pollinated species, possibly in response to fires common in the sclerophyllous communities where these genera grow. A number of floral characteristics and the occurrence in Australia of mouselike marsupials adapted to a nectar (and pollen?) diet suggests that a class of flowers has evolved for pollination by nonflying mammals. This postulated floral class possibly also extends to other Australian arboreal proteaceous and also myrtaceous genera, but in South Africa is probably restricted to Protea.
40390056|Recent studies on the circumscription of the tribe Coffeeae (Rubiaceae) revealed a weakly supported clade containing Tricalysia A. Rieh, and the allied genera Argocoffeopsis Lebrun, Calycosiphonia Pierre ex Robbr., Belonophora Hook, f., Diplospora DC, Discospermwn Dalzell, Nostolachma T. Durand, and Xantonnea Pierre ex Pit. The phylogenetic relationships of Tricalysia and these allied taxa are investigated further using sequence data from four plastid regions (trnL-F intron and intergenic spacer, rpL16 intron, accD-psal intergenic spacer, and PetD). Our results demonstrate that Tricalysia sensu Robbrecht is not monophyletic. The genus name Tricalysia should be restricted to taxa from subgenus Tricalysia; subgenus Empogona (Hook, f.) Robbr. is sister to the genus Diplospora and is recognized at the generic level. The 34 necessary new combinations for Empogona Hook. f. are provided: E. acidophylla (Robbr.) J. Tosh & Robbr., E. aequatoria (Robbr.) J. Tosh & Robbr., E. africana (Sim) J. Tosh & Robbr., E. aulacosperma (Robbr.) J. Tosh & Robbr., E. bequaertii (De Wild.) J. Tosh & Robbr., E. bratteata (Hiern) J. Tosh & Robbr., E. breteleri (Robbr.) J. Tosh & Robbr., E. buxifolia (Hiern) J. Tosh & Robbr. subsp. buxifolia, E. buxifolia subsp. australis (Robbr.) J. Tosh & Robbr., E. cacondensis (Hiern) J. Tosh & Robbr., E. concolor (N. Halle) J. Tosh & Robbr., E. coriacea (Sond.) J. Tosh & Robbr., E. crepiniana (De Wild. & T. Durand) J. Tosh & Robbr., E. deightonii (Brenan) J. Tosh & Robbr., E. discolor (Brenan) J. Tosh & Robbr., E. filiformistipulata (De Wild.) Bremek. subsp. filiformistipulata, E. filiformistipulata subsp. epipsila (Robbr.) J. Tosh & Robbr., E. glabra (K. Schum.) J. Tosh & Robbr., E. gossweileri (S. Moore) J. Tosh & Robbr., E. kirkii Hook. f. subsp. junodii (Schinz) J. Tosh & Robbr., E. lanceolata (Sond.) J. Tosh & Robbr., E. macrophylla (K. Schum.) J. Tosh & Robbr., E. maputenis (Bridson & A. E. van Wyk) J. Tosh & Robbr., E. ngalaensis (Robbr.) J. Tosh & Robbr., E. nogueirae (Robbr.) J. Tosh & Robbr., E. ovalifolia (Hiern) J. Tosh & Robbr. var. ovalifolia, E. ovalifolia var. glabrata (Oliv.) J. Tosh & Robbr., E. ovalifolia var. taylorii (S. Moore) J. Tosh & Robbr., E. reflexa (Hutch.) J. Tosh & Robbr. var. reflexa, E. reflexa var. ivorensis (Robbr.) J. Tosh & Robbr., E. ruandensis (Bremek.) J. Tosh & Robbr., E. somaliensis (Robbr.) J. Tosh & Robbr., E. talbotii (Wernham) J. Tosh & Robbr., and E. welwitschii (K. Schum.) J. Tosh & Robbr.
10.2307/2399179|Turnera hermannioides (Turneraceae) is a distylous, diploid, perennial restricted to open, sandy sites in northeastern Brazil. Four populations sampled in Sergipe contained equal proportions of long- and short-styled plants. The style and stamen dimorphism in floral morphs is associated with differences in pollen size and pollen production. In contrast, flower size, ovule number, and seed fertility of the morphs are not significantly different. A controlled pollination program demonstrated that individuals of T. hermannioides possess a self- and intra-morph incompatibility system. The only pollinations resulting in significant seed production were between the floral morphs. Populations of T. hermannioides grow intermingled with T. ulmifolia, a widespread polymorphic complex containing forms that resemble T. hermannioides. A crossing program between T. hermannioides and diploid and tetraploid varieties of T. ulmifolia revealed barriers to hybridization particularly in crosses at the diploid level. It is concluded that T. hermannioides is a restricted diploid species that is reproductively isolated from T. ulmifolia.
40035494|Sequence data from the nuclear ITS region of 118 species (152 accessions) were used to test the monophyletic status and interrelationships of four related tribes in the Brassicaceae: Anchonieae, Chorisporeae, Euclidieae, and Hesperideae. Both maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses support the recognition of the tribes Hesperideae (unigeneric, Hesperis L.) and Chorisporeae (3 genera, including Chorispora R. Br. ex DC., Diptychocarpus Trautv., and Parrya R. Br.), whereas the Anchonieae and the Euclidieae each separate into two distinct and distant clades (designated here as Anchonieae I and II and Euclidieae I and II). The data also support the exclusion of eight genera from the latter four tribes, with appropriate tribal assignment given in parentheses: Aubrieta Adans. (Arabideae), Blennodia R. Br. (Camelineae), Erysimum L. (Camelineae), Goldbachia DC. (unresolved), Hesperidanthus (B. L. Rob.) Rydb. (Schizopetaleae), Notothlaspi Hook. f. (unresolved), Pseudocamelina (Boiss.) N. Busch (Thlaspideae), and Zuvanda (Dvork) Askerova (unresolved). The genus Malcolmia R. Br. (ca. 35 species) was paraphyletic and divided into three tribal clades, providing support for the separate genera Malcolmia, Strigosella Boiss., and Zuvanda. The genera Anchonium DC, Desideria Pamp., Eremobium Boiss., Erysimum, Iskandera N. Busch, Matthiola R. Br., Morettia DC., Neotorularia Hedge & J. Lonard, Rhammatophyllum O. E. Schulz, Sisymbriopsis Botsch. & Tzvelev, Sterigmostemum M. Bieb., and Tetracme Bunge each fell within a single tribal clade but were not monophyletic.
10.2307/2399468|Tropical conservation biology is inescapably the biology of habitat fragments and has been focused on habitat decay. Habitat restoration is primarily the initiation, growth, and coalescence of habitat fragments. Management of a tropical wildland will become the art and science of arresting the decomposition of habitat fragments and promoting their growth and coalescence. Forces that determine accumulation of structure and species are significantly within human control. Today's management actions will determine the nature of wildland habitats for centuries to come. Tropical dry forest is the most threatened of all the major lowland tropical forest habitats, simply because it has always occupied some of the lands most easily farmed in the tropics, and because it is so susceptible to fire. When dry forest and fields are abandoned and therefore allowed to return to dry forest, there are two principal kinds of forest initiation (assuming that there are nearby seed sources). a. When large pastures are downwind of a relatively intact forest, the initial invasion is primarily by individuals of large wind-dispersed trees that will persist and characterize the site for hundreds of years. However, these tree species are a minority of the total flora. Such forests of wind-dispersed trees are relatively inhospitable to animals, highly deciduous, and relatively species-poor. b. When there is any kind of attraction for animals in an abandoned open area, they may perch in it or rest below it while crossing the open area. This results in accumulation of an entirely vertebrate-dispersed forest patch. Such patches may grow and coalesce to form a forest type as artificial as is a wind-generated forest. Vertebrate-generated forests contain more food items of interest to animals, are more species rich, and are more evergreen than are wind-generated forests. As large areas of abandoned low-grade farm and ranch land are returned to dry forest, the manager of national parks or other wildlands is confronted with the difficult decision of just which of the above, or other, forest types is to be promoted. The same will apply to rainforest when its restoration becomes a focus of concern.
41805961|The fern genus Polystichum Roth (Dryopteridaceae) remains one of the most difficult genera taxonomically. In this work, I provide an identification guide to the Costa Rican Polystichum species in the context of an evaluation of characters and evolution in the genus in the Neotropics. Key characters are those of petiole and pinna-rachis scales, ultimate segment shape, and indusium. There are 12 species in the country, of which three are allopolyploids (P. lilianiae Barrington, P. orbiculatum (Desv.) J. Rmy & Fe, and P. talamancanum Barrington). The species' distributions vary: while five are widespread in Tropical America, two are at the southern end of their range (P. alfaroi (Christ) Barrington and P. speciosissimum (A. Braun ex Kunze) R. M. Tryon & A. F. Tryon), and two are at the northern end (P. dubium (H. Karst.) Diels and P. nudicaule Rosenst.). Three are confined to Costa Rica and Panama: P. concinnum Lellinger ex Barrington and the allopolyploids P. lilianiae and P. talamancanum. Essentially a denizen of wetter montane regions throughout the world, the genus in Costa Rica is most prominent in higher-elevation rainforests and to a lesser extent in the pramos of the Cerro de Talamanca. The names P. aculeatum var. flavidum Rosenst., P. nudicaule Rosenst., and P. opacum Rosenst. are lectotypified. Polystichum Roth (Dryopteridaceae) es un gnero de helchos con dificultades taxonmicas que complican la identificacin de sus especies. En este trabajo, presento una clave de identificacin taxonmica para las especies de Polystichum en Costa Rica analizando diferente caracteres morfolgicos y la evolucin del gnero en el Neotrpico. Los caracteres ms importantes pertenecen a las escamas de peciolo y raquis de la pinna, forma de los ltimos segmentos, e indusio. En el pas se encuentran 12 especies, incluyendo tres poliploides. La distribucin de las especies es variable: cinco se ubican en toda la America tropical, dos se extienden en el borde sur y dos en el borde norte de estas reas tropicales, y tres (incluyendo dos allopoliploides) se limitan a Costa Rica y Panam. Polystichum es un componente comn de las selvas mas hmedas de montaas en todo el mundo, en Costa Rica el gnero se encuentra tpicamente en elevaciones altas, en selvas lluviosas y en pramos del Cerro de Talamanca. Los nombres P. aculeatum var. flavidum Rosenst., P. nudicaule Rosenst, y P. opacum Rosenst. son lectotipificados.
10.2307/2395105|George Engelmann was a premier botanist in the early history of the Western United States for the half century he collected and encouraged others to collect in the region. His influence can be seen clearly through his contribution to the taxonomy of the Cactaceae where his more than 108 descriptions comprise over two-thirds of the forms recognized today.
10.2307/2395086|This paper comprises a preliminary revision of Moraea in the summer rainfall area of South Africa. A brief review of taxonomic history and a summary of morphological characters of the genus is followed by the taxonomic treatment. Moraea is divided into five groups or series not equivalent to formal taxonomic ranks. Twenty-seven species and eight subspecies are recognised. Eleven new species and eight subspecies are described.
40035477|Ludwigia sect. Dantia is a polyploid complex (x = 8) of five species that are distributed mainly in the Coastal Plain of the southeastern United States, although two species, L. palustris and L. repens, have much broader ranges in North America and have become naturalized in Eurasia and elsewhere. All five species occur in wet habitats and often intermix; because the species generally lack well-developed pre- or post-zygotic barriers to hybridization, several of them commonly form natural hybrid populations. One particularly widespread hybrid involves L. palustris  L. brevipes, known in the literature as L lacustris. Hybrids of L. arcuata  L. repens are common in Florida and, because they superficially resemble L. brevipes, have led to considerable confusion about the presence there of L. brevipes. Ludwigia sect. Dantia comprises one diploid, two tetraploid, and two hexaploid species. The genomic formula of the diploid L. palustris was designated as AA, and by means of a crossing program the genomes of other species were determined based on ability to form bivalents at meiosis in the hybrids. Of the two tetraploid species, only L. spathulata (AADD) has a genome of the extant diploid; L. arcuata (BBCC) is sharply distinct from L. spathulata in both morphology and genomic complements. The two hexaploid species, L. brevipes and L. repens, share the genomic formula AABBCC and appear to have been derived independently through hybridization between the diploid L. palustris (AA) and the tetraploid L. arcuata (BBCC). The substantial morphological differences between the two hexaploids may be related to the direction of the original crosses, since maternal influences are important in the group, as well as to the exact parental populations involved, subsequent selection history, and possibly backcrossing. Alternative evolutionary schemes are also discussed.
10.2307/2399966|Ticks are vectors of nematodes, protozoa, rickettsiae, spirochetes, other bacteria, and viruses that cause disease in humans and other animals. Complex relationships have evolved between particular tick species, certain organisms that they harbor and transmit, and susceptible vertebrate host species. Effects of tick-borne organisms on host species vary from asymptomatic to fatal depending on the species involved and their interactions. It is critical that arthropod vectors and the organisms they transmit be identified accurately. Unfortunately, there is a crisis in biosystematics of arthropods due to several factors noted in the introduction. Approximately 80 of the estimated 850 described tick species occur in the United States; although all feed on vertebrate blood, only a relatively small number impact people and livestock directly. These few species, however, are responsible for considerable illness and economic loss. Tick-borne Lyme borreliosis is prevalent in North America, Europe, and Asia. It accounts for more than 90% of all reported vector-borne disease in the United States. Totals of 9,677, 8,185, and 11,424 cases were reported for 1992, 1993, and 1994, respectively, by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. An overview of interactions among tick species, tickborne microorganisms, and hosts is provided, with major emphasis devoted to ticks of the Ixodes ricinus species complex and the Lyme disease spirochete Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato. Systematics play a crucial role in understanding these interactions.
10.2307/2399695|Seeds of 25 species of sects. Sisyrinchium, Echthronema, Eriphilema, and Nuno of the large North and South American genus Sisyrinchium were examined using the scanning electron microscope and light microscope and compared with seeds of representative species of related genera in tribe Sisyrinchieae. Seeds of sects. Sisyrinchium and Echthronema are more or less rounded, are blackish with reticulate surfaces, and often have a large depression, the umbilicus, along the raphe. Species of sects. Eriphilema and Nuno have brown, more or less angular seeds with a strongly reticulate surface, and they lack an umbilicus. The genera Libertia, Ona, Orthrosanthus, Phaiophleps, Solenomelus, and Tapeinia have similar brown, usually angular seeds without an umbilicus. Seeds of Solenomelus have distinctive longitudinal lines of nearly circular depressions along the seed body, and one species has seeds with a large, half-circumferential wing. Seeds of sects. Sisyrinchium and Echthronema appear to embody important, probably derived specializations. Based on seed characters, sects. Eriphilema and Nuno seem more closely related to the other genera of Sisyrinchieae, particularly Phaiophleps, than to sects. Sisyrinchium or Echthronema.
10.2307/2399688| Described from the Guayana Highland are: Gongylolepis oblanceolata from Serra Arac, Brazil, and from Sierra de Unturn and Cerro de la Neblina, Venezuela; Stenopadus aracansis from Serra Arac, Brazil; and Stenopadus megacephalus from Mount Ayanganna, Guyana. The relationships of each new taxon are discussed and a key to species of both genera is given. Stomatochaeta colveei is transferred to Stenopadus and the combination Stenopadus colveei is proposed. Additionally, five species from the Guayana Highland are newly documented for the flora of Brazil. 
10.2307/2399263|Flower and fruit biology was studied in a coastal, southern Spanish scrub community composed of 30 plant taxa. Data on breeding systems; rewards offered to vectors; flower, fruit, and seed sizes; and fruiting intensities are reported. Most taxa in the community have insect-pollinated, hermaphroditic flowers that are largely unspecialized in morphology. Dioecious species are relatively well represented (27% of the total), as are vertebrate-dispersed species (43%). Bagging experiments demonstrated that pollinators were required for maximum fruit production, but the existence of incompatibility systems was not tested. When the relationship between fruiting intensity and the ability to perform vegetative regeneration was investigated, it was found that sprouting taxa had, on average, lower fruit production than those that were unable to sprout. Low fruit production is discussed in relation to reproductive allocation trade-offs.
10.2307/2399056|The pollen of 76 collections representing 48 of the ca. 100 species and all nine sections of Fuchsia was examined in light (LM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM), and a selected group in transmission electron microscopy (TEM). The pollen of Fuchsia is shed as monads and is mostly 2-aperturate or very rarely 3-aperturate; the exine sculpture is composed of globular elements, or more rarely elongated elements; the viscin threads are segmented, more rarely smooth; the exine is composed of two layers, an outer spongy undifferentiated ektexine, and an inner solid, massive endexine. The polyploid sects. Quelusia (eight species) and Kierschlegeria (one) are characterized by 3-aperturate pollen as are several tetraploid species in sects. Fuchsia and Hemsleyella. As far as is known, 3-aperturate grains usually occur only in polyploid species; but not all polyploids have 3-aperturate pollen. Two-aperturate grains do occasionally occur in both sects. Kierschlegeria and Quelusia, where they doubtless represent the condition of the diploid ancestors. It may be concluded that the common ancestor of all extant sections of Fuchsia had 2-aperturate pollen, although ultimately, within the Onagraceae, the 2-aperturate condition must have been derived from 3-aperturate pollen. Most species of Fuchsia have a globular-type sculpture element, but sects. Encliandra (six species) and Kierschlegeria have elongated elements, a derived condition. Most species of Fuchsia have segmented-beaded viscin threads, but sects. Schufia (two species), Jimenezia (one) and Kierschlegeria (one) and some species of sect. Encliandra have smooth viscin threads, another derived condition. A combination of aperture number, sculpture element, and viscin thread morphology could separate the nine sections of Fuchsia, although palynology provides, at best, only weak evidence for distinguishing sections.
10.2307/2394855|Pollen morphology of the saprophytic genera Bartonia, Cotylanthera, Leiphaimos, Obolaria, Voyria, and Voyriella (Gentianaceae) was studied by light and electron microscopy. Bartonia, Obolaria, and Cotylanthera are similar in fine structure, although the exine of the first two genera is reticulate and smooth in the latter genus. Leiphaimos and Voyria are indistinguishable but markedly different from all the other genera. Voyriella does not resemble Voyria or Leiphaimos, but appears similar to genera such as Curtia or Enicostema of Gilg's subtribe Gentianeae-Erythraeinae. Considerable intraspecific variation was noted within some of the taxa.
3298650|Because of its complex taxonomic history, the identity, circumscription, and systematic position of Patima (Rubiaceae) have been nebulous. After a careful morphological analysis, Patima is here recognized as a monospecific genus endemic to the eastern portion of the Guayana Shield. Two names in Rubiaceae are here treated as new synonyms with Patima guianensis Aubl., Patima formicaria I. M. Johnst. and Hoffmannia megistophylla Standl. Two names described under Patima, P. laxiflora Benth. (here lectotypified) and P. forsythii DC. are shown to belong to other Rubiaceae genera. Aegiphila gleasonii Moldenke (described as a taxon in the Verbenaceae) is another new synonym of Patima guianensis. Patima is here included in the tribe Hamelieae (subfamily Cinchonoideae) because of its morphological features and its overall similarity to Hoffmannia. The presence of raphides in Patima (declared to be absent by previous authors) is here confirmed and discussed. A full account of the taxonomic history and systematic position of Patima, complete typification, complete generic and specific descriptions, a distribution map, a line drawing, photographs of raphides, and observations on ant/plant interaction are provided.
40035658|Pithecoctenium Mart. ex Meisn. is a genus of four species in the tribe Bignonieae. All the species are lianas, and can be recognized by their acutely hexangular branchlets, bifoliolate leaves with a trifid or, more frequently, additionally trifurcately-branched terminal tendril, arching corollas that are coriaceous, white, and pubescent, and echinate fruits (except in P. falcatum (Veil.) A. Pool) with seeds surrounded on three sides by a clearly demarked, hyaline-membranous wing. Relationships with similar genera are discussed, and a key to the species of Pithecoctenium, their descriptions, and distribution maps are provided. The relationships of the species are also discussed. Lectotypes are designated for Bignonia squalus Veil., P. echinatum var. tomentosum Hassl., P. vitalba f. glabratum Hassl., and P. vitalba f. intermedium Hassl., a lectotype and epitype are designated for B. falcata Vell., and a new combination, P. falcatum (Veil.) A. Pool, is proposed. The following are presented as new synonyms of P. crucigerum (L.) A. H. Gentry: B. botryoides Cham., B. vitalba Cham., B. vitalba var. extratropica Cham., P. catharinae DC., P. echinatum var. tomentosum Hassl., P. echinatum var. tomentosum f. grandiflorum Hassl., P. hexagonum var. brasilianum DC., P. vitalba f. glabratum Hassl., P. vitalba f. intermedium Hassl., and P. echinatum var. intermedium Hassl. Pithecoctenium cynanchoides DC., Anemopaegma clematideum Griseb., and P. cynanchoides var. pellucidum Hassl. are presented as new synonyms of P. carolinae (Lindl.) G. Nicholson. Pithecoctenium cordifolium DC. (including the nomina nova for P. cordifolium DC: Neves-armondia cordifolia K. Schum. and P. hatschbachii A. H. Gentry) is presented as a new synonym of P. falcatum (Veil.) A. Pool.
10.2307/2395035|Myrcia fosteri (Myrtaceae) is described as new. The species is closest to M. fallax (Rich.) DC. but differs in having smaller flowers, more prominently acuminate leaf blades and fruits which are globose to depressed-globose.
10.2307/2666153|Pollination strategies of Gladiolus, one of the largest genera of the monocot family Iridaceae, are unusually diverse and involve various bee species, foraging either for nectar or for pollen, or moths, a large butterfly, passerine birds, and long-proboscid flies foraging for nectar. The latter system has been demonstrated for 16 species of Gladiolus of diverse taxonomic affinities. These species are primarily or exclusively pollinated by flies with elongate mouthparts. All have similar flowers with a slender, elongate perianth tube, mostly 25-50 mm long, a white to cream or pink perianth, usually marked with pink or red nectar guides on the lower tepals, and lack floral odor. The flowers produce ample quantities of sucrose-rich to sucrose-dominant nectar of moderate sugar concentration. Each of these species is pollinated by one or two species of flies of the families Tabanidae or Nemestrinidae, which have mouthparts usually 20-60 mm long, exceptionally to 80 mm in Moegistorhynchus longirostris. An important aspect of long-proboscid flypollination systems is the formation of guilds in which a number of species of plants of different genera and families have similar flowers and utilize the same pollinator. In these guilds pollen placement on the pollinator's body is fairly precise, and different members of a guild at any site use different parts of the pollinator's body for pollen transport. An additional 13 species of southern African Gladiolus have flowers conforming to those pollinated by long-proboscid flies and are thus inferred to have this pollination strategy. These species extend from the southern African winterrainfall zone in the southwest to the Drakensberg Mountains of the eastern half of the subcontinent and flower at precisely the times that long-proboscid flies are on the wing, mostly late spring in the west (mid September to November) or late summer in the east (February to April). An autumn-flowering guild using a different fly species occurs in the southern part of the winter-rainfall zone. The taxonomic relationships of Gladiolus species pollinated by long-proboscid flies are diverse, with these 29 species falling in six of the seven sections of the genus occurring in southern Africa, and the pollination system appears to have evolved independently in each section.
40035045|A multi-disciplinary approach, including phylogenetic analysis, population biology, and quantitative genetics, has helped to elucidate the selective factors that have promoted speciation and shifts in breeding systems in Schiedea (Caryophyllaceae). Schiedea is the fifth largest lineage in the native Hawaiian flora and the most diverse lineage with respect to breeding systems. The genus is monophyletic and shares a common ancestor with a clade consisting of two arctic or boreal-north temperate species. Most inter-island colonizations were from older to younger islands, and most movement between islands led to sufficient isolation to result in formation of new species that are single-island endemics rather than species with multi-island distributions. Closely related species pairs occurring on older islands tend to differ in habitat and are isolated ecologically on the same island, while species pairs on younger islands tend to be in similar habitat on different islands. Speciation within this lineage has been associated with shifts in habitat, pollination system, and breeding system, including evolution of selfing (obligate autogamy, facultative autogamy), mixed mating systems, and dimorphism (gynodioecy, subdioecy, and dioecy). Dimorphic breeding systems appear to have been derived independently twice in Schiedea, and facultative autogamy and obligate autogamy have both evolved three times. The colonization of windy, dry habitats appears to occur before changes in sex allocation patterns, and the evolution of dimorphism in this lineage has been promoted by the combination of high inbreeding depression and high selfing rates. Many morphological traits associated with allocation to male and female function are highly heritable, and genetic correlations in general do not appear to constrain the evolution of dimorphism in Schiedea.
10.2307/2992044|This paper revises four monotypic North American series of Crataegus (Rosaceae subfam. Maloideae). Of these, series Apiifoliae, Cordatae, and Microcarpae all possess short-shoot and extension shoot leaves with secondary veins to both the lobes and the sinuses, while series Brevispinae only exhibits this attribute on extension shoot leaves. The brilliantly red-fruited C. marshallii of series Apiifoliae is widespread and common in the southeastern United States and is most closely related to European species, particularly in foliage characters. The species-pair C. phaenopyrum (ser. Cordatae) and C. spathulata (ser. Microcarpae) have glossy foliage and small, orange-red, orbicular fruits, and are a little less closely related to European species. Crataegus phaenopyrum is mid-Atlantic in range, westward to the Ozarkian area, while C. spathulata is a common southeastern species. Crataegus brachyacantha (ser. Brevispinae) is the most distinctive of the species treated, being black-fruited with different short-shoot foliage and restricted to Louisiana and the bordering parts of adjacent states. Line drawings and distribution maps are presented for each species described, and representative specimens are cited. The selection of taxa for this paper also reflects the fact that the author had been intending to treat Crataegus for the now defunct Vascular Flora of the Southeastern United States (vol. 1, Cronquist, 1980).
10.2307/2394817|The study of specimens, including many types, from 24 major North American and European herbaria has led to the recognition and description of 31 species of Bouvardia, including the novelty B. standleyana. The three subgenera proposed by Schlechtendal are retained as the foundation of taxonomic order in the genus, although their retention is admittedly partially fostered by convenience. Keys to the subgenera and species are presented and synonymy, typification and information on distribution and habitat are given for each species in so far as possible.
10.2307/2395261|This article, based on serial sections from 19 species of Ludwigia (supplemented where necessary with preparations from other Onagraceae), begins an effort to outline the evolution of flower, fruit, and seed characters within the genus and to link the outline with what is known of floral evolution elsewhere in the family. New observations include the following: all Ludwigia anthers have a prominent endothecium, and developing anthers of certain advanced species are markedly H-shaped in cross section; pollen of two species matures in isolated packets; ovules of L. leptocarpa, though commonly 1-seriate, can be distally pluriseriate; only rarely does a Ludwigia placenta have a median groove suggesting paired carpel margins. The deeply intrusive placentas seen in section Myrtocarpus, but lacking in some of the other sections, are probably ancestral, and the old idea that diplostemony and 4+-mery are ancestral holds up well when reexamined critically.
10.2307/2666207|Although freshwaters contribute only about 0.01% to Earth's water supply, their fishes now number more than 10,000 species and thus account for at least 40% of all fish species. The continental fish faunas differ greatly in taxonomic composition and species richness, our state of knowledge of them, and the rate of discovery of unknown kinds. The ichthyofaunas of North America (about 1050 species), Europe (about 360), and Australia-New Guinea (about 500), are the most thoroughly documented, but new species continue to be described based on discovery of previously unseen forms and species-level taxonomic splits of known species. The ichthyofaunas of tropical Asia (perhaps > 3000), Africa (perhaps > 3000 species), and South and Central America (perhaps  5000 species), are species-rich yet incompletely known. Tropical freshwaters are the hot spots of recent and likely future ichthyological discoveries. Especially in the tropics, discoveries of species that signal new generic-level taxa are common, and new family-level groups are found occasionally. Everywhere ongoing phylogenetic studies often suggest or reveal unsuspected relationships. These are times of exciting discovery and advancement of knowledge in freshwater ichthyology. New discoveries beckon us to seek the many remaining unknowns in the diversity of life on our planet. These are also times of rapid and destructive change in freshwater habitats around the globe. These threats alert us to the increasing potential for permanent loss and ignorance of much of our planet's rich aquatic biota.
10.2307/2399126|New information on the Araliaceae arising from the preparation of an account of the family for the Flora de Nicaragua is reviewed in the wider context of studies for the Flora Mesoamericana, and Oreopanax nicaraguensis is described.
40035055|In order to test the monophyly of Mandevilla Lindl., the largest genus in tribe Mesechiteae (Apocynaceae, Apocynoideae), and its affinities to other genera in the tribe, maximum parsimony analysis was conducted on a data set comprising DNA sequences from five plastid loci (rpl16, rps16, and trnK introns;
10.2307/2399817|The Lasieae, comprising a relictual pantropical tribe of aroids, are defined and described. Four subtribes are recognized: neotropical Dracontiinae (Dracontioides Engl., Dracontium L., and Anaphyllopsis A. Hay), Indochinese Pycnospathinae (Pycnospatha Thorel ex Gagnepain), Indian Anaphyllinae A. Hay described herein (Anaphyllum Schott), and pantropical Lasiinae (Cyrtosperma Griff., Lasia Lour., Lasiomorpha Schott, Podolasia N. E. Br., and Urospatha Schott). Keys and diagnoses are given for the subtribes and genera, and the latter are described. Seeds are illustrated. Geography of the tribe is discussed; it is suggested that the group is Gondwanan in origin and that, in the Orient, it has arrived in Malesia from both the East and the West. Dracontium polyphyllum L. is lectotypified. The combination Dracontium schomburgkii (Schott.) A. Hay is made following the reduction of Echidnium Schott.
10.2307/2394739|This study includes revisions of three New World genera of the family Moraceae which have often been mistaken for one another. Two have been considered synonymous. Trophis, has never been the subject of monographic study, but Clarisia and Acanthinophyllum were revised by Lanjouw in 1936, who treated them as a single genus. In herbaria, critical specimens of one genus have frequently been filed with those of one of the other genera, and new species have occasionally been assigned to the wrong genus. Studying the genera together has permitted a consideration of their relationships and made available misplaced collections. The revisions are based upon the study of herbarium specimens from seventeen important herbaria of the world. These collections include most of the type specimens of the species, subspecies, and varieties treated. The study includes discussions of the important morphological characteristics of the genera; relationships of the genera are also briefly discussed. The genus Sorocea is included in the discussions. Four species are recognized in the genus Trophis. Clarisia and Acanthinophyllum are treated as separate genera, each with two species. The subspecies of T. racemosa and C. biflora and the species of Acanthinophyllum are new combinations. William C. Burger, Imperial Ethiopian College, Box 138, Dire Dawa, Ethiopia.
40390049|The tribe Posoquerieae was recently described to include the genera Posoqueria Aubl. and Molopanthera Turcz. based on floral morphology, palynology, the presence of the pollen catapult mechanism, and molecular phylogenetic evidence. The floral morphology of these two genera was first recognized as unique in the Rubiaceae by Schumann. Both genera have stamens initially united into an ellipsoidal structure held at an oblique position, with the ventral stamen that Springs forward when touched, while the two lateral stamens fold outward. Since their descriptions were published, Posoqueria and Molopanthera have been positioned in several distantly related tribes within the Rubiaceae. The close relationship between the two genera was only recently revealed by molecular phylogenetic studies. The taxonomic history of Posoqueria and Molopanthera is reviewed, and a generai morphological comparison (particularly of stamen morphology and pollen catapult mechanism, and observations about pollination biology) of both genera is presented here. The pollen catapult mechanism of Molopanthera is described here in detail for the first time and concluded to be practically identical to that of Posoqueria.
10.2307/2399434|This work is a taxonomic treatment of those species of Xyris (Xyridaceae) now known to occur in Venezuela and contiguous northern South America, including parts of Brazilian Amazonia. A general discussion of the morphology of Xyris is given, particularly as to the construction of the inflorescence and flower. Problems with the previously accepted sections of Xyris are stated; it appears that the major distinguishing feature for these sections (placentation type) breaks down when Guayanan material is studied. The taxonomy is done for 87 species (14 newly described), including 4 subspecies (one newly described) and 7 varieties. Synonymy and full descriptions are presented, along with diagnostic keys. Nearly all taxa are illustrated with full plates.
10.2307/2399624|As the world moves toward the twenty-first century, it seems ill prepared to cope with increasing social, economic, and demographic problems. It is not surprising that loss of biodiversity is not perceived as a problem by many people. Current depletion rates are reaching serious proportions. Attention is particularly focused on losses to moist tropical forests and the need to monitor this at a variety of levels: area and quality of habitat, species extinction, and loss of genetic variability. However, conservation of tropical forest must not be at the expense of other habitats and ecosystems. Alarming losses are occurring in many other systems, such as wetlands and Mediterranean shrublands. The plants of even such recently pristine regions as the Antarctic are under pressure from human influences. Future scenarios are not easy to construct as there are many uncertainties. Major deleterious factors could be: global climatic changes, especially through the greenhouse effect and alteration in the ozone layer around the earth; soil depletion, genetic loss, and climatic changes resulting from tropical forest loss; increase in the human population; economic instability and imbalances in distribution of wealth; and decreased resources for research and biological conservation. In view of this, there is need to question whether conventional strategies chiefly involving protected natural areas, botanic gardens, and gene banks can cope with future needs. Focal points for short-term and long-term action are suggested. There is need to understand with greater precision the processes of extinction and to elaborate and test extinction models. Management of modified landscapes is likely to achieve greater prominence in the future but needs to be based on sound biological theory. Conservation managers and biologists will need to be innovative and bold, perhaps making decisions that may be unpopular with some supporters of conservation but may be necessary for the long-term well-being of the biosphere. An increased level of cooperation is necessary; currently this is hampered in some countries by a "free market" philosophy of competitive funding. Adequate resources for conservation are essential, and this means establishing a better case for research and management funding, clearer definition of objectives, and greater accountability by scientists. Perhaps, above all, a new ethic is long overdue, marked by a return to the concept of global and regional commons with recognition of interdependence rather than independence. There is danger in the view that "everyone is a conservationist at heart" unless there is clear understanding of what this means in practical terms to each individual. Perhaps the greatest danger facing conservation is loss of biodiversity by slow attrition. Awareness of the value and wonder of diversity is probably the best safeguard against this, which means that conservation research and management must not only be directed for the good of plants and animals, but must be communicated to people living alongside them.
40390051|In its current circumscription, the herbaceous tribe Spennacoceae s.l. (Rubiaceae, Rubioideae) units the former tribes Spermacoceae s. str., Manettieae, and the Hedyotis-Oldenlandia group. Within Spermacoceae, and particularly within the Hedyotis-Oldenlandia group, the generic delimitations are problematic. Up until now, molecular studies have focused on specific taxonomic problems within the tribe. This study is the first to address phylogenetic relationships within Spermacoceae from a tribal perspective. Sequences of three plastid markers (atpB-rbcL, rps16, and trnL-trnF) were analyzed separately as well as combined using parsimony and Bayesian approaches. Our results support the expanded tribe Spermacoceae as monophyletic. The former tribe Spermacoceae s. str. forms a monophyletic clade nested within the Hedyotis-Oldenlandia group. Several genera formerly recognized within the Hedyotis-Oldenlandia group are supported as monophyletic (Amphiasma Bremek., Arcytophyllum Willd. ex Schult. & Schult, f., Denteila J. R. Forst. & G. Forst., Kadua Cham. & Schltdl., and Phylohydrax Puff), while others appear to be paraphyletic (e.g., Agathisanthemum Klotzsch), biphyletic (Kohautia Cham. & Schltdl.), or polyphyletic (Hedyotis L. and Oldenlandia L. sensu Bremekamp). Morphological investigations of the taxa are ongoing in order to find support for the many new clades and relationships detected. This study provides a phylogenetic hypothesis with broad sampling across the major lineages of Spermacoceae that can be used to guide future species-level and generic studies.
10.2307/2399405|The known interactions between the larvae of ithomiine butterflies and their host plants (about 400, 90% in the Solanaceae) are described in a table, illustrated, and briefly discussed.
10.2307/2399836|Nine species of Alexa are recognized: A. bauhiniiflora, A. canaracunensis, A. confusa, A. cowanii, A. grandiflora, A. herminiana, A. imperatricis, A. surinamensis, and A. wachenheimii. Based on vegetative and reproductive characters, this paper provides descriptions, illustrations, and a key to the species of Alexa. The species limits were determined mainly by reproductive characters: inflorescence type, flower length, petal form and vestiture, number and size of calyx lobes, and gynoecium size (gynophore, ovary, and pistil). Leaflet form and color are diagnostic for some species. The anatomical study of the Venezuelan species of Alexa represents an important character in species delimitation, although there is some overlap. Additional information is provided concerning geographic distribution, habitat, reproductive biology, common names, and economic uses.
10.2307/2395222|The 16 species of Bignoniaceae described by Moore from his own and Robert's Mato Grosso collections are identified. Three new combinations based on Moore's species are made.
3298621| The last revision of Spathiphyllum was published over 40 years ago, and there is considerable need for additional new work throughout the tropics. Preliminary results are here presented toward the genus Spathiphyllum in Colombia, where 18 of the 50 known species occur. In this geographical region, all species appear restricted to the lowland to middle-elevation forests of interandean valleys, Amazonia and Choc regions, from sea level to 1300 m. The middle Ro Magdalena valley in northwestern Colombia, with 9 species, exhibits the highest concentration of taxa. Species of Spathiphyllum grow in partially or periodically flooded primary forests and in sites with low light intensities. Four sections of the genus Spathiphyllum occur in Colombia: sect. Amomophyllum, sect. Massowia, sect. Dysspathiphyllum, and sect. Spathiphyllum. Five species are from elsewhere in the Amazonian region of South America, and 11 other species appear widely distributed in Central America. /// La ltima revisin de Spathiphyllum fue publicada hace 40 aos y hay una considerable necesidad de nuevos trabajos para el trpico. Se presentan los resultados preliminares para el gnero Spathiphyllum en Colombia, donde el gnero est&#00E1 representado por 18 de las 50 especies conocidas. En esta regin geogrfica todas las especies estn restringidas a los bosques de tierras bajas de los valles interandinos, la Amazonia y la regin del Choc, desde el nivel del mar hasta 1300 m. El valle medio del Ro Magdalena en el NO del pas, con 9 especies, presenta la ms alta concentracin. Las especies de Spathiphyllum crecen en sitios parcial o peridicamente inundados con bajas intensidades de luz. Cuatro secciones del gnero se encuentran en Colombia: sect. Amomophyllum, sect. Massowia, sect. Dysspathiphyllum y sect. Spathiphyllum. Cinco especies se conocen para la Amazonia y 11 aparecen ampliamente distribuidas en Amrica Central. 
40035496|Se estudiaron comparativamente distintos caracteres de la morfologa foliar en las siete especies neotropieales del gnero Marattia Sw.: M. alata Sw., M. cicutifolia Kaulf., M. excavata Underw., M. interposita Christ, M. laevis Sm., M. laxa Kunze y M. weinmanniifolia Liebm. con el fin de analizar su valor diagnstico. Los resultados obtenidos se aplican en una clave para la determinatin de las especies. \\\ This is a study of the comparative foliar morphology carried out in seven neotropical species of the genus Marattia Sw.: M. alata Sw., M. cicutifolia Kaulf., M. excavata Underw., M. interposita Christ, M. laevis Sm., M. laxa Kunze, and M. weinmanniifolia Liebm., with the purpose of analyzing their diagnostic characters. A key to identify the species is obtained from the results.
10.2307/2398813|Three new species of Flourensia (Asteraceae-Heliantheae) from South America are described: F. peruviana Dillon and F. polycephala Dillon from central and southern Peru respectively; and F. blakeana Dillon from northcentral Argentina.
10.2307/2399236|Fossil pollen similar to the extant genus Lisianthius (Gentianaceae) has been recovered from the middle(?) to late Eocene Gatuncillo formation, Panama. The genus presently extends from Mexico, through the Antilles and Central America, into northwest Colombia. The oldest fossil record for the family is from the Paleocene (pollen) and early Eocene (flowers) of the northern hemisphere. The distribution of modern Gentianaceae, and the meager fossil record, suggests the possibility of a northern origin for the family, migration of at least one member as far south as central Panama by the end of the Eocene, with subsequent introduction into northern South America. Since the Gentianaceae is relatively well represented in South America, it has been suggested the family is probably not a recent arrival. The occurrence of Lisianthius pollen in deposits as early as the Eocene in the region of present-day central Panama is consistent with this suggestion. The genus has not previously been reported in the fossil record.
10.2307/2395199|Broadleaved evergreen sclerophyllous taxa occupied a subhumid belt across much of North America-Eurasia by the middle Eocene. They originated from alliances in older laurophyllous forests that adapted to spreading dry climate. Since the continued trend to aridity finally restricted sclerophyllous vegetation to subhumid areas separated by drier tracts, it now occurs in areas with summer rain as well as in summer-dry mediterranean climates. Taxa of chaparral and macchia habit are common undershrubs in sclerophyll woodlands, to which they are seral. Shrublands spread only recently, though the adaptive structural features of the taxa are ancient and probably not pyrogenic. The history of Madrean-Tethyan sclerophyll vegetation illuminates three biogeographic problems. First, related taxa that link the Mediterranean-California areas are part of the larger problem of ties between these areas and those of summer rainfall, of taxa now in summer-rain areas that were in presently summer-dry areas into the early Pleistocene, and of the more numerous taxa that linked sclerophyllous vegetation of the Madrean-Tethyan regions during the Tertiary. The ties between summer-dry and summer-wet areas are relicts of the Neogene; taxa now in mediterranean-climate areas adapted functionally to these new climates during the Pleistocene; and most trans-Atlantic links owe to migration across a narrower ocean with more numerous islands, to a broader zone of subhumid climate, and to a more easterly trending Appalachian axis with numerous dry edaphic sites. Second, by the mid-Oligocene spreading dry climate had confined a formerly continuous temperate rainforest to southern Mexico, the West coast and the Appalachian area. Winter cold and summer drought exterminated it in the West, whereas in the East winter cold eliminated most evergreen dicots, leaving a dominantly deciduous hardwood forest there. The temperate "Appalachian disjuncts" in southern Mexico are therefore ancient, and did not migrate south to enter a forest previously without deciduous hardwoods, as others maintain. Third, the Canarian laurel forest derived its taxa from those in laurophyllous forests that covered northern Africa into the middle Miocene, not by southward migration from southern Europe in the Pliocene. Since many shrubs in the surviving laurel forest also contribute to macchia on bordering slopes, the ancient origin of their typical adaptive structural features is clearly implied.
10.2307/2399899|Previous phylogenetic analyses of morphological and rRNA data indicated that Gnetales are the closest living relatives of angiosperms but gave different basal angiosperm relationships. A two-step morphological analysis of seed plants (including fossils) and angiosperms rooted the latter near Magnoliales, with tricolpate eudicots and paleoherbs (herbaceous magnoliids and monocots) forming a clade, whereas analyses of rRNA sequences rooted angiosperms among paleoherbs, with eudicots and woody magnoliids forming a clade. Experiments with a revised seed plant morphological data set raise further questions: when angiosperms are scored like different angiosperm subgroups, they associate with different outgroups, although Gnetales are their closest living relatives. To test whether morphological and rRNA data are seriously contradictory or rather complementary, with inconsistencies being a function of better resolution in different parts of the tree, we experimented with morphological and rRNA data sets including the same six extant "gymnosperm" and 12 angiosperm taxa. Both analyses again associate angiosperms and Gnetales. The morphological analysis differs from previous ones in placing Nymphaeales and monocots at the base of the angiosperms, but trees rooted next to Magnoliales are only one step less parsimonious. As in previous studies, the rRNA analysis roots angiosperms next to Nymphaeales and breaks up the eudicots. Bootstrap and decay analyses of the rRNA data show strong support for the monophyly of angiosperms and Gnetales and their sister group relationship, but low support for groupings within angiosperms. However, one or another group of paleoherbs is basal in most bootstrap trees. A combined analysis favors a paleoherb rooting, but other relationships agree with the morphological results; in particular, eudicots form a clade. The conclusion that Gnetales are the closest living relatives of angiosperms permits a wide range of morphological scenarios, depending on the arrangement of fossil outgroups. Discovery of fossils on the long branch leading to angiosperms, methods of factoring out artifacts in rooting, or molecular data on the control of floral morphogenesis in angiosperms and Gnetales may be required for further progress in unraveling the origin of angiosperms.
10.2307/2399914|Fourteen of the 35 previously accepted species of Petrea L. (Verbenaceae) are accepted in the present revision, three known only as fossils. Morphological, anatomical, and ecological characteristics of the species of Petrea are presented, along with descriptions, illustrations, and distribution maps. A cladistic analysis of the tribe Petreeae Briq., using Citharexylum L. and Duranta L. for outgroup comparison, revealed that Petrea is most closely related to Xolocotzia Miranda. Xolocotzia was then used as an outgroup to polarize the character states within Petrea, resulting in a cladogram with a consistency index of 0.74 and a retention index of 0.86, after three rounds of successive weighting.
3298575|Field observations, floral dissections of a representative range of Hesperantha species, and pollen load analyses of insects captured on many of them indicate that flowers of this African genus are cross pollinated by a relatively broad range of insects. The pollination ecology of Hesperantha can be divided into four overlapping systems that exploit insects of four orders (Coleoptera, Diptera, Hymenoptera, and Lepidoptera). Species of the H. falcata type have erect or nodding, salver-shaped, strongly fragrant, white flowers that open in the mid to late afternoon and evening and are pollinated by long-tongued apid bees and/or noctuid moths. Species of the H. pauciflora type have a virtually identical floral morphology, but the perianth is yellow or pink to mauve or blue and the flowers are usually unscented and are open during the day, closing between midday and late afternoon, ca. 16:30 H. Flowers of this type are also pollinated by apid bees, but in the southern African winter-rainfall zone other effective pollinators include nemestrinid flies (Prosoeca) with relatively short probosces and hopliine scarab beetles. In H. latifolia type flowers the perianth is pink to magenta or red (rarely pale yellow), odorless, opens during the day but has an elongate perianth tube exceeding 18 mm in length. These flowers are pollinated mainly by long-proboscid flies in the genera Prosoeca and Stenobasipteron (Nemestrinidae) or Philoliche (Tabanidae), but the red flowers of H. coccinea are pollinated by a guild of large butterflies including Papilio and the satyrid Aeropetes. Lastly, H. vaginata has odorless and nectarless, short-tubed yellow flowers, usually with contrasting dark markings, that open only during the day and are pollinated exclusively by the hopliine scarab beetle, Clania glenlyonensis. The taxonomic distribution of plant species with these pollination systems makes it clear that shifts in pollination systems have occurred repeatedly across Hesperantha, although floral morphology and nectar biochemistry are relatively conservative. Whether flowers are nocturnal, crepuscular, or diurnal, only four variables affect the floral ecology: length of the perianth tube, presence or absence of floral fragrance, timing of anthesis, and the closely associated trait of perianth color. Thus, species with pink, magenta, red, or yellow flowers close at night and are rarely fragrant, whereas those with white or pale yellow flowers are nearly always fragrant and either open late in the day or only at sunset and remain open for most of the night. Species show considerable variation in nectar volume and sugar concentration, closely correlated with pollination system, while two long-tubed species with floral characters typical of long-proboscid fly pollination produce no nectar and are inferred to be Batesian or guild mimics that achieve pollination by deception.
3298554|The genus Dieffenbachia Schott has approximately 135 species, most of them occurring in South America. Major centers of diversity for the genus include Colombia with 37 species, Ecuador (34), Peru (30), Brazil (27), Panama (20), and Costa Rica (13). There are 26 species in Central America, with 20 species (77%) new to science. These are D. burgeri Croat & Grayum, D. copensis Croat, D. crebripistillata Croat, D. davidsei Croat & Grayum, D. fortunensis Croat, D. fosteri Croat, D. galdamesiae Croat, D. horichii Croat & Grayum, D. isthmia Croat, D. killipii Croat, D. lutheri Croat, D. nitidipetiolata Croat, D. obscurinervia Croat, D. panamensis Croat, and D. standleyi Croat described herein and D. beachiana Croat & (Grayum, D. concinna Croat & Grayum, D. grayumii Croat, D. hammelii Croat & Grayum, and D. tonduzii Croat & Grayum described elsewhere. Most species range from Nicaragua to Panama. Belize has only 1 species of Dieffenbachia; Mexico, El Salvador, and Guatemala have 2 species, followed by Honduras (3), Nicaragua (6), Costa Rica (13), and Panama (20). Only a few Central American species could be considered widespread. Among the most widespread are D. oerstedii Schott and D. wendlandii Schott, both of which range from Mexico to Panama, as well as D. nitidipetiolata and D. tonduzii, which range from Honduras to Ecuador. Species endemism is high, especially in Costa Rica (3) and Panama (9). A total of 9 species are shared between Panama and Costa Rica. Eight species, almost 31% of the total, range into South America. These are D. davidsei, D. isthmia, D. killipii, D. longispatha, D. nitidipetiolata, D. obscurinervia, D. seguine, and D. tonduzii. Most of these only extend to Colombia, but three species, D. killipii, D. nitidipetiolata, and D. tonduzii, range to Ecuador. Only D. killipii ranges to the eastern slope of the Andes. Dieffenbachia seguine ranges into Brazil and Bolivia, from the West Indies.
10.2307/2394851|The California Islands off the Pacific coast of southern and Baja California display almost diagrammatically the insular phenomena that characterize fringing archipelagos. To a lesser extent they also illustrate some of the insular features associated with oceanic islands. Several of these islands have been much studied and are relatively accessible. The location, size, elevation, and geological history of the islands are described. To determine the degree of disharmony of the island floras, they are analyzed in comparison with selected California mainland floras. The degree of richness of the island floras is discussed in relation to size of the islands, proximity to the mainland, and other variables. Such phenomena of island life as the immigrant pattern of vertebrate distribution, relict versus autochthonous endemism of plants and animals, insular gigantism, continuous flowering, high degree of hybridization, vulnerability, and loss of dispersibility in island species are considered in reference to the California Islands. Some suggestions as to available facilities on the islands and persons or institutions to contact are given in an epilogue.
10.2307/2992092|Serological methods were used to elucidate legumin similarities, i.e., similarities between the major seed storage proteins present in the Euphorbiaceae and related families. The results support the separation of two rather than five subfamilies in the Euphorbiaceae. Extrafamiliar close relationships were detected with taxa from Violiflorae, Malviflorae (both subclass Dilleniidae), and Rutiflorae (subclass Rosidae). Therefore, maintaining these two subclasses as natural categories is not supported by the data reported here.
3298644|Conservation biology is a broad field that overlaps many areas of biology including environmental science, ecology, molecular biology, population genetics, and evolution. Included in conservation biology is a range of activities, from theoretical studies to on-site management of endangered species. One of the challenges for conservation biology is to relate the processes that are of interest for research scientists to the practical application of these issues by conservation managers. Field biologists are faced with the dilemma of reconciling processes that on a theoretical level could be of concern for conservation efforts with the subset of processes that will actually have an effect on plants in the field. Here we examine some of the dysgenic consequences of small population size that could potentially affect the success of conservation and restoration efforts, including loss of genetic diversity, genetic drift, and inbreeding and outbreeding depression. There are examples in the literature which demonstrate that all of these population genetic processes can negatively affect plant fitness. In many cases the magnitude of these negative effects is relatively small. We use Wallace's concept of hard and soft selection to suggest that the reproductive excess of plant populations can, in some cases, accommodate such small losses of fitness and provide flexibility for conservation managers.
10.2307/2666227|The utility of 44 morphological characters for phylogenetic inference was evaluated against cladograms inferred from nuclear ribosomal DNA internal transeribed spacer (ITS) sequences for 89 representatives of Apiaceae including 58 accessions of Scandiceae subtribe Scandicinae. Distance-based analyses of morphological data confirmed the monophyly of many clades delimited previously on the basis of ITS sequences. However, morphology failed to support the monophyly of Scandicinae and the close affinity between the basally branching Conopodium and Athamanta groups. The infrageneric divisions in Anthriscus, Chaerophyllum, and Osmorhiza, traditionally defined on the basis of life history, leaf division, indumentum, and inflorescence architecture, are incongruent with the molecular results as these morphological characters are quite homoplastic. Least homoplastic, and therefore useful for generic delimitation within Seandicinae, are fruit characters such as epidermis morphology and primary ridge shape. Rhopalosciadium and Chaerophyllopsis, traditionally placed in Scandicinae but not included in the ITS study, do not occur within the subtribe upon analysis of morphological data. The former has affinity to Scandiceae subtribe Torilidinae, whereas the latter allies with the apioid superclade. The following taxonomic changes are suggested: (1) Krasnovia and Neoconopodium are included in Kozlovia; (2) section Cerefolium is restored in Authriscus for A. cerefolium; and (3) Myrrhoides is transferred back to Chaerophyllum, with four sections recognized within the latter.
10.2307/2399908|The family Euphorbiaceae appears to be monophyletic, despite proposals for segregate families. The Euphorbiaceae display a great variety of growth forms, including at least 17 "models" of Halle. Anatomical characters particularly useful for classification include wood structure, laticifer type, trichomes, and stomata. Inflorescences are basically dichasial, and pseudanthia have evolved several times. Pollen nuclear number and exine structure provide useful criteria for characterizing genera, tribes, and subfamilies. Structure of the seed coat is characteristic for the family and does not provide evidence for a polyphyletic origin of the family. Pollination is prevailingly entomophilous, and seed dispersal by ants is important in many taxa. Geographic distribution patterns of genera show a concentration of primitive taxa in Africa and Madagascar, although in subfamily Crotonoideae there is evidence of a neotropical center. Disjunctions between Africa and South America are common. Bentham's hypothesis of an Old World origin of the family appears well supported. The basic distribution patterns appear to reflect early (Cretaceous and Paleogene) dispersal across land or narrow water barriers and spectacular but rather trivial instances of long-distance dispersal in the late Tertiary and Pleistocene; Tertiary high-latitude dispersals via the Bering land bridge appear to have been relatively insignificant.
41238125|Leitneria floridana Chapm., a shrub indigenous to North America, was long considered to be the sole member of the family Leitneriaceae, with uncertain affinities in and outside the class Amentiferae. Recent molecular analyses, however, show that the species is closely related to the genera Brucea J. F. Mill., Soulamea Lam., and Amaroria A. Gray in the family Simaroubaceae. Here, I report embryological features of L. floridana and provide anatomical corroboration for the molecular simaroubacean affinities of this species. I compared its embryology with those of the families Simaroubaceae, Meliaceae, and Rutaceae, which form a monophyletic clade in the order Sapindales. Comparisons showed that although Leitneria Chapm. resembled all three families embryologically, it fits best within the Simaroubaceae through possession of an unspecialized chalaza, straight and exarillate seeds, a non-multiplicative testa, a non-crystalliferous endotesta, and absence of a fibrous exotegmen. Within the Simaroubaceae, feitneria also shares with Brucea the synapomorphies of a micropyle formed by an elongate, irregularly folded inner integument and a persistent tegmen composed only of endotegmen. Members of the Simaroubaceae are still poorly known embryologically, but available evidence supports the close affinity of Leitneria and Brucea.
10.2307/2399623|As the intensity and magnitude of threats to biological diversity increase worldwide, conservation strategies must develop accordingly in three respects. First, conservation efforts must address all levels of biological organization, not simply species diversity; an overemphasis on species-level conservation risks missing biologically significant diversity at higher and lower levels of organization. Second, conservation measures must be conceived in response to particular threats or impacts to the biological entity of concern. Finally, the full spectrum of conservation resources must be employed in a coordinated manner without exclusive reliance on any single approach. By integrating information, needs, and resources in these three areas, a higher degree of protection is attainable for plant diversity than is possible by any single strategy. It is this inherently multidisciplinary approach that characterizes integrated conservation strategies.
10.2307/2399832|There are only four species of Fuchsia that are not native to the New World, three occurring on New Zealand and the fourth on Tahiti. The biology and systematics of these taxa are examined here in detail, including known and new information on phenology, habitats, pollination, dispersal, cytology, hybridization, and evolutionary relationships. Because of the basal position of F. procumbens in the clade of South Pacific fuchsias and its large suite of unique characters, it is recognized as a new section, Procumbentes, within the genus. This leaves F. cyrtandroides, F. excorticata, and F. perscandens in section Skinnera. Fuchsia \timescolensoi is treated here as a widespread and variable hybrid between F. excorticata and F. perscandens. Keys and descriptions of the taxa are provided.
40389931|The biogeography and phylogeny of Cardamine L. were inferred based on sequences of the nuclear ribosomal ITS regions and the plastid trnL intron and trnL-F spacer regions. This genus is one of the largest and polyploid-rich genera of the Brassicaceae and has its center of diversity in Eurasia. Species were included from all populated continents, representing all sections except two monotypic ones. The results support a hypothesis of recent and rapid speciation in the genus. The traditional sectional classification was not supported. We found evidence for several extremely long-distance dispersal events. Colonization of the Southern Hemisphere and the Arctic has occurred repeatedly; we identified at least three phylogenetically distinct Arctic lineages, two distinct Oceanian lineages, and four distinct South American lineages. Polyploidization has occurred independently many times during the evolution of Cardamine. Recent divergence combined with widespread polyploidization offer an explanation for the complex taxonomy of the genus.
10.2307/2398919|Bees, like their wasp relatives, forage for and transport food to a nest as provisions for their offspring. Unlike female Sphecoidea which transport arthropods one at a time as prey, bees transport pollen requiring specialized scopal (brush) or corbicular (fringed plate) structures to transport the dustlike material externally. Scopae often exhibit further modifications in density and amount of plumosity in relation to the size and ornamentation of the pollen grains they transport. Bees also differ from sphecid wasps by possessing branched body hairs that are relatively densely packed. These hairs, the electrostatic surface potential, and specialized hair groups for extraction of hidden pollen are important in the acquisition of pollen from flowers. Structures for grooming (brushes, combs, and scrapers) and grooming behavior patterns are modified to permit manipulation and packing of pollen in the specialized transport structures. The addition of nectar, so that pollen is packed moist, is a behavior that permits the carrying of pollen of a great variety of sizes and ornamentations in relatively simplified scopae or in corbiculae. The addition of oils to the diet of some bees has resulted in a modified type of scopal structure that has a wooly area basally and stiff guard hairs extending distally and that can transport a mixture of oil and pollen. Special hairs on the fore and mid basitarsi and teeth of hind tibial spurs are modified as oil scraper and manipulation structures. The use of corbiculae in Apidae to transport nesting materials and the hind tibiae in male orchid bees (Euglossini: Apidae) for transporting aromatic compounds involves behavior patterns similar to those for pollen transport in grooming, manipulating, and packing the materials. Other behavioral and physiological adaptations important in the location and acquisition of pollen by bees include individual constancy, oligolecty, seasonal synchrony, preimaginal conditioning, daily synchrony, buzz pollination, and other responses to specific modes of pollen presentation. Most of the behavioral patterns involve learning. They may be modified by extrinsic factors, and they may modify intrinsic structural and physiological characters.
10.2307/2399571|Preparation of the Eriocaulaceae treatment for Julian Steyermark's Flora of the Venezuelan Guayana has brought to light a new achene-bearing subgenus, Paepalanthus subg. Monosperma, as well as the following six new species and one variety: Eriocaulon spongiola, Paepalanthus chimantensis, P. fasciculoides, Syngonanthus acephalus, S. duidae var. humilis, S. fenestratus, and S. setifolius. In addition, 14 new names or combinations are made, and some instances of synonymy are discussed.
10.2307/2399687|A preliminary checklist of the vascular plant flora of Cerro Aracamuni, an isolated sandstone massif of the Roraima Shield in southern Territorio Federal Amazonas, Venezuela, is presented. The list is based on collections from five expeditions to the area. Brief comments on geography and affinities of its flora are included. Twenty-seven new taxa, including one genus, 24 species, and two subspecies are described from the massif, and three new combinations are made. The new taxa include Ilex aracamuniana (Aquifoliaceae); Philodendron roraimae subsp. aracamuniense (Araceae); Pochota aracamuniana (Bombacaceae); Navia carnevalii, N. iosothrix, N. patria, N. platyphylla, N. terramarae (Bromeliaceae); Hexapterella steyermarkii (Burmanniaceae); Symbolanthus aracamuniensis (Gentianaceae); Licaria trinervis (Lauraceae); Tococa liesneri (Melastomataceae); Sauvagesia guianensis subsp. aracamuniensis (Ochnaceae); Aracamunia liesneri (Orchidaceae); Piper mosaicum (Piperaceae); Rapatea aracamuniana (Rapateaceae); Cephalodendron aracamuniensis, Coussarea liesneri, Neblinathamnus aracamunianus, Remijia reducta (Rubiaceae); Bonnetia liesneri, Ternstroemia guanchezii, T. maguirei (Theaceae); Abolboda scabrida, Xyris aracamunae, X. liesneri, and X. prolificans (Xyridaceae). The three new combinations are: Paepalanthus sulcatus (Eriocaulaceae); Senefeldera yutajensis (Euphorbiaceae); and Persea perseiphylla (Lauraceae).
40035668|Our efforts to reconstruct accurate, complete records of events in vegetation history and in plant evolutionary history depend on accuracy in dating sediments, interpretation of structures preserved, reconstruction of whole organisms or communities from the preserved material, and interpretation of the interaction between past abundance and fossil presence. This contribution examines the interaction between past abundance of a target plant and the probability of retrieval of that species in the fossil record. By examining records of recolonization in volcanic areas, records of invasive species spread, succession in disturbed habitats, and historical migration patterns, we can provide estimates of the likelihood of appearance in the potential fossil record of newly evolved and reasonably successful species. The lag in discovery, recognition, and publication of a fossil as an important representative of a critical clade is also evaluated and is highlighted as a more important constraint on the use of fossils in testing evolutionary and ecological hypotheses than the recolonization rate. The lag between discovery and publication is particularly relevant in areas of the modern world where fossil plant-bearing deposits are either rare or inaccessible. Greater awareness of the density and reliability of the plant record should allow evolutionary biologists and paleoecologists to bracket not only time intervals but also geographic regions where the fossil record can be interpreted largely at face value. At the same time, more effort should be focused on intense collecting efforts and training in areas where fossil deposits are potentially present, but poorly collected and evaluated.
10.2307/2666142|This article reviews several proposed mechanisms of molecular evolution operating in non-coding regions of the chloroplast genome and argues that awareness and identification of these mechanisms are essential for improving alignment and phylogenetic analysis of non-coding sequence data. The mechanisms are of five categories: (1) slipped-strand mispairing; (2) insertions and deletions linked with secondary structure formations; (3) inversions associated with hairpins and stem-loop structures; (4) localized or extra-regional intramolecular recombination; and (5) nucleotide substitutions. These mutations seem to be largely a function of sequence structure and pattern and may be highly homoplasious in a parsimony topology; therefore, mutations in non-coding regions of the chloroplast genome are described here as structured, nonrandom, and non-independent events. Established methodologies are based in large part on a collective understanding of genic DNA evolution and may need modification when applied to non-coding sequence data. Here I suggest an approach to the phylogenetic study of non-coding cpDNA that incorporates identification of mutational mechanisms in alignment and homology assessment of indels. I also discuss repercussions of non-coding sequence evolution for such aspects of phylogeny estimation as maximum likelihood, distance, and parsimony analysis, the inclusion of indels as phylogenetic characters, and bootstrapping, jackknifing, and "decay" analysis as measures of clade support.
10.2307/2399587|In the hundred years since the Board of Trustees of the Missouri Botanical Garden implemented the stipulations of Henry Shaw's will, which prescribed functions for his public garden and provided an appropriate endowment, six directors have guided the Garden's development. Henry Shaw's (1800-1889) vision of the Garden was based upon his British background and the European botanical garden tradition. William Trelease, the first director (from 1889 to 1912), set his highest priorities on building the herbarium and library and publishing substantial annual volumes, which he believed would make the Garden a major center for taxonomic research. George T. Moore, director for 40 years (from 1912 to 1953), moved the research into other areas of botany, applied botany, and horticulture. Keen on public display yet facing decreasing finances toward the latter part of his tenure, he began to seek private support for various programs, including a new arboretum located outside the city. The short duration of Edgar Anderson's directorship (1954-1957) was focused on Garden improvements with further attempts to raise funds and find support among garden clubs. Frits Went, the fourth director (1958-1963), saw the Garden as a potential multifaceted cultural center for St. Louis. The geodesic domed greenhouse, named the Climatron, opened in 1960 as a major implement in concentrating local and national attention on the Garden. The fifth director, David Gates (1965-1971), moved the Garden into ecological research and found support for a new research building that had been sought by Went. The current director, Peter H. Raven (1971 to the present), has moved the Garden along on various fronts. He has expanded its horticultural displays and special gardens, widened the base of public support, enhanced the research in systematic botany, and projected the role of the Garden into international efforts to understand our biosphere and protect it. Each director has guided the Missouri Botanical Garden in certain directions during the last hundred years to make it the major botanical garden that it now is.
10.2307/2395213|The name Wittmackanthus is accepted as the correct generic name for Pallasia Klotzsch, a later homonym. Assignment of the genus to tribe Cinchoneae, next to Calycophyllum, is supported by the combination of vertically imbricate ovules and alate seeds. Previous authors assigned the genus to tribe Rondeletieae, having misinterpreted the placement of the ovules and seeds as horizontal and both as exalate. One species is recognized, W. stanleyanus, occurring in Panama, Colombia and Guyana, and its variability is discussed.
10.2307/3298560|In 1996, a coalition of diverse and determined organizations launched a new initiative in the Chicago region. Our vision? Chicago Wilderness: a thriving mosaic of natural areas, connected by greenways and wildlife corridors, embedded in the nation's third largest metropolis. In this vision, the region's human communities reclaim a cultural tradition of protecting and restoring these globally significant natural communities that enrich our lives. Today, more than 100 organizations join forces to transform this vision into reality. A regional Biodiversity Recovery Plan-the result of three years of assessment and planning by scientists, land managers, educators, and policy strategists-sets priorities and determines the lines of action for the coalition. This regional agenda stems from our vision and recovery goals for each ecological community; it encourages targeted research initiatives that focus on characterizing our native biological diversity and on analyzing elements critical to its recovery. Ultimately, though, the long-term survival of our natural wealth rests on the support from the public. While the challenges to conservation educators and communicators are many, Chicago Wilderness allows us to work together in understanding our audiences, channeling our resources, and creating novel approaches to engage the widest public in our conservation efforts.
10.2307/2395220|Moraea, an African genus widespread south of the Sahara, comprising ca. 92 species, is divided into five subgenera: Moraea, Monocephalae, Visciramosa, Grandiflora, and Vieusseuxia, and into several sections. Chromosome numbers of n = 10, 9, 8, 6, 20, and 12 are reported in the 52 species studied to date. A base number of x = 10 is postulated for Moraea, and Dietes is suggested as the closest living ancestor. Moraea is pictured as having evolved in the mid to late Tertiary in central southern Africa in response to the onset of a dry climatic regime bordering the tropics. The great radiation of the genus in the southwestern Cape is seen as a more recent phenomenon resulting from the development of a Mediterranean climate in this area. Several nomenclatural changes are made and four new species are described.
10.2307/2395317|Sterculia glauca A. Gentry is newly described from Panama. It is most closely related to S. guianensis Sandw. All recognized species of tropical American Sterculia are arranged into species-groups on the basis of vegetative characteristics.
10.2307/2399061|Nuclear genome sizes have been calculated for 19 genera and 30 species of Iridaceae using cytospectrophotometry. Mean extinction values for nuclei in squashes of actively growing root tips stained in Schiff's reagent were compared with a standard, maize, of known genome size, treated in the same way. Values range from lows of 1.1 to 4.9 pg DNA per nucleus in diploid species of subfamily Ixioideae to a high of 65.1 pg in Iris histrio, subfamily Iridoideae. Genome size in diploid Iridoideae ranges from a low in Galaxia fugacissima of 6.4 pg to the ten fold high observed in I. histrio. Results are, in general, consistent with what is known about cytology and phylogenetic relationships of the taxa studied. Polyploid species have close to twice the values obtained in closely related diploids, and allied species or genera have very similar genome sizes.
10.2307/2399166|This paper presents the first embryological study of Rhynchocalyx, a unique and problematical monotypic South African genus. The genus agrees well with other Myrtales in its basic embryological and other characteristics, including an ephemeral anther endothecium, a micropyle formed by the inner integument alone, and by other subsidiary features of the anther, nucellus, endosperm, and seed, as well as its megasporogenesis. Rhynchocalyx differs absolutely from Axinandra in many embryological characteristics, a fact that is not in agreement with a broad definition of Crypteroniaceae to include both genera. Also, Rhynchocalyx, despite its shared distinctive multicelled archesporium, differs from Lythraceae in many attributes. Thus, evidence from embryology, combined with that from other sources, supports the conclusion that Rhynchocalyx is not directly related to Lythraceae, and is, therefore, best assigned to a family of its own, Rhynchocalycaceae.
10.2307/2398810|From a simple hermaphrodite flower, and from a complex incompatibility system unique among the flowering plants, several breeding systems have evolved in the Gramineae. Self-compatibility is the most commonplace variant and following this mutation, habitual or facultative cleistogamy is a simple evolutionary step. Separation of the sexes to different plants as in dioecism is relatively uncommon (ca. 20 genera), and gynodioecism is much less frequent still (3-4 genera). Both are seen as escape pathways from self-compatibility; the development of such pathways is discussed. Separation of the sexes to separate flowers as in monoecism is relatively common and with the variants andromonoecism and gynomonoecism is the most substantial departure from hermaphroditism in the family. These states are also interpreted as responses to self-compatibility; and though they do not generate cross-fertilization, they assist its evolution. Pathways for the evolution of these breeding systems are described. Apomixis and the breeding system best suited are discussed.
10.2307/2398865|Ludwigia seed coats cut in various ways and examined with light microscope and with SEM have four similar cell layers regardless of species, noteworthy modifications occurring only in taxa with seeds fused to the fruit wall. Surface features of the seeds are also much alike except in Microcarpium, a diverse section in which some of the species deviate with respect to the orientation of epidermal cells. In sections Ludwigia, Macrocarpon, and Myrtocarpus, but not in sections Dantia and Microcarpium, the fruit wall has a well-differentiated inner zone of spongy tissue that reduces the wall's effective thickness when dry, thereby aiding seed dispersal. In section Seminuda and three monotypic sections similar tissue, spongy at early stages, increases and changes into a buoyant, protective endocarp as the fruit grows. In section Oligospermum and in L. torulosa endocarps form without an initial spongy stage; they differ from Seminuda endocarps in that the inner epidermis becomes a zone of woody fibers several cells thick. Oligospermum also stands apart because tissue surrounding the endocarp is aerenchymatous; this section therefore seems to have diverged early from the other ludwigias and developed its own aquatic adaptations. Evolutionary lengthening and narrowing of the inferior ovary has taken place repeatedly in Ludwigia, accompanied by reduction in the number of ovules per cross-section. Evolution of protective endocarp followed wherever reduction progressed to the 1-seriate condition, bringing developing seeds into intimate contact with the fruit wall.
10.2307/2395304|The high levels of enzyme polymorphism often detected by electrophoresis probably reflect on-going balancing selection. However, hypotheses of single gene heterosis (such as overdominance or environmental balance) do not seem adequate to account for this variation. To investigate this problem further, polymorphism was studied in Colorado butterflies of the genus Colias. Colias are easy to breed and study in the field and occupy a diverse array of habitats. Four species were studied: all were found to be highly polymorphic. Polymorphism at the -glycerophosphate dehydrogenase locus occurred only when the species in question occupied a montane habitat; no polymorphism was seen in populations occupying alpine or low-land habitats. Three populations of C. meadii were examined in detail which encompass both alpine and montane habitats (crossing timberline); in one of them detailed demographic studies were carried out. In each such population, marked clines were observed in -GPdH frequency, despite the swamping effects of migration within the population. At thirteen other loci a variety of different patterns of allele frequency are seen (some clinal, some uniform, some discontinuous), despite the fact that all loci were assayed in the same individuals. This result constitutes strong evidence of selection. There is clear evidence that particular alleles at the different loci preferentially associate together at specific locations along the cline, different assemblages occurring at different locations. A hypothesis is presented that these represent integrated metabolic phenotypes, and that the enzyme polymorphism is a multi-locus strategy to preserve that integration in a heterogeneous environment.
10.2307/2992103|During preparation of the Euphorbieae for the Flora of Tropical East Africa, most of the 250 plus species in Euphorbia subg. Euphorbia were examined, resulting in a new approach to their classification. Comments are offered on the principal systems to date, all of which have been based on vegetative characters. In the newly proposed system, certain character changes linked with increasing succulence and a reduction in size are used to indicate development from trees, to shrubs, and then herbs, as an advancement in adaptation toward survival in arid conditions. Features of the inflorescence, capsules, and seeds are considered to be the most important in deciding relationships between groups, while vegetative features are used as indicators of development within the groups. A system of two sections based on seed characters is proposed, and the relationships between eight proposed subsections are discussed.
10.2307/2666128|The fungus/plant root association known as a mycorrhizal symbiosis appears to have evolved in the Devonian. Of the two general morphological types of mycorrhizae among plant families, arbuscular mycorrhizae appear earlier in the fossil record and are more widespread than are ectomycorrhizae. The latter type of symbiosis most likely evolved with the vascular plant progenitors of modern Pinaceae in the Jurassic, but also developed with the ancestors of a dozen or so extant Angiosperm families. The significance of the ectomycorrhizal relationship is evident in that the symbionts profit by acquiring resources from their partners that would otherwise be unavailable. In natural environments where ectomycorrhizal communities exist, the symbiosis may be restricted or not depending on the particular plants and fungi involved. The presence of an obligate specificity of a particular fungus with a particular plant has a profound consequence on biogeographic distribution.
10.2307/2666209|Recent fieldwork of the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, in many parts of the tropics reveals the extent to which they are still undercollected and poorly studied. Recent studies of palms in Madagascar, Cameroon, Lao P.D.R., and Brunei Darussalam have produced many novelties, for example, in Madagascar, 3 new genera and 85 new species. Recent examples from Atlantic coastal Brazil, central Amazonia, and New Guinea are given. Even in apparently well collected areas such as the Ducke Forest Reserve near Manaus, Brazil, and in Brunei where detailed studies of small areas are made, many novelties are found. It is recommended that more such intensive studies of restricted areas are made. The rate of new species that are being described, an average of 2350 over the past nine years, and the rate of additions to Flora Neotropica suggest that the total number of angiosperms is currently being underestimated and that there are in fact between 300,000 and 320,000 species. In order to develop conservation and sustainable use of tropical ecosystems, it is essential that we continue to intensify the rate of collection before it is too late.
10.2307/2399364|Distyly occurs in four of the five genera of the Menyanthaceae, as do breeding systems such as dioecy, gynodioecy, and homostyly that are believed to be derived from distyly. Most species of the largely Australian genus Villarsia are distylous, but the Western Australian V. albiflora has monomorphic (nonheterostylous) flowers and appears to be homostylous. Despite this, individuals of this species are self-incompatible, although most members of the four populations studied are intercompatible. The incompatibility system of V. albiflora appears to be controlled by multiple alleles. Another Western Australian species, V. parnassiifolia, has distylous flowers and strong self-incompatibility. Long x Long crosses of this species fail to produce seeds, but Short x Short crosses commonly produce a full complement of seeds. Thus, this species possesses a self-incompatibility system, but Shorts have an unexpectedly high degree of intramorph intercompatibility, suggesting that the incompatibility system of this morph likewise is controlled by multiple alleles. Five of eight natural populations sampled of V. parnassiifolia showed Short-dominated morph ratios, suggesting that offspring of Short x Short pollinations may constitute a portion of these Short-dominated natural populations. Villarsia albiflora may represent a recombinant homostyle, a true-breeding Short morph derived from a distylous ancestor with a breeding system similar to that of V. parnassiifolia, or a species possessing a floral morphology and breeding system ancestral to the distyly that occurs widely in the Menyanthaceae. A scheme for the origin of distyly in Villarsia is presented.
3298619| Symbolanthus (Gentianaceae, Helieae) is a genus of small trees, shrubs, and herbs distributed in South America (the central and northern Andes and the Guayana Highlands) and southern Central America. To discover the pattern of Symbolanthus evolution and to assess the relationships between Symbolanthus and the closely related Wurdackanthus of the Guayana Highlands (Venezuela, Brazil) and the Lesser Antilles (St. Vincent), we performed cladistic analyses on members of both taxa. Molecular data (5S-NTS rDNA sequences) were gathered from individual plant samples, mainly from herbarium specimens. 5S-NTS sequence data did not resolve internal relationships well in Symbolanthus and show that the genus may be a recently and rapidly diverging clade. However, these results indicate that Wurdackanthus is either paraphyletic to Symbolanthus or that W. argyreus is nested within a Symbolanthus clade. Furthermore, W. frigidus may be the basalmost species of the Wurdackanthus-Symbolanthus clade. This species is noticeably divergent and distinct, molecularly and morphologically, from the rest of the clade. Testing an alternate phylogenetic hypothesis in which Wurdackanthus is monophyletic results in trees 11 steps longer than the shortest trees found, and still with Wurdackanthus nested within Symbolanthus. Ancestral morphological character evolution in the Wurdackanthus-Symbolanthus clade is discussed in the context of a 5S-NTS consensus tree. /// El gnero Symbolanthus (Gentianaceae, Helieae) incluye rboles pequeos, arbustos y hierbas, distribuidos en Sur Amrica (al centro y norte de Andes y en las tierras altas de la Guayana) y al sur de Centro Amrica. Con el objeto de descubrir el patron de la evolucin y biogeografa de Symbolanthus, realizamos un anlisis cladstico con algunas especies de Symbolanthus y del cercanamente relacionado Wurdackanthus, distribuido en las tierras altas de la Guayana (Venezuela, Brazil) y en las Antillas Menores (St. Vincent). Los datos moleculares (secuencias de 5S-NTS rADN) se obtuvieron de muestras individuales de plantas, principalmente de espec&$00ED;menes de herbario. Las secuencias de 5S-NTS no resolvieron bien las relaciones al interior de Symbolanthus, y mostraron que el g&$00E9;nero puede haber divergido rpida y recientemente. Estos resultados indican ya sea que Wurdackanthus es parafiltico respecto a Symbolanthus, o que W. argyreus se encuentra dentro del clado de Symbolanthus. Mas an, W. frigidus podria ser la especie ms basal del clado Wurdackanthus-Symbolanthus. Esta especie es notoriamente diferente, tanto molecular como morfolgicamente del resto del clado. Al probar una hiptesis alterna, en la cul Wurdackanthus es monofiltico, se encuentran rboles 11 pasos ms largos que los mas cortos obtenidos, an con Wurdackanthus includo dentro de Symbolanthus. Con base en el consenso obtenido usando 5S-NTS, se discute la evolucin de caracteres morfolgicos ancestrales en el clado Wurdackanthus-Symbolanthus. 
10.2307/2399851|In an attempt to elucidate relationships among the morphologically diverse members of Saxifragaceae sensu lato, phylogenetic analyses of rbcL sequence data were conducted on representative genera of 16 of the 17 subfamilies. Also included were many putatively related families, as well as a diverse array of dicotyledonous flowering plants. Our phylogenetic analyses suggest that taxa of Saxifragaceae sensu lato are allied with at least 10 separate, often distantly related, lineages of several subclasses of flowering plants. Sequence data, in combination with other lines of evidence, suggest that Saxifragaceae sensu stricto should consist only of subfamily Saxifragoideae, a group of about 30 herbaceous genera that form the core of Saxifragaceae sensu lato. These data also suggest that potential close relatives of Saxifragaceae sensu stricto include Iteoideae, Pterostemonoideae, and Ribesoideae and possibly Penthoroideae and Tetracarpaeoideae, all traditional subfamilies of Saxifragaceae sensu lato, as well as Crassulaceae. These members of Saxifragaceae sensu lato, along with Saxifragaceae sensu stricto, Crassulaceae, and several genera from the subclass Hamamelidae, are basal to a large assemblage of taxa, most of which are usually placed in Rosidae. Within this primarily rosid alliance, representatives of four other subfamilies of Saxifragaceae sensu lato (Francooideae, Baueroideae, Parnassioideae, and Lepuropetaloideae) are allied with the rosid families Greyiaceae, Cunoniaceae, and Celastraceae. According to rbcL sequence evidence, Hydrangeoideae and Cornaceae are closely related members of a clade that is basal to a large group of taxa primarily from subclass Asteridae. Representative genera of four subfamilies of Saxifragaceae sensu lato (Phyllonomoideae, Escallonioideae, Montinioideae, and Vahlioideae) are in our results allied with taxa usually included in Asteridae. Significantly, relationships of Saxifragaceae sensu lato suggested by rbcL sequence data are in very close agreement with those supported by several other lines of evidence, especially embryology, serology, and iridoid chemistry.
10.2307/2394850|Goodeniaceae, a basically herbaceous family with a clear center of origin and diversification in Australia, has become woody to a limited extent in several genera and genuinely arborescent in some species of Scaevola. The most woody of these are montane species of Pacific islands. The probable evolutionary patterns of these and correlations between wood anatomy and ecological conditions are reviewed. Quantitative and qualitative data are presented in tabular form for 78 collections of 43 taxa of the family. Xermorphic Goodeniaceae tend to have short, narrow vessel elements with helical sculpturing, whereas the reverse is true in mesic species. Absence of axial parenchyma and abundance of crystals also characterizes xeric species. The predominance of erect ray cells or raylessness, as well as occurrence in a few species of scalariform or elliptical pits on lateral walls of vessels are probably indicators of juvenilism (paedomorphosis). Goodeniaceae do not have libriform fibers, but rather tracheids or fiber-tracheids, with a tendency toward the latter in arborescent species. Multiseriate rays are tall. Correlations between wood anatomy and habit are summarized under the headings: Australian short-lived perennials and short-lived shrubs; montane Pacific species of Scaevola; and maritime species of Scaevola.
10.2307/2399478|Ten taxa of Xyris (nine species and one variety), sent to the senior author for definitive treatment during the early 1980s, are herein described, figured, and proposed for addition to the flora of Brazil. All are from the Brazilian Planalto: five (X. diaphanobracteata, X. jataiana, X. lutescens, X. pranceana, X. sceptrifera) are from Goias, four (X. seubertii var. espinhacae, X. itambensis, X. obcordata, and X. villosicarinata) are from Minas Gerais, and one (X. dissitifolia) is from Parana. These new Xyris are presented alphabetically and each is contrasted with related species.
10.2307/2399117|Data on pollen morphological features from 200 species in 20 families commonly included in the Hamamelidae and particular species in the Anacardiaceae and Salicaceae are presented in this paper. The basic descriptive analyses presented are derived from observations by light microscopy, scanning electron microscopy (SEM), and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Thirty pollen characters showed some variability, and each of the species was scored for these characters. These data were analyzed and similarity cluster analyses were generated. Both an unweighted pair group and a complete linkage strategy dendrogram were produced. Three major clusters of families were defined, based on these analyses. Group I consists of Trochodendraceae, Cercidiphyllaceae, Eupteleaceae, Platanaceae, Hamamelidaceae (including Altingioideae), Eucommiaceae, and Myrothamnaceae. The Liquidambaroideae, Eucommiaceae, and Myrothamnaceae, while closest to Group I, can be viewed as intermediate between Groups I and II in complete linkage strategy and between Groups II and III in unweighted pair group strategy. Group II-consisting of Daphniphyllaceae, Leitneriaceae, Barbeyaceae, and Fagaceae (excluding Nothofagus)-has a closer phenetic relationship to Group I than Group III. Group III is the largest of these groups: it consists of Ulmaceae, Cannabaceae, Juglandaceae, Rhoipteleaceae, Betulaceae, Casuarinaceae, and Myricaceae. The Balanopaceae and Nothofagus are somewhat isolated and peripheral entities but hold together in both linkage strategies. Thirty pollen characters of 78 taxa were analyzed using PAUP to produce a cladistic tree. The outgroup used was Tetracentron. Three phylogenetically related groups sorted out, which are the same as those already recognized in the Groups I, II, and III mentioned above. Group I occurs at the base of the tree (primitive), and Group II occurs as intermediate between Groups I and III (derived). In general, these data support the relationships suggested by Barabe for the Hamamelidae, based upon vegetative and floral features and the classification of Cronquist.
10.2307/2399621|The natural habitats of many species have become fragmented into small "islands," principally by human activities. In this paper we discuss the long-term genetic and evolutionary consequences of fragmentation as inferred from studies on populations that have undergone natural habitat fragmentation in the Ozark Mountains. The Ozarks are the highest land formation found in the midwestern United States. Because of the absence of major geographical barriers around the Ozarks, plants and animals from diverse parts of the continent have been able to invade the area during post-Pleistocene climatic periods. Many of these invasions were short-lived, but the geological and topographical complexity of the Ozarks provided numerous relictual habitats. As a consequence, natural habitat fragmentation occurred for many species, and the fragmentation has often persisted for thousands of years. The genetic and ecological consequences of habitat fragmentation depend critically upon whether or not habitat fragmentation results in a complete cessation of dispersal between the habitat islands. If habitat fragmentation results in the complete genetic isolation of habitat islands, then each "island" becomes demographically independent and local extinction can occur. When there is no opportunity for recolonization, an "extinction ratchet" is possible in which each local extinction brings the global population irreversibly one step closer to total extinction. It is therefore critical to know if habitat fragmentation actually prevents dispersal or not. Unfortunately, studying dispersal patterns directly is usually not feasible. We show how genetic surveys can be used to answer this question. Given demographic fragmentation, we also show how genetic surveys can pinpoint species at high risk for local extinction. These suffer the most severe genetic consequences from habitat fragmentation, such as a drastic loss of genetic variability within habitat islands and inbreeding depression. On the positive side, the genetic variation of a fragmented species is not totally lost but is often present as fixed differences between different local populations. Indeed, a fragmented population is subject to less global loss of genetic variation than an equally sized panmictic population. Consequently, as long as the rate of local extinction is relatively small or counteracted by a recolonization program, a fragmented species can preserve almost all of its genetic variation at the global level for long periods of time. We discuss the optimal design for a recolonization program to prevent global extinction and to maintain high levels of global genetic variation.
10.2307/2399737|A cladistic analysis of the basal Hamamelidae based upon 92 characters is presented. The results support a close phylogenetic relationship between the subfamily Altingioideae (Hamamelidaceae) and Platanaceae but suggest that present hypotheses concerning the derivation of the Hamamelidae from the Magnoliidae need revision. Analysis of the five subfamilies of Hamamelidaceae using Platanaceae as an outgroup yields a phylogeny that corresponds to the fossil record far better than does current theory. As a result of this study and recent paleobotanical and phytochemical evidence, it is suggested that Hamamelidae are at least as primitive as Magnoliidae.
10.2307/2399122|N-terminal sequences (40 amino acids) of ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase small subunit are presented for representatives of Myrtaceae (2 spp.), Melastomataceae (2 spp.), Combretaceae (2 spp.), Lythraceae (2 spp.), Thymelaeaceae (2 spp.), Onagraceae (11 spp.), Buxaceae sensu lato (2 spp.), Euphorbiaceae (2 spp.), and Tiliaceae (2 spp.). In minimal phylogenetic trees the two members of most families pair well, while, in Onagraceae, the phylogenetic tree gives a reasonable approximation to the expectations from taxonomy. The first four families group together as expected for families of Myrtales, but Onagraceae are slightly separate. Thymelaeaceae grouped with the Myrtales families. In order to test the hypothesis that Thymelaeaceae are related to Euphorbiales and both to Malvales, phylogenetic trees embracing all groups were derived. Thymelaeaceae failed to group with Malvales but both showed relationships to Myrtales. Within Euphorbiales and Malvales, grouping of species conformed well with expectations.
3298611|A comparative morphological study of floral characters of the North American genus Polygonella and the four currently accepted sections of Polygonum s. str. (sect. Polygonum, sect. Duravia, sect. Pseudomollia, sect. Tephis) has been carried out with light microscopy (LM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Flowers were investigated for macromorphological characters, tepal epidermal characters, pollen, and fruit morphology and anatomy. Results demonstrate that the limits between both genera become blurred through section Duravia of Polygonum, especially in characters of pollen and fruit morphology. Polygonum sect. Duravia and Polygonella share a wealth of intergrading floral and vegetative characters at the macroscopic, as well as ultrastructural, level (pollen morphology, fruit morphology, flower structure, vegetative anatomy). These characteristics, especially the pollen morphology, are sharply delimited from section Polygonum. Evidence presented here allows for a broader concept of Polygonum s. str. to be adopted, with an extended section Duravia including subsections Duravia and Polygonella. A cladistic analysis of morphological characters supports two distinct clades, section Polygonum with subsections Polygonum and Tephis, and section Duravia with subsections Duravia and Polygonella.
10.2307/2992015|Recent cladistic analyses are revealing the phylogeny of flowering plants in increasing detail, and there is support for the monophyly of many major groups above the family level. With many elements of the major branching sequence of phylogeny established, a revised suprafamilial classification of flowering plants becomes both feasible and desirable. Here we present a classification of 462 flowering plant families in 40 putatively monophyletic orders and a small number of monophyletic, informal higher groups. The latter are the monocots, commelinoids, eudicots, core eudicots, rosids including eurosids I and II, and asterids including euasterids I and II. Under these informal groups there are also listed a number of families without assignment to order. At the end of the system is an additional list of families of uncertain position for which no firm data exist regarding placement anywhere within the system.
10.2307/2992011|Grimmia longirostris Hook. is described and illustrated, and its ecology and phytogeography are considered. A world distribution map is presented. Fifty-five names, at specific and infraspecific rank, are considered synonymous with G. longirostris. Grimmia affinis Hornsch., the name employed for this taxon in the holarctic, is illegitimate and slightly predated by G. longirostris. Hook., a name hitherto used only in the Andean region. Cross-section costal morphology is considered the best diagnostic character to distinguish G. longirostris from related species. Other useful features are the long, incrassate and nodulose basal paracostal cells of the lamina, the straight setae, and the compound, revoluble annulus. Grimmia longirostris grows on all continents except Antarctica and Australia-New Zealand. Its absence in these regions seems not to be an artifact of undercollecting. The preferred habitat is acidic rocks in high mountain ranges or latitudes.
10.2307/3298600|The generic limits of Hymenocallis have been variously proposed by different taxonomic workers, often without discussion or data. The genera Leptochiton, Ismene, Elisena, and Pseudostenomesson have been included with Hymenocallis, lumped together as the genus Ismene, or maintained as distinct genera. Recent cladistic analysis of plastid and nrDNA for Amaryllidaceae support a distinct tribe Hymenocallideae. Cladistic analyses of morphology, and plastid (trnL-F region) and nuclear ribosomal DNA (ITS) are presented alone and in combination for the tribe. Leptochiton is sister to the rest of the genera in the tribe in all analyses. While Hymenocallis is always resolved as monophyletic, Ismene is variably paraphyletic or monophyletic. The combined sequence data produce the most resolved and best-supported phylogeny, wherein Hymenocallis and Ismene are monophyletic sister genera. These data support an origin for the tribe in the Andes, with vicariant distribution of the largely Mesoamerican Hymenocallis. Formal recognition of Ismene subg. Elisena and Pseudostenomesson is established.
10.2307/2399770|The distribution of the chemical compounds iridoids, anthraquinones, and verbascosides is demonstrated in Dahlgrenograms. An analysis of iridoid biosynthesis and structure allows distinction of two main groups of compounds. Thus, the biosynthetic route I gives rise to the seco-iridoids and their derivatives, and another (route II) to aucubin and similar decarboyxlated iridoid glucosides. Seco-iridoids from route I are widely distributed in Cornanae, Loasanae, and Gentiananae but never in Lamianae. Aucubinlike compounds derived by route II are commonly found in Lamianae and in three small families in Cornanae, but are not found in Gentiananae. Ericanae contain both groups, but not within the same order. Likewise, two biosynthetically different groups of anthraquinones can be distinguished, one of which is found solely in Gentiananae and in Lamianae, and thus suggests the monophyletic origin of these taxa. The distribution of the verbascosides, a group of caffeic acid esters, and cornoside, a compound that is often vicarious for iridoids, is shown to be limited to Lamianae and Oleaceae (Gentiananae), barring a few exceptions. This, together with other evidence, may suggest that Oleaceae systematically belong close to Scrophulariaceae, despite the presence of seco-iridoids in Oleaceae. The results of an investigation of the family Loganiaceae, as delineated recently by Leeuwenberg, are presented and analyzed in light of the above distributional patterns. The chemical data, combined with a few morphological characters, reveal that the tribes Spigelieae, Loganieae, Strychneae, Gelsemieae, and Antonieae show many similarities and are characterized by containing seco-iridoids (biosynthetic route I), by having intraxylary phloem and nuclear endosperm formation, and by lacking verbascosides. The tribe Potalieae share this set of characters, but because of the presence of a unique combination of compounds, elsewhere only found in Gentianaceae, it may fit better in that family. The tribes Plocospermeae, Buddlejeae, and Retzieae, as well as the genus Polypremum from Spigelieae, do not belong in the Gentianaceae, because they are all different in the above set of characters. Chemically (and morphologically), they are more closely related to Scrophulariaceae and its allies or, alternatively, Oleaceae. Our studies have revealed nothing conclusive about tribe Desfontainieae.
41805967|A taxonomic revision of the genus Phyla Lour, is provided. Phyla is a small genus in Verbenaceae, placed in the tribe Lantaneae and represented by five species and three varieties. Four species are found only in the Americas, and one, P. nodiflora (L.) Greene, is found worldwide in tropical and temperate areas. Detailed morphological descriptions are given for each taxon, as well as a key for their identification, illustrations, synonymy, distribution, selected specimens, and discussion about the relationships among closely related taxa. Cryptocalyx nepetifolia Benth. is lectotypified, and one new combination is proposed, P. nodiflora var. minor (Hook.) N. O'Leary & Mlgura.
10.2307/2399315|Burmeistera weberbaueri is transferred to the genus Siphocampylus under the new name Siphocampylus oscitans. The species is noteworthy in being one of only three species of Siphocampylus known to have a dilated anther-tube orifice.
10.2307/2395025|One of the most dramatic plant and animal relationships in the West African ecosystem is that which takes place between such frugivorus bats as Epomophorus gambianus and Eidolon helvum and the introduced neem tree, Azadirachta indica. While earlier studies on bat behavior were carried out by personal observation and ordinary photographic means, recently developed night vision equipment has allowed the author to make nocturnal observations previously not possible. New observations, using this equipment, have now been made on bats and their interaction with trees of the following species: Mangifera indica, Anacardium occidentale, Ficus umbellata, Psidium guajava, Carica papaya, Kigelia africana, Spathodea campanulata, Parkia clappertoniana, Ceiba pentandra, and Adansonia digitata. Observations are reported on the roosting characteristics of bats of the genus Epomophorus. The effect of feeding by bats on the fruits of various trees and the resulting dispersal of seeds on the coastal savannah-grassland, (Accra Plains) of Ghana, are discussed. The effect of introduced plants on the bat population and disadvantages to the West African ecosystem which are attributable to the plant and bat interactions are summarized.
10.2307/2394803|Views of several authors concerning the natural regeneration of the cerrado (Brazilian wooded savanna) are summarized. Except for one, all of them agree that seed germination and seedling growth are disturbed by the harsh environmental conditions that prevail in the savanna. Unfavorable factors that have to be taken into account are dryness at soil surface, rather long drought period, and, above all, fire. Vegetative reproduction, on the other hand, is pointed out by the same writers as the most common means of maintenance and spread of the cerrado; the extent to which the plants set offspring vegetatively seems to be closely related to the degree of disturbance wrought in the cerrado environment by the factors mentioned above. For the study reported in this paper, many plants were grown in Rio de Janeiro (rain forest) zone) and at Paraopeba (cerrado zone), and observed from seed germination. A number of mature trees were also kept under observation in a small cerrado stand located in the Botantical Garden of Rio de Janeiro. A large number of data dealing primarily with seedling development is tabulated, with special reference to the length attained by both the primary root and the shoot at various ages. Data are also included which elucidate the germination features. Evidence is presented which indicates that, up to an age of two years, no taproot succeeds in reaching a depth of lm. Thus the plantlets are forced to pass through 1-2 drought periods with their roots in the driest portion of the soil. It is recalled that in dry, sunny stations the cell walls are far more lignified and suberized in shoots and roots, and that the root cap cell walls are endowed with pectin, whose water-retaining ability is well-known. Accordingly, the suggestion is made that the real critical period in the establishment of seedlings in dry places is, as a matter of fact, the very early stages of development, when the cell wall devices have not had time yet to attain the necessary degree of completeness. It is suggested that many woody species peculiar to the cerrados would make their best growth if they received some additional water; this seems to mean that the seedlings would require favorable sites to become established in nature, where human disturbance and drought conditions are reduced to a minimum. However, this point must await fresh data from various sources. It has been verified that a number of seedlings can bear the destruction of either the primary root or the shoot; provided they are sufficiently watered, they soon remake the lost parts. Epigeal germination, which is mostly observed in trees, prevails largely over hypogeal germination; this in turn occurs primarily in undershrubs. A number of stowing tissues from underground tuberized organs were analysed for their water content; it ranged from 44 to 91% according to the ligneous or fleshly nature of the parts involved. The role of fire as a destructive agent for both seeds and seedlings is emphasized; insect larvae are also mentioned in this connection.
10.2307/2398789|Nine sections are currently recognized in the genus Fuchsia, consisting of approximately 100 species. Morphological and biogeographical evidence indicates a Paleogene origin of the genus in temperate South America, with two early lines diverging to New Zealand and North America. Within South America, sects. Quelusia and Kierschlegeria have remained in the southern part of the continent, while the two largest sections, Fuchsia and Hemsleyella, have developed in the tropical Andes.
10.2307/2992040|Chaetium (Poaceae: Panicoideae: Paniceae) is a neotropical genus of three species, ranging from Mexico and the Antilles to northern South America. The genus is mainly defined by having an oblique articulation of the spikelet, a hairy callus at the base of the spikelet, and a linear hilum on the caryopsis. Morphological and anatomical characters were considered in the present treatment; two anatomical patterns were found in the transverse section of the leaves. A cladistic analysis was carried out using 29 morphological characters; the results have shown that Chaetium forms a monophyletic clade, based on exomorphological and leaf anatomical data. A key to the species as well as an anatomical description of the genus and photomicrographs of the species, morphological description, illustrations, and a distribution map are presented.
10.2307/2666212|Whereas past ages of discovery have been associated with the exploration of new continents, the current episode is marked by exploration at smaller spatial scales and in more extreme habitats, some of which are surprisingly close at hand. This new age of discovery is richer and more illuminating by virtue of the attention being paid to phylogenetic relationships and geographic ranges. Although it is difficult to quantify progress in understanding the tree of life or biogeographic patterns, a series of examples illustrates that the magnitude and significance of recent discoveries are unquestionably great. Extraordinary discoveries provide an obvious, yet underutilized, mechanism to capture the imagination of the scientific community and the public at large.
10.2307/2398817|Dietes is a member of Iridaceae-Iridoideae and is probably the most primitive member of the Old World tribe Irideae. It shares characteristics of both Iris and the African genus Moraea and is most likely close to the ancestral stock that gave rise to these more specialized genera. Dietes comprises six species, five African and one remarkable disjunct on Lord Howe Island between Australia and New Zealand, D. robinsoniana. The South African D. bicolor appears more closely related to D. robinsoniana than to the other African species, and these two share several characters primitive in the genus. The remaining four African species include the wide-ranging D. iridioides, which extends from the southern Cape to Ethiopia, and three more localized eastern southern African species.
40982868|Hondurodendron C. Ulloa, Nickrent, Whitef. & D. Kelly, a new monotypic genus endemic to Honduras, is here described and illustrated. The new species, H. urceolatum C. Ulloa, Nickrent, Whitef. & D. Kelly, is a dioecious tree, distinguished by its minute flowers borne on densely tomentose inflorescences, unique anthers opening by three valves, and a characteristic fruit totally enveloped by the accrescent calyx, which projects beyond the fruit. A molecular analysis based on four genes (nuclear small subunit [SSU] ribosomal DNA [rDNA], chloroplast rbeL, matK, and aceD) placed this genus in a clade with Aptandra Miers, Harmandia Pierre ex Baill., Chaunochiton Benth., and Ongokea Pierre in the family Aptandraceae Miers. Se describe e ilustra un nuevo gnero monotpico Hondurodendron C. Ulloa, Nickrent, Whitef. & D. Kelly endmico de Honduras. La nueva especie H. urceolatum C. Ulloa, Nickrent, Whitef. & D. Kelly es un rbol dioico, que se distingue por las flores diminutas en inflorescencias densamente tomentosas, las anteras nicas que se abren por tres valvas y un fruto caracterstico totalmente encerrado por el cliz acrescente que se proyecta sobre ste. Un anlisis molecular con cuatro genes (SSU ADN ribosmico nuclear, rbcL del cloroplasto, matK y accD) ubica al gnero en un ciado junto con Aptandra Miers, Harmandia Pierre ex Baill., Chaunochiton Benth. y Ongokea Pierre en la familia Aptandraceae Miers.
10.2307/2399938|The difficult accessibility of the canopy of tropical rainforests is probably one of the main reasons why information about the nonvascular tree crown flora is scarce. In this paper full attention is paid to the epiphytic bryophytes and lichens of 59 bark type selected canopy trees, divided over 15 sites along an altitudinal transect ranging from 1,000 to 4,130 m in the Central Cordillera, Colombia. Species-area curves indicated that sampling at each investigated site (altitude) was adequate within the restrictions imposed by the sampling method. Ordination analysis revealed that altitude as a complex ecological factor explained most of the variation in the data. Alpha and beta diversity patterns along the gradient were different for mosses, liverworts, and macrolichens. As to liverworts, species richness reached its peak of approximately 100 taxa per altitude at a mid-altitudinal range from 2,550 m to 3,190 m. The distribution of individual taxa showed that the belt of greatest liverwort richness coincides with a contact transition zone. Several hypotheses (mass effect, ecological equivalency, and species overlap) predict highest species diversity at such a transition zone. All are based on the assumption that community composition results from between community interactions rather than from within community (niche) relationships. The validity of this presumption is further indicated by the low number of liverwort taxa (20.5%) exclusive to the belt of greatest richness, assuming that habitats are saturated. Species turnover appears greater for bryophytes on this tropical mountain than on temperate mountains in North America. The general increase in biomass of nonvascular canopy subsamples with altitude coincides with a rise in humidity.
10.2307/2399540|A brief taxonomic history of the fern genus Ctenitis is traced from its status as a subgenus of Dryopteris (Christensen, 1920) to its elevation to generic rank and the recent separation from it of Megalastrum and Triplophyllum. A key to the three genera is provided, and a comparison is made by the author of his treatment of species in Ctenitis s. lat. in The Ferns and Fern Allies of Guatemala with the same genus narrowly defined in Pteridophyta of Peru (in prep.). Traditional, as well as little used diagnostic features are listed, compared, and assessed, in an attempt to determine which will be the most reliable, in correlation with others, for ascertaining species relationships. These are employed in a preliminary analysis of the three remaining groups of Christensen's Ctenitis s. str. (ampla, hirta, submarginalis), and suggestions are made as to correlation of characters in future studies of the genus.
10.2307/2395120|A set of four criteria for defining the word "icones" is established: that the illustrations be full page in size; that they include some portrayal of the habit of growth of the plant; that they be botanically accurate; that they give aesthetic satisfaction. Each of the "icones" must fulfill each requirement in some degree, except in the plant portrayals of the 16th and 17th century herbals. The history of these cuts is traced throughout their oft-repeated use, and their exception to the general rule discussed in the light of their great botanical importance. Four genera of the Cucurbitaceae (Fevillea, Cucurbita, Lagenaria, Luffa) are chosen as limiting factors in the study, and illustrations of these plants available in the library of the Missouri Botanical Garden discussed in relation to the criteria previously set up. The study is concluded with a chronological index of "icones" of these key species.
10.2307/2399567|A key to the twenty-nine genera of Lauraceae naturally occurring in the western hemisphere is presented. The key is based on floral and vegetative characters only. A brief statement on distribution and size of the genera is provided, together with a note on cupule shape. A Spanish translation of the key is included.
10.2307/2399539|Studies on the pteridophytes of the Venezuelan Guayana have resulted in the description of the following 31 new species: Asplenium chimantae, A. cowanii (Aspleniaceae); Cyathea liesneri, C. neblinae, C. praeceps (Cyatheaceae); Sticherus tepuiensis (Gleicheniaceae); Ceradenia arthrothrix, C. microcystis, Grammitis liesneri, G. peritimundi, G. plicata, G. sinuosa (Grammitidaceae); Pleopeltis repanda (Polypodiaceae); Adiantum nudum, A. amazonicum, Doryopteris cyclophylla, D. davidsei (Pteridaceae); Selaginella albolineata, S. arrecta, S. beitelii, S. breweriana, S. cyclophylla, S. imbricans, S. marahuacae, S. neblinae, S. pubens, S. sobolifera, S. thysanophylla, S. velutina, S. versatilis (Selaginellaceae); Thelypteris peradenia (Thelypteridaceae). In addition, new combinations are made for the following six taxa: Salpichlaena lomarioidea (Blechnaceae); Cyathea macrosora var. reginae, C. macrosora var. vaupensis, C. thysanolepis, Grammitis blanchetii, and Sticherus tomentosus.
10.2307/2394932|Woody plants of 437 taxa in 177 genera and 74 families are presently verifiable as native, naturalized, or escaped in Alabama. The occurrence of six major physiographic provinces and a broad climatological range are contributing factors to the persistence of high floristic and vegetational diversity. Keys to the taxa and maps of the distributions of the plants are included.
10.2307/2399689|An additional 159 chromosome reports are provided for the tribe Eupatorieae with 13 new generic and 60 new species reports. Numbers now known include 94 of the 180 genera and over 450 of the more than 2,000 species. A primary base of x = 10 is confirmed for most of the subtribes, including the Adenostemmatinae (with first report of Sciadocephala), Eupatoriinae, Gyptidinae, most of the Ageratinae and Alomiinae, Liatrinae (with first report of Hartwrightia), Fleischmanniinae, Critoniinae, and Praxelinae. The occurrence of n = 9 is consistent for four additional species in Acritopappus of the Ageratinae, independent of that base number in the Brickellia group of the Alomiinae. Numerous reports are added for the Central American polyploid complex in Fleischmannia. Consistent higher base numbers of x = 16-25 are found in new reports for the subtribes Neomirandeinae, Mikaniinae, and Oxylobinae. Numbers of n = ca. 20-26 are noted in two species of Kaunea of the Oxylobinae with correction of one previous lower count erroneously credited to K. lasiophthalma. Distribution of the two bases, x = 10 and 16, in the Hebecliniinae are cited and problems in Bartlettina and the Critoniine genus Eupatoriastrum are discussed.
10.2307/2394960|The history of the New World tribe Coussareae (Coussarea Aubl. and Faramea) is discussed in detail. Included is a table of diagnostic characters separating the tribes Coussareae and Psychotrieae. Eight species of Coussarea found in Panama are presented together with a key to species including the newly described C. cerroazulensis Dwyer.
40389956|Nyssa yunnanensis W. Q. Yin ex H. N. Qin & Phengklai (Nyssaceae) is a critically endangered range-restricted tree species known from only three small populations in a tropical forest area of southern Yunnan Province, southwestern China. Two types of individuals occur, one bearing staminate flowers and the other with morphologically perfect flowers that produce both pollen and fruit, suggesting an androdioecious breeding system. Field and laboratory studies conducted between 2004 and 2007 indicate, however, that N. yunnanensis is functionally dioecious: pollen from the morphologically perfect flowers is inaperturate and inviable, rendering the trees that bear these flowers functionally female. Field observations showed that the staminate flowers opened 10 to 15 days earlier than the protogynous female flowers but that flowering ceased at nearly the same time in both sexes. Thirty-six species of insects were observed and collected visiting the flowers of N. yunnanensis, four of which served as effective pollinators. Breeding system experiments demonstrated that the predominantly entomophilous pollination system is supplemented by anemophily and further indicated that N. yunnanensis is xenogamous and does not appear to exhibit parthenogenesis. The average sex ratio of individuals within the three populations was female-biased (0.57: 1), but the ratio among flowers was male-biased (2.56: 1) because flower production was higher in males. The 37 known trees of N. yunnanensis are likely the remnants of a once more widespread, abundant species that has been heavily impacted by human disturbance, a fate shared with many other threatened Southeast Asian taxa whose continued survival will require dedicated conservation efforts informed by a detailed understanding of population structure and reproductive biology.
10.2307/2399563|This paper documents the extent of deforestation in western Ecuador and what is known about its effect on biodiversity. Maps are provided comparing the extent of relatively undisturbed forested areas in aboriginal times, 1958, and 1988. Patterns of floristic diversity and endemism are discussed in light of the massive deforestation, and evidence of extinction of plant species from four florula sites is provided. The naturally fragmented nature of much of the western Ecuadorian forest is discussed, both in terms of evolutionary effects and implications for long-term conservation.
3298517|Stenobasipteron wiedemanni, a long-proboscid nemestrinid fly, services a Guild of flowers distinct from the Prosoeca ganglbaueri pollination Guild in which it has previously been placed. The former fly is the recorded pollinator of 19 plant species in six families: the Acanthaceae, Balsaminaceae, Gesneriaceae, Iridaceae, Lamiaceae, and Orchidaceae. Stenobasipteron wiedemanni is a mainly forest-dwelling fly with a proboscis length of 19-30 mm. The plant species that are pollinated by this fly are also restricted to forest (or woodland) habitat along the eastern parts of southern Africa. The flowers of plants in this pollination Guild tend to have long, narrow nectaries and corollas in shades of purple, pink, mauve, pale blue, and white. Nectar is present in all species, pollination is diurnal, and most species have zygomorphic flowers with nectar guides. This pollination Guild is separated on the basis of the limitation of the fly, S. wiedemanni-and hence the plant species-to forest or closed-canopy habitat. Biogeographically, the S. wiedemanni Guild also occurs at lower altitudes in subtropical regions of southern Africa.
10.2307/2399474|Differences among the morphologically similar Prestoea, Euterpe, and Neonicholsonia are discussed. All species of Prestoea occurring in Central America are treated. Prestoea semispicata and P. integrifolia are described as new species. Prestoea allenii, P. darienensis, P. decurrens, P. roseospadix, P. sejuncta, and P. longipetiolata are characterized. E. brachyspatha, E. williamsii, and E. simiarum are placed in synonymy under P. longipetiolata. Euterpe simplicifrons is transferred to Prestoea. A key and illustrations are provided.
3298608|To determine the phylogenetic position of a newly discovered New Caledonian genus, Hooglandia McPherson & Lowry, maximum parsimony analyses were performed using molecular sequence data from Hooglandia and existing rbcL and trnL-F data sets. An initial analysis using an rbcL data set with a broad sampling of flowering plants strongly suggested a position for Hooglandia within Cunoniaceae, a relationship further confirmed by analyses of rbcL and trnL-F chloroplast data sets using a more focused sample of taxa from Oxalidales. The position of Hooglandia in Cunoniaceae is supported by its possessing interpetiolar stipules and starchy endosperm. This paper provides a rare example whereby molecular data were used to guide the familial placement of a newly discovered plant genus concomitant with its description.
10.2307/3298639|To elucidate relationships at deep levels within Saxifragaceae we analyzed phylogenetically a data set of sequences for six DNA regions, four representing the chloroplast genome (rbcL, matK, trnL-trnF, psbA-trnH) and two from the nuclear genome (ITS and expansion segments of the 26S rDNA). A total of 6676 bp was aligned per taxon, 4559 bp and 1878 bp from the chloroplast and nuclear genomes, respectively. Chloroplast and nuclear trees agreed closely, prompting analysis of a combined, six-gene data set. Application of both parsimony and maximum likelihood methods yielded similar topologies. The use of different ITS alignments and the exclusion of hard-to-align ITS regions had little impact on either the final nuclear-based topology, or the shortest trees from the analysis of six genes. The affinities of two monotypic genera (Saxifragella and Saxifragodes) endemic to Tierra del Fuego were elucidated. Saxifragella is an early branching member of the North Temperate genus Saxifraga s. str.; Saxifragodes is sister to Cascadia, a genus endemic to Oregon and Washington. Long-distance dispersal from east Asia or western North America to South America may have played an important role in forming these and other similar disjunctions in the family. A number of well-supported clades are present, including Saxifraga s. str., Micranthes, Saxifragopsis/Astilbe, Chrysosplenium/Peltoboykinia, and the Boykinia and Heuchera groups. The use of additional characters has provided greatly increased resolution and internal support at deep levels. Saxifragaceae comprise two major lineages: Saxifraga s. str. (including Saxifragella) and all other genera of the family (the heucheroids). This major split is accompanied by general biogeographical and morphological differences. Whereas Saxifraga s. str. is largely arctic to alpine in occurrence, the heucheroid clade is largely temperate in distribution. Saxifraga s. str. has a relatively uniform floral morphology (generally actinomorphic; 5 sepals, 5 petals, 10 stamens, 2 carpels), whereas the heucheroid clade encompasses actinomorphic and zygomorphic forms, as well as variation in the number of sepals, petals, stamens, and carpels. Deep-level relationships within both Saxifraga s. str. and the heucheroid clade are well resolved and supported. A phylogenetic classification of the family is provided.
10.2307/2395129|Two species of Polygala belonging to the Timutua of Blake are described as new. Polygala wurdackiana and P. jefensis are endemic, respectively, to isolated and extremely rich Panamanian cloud forests at El Valle de Anton in the Province of Cocle and to Cerro Jefe in the Province of Panama.
10.2307/2399650|Pollen grains of several selected genera of Melanthiaceae were observed with scanning and transmission electron microscopes. Helonias and Ypsilandra have the distinctive feature of the exine composed of an amorphous layer and spinules, which agrees well with Heloniopsis. Chionographis and Chamaelirium both have distinctive four-porate pollen grains with clavate exines. Japonolirion, endemic to Japan, has monosulcate grains with gemmate exines, clearly different from Tofieldia, which is characterized by disulcate grains with reticulate exines. Aletris shows a wide range of infrageneric variation in exine sculpture, perforate-foveolate, reticulate, and gemmate. Xerophyllum and Narthecium have monosulcate grains with reticulate exines; the two genera are distinguished by the size of the muri. Pollen of Metanarthecium has distinctive reticulate exine sculpture characterized by verrucate protrusions within lumina. The palynological data indicate that the Melanthiaceae consist of at least three heterogenous groups, among which Helonias, Heloniopsis, and Ypsilandra represent one group, and Chamaelirium and Chionographis another distinct group.
10.2307/2991998|Trifolium stoloniferum Muhl. ex Eaton (Fabaceae), a perennial, stoloniferous herb commonly known as running buffalo clover, once occurred over a large area in the Midwest (U.S.A.) but is currently restricted to five states-and is federally endangered. The purpose of this study was to examine genetic variation within and among populations of T. stoloniferum throughout its known geographic distribution using Random Amplified Polymorphic DNAs (RAPDs) as markers. The average within-population banding similarity values for 390 individuals from 21 populations are high, ranging from 0.920 to 0.984 (mean = 0.952). The mean banding similarities for comparisons between populations range from 0.856 to 0.902 (mean = 0.884), implying that much of the diversity resides among populations in this species. There are also differences in average similarities within and between patches at the population level, suggesting substructuring within populations. A large proportion of plants sampled within populations have different banding patterns, indicating that populations do not consist of one to several genets perpetuated vegetatively by stolons. Our results agree with those of previous workers using allozymes in showing relatively low levels of diversity within populations and in the species as a whole. However, in the present study RAPD-marker variation was detected in all populations, with levels of diversity in several smaller populations equal to those in larger ones; no allozyme variation was detected in half of the populations sampled, and smaller populations were often monomorphic. Two bands are unique to Missouri populations and one band was found only in Ohio populations. Allozyme data were used to suggest that conserving smaller populations could be of lower priority because they lack diversity; certain ones are identical to each other, and thus they may consist of single genets. By contrast, RAPDs show that even the smallest populations have a high proportion of different genets and thus are worthy of further consideration for conservation.
3298624|This article presents a preliminary systematic survey of 115 species from 56 genera (approximately 51% of the genera) of Araceae in which the pattern of petiolar collenchyma (or its absence) is described and classified. This feature appears very conservative within the genera, apparently not changing qualitatively with developmental or environmental conditions. Cross sections at the midpoint between petiole base and apex were mainly studied, but apical and basal sections were also observed in those genera where the collenchyma is absent at petiole midpoint. Three patterns are defined: (1) collenchyma absent at the midpoint between petiole base and apex; (2) a peripheral continuous or interrupted ring of collenchyma (philodendroid pattern); (3) rounded strands of collenchyma concentrically disposed and associated with peripheral vascular bundles (colocasioid pattern). No genera with bisexual flowers so far analyzed have collenchyma at petiole midpoints, although this usually occurs at apex and base. Monoecious genera can display all three patterns, but pattern 1 appears restricted to tribe Zamioculcadeae and the genus Anubias. The presence of a fully collenchymatous petiole seems to appear only in more derived genera in the Araceae: it may be an apomorphic feature within the family.
10.2307/2399368|Aquatic weeds are species that inhabit bodies of water in such quantities that they either interfere with man's usage or become a health hazard by serving as a breeding area for insects, especially mosquitoes. These plants are most often introduced species. They increase in numbers mostly by vegetative reproduction, including stem or leaf fragmentation, budding, or turion formation. For dioecious species in which only one sex occurs in an area, vegetative means are the only methods of reproduction. Monoecious species or species with perfect flowers often produce viable seeds, which usually are not important for increasing the population size, as they are deposited in large mats and do not get enough light or other requirements for germination. Some species that reproduce sexually, such as Eichhornia azurea, are self-sterile, but others, such as Eichhornia crassipes or Ottelia alismoides, are self-compatible. Ottelia alismoides, in fact, almost always is self-pollinated. Before the flowers open, the pollen tubes grow to the stigma from the anther. The flower eventually opens, but fertilization has already occurred. Pollination may be by insects (e.g., Hydrocharis morsus-ranae) or by wind (Potamogeton nodosus); or it takes place at the surface of water by contact between stigma and anther (Lagarosiphon), by airborne pollen (Hydrilla verticillata), or by water-borne pollen (Elodea canadensis); or pollination may occur underwater (Najas minor).
10.2307/2399809|Bignoniaceae include attractive ornamental flowering trees and lianas and produce hard and durable timbers, many pharmacologically active chemicals, various products used in local handicrafts, and even a few edible seeds and fruits. These uses are summarized here.
10.2307/2399550|Three new species of Aulonemia are described and illustrated, and comments on the generic limits of Aulonemia are included. Aulonemia longiaristata, an upper-montane forest species from Ecuador, has large, prominently aristate spikelets. Aulonemia pumila is a diminutive paramo species from Colombia, distinguished by its aristate glumes. Aulonemia robusta, of upper-montane forests and paramos in Venezuela and Colombia, has robust culms and large, ovate foliage leaves with well-developed fimbriae on the sheath apex and margin. The distribution of each species is mapped, and additional comments on related or similar species are included.
10.2307/2399574|The middle Pliocene Gatun Formation of central Panama consists of carbonaceous sandstones and siltstones preserving a pollen and spore flora of 110 recognized types. The most abundant are Operculodinium and Spiniferites (dinoflagellates), Alsophila, Pteris, monolete fern spores, Gramineae, Palmae, Casimiroa, Combretum/Terminalia, Eugenia/Myrcia, Faramea, Ilex, Malpighiaceae, and Rhizophora. These sort into 11 principal paleocommunities: shallow water marine community, mangrove swamp, floating/submerged fresh water aquatic community, lowland fresh water marsh community and fringing vegetation, and tropical wet, tropical moist, premontane wet, premontane moist, premontane rain, lower montane moist, and tropical dry forests. The primary differences between the middle Pliocene Gatun communities and older Eocene and lower Miocene vegetation are (1) increased biotic diversity, (2) the first appearance of substantial quantities of grass pollen (maximum 7.5%), (3) a more fully developed and extensive tropical dry forest, (4) increased physiographic diversity, (5) better representation of lower montane forests, and (6) possibly, the first indication of developing wetter Atlantic and drier Pacific provinces in southern Central America.
10.2307/2399007|The genus Zea consists of the world-wide cultigen, maize, and its wild and weedy relatives, the teosintes, native to Mexico, Guatemala, and Honduras. This study investigates the comparative morphology of the male inflorescence (tassel) from a large sample of teosinte populations and selected maize races. The reason for focusing on the tassel is simply that as an inedible structure it escaped the direct effects of those forces of human selection specifically aimed at its edible female counterpart, the maize ear. Thus, the tassel is the more appropriate morphological structure for comparing maize and teosinte from a taxonomic standpoint. Thirty-six populations of teosinte and four of maize were analyzed. Most of these were either collected from single localities in the field or grown from seed in a common garden near Homestead, Florida. Seventeen morphological traits of the tassel and spikelet were measured on all specimens. The measurements were subjected to canonical variate analysis, a multivariate statistical technique. Consideration of the results obtained in conjunction with cytological, biochemical, and genetic data in the literature led to the circumscription of the following taxa: I section Luxuriantes-(1) Zea diploperennis; (2) Zea perennis; (3) Zea luxurians; II section Zea-(4a) Zea mays ssp. mays; (4b) Zea mays ssp. mexicana; (4c) Zea mays ssp. parviglumis. The latter taxon contains vars. parviglumis and huehuetenangensis which, though morphologically similar, differ substantially by some genetic measures. Each taxon is described and illustrated with emphasis on the tassel and spikelet. The morphological data demonstrate that the annual teosintes are not intermediate between maize and Zea diploperennis, a fact which casts doubt on the recent hypothesis that these annuals represent the hybrid offspring of Zea diploperennis and a "hypothetical wild maize." Furthermore, the morphological-taxonomic evidence lends credence to the hypothesis that annual teosinte is the direct ancestor of maize; either Zea mays ssp. parviglumis or ssp. mexicana gave rise to cultivated maize.
10.2307/2399328|Alkaloids and steroids in the Solanaceae are reported extensively in the literature. By examining the biosynthetic routes leading to different alkaloids, the pathways can be visualized as a spiral from which the various compounds can be derived. Arrangement of the genera of Solanaceae according to their chemical contents in relationship to this spiral supports traditional classifications of the family, but the Anthocercidoideae and Atropoideae must be recognized as new subfamilies due to their biochemical synthesis syndromes. Similarly, Solaninae and Physalinae must be accepted as separate subtribes of tribe Solaneae because of their differing and exclusive steroid synthesis. Acnistus and Dunalia must be allied with Jaborosa in tribe Jaboroseae.
10.2307/2399267|The genera Phaeosphaerion and Commelinopsis are reunited with Commelina because they were separated solely by their indehiscent, conspicuous fruits. Showy fruits similar to those of Phaeosphaerion and Commelinopsis but dehiscent are reported in undescribed species of Commelina from Ecuador and Madagascar. The new combinations Commelina rufipes var. glabrata and Commelina mathewsii are made.
10.2307/2399722|Cosmibuena is distinguished by its epiphytic habit, interpetiolar stipules that are also partially fused intrapetiolarly, and salverform white corollas. Four species are recognized: C. grandiflora (Ruiz Lopez & Pavon) Rusby, C. macrocarpa (Bentham) Walpers, C. matudae (Standley) L. O. Williams, and C. valerii (Standley) C. M. Taylor, comb. nov. (= Hillia valerii Standley).
25488217|Nuclear DNA ITS and ETS sequences of 71 representatives from nine genera and 11 sections of the core Laureae were combined with a matrix of morphological characters, analyzed using maximum parsimony with both equally and successively weighted characters, and analyzed for Bayesian inference, minimum evolution by neighbor joining, and maximum likelihood inference for molecular data alone. The large genera Actinodaphne Nees, Lindera Thunb., and Litsea Lam. were polyphyletic, as were Lindera sect. Aperula (Blume) Benth. and Litsea sections Conodaphne (Blume) Benth. & Hook. f., Cylicodaphne (Nees) Hook. f., and Tomingodaphne (Blume) Hook. f. In contrast, Neolitsea (Benth.) Merr. was monophyletic and terminal in a larger monophyletic lineage above an Actinodaphne grade. A major disparity exists between these molecular results and traditional morphology-based classifications within Lauraceae. These results suggest that the use of two- versus four-celled anthers for Laureae generic delimitation has resulted in polyphyletic or paraphyletic genera, and the character of dimerous versus trimerous flowers is of only limited phylogenetic value. Several of the major lineages in Laureae are supported by inflorescence morphology and ontogeny, with Laureae defined by short shoots with a vegetative terminal bud, splitting into thyrsoid (Actinodaphne and Neolitsea) versus racemose (Laurus, Litsea s. str., and Lindera s. str. and Lindera sect. Aperula), although there appear to be at least two different pathways to form the Laureae pseudo-umbel. Similarly, imbricate, early deciduous inflorescence basal involucral bracts defined an Actinodaphne-Neolitsea-Parasassafras-Sinosassafras clade, although within it, Neolitsea was defined in part by decussate, persistent bracts. Accordingly, our study indicates the need for caution in the use of morphology for assessing affinity in Laureae, as virtually all traditional morphological characteristics show high levels of homoplasy and/or reversal, but future research may help to resolve whether this indicates problems of homology or ontogenetic convergence.
10.2307/2399066|Bergia suffruticosa Fenzl provided sufficient lower stem and upper stem material to compare wood and stem anatomy to those of putatively related families: Clusiaceae (including Hypericaceae), Frankeniaceae, Lythraceae, and Haloragaceae. Of these, only Clusiaceae proves close; resemblances to Bergia include presence of simple perforation plates, presence of tracheids as the imperforate tracheary element type, presence of vasicentric tracheids and fibriform vessel elements, predominance of uniseriate rays with some biseriates, vertical orientation of scalariform vessel-ray pitting, absence of intraxylary phloem, abundance of brownish compounds in parenchyma cells, and occurrence of druses and solitary crystals. Other features such as seed anatomy confirm the relationship of Elatinaceae and Clusiaceae. The presence and nature of vasicentric tracheids in Bergia suffruticosa and Clusiaceae prompts an examination of this cell type. Vascular tracheids are defined here as: (1) present in latewood only (except for some genera in which all wood is like latewood); (2) not always present near vessels; (3) characteristic mostly of drought-deciduous shrubs; (4) about the same length as vessel elements in any wood in which they occur; (5) with pits like those of the vessel elements; and (6) present in families so specialized that the imperforate tracheary element type is the libriform fiber (rarely the fibertracheid). Vasicentric tracheids, in contrast, are (1) distributed in earlywood as well as in latewood and can occur in diffuse porous; (2) always occur near vessels; (3) are wider, somewhat shorter, and more densely pitted than associated imperforate tracheary elements although they always bear pits like those of vessels; (4) may be associated with fiber-tracheids (with various types of pitting) or libriform fibers, depending on the species; and (5) occur in trees or shrubs that may be evergreen or winter-deciduous, but tend to be unlike the shrubs (predominantly from families in which herbaceous species are frequent or preponderant) in which vascular tracheids occur. Vascular tracheids as defined here do not have vestigial perforations; cells with such perforations are regarded as vessel elements by definition. Fibriform vessel elements (perforate but intermediate in size and shape between tracheids and wide vessel elements) have been reported in other groups, notably vines, where fibriform vessel elements may result from vessel dimorphism (lateral enlargement of narrow vessels preempted by the great widening of a few vessels). Fibriform vessel elements may also occur in some nonvining families, such as Hydrophyllaceae, however.
3298607| Hooglandia McPherson & Lowry (Cunoniaceae) is described from New Caledonia and recognized as distinct from other Cunoniaceae on the basis of its unique unicarpellate (or perhaps pseudomonomerous) gynoecium, and the combination of dioecy and drupaceous fruit, inter alia. The single species, H. ignambiensis, known only from primary rain forest on the upper slopes of Mt. Ignambi in northeastern New Caledonia, is assigned a provisional threat status of Critically Endangered. /// Description de Hooglandia McPherson & Lowry, nouveau genre de Cunoniaceae de Nouvelle-Caldonie se distinguant des autres membres de la famille par un gynce unicarpell (ventuellement pseudomonomre) et, inter alia, l'association de deux autres caractres: dioicie et fruit drupac. L'unique espce, H. ignambiensis, n'est connue que de la fort primaire dense humide des pentes suprieures du Mt. Ignambi, au nord est de la Nouvelle-Caldonie; le statut d'espce en Danger Critique lui est provisoirement attribu. 
40389933|Eight of the 81 recognized species in Echeandia Ortega (Anthericaceae) occur in South America. Four species occur in Venezuela and/or Colombia, one in Ecuador, and three in Peru. The five species in subgenus Echeandia are endemic to South America, as is one of the three species in subgenus Mscavea Cruden. The other two species in subgenus Mscavea occur in both South and Central America. As many as five of the eight species are narrow endemics and four may be quite rare. A comparison of the isotypes of E. ciliata (Kunth) Cruden with material from Colombia, Venezuela, and Peru provided evidence that the type gathering was made in Cajamarca, Peru, rather than Caracas, Venezuela, as indicated in Kunth's 1815 protologue. Echeandia denticulata Cruden is proposed as a new species to accommodate material from Colombia and Venezuela, which was heretofore included in E. ciliata. Two new combinations, E. herrerae (Killip) Cruden and E. weberbauen (Poelln.) Cruden, are made, and Anthericum glareosum Ravenna (= E. ciliata) and E. aequatoris Ravenna (= E. lehmannii (Baker) Marais & Reilly) are newly synonymized. A neotype for E. leucantha Klotzsch and a lectotype for E. ciliata are designated. Anthericum peruvianum Willd. ex Kunth is an illegitimate name.
10.2307/2399877|The chloroplast gene atpB was sequenced for seven genera of the Lardizabalaceae and three outgroup taxa to assess its utility as a source of phylogenetic information. The resulting phylogenetic tree was compared with trees based on 18S nuclear ribosomal DNA and rbcL (chloroplast DNA) sequences, as well as a combination of all data (atpB, 18S, and rbcL) for the same taxa. Sequence divergence values, statistics related to patterns of character transformation, and indices measuring homoplasy and branch support were also compared. The topology of the trees derived from atpB, 18S, and a combination of all three sequence data sets were largely congruent. All phylogenies, with the exception of the tree derived from rbcL data, supported the monophyly of the Lardizabalaceae. All indicators of nucleotide substitution rate suggest that rbcL is the least conserved, atpB is intermediate, and 18S is the most conserved of the three genes sequenced. Measures of homoplasy also indicate that the rbcL tree is less strongly supported than those based on atpB, 18S, or a combination of atpB, 18S, and rbcL sequence data.
10.2307/2399243|Passiflora macdougaliana and P. eueidipabulum are described from middle elevation wet habitats, bringing the number of species of Passifloraceae in Panama to 34. Both these species are of uncertain affinities in the genus Passiflora. One of the species is a new host plant record for the heliconiine butterfly Eueides lineata, and is also found in the peculiar low cloud forest on the Osa Peninsula in Costa Rica. The occurrence of new and unusual species in middle elevation Atlantic slope forests and the urgency of collecting in these forests are briefly discussed.
40035730|The historical biogeography of the tribe Sinningieae (Gesneriaceae) was analyzed based on distribution data and a molecular species-level phylogeny of 76 species. This plant group is distributed from Mexico to northern Argentina, but by far the highest diversity occurs within the Brazilian Atlantic forest. The dispersal-vicariance analysis method and a cladistic approach were used to infer ancestral areas as well as patterns of dispersal and vicariance. Results indicate that the Sinningieae probably arose in the coastal rain forest or in the neighboring tropical area delimited by the So Francisco river in Brazil. The majority of the dispersal-vicariance episodes were reconstructed between the Brazilian Atlantic rain forests and their neighboring inland areas (i.e., Paran and So Francisco regions). In contrast, few dispersal-vicariance events were reconstructed between the tropical and subtropical areas of the Atlantic rain forest and between the Paran and So Francisco regions. These results, together with ancestral areas inferred at the root of the main lineages, indicate an early north-south disjunction in Sinningieae. Occurrence of Sinningieae species in other areas, such as the Andes, the cerrado, Amazonia, northern South America, and Central America, are mainly explained by independent range expansions of single species from either the Paran or the So Francisco regions. According to the dispersal-vicariance optimization, 20% of the speciation events are subsequent to inter-area dispersal and range expansion, 23% are associated with inter-area vicariance, and 57% occurred at a lower geographical scale within a single biogeographic area. These results pinpoint the need for a phylogenetic framework to correctly understand area relationships and the relative contribution of dispersal and vicariance events in present-day distribution patterns. /// Se analiz la biogeografa histrica de la tribu Sinningieae (Gesneriaceae) sobre la base de datos de la distribucin y filogenia molecular al nivel de especie de 76 especies. Este grupo de plantas se distribuye desde Mxico hasta el norte de Argentina, pero la diversidad ms alta se encuentra en el bosque atlntico brasileo. Se usaron el mtodo de anlisis de dispersin-vicarianza y un acercamiento cladstico para inferir las reas ancestrales as como los patrones de dispersin y vicarianza. Los resultados indican que las Sinningieae surgieron probablemente en el bosque hmedo tropical costero o en el rea tropical vecina delimitada por el ro So Francisco en Brasil. Se reconstruyeron la mayora de los episodios de dispersin-vicarianza entre el bosque hmedo atlntico brasileo y sus reas interiores vecinas (i.e., regiones de Paran y de So Francisco). En contraste, se reconstruyeron pocos eventos de dispersin-vicarianza entre las reas tropicales y subtropicales del bosque hmedo atlntico y entre las regiones de Paran y de So Francisco. Estos resultados, junto con las reas ancestrales inferidas en la raz de los linajes principales, indican una temprana disyuncin norte-sur en Sinningieae. La presencia de especies de Sinningieae en otras reas tales como los Andes, los cerrados, la Amazonia, el norte de Amrica del Sur y Amrica Central se explica principalmente por expansiones independientes de la distribucin de especies individuales sea desde la regin de Paran o de So Francisco. Segn la optimizacin de la dispersin-vicarianza, el 20% de los acontecimientos de especiacin es subsecuente a la dispersin inter-rea y a la extensin de la distribucin, el 23% se asocia con vicarianza inter-rea, mientras que la mayora de los eventos de especiacin (el 57%) ocurrieron en una escala geogrfica ms baja dentro de una sola rea biogeogrfica. Estos resultados indican la necesidad de un marco filogentico para entender correctamente las relaciones del rea y la contribucin relativa de los eventos de dispersin y vicarianza en los actuales patrones de distribucin.
10.2307/2399279|Several features, foremost its conservative mode of evolution, make chloroplast DNA an extremely valuable molecule for phylogenetic studies. Its conservatism is also its only serious drawback, as this can limit the amount of useful DNA variation at the intraspecific level. Comparative restriction site mapping is currently the preferred molecular method for examining interspecific relationships. At this level, one typically encounters less than 5% homoplasy. Furthermore, the predominantly uniparental inheritance of chloroplast DNA provides unique insights into the origin of hybrid and polyploid complexes, as illustrated by examples from the genus Brassica. In many families of angiosperms, such as the Asteraceae and Orchidaceae, restriction site mapping can also be used to determine intergeneric relationships. The greater expense of DNA sequencing makes it most appropriate only at those higher taxonomic levels-above the family level-where restriction site mapping fails. Within angiosperms, the rbcL gene appears to be the chloroplast gene of choice for phylogenetic studies. Twenty-five rbcL sequences have already been accumulated, and several laboratories are making a coordinated effort to sequence this gene widely among angiosperms and gymnosperms. The more conservatively evolving ribosomal RNA genes hold the greatest promise for resolving the deepest branchings of plant evolution and, indeed, have already settled the ultimate question of chloroplast evolution, namely, its endosymbiotic origin. A third approach to extracting phylogenetic information from chloroplast DNA is by analyzing the distribution of major structural rearrangements, such as inversions and the loss or gain of genes and introns. Although such rearrangements are rare relative to point mutations, their great rarity and freedom from homoplasy also make them extremely powerful characters. Examples to be discussed include an inversion defining the most ancient branching in the Asteraceae, rearrangements that mark several major divisions within the Fabaceae, and events that identify the green algal ancestors of land plants.
10.2307/2395336|Moraea, with 24 species, is well represented in tropical Africa, although the center for the genus is to the south in the winter rainfall region of southern Africa. Nine species are described for the first time. (M. callista Goldbl., M. afro-orientale Goldbl., M. iringensis Goldbl., M. inyangani Goldbl., M. angolensis Goldbl., M. tanzanica Goldbl., M. upembana Goldbl., M. brevifolia Goldbl., M. balundana Goldbl.) Only two of the five subgenera of Moraea occur in tropical Africa, subgenus Vieusseuxia and subgenus Grandiflora, the latter in particular exhibiting considerable radiation in south central Africa. On the basis of limited knowledge of morphological and cytological variation patterns in tropical Africa, Moraea is believed to be of recent origin here. Details of ecology, cytology, and evolution are elaborated and compared to patterns in southern Africa.
10.2307/2399300|Matelea subg. Dictyanthus comprises thirteen currently known species ranging from northwestern Mexico to southern Nicaragua. One of the species is provided with a new combination, M. aenea, and five are described as new, M. eximia, M. hamata, M. lauta, M. macvaughiana, and M. suffruticosa. The synopsis provides descriptions and a key.
42703721|Despite the fundamental role plant science plays in addressing global environmental issues, a recent survey of nearly 1600 members of the botanical community in the United States revealed a severe shortage in the nation's botanical capacity or resource capabilities that support the advancement of plant science. The survey and a subsequent published report detailed shortages of botanists at government agencies, a wave of upcoming retirements, and an alarming decline in botanical degree programs and course offerings at the nation's colleges and universities. Private sector organizations are filling gaps in botanical capacity created by declines in academic and government sectors. While this survey was carried out in the United States, its results are internationally relevant and applicable. These declines occur as the need for botanical capacity increases globally to address important plant conservation needs. Recognizing the critical situation facing the world's flora, the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) adopted the Global Strategy for Plant Conservation (GSPC) to halt the continuing loss of plant diversity. Our results illustrate the necessity of working across public and private sectors to ensure that botanical capacity is valued, supported, and utilized to achieve all 16 targets of the GSPC by 2020.
10.2307/2399407|Four new taxa of Rubiaceae are described from Venezuela: Coccocypselum apurense, Faramea cazaderensis, Psychotria buntingii, and Psychotria subimbricata.
40035721|The Mahajanga Basin Project, initiated in 1993 and centered in Upper Cretaceous strata of northwestern Madagascar, has resulted in the discovery of some of the most complete, well-preserved, and significant specimens of Late Cretaceous vertebrate animals from the Southern Hemisphere and indeed the world. Among the most important finds are various specimens of crocodyliforms, non-avian dinosaurs, and mammals; these finds have the potential to provide key insights into the biogeographic and paleogeographic history of Gondwana. Madagascar has been physically isolated from Africa for over 160 million years and from all other major landmasses for more than 85 million years. The closest known relatives of many of the Late Cretaceous Malagasy taxa are penecontemporaneous forms from South America (primarily Argentina) and India, thus documenting a previously unrecognized high level of cosmopolitanism among Gondwanan vertebrates near the end of the Cretaceous. The family-level taxa that are shared among Madagascar, South America, and the Indian subcontinent are not known from penecontemporaneous horizons in mainland Africa, but it cannot yet be confidently determined if this is due to differential extinction, poor sampling, true absence (i.e., the taxa were never present on Africa), or some combination thereof. Nonetheless, currently available geologic and paleontologic data are most consistent with the Africa-first model, suggesting that Africa was the first of the major Gondwanan landmasses to be fully isolated prior to the Albian/Cenomanian boundary, and that its terrestrial vertebrate faunas became progressively more provincial during the Cretaceous, while those on other Gondwanan landmasses remained relatively cosmopolitan until the later stages of the Late Cretaceous. /// El proyecto de la cuenca de Mahajanga, iniciado en 1993 y centrado en los estratos del Cretcico superior en el noroeste de Madagascar, ha resultado en el descubrimiento de algunos de los especmenes ms completos, mejor preservados y ms significativos de animales vertebrados del Cretcico tardo del hemisferio sur y de hecho del mundo. Entre los hallazgos ms importantes son los varios especmenes de crocodiliformes, dinosaurios no-aviares y mamferos; estos hallazgos tienen el potencial de adentrarse en puntos claves en la historia biogeogrfica y paleogeogrfica de Gondwana. Madagascar ha estado fsicamente aislada de frica por ms de 160 millones de aos y del resto de masas importantes de tierra por ms de 85 millones de aos. Los parientes cercanos conocidos de muchos de los taxones malgaches del Cretcico tardo son formas penecontemporneas de Amrica del Sur (sobre todo de Argentina) y la India, documentando as un alto nivel cosmopolita previamente desconocido entre los vertebrados de Gondwana cerca del final del Cretcico, Los taxones al nivel de familia compartidos entre Madagascar, Amrica del Sur y el subcontinente Indio no se conocen de horizontes penecontemporneos de frica continental, pero todava no se puede determinar con certeza si esto se debe a extincin diferenciada, escaso muestreo, ausencia verdadera (i.e., los taxones nunca estuvieron presentes en frica), o una cierta combinacin de esos. No obstante, los datos geolgicos y paleontolgicos actualmente disponibles son los ms consistentes con el modelo de frica-primero, que sugiere que frica fue la primera de las masas importantes de tierra de Gondwana que estuvo aislada completamente antes del lmite del Albiano/Cenomaniano, y que su fauna de vertebrados terrestres se volvi progresivamente ms provincial durante el Cretcico mientras que aquellos en las masas terrestres de Gondwana permanecieron relativamente cosmopolitas hasta las fases finales del Cretcico tardo.
10.2307/2399251|Four new species of Rubiaceae are described from Venezuela: three from Territorio Federal Amazonas (Guettarda leiantha, Psychotria davidsae, Psychotria plowmanii), and one from Estado Zulia (Hillia zuliaensis). One variety is described from Estado Yaracuy (Psychotria aubletiana var. villipila). These new taxa have resulted from a joint project of exploration in Venezuela under a grant to the Missouri Botanical Garden by the National Science Foundation and to the Division of Biological Investigations, National Park Institute, Herbario Nacional of Caracas, Venezuela by CONICIT (Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Cientificas y Tecnologicas).
10.2307/2399280|The DNA sequences that code for the 17S, 5.8S, and 25S subunits of the ribosome have been useful in the study of plant evolutionary biology. The coding sequences are evolutionarily conservative and have provided information on systematic relationships among the species within a genus and have also elucidated higher level relationships. The intergenic spacer region of the sequence is highly variable, and variation occurs within populations and individuals. Analysis of intra- and interpopulation variation in rDNA has documented subdivision within populations of Clematis fremontii and population and subspecific differentiation in Phlox divaricata. These studies indicate that rDNA provides a good genetic marker for the study of microevolutionary processes.
40732240|This paper presents a phylogenetic analysis of Lamiaceae subfam. Lamioideae (including subfamily Pogostemonoideae) based on sequences of the trnL intron, trnL-trnF intergenic spacer, and rpsl6 intron of the plastid genome. It is the first analysis that includes all major lamioid and pogostemonoid genera. Monophyly of Lamioideae s. l. (i. e., including Pogostemonoideae) is strongly supported, with Cymaria Benth. as its sister group, and Pogostemonoideae, which sometimes has been recognized as a subfamily, is subsumed in Lamioideae. On the basis of the phylogenetic hypothesis, Lamioideae is divided into nine tribes. Three new tribes are established: Gomphostemmateae Scheen & Lindqvist, Phlomideae Mathiesen, and Leucadeae Scheen & Ryding. The other six tribes are: Pogostemoneae Briq., Synandreae Raf., Stachydeae Dumort., Leonureae Dumort., Lamieae Coss. & Germ., and Marrubieae Vis. The genus Betonica L. is reestablished. The results also strongly suggest that the genera Stachys L., Sideritis L., Ballota L., and Leucas R. Br. are polyphyletic or paraphyletic. The results were used to examine evolution of non-molecular characters.
10.2307/2399014|Based on 93 excursions from 1972-1980, 22 additional synanthropic species were discovered on the railroad network in St. Louis. Included were 13 new species and 3 new varieties for the flora of Missouri. In addition 37 taxa, native to Missouri but probably introduced into the St. Louis region, are discussed.
10.2307/2399575|Leaves of 42 species of Chloranthaceae representing all four genera (Sarcandra, Ascarina (including Ascarinopsis), Chloranthus, and Hedyosmum) were cleared and examined to determine infrageneric and interfamilial relationships. Descriptions for all four genera are provided. Fifteen characters were examined, including: tooth type, secondary vein type, intramarginal vein, and leaf rank. Secondary architecture includes craspedodromous, semicraspedodromous, brochidodromous, and eucamptodromous patterns. Existing fossil evidence and proposals based on comparisons of extant genera are not sufficient to polarize these character states. The teeth in the Chloranthaceae are quite variable and three major types are characterized here. The leaf architecture of the Chloranthaceae is compared with that of the Lauraceae and Annonaceae, and, although the Chloranthaceae share a number of features in common with these two families, other characters suggest an ancient separation.
10.2307/3298527|Over the past decade, mounting evidence has shown the pervasive and escalating harmful impacts of invasive alien species on native species and ecosystems. Thousands of non-native species are established in the United States and many more worldwide. Few areas appear immune to invasions, some of which unfold over decades to centuries as species' ranges slowly expand across the landscape. A plethora of ecological effects have been attributed to invasive species, and other global change processes and widespread habitat destruction will likely multiply these effects. Many conservationists now consider invasive species among the top threats to biological diversity and are grappling with identifying pragmatic, effective solutions. They know that the future will involve mixed assemblages of native and non-native species and have important questions about which invasive species to tackle and which ones to ignore, and even whether to deliberately introduce certain species for restoration. Addressing these issues will push hard against the limits of today's ecological knowledge and our ability to predict the long-term ecological consequences of such decisions. Better envisioning the conservation goals, though, could help to guide the science.
10.2307/2399984|Capsules with long pedicels, a thicker stem, wider leaves, and inflorescences borne on long leafless scapes confirm the current taxonomy that maintains Aristea alata separate from A. abyssinica and A. cognata. The two latter, however, are difficult to distinguish. Although some southern African plants referred to A. cognata are smaller than tropical African A. abyssinica, variation within and between populations suggests that smaller individuals are depauperate, due to local edaphic or seasonal conditions. I conclude that A. cognata and A. abyssinica are best treated as conspecific, and I do not recommend recognition of infraspecific taxa. Section Ancipites, to which these species belong, is probably heterogeneous, and the removal of A. nitida to section Cladocarpae is recommended. Three species of section Pseudaristea should also be added to section Cladocarpae. Lectotypes, lacking for sections Ancipites and Pseudaristea, are designated here. New collections of southern African A. singularis, only species of section Singulares, change our understanding of the species. It is probably not primitive in the genus, but appears specialized in growth form, inflorescence structure, seed morphology, and number of seeds per locule. The species is most likely related to, and perhaps nested within, section Aristea (= section Cyaneae Weim.). Original chromosome counts for seven species, five not before counted, confirm a base number of x = 16 for Aristea.
42703708|The flower-visiting records for the 43 species of bees considered to be native to New Caledonia show that females of 21 species visited 116 native species of plants in 69 genera and 41 families, and the bees were documented to carry pollen from 64 species and possibly four more. The plant families with the greatest number of species documented for visits by female bees were, in descending order: Myrtaceae (21), Dilleniaceae (10), Cunoniaceae (nine), Araliaceae (seven), Fabaceae (seven, encompassing the Caesalpinioideae, Mimosoideae, and Papilionoideae), Goodeniaceae (five), Proteaceae (five), Apocynaceae (four), Sapindaceae (four), and remaining families with one to three species. Females of six and possibly one more species carried pollen from each of Dilleniaceae and Myrtaceae, six carried pollen from Araliaceae, five from Goodeniaceae, four and possibly one more from Cunoniaceae, four from each of Fabaceae and Sapindaceae, and none to three from the remaining 34 families observed. For introduced plants, female bees of 12 species visited 54 species in 43 genera among 19 plant families and were documented to carry pollen from 31 and possibly one more species. For introduced plants, families with the highest number of species visited by female bees, in descending order, were: Asteraceae (12); Fabaceae (eight); Verbenaceae (seven); and Euphorbiaceae, Myrtaceae, and Solanaceae each with three. The remaining 13 families had either one or two species visited by bees. Females of seven species of bees carried pollen from Fabaceae, six from Asteraceae, three each from Myrtaceae and Solanaceae, and none to "2 + 1?" (two or possibly three) from remaining families. Only half a dozen species of native bees can be considered to be common, in that they can be expected to be observed reasonably regularly on a range of flowers. The ubiquitous introduced honey bee Apis mellifera L. and its constant foraging for nectar and pollen on a very wide range of flowers may outcompete many species of native bees, potentially reducing their numbers, and consequently obscuring their relationships with the flora.
10.2307/2394933|The New World members of Calycobolus are discussed in connection with C. lanulosus D. Austin, sp. nov., and C. nutans (Mocino & Sesse ex Choisy) D. Austin, comb. nov. Known ranges for the New World species are provided.
3298512|Since earlier investigations gave conflicting results, we re-examined the phylogeny of the Lauraceae with an enlarged data set from the trnK intron, including a higher number of critical taxa and a larger number of coding (matK) and non-coding sequence positions. The source of earlier conflicts was explored by using different algorithms (parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian inference), different taxon samples (by exclusion of one or two of the critical taxa), and different parts of the matrix (entire trnK intron, coding or non-coding positions only). The results suggest that (1) Bayesian inference (and in smaller data sets also maximum likelihood) yields results that are more consistent with the distribution of informative indels than the results of parsimony analyses, (2) the monotypic African genus Hypodaphnis is sister to all other Lauraceae, (3) Neocinnamomum is indeed close to Caryodaphnopsis, as morphology would suggest, and (4) the parasitic genus Cassytha is not sub-basal, as in our earlier analysis, but nested among the otherwise woody Lauraceae as sister group to a clade including all genera except Hypodaphnis and the Cryptocarya group.
10.2307/2395269| Many of the embryological characteristics that may be useful, when employed judiciously and in conjunction with other characters, in arriving at taxonomic conclusions are listed. Several characteristics that show a non-random distribution between families of the Magnoliatae and those of the Liliatae are discussed. Features which are more predominant in the monocotyledons than dicotyledons are: monocotyledonous type of development of the anther wall; amoeboid tapetum; successive cytokinesis of the microspore mother cells to form isobilateral tetrads; helobial endosperm development; and a single cotyledon in the mature embryo. In contrast, those characteristics that are more prevalent among dicot families than monocot families include: basic and dicotyledonous patterns of anther wall formation; simultaneous cytokinesis of microspore mother cells with the formation of tetrahedral tetrads; hemitropous, amphitropous, or circinotropous ovules; ovules with a single integument; an endothelium; Oenothera, Penaea, Peperomia, Plumbago, or Plumbagella types of megagametophyte development; cellular endosperm; and two cotyledons in the mature embryo. In spite of these differences, those characteristics that are most common--occurring in at least 70%, and usually more, of all angiosperms --are evenly distributed between the two classes and afford a strong embryological unity to the angiosperms. These widespread characters include: four microsporangia per anther; differentiated endothecium; two-celled pollen grains; bitegmic anatropous ovules; Polygonum type of megagametophyte development; and nuclear endosperm. Within the two classes distribution of the various characters is not always proportional among the several subclasses and superorders; for example, a unitegmic, tenuinucellate ovule with an endothelium, cellular endosperm with haustoria and Solanad embryogeny predominates in the Ericanae and Asteridae; or helobial endosperm is a distinctive feature of the Alismidae. On the whole, embryological characteristics are remarkably constant at the family level. In those families where variation does occur, genera are usually constant, although a few notable examples of intrageneric, and even intraspecific, variation do exist, as for example, in patterns of megagametophyte development. In addition to the taxonomic usefulness of the grosser aspects of embryology--the major categories of structure or development--some evidence is presented suggesting that variation in details within a single category, such as size, shape, and cellular characteristics of the developing and mature megagametophyte, may be helpful in determining relationships within families, genera, or species. 
10.2307/3298545|The primary goals of this study were to assess the generic limits and monophyly of Arabidopsis and to investigate its relationships to related taxa in the family Brassicaceae. Sequences of the internal transcribed spacer region (ITS-1 and ITS-2) of nuclear ribosomal DNA, including 5.8S rDNA, were used in maximum parsimony analyses to construct phylogenetic trees. An attempt was made to include all species currently or recently included in Arabidopsis, as well as species suggested to be close relatives. Our findings show that Arabidopsis, as traditionally recognized, is polyphyletic. The genus, as recircumscribed based on our results, (1) now includes species previously placed in Cardaminopsis and Hylandra as well as three species of Arabis and (2) excludes species now placed in Crucihimalaya, Beringia, Olimarabidopsis, Pseudoarabidopsis, and Ianhedgea.
10.2307/3298536|The forests on limestone in southern Yunnan, in tropical southwest China, were inventoried, and their floristic composition and biogeographical affinities are discussed. These limestone forests were characterized by phanerophytes making up ca. 78% of the total species and those with mesophyllous leaves comprising 75%. Ecological species groups based on their habitat preferences were discerned from field observations: the species exclusive to the limestone habitats make up 10% and the preferents make up ca. 12% of the total limestone flora. From these limestone forests, 1394 vascular plant species belonging to 640 genera and 153 families were recorded. Based on their distributions, 12 biogeographic elements at the generic level and nine at the specific level were recognized. About 90% of the seed plant genera (over 90% of the species) were tropical; furthermore, 35% of the seed plant genera (65% of the species) have tropical Asian affinities. In a comparison with other regional floras from southern China and tropical Asia, the limestone flora of southern Yunnan revealed closer affinity to tropical floras than to temperate elements of eastern Asian floras. This limestone flora is thus tropical and part of the tropical Asian flora at its northern margin.
10.2307/2399977|Plant/animal interaction is a well developed field of investigation in evolutionary ecology. Plant/people interactions have been less fully explored, yet warrant parallel investigation, incorporating ecological genetics, population ecology, chemical ecology, and community and landscape ecology. To illustrate the ways in which people and plants interact and how these affect their coevolution, I use my research on: wild and domesticated cassava (Manihot spp., Euphorbiaceae); wild and semidomesticated cocona (Solanum sessiliflorum, Solanaceae); Amuesha farming and forestry systems; campesino and natural forest management of non-timber forest products in the Rio San Juan basin, including population studies of ipecac (Cephaelis ipecacuanha, Rubiaceae); and conservation, from germplasm conservation to landscape planning. Interrelating socioeconomic and biophysical research-the reciprocal people/plant perspectives-needs further development.
10.2307/2399919|This paper evaluates the current floristic knowledge of Mexico based on numbers of botanical collections, herbaria, and floristic studies. Statistics reveal that the country has reached a collection index of 117, with approximately 2.3 million collections and 71 herbaria. Sixteen floras (3 concluded and 13 in process) cover 70% of the national territory. Species included in floristic studies represent 55% of the total reported for Mexico. Active programs of botanical collection are suggested in: (1) conifer-oak forests and deciduous tropical forests of the Pacific slopes; (2) the "Sierra Madre del Sur" and "Depresion del Balsas"; (3) areas of the North, where dry scrubby vegetation is present. Taxonomic studies of some of the most diverse groups distributed in the country, such as Rubiaceae, are still required.
10.2307/2399931|Ruellia comprises 23 species in southern South America, which display great diversification in flower and inflorescence morphology, presumably associated with a wide array of pollinators; this has resulted in the evolution of many different floral syndromes. It is suggested that this diversification could have evolved through heterochronic developmental changes associated with cleistogamy that produce morphological variation in flower form, selected by different types of pollinators. The generic limits of Ruellia are discussed in relation to this variation, and several generic names are considered synonyms, including Penstemonacanthus. Seven informal taxonomic groups of species are delimited: Chiloblechum, Dipteracanthus, Ebracteolati, Hygrophiloidei, Physiruellia, Ruellia, and Salpingacanthus. Within these, Ruellia magniflora is described as new, and more than 20 specific and subspecific names are treated as synonyms for the first time. Ruellia lanceolata is excluded from the genus and reduced to synonymy in Justicia. The species are described and illustrated, and keys to all the taxa are given.
40390047|The twribe Retiniphylleae and its single genus Retiniphyllum Bonpl. contains 22 species of shrubs and small trees that grow in white sand soils mostly in the Guayana Region of South America. The circumscription of the tribe is based on the diagnostic characteristic of two collatral and pendulous ovules per locule, a rare condition in the Rubiaceae. However, for the same reason, its placement within the family has been controversial. The monophyly and systematic position of the tribe Retiniphylleae and Retiniphyllum were tested based on a phylogenetic analysis of trnL-F and rps 16 sequence data. The results confirm the monophyly of the tribe and genus Retiniphyllum. The tribe is placed sister to the core members of the subfamily Ixoroideae s. str. The genera Botryarrhena Ducke and Scyphiphora C. F. Gaertn. are not related to the tribe Retiniphylleae, as formerly hypothesized.
10.2307/2666228|Hypoxis is a pantropical genus, with about 100 species worldwide. It is represented in Central Africa by 20 species, with 3 species in Rwanda, 5 in Burundi, and 19 in Congo-Kinshasa. This study considers morphology of vegetative and reproductive organs with emphasis on leaves, inflorescences, seeds, and indumentum. Morphology and anatomy of trichomes and other new data on taxonomically useful characters of Hypoxis in Central Africa are assessed.
10.2307/3298634|Among Apocynaceae the Periplocoideae are distinguished from the Secamonoideae and Asclepiadoideae by the presence of free tetrads or pollinia, which are shed onto spoon-shaped translators after anthesis. The Secamonoideae are distinguished from Asclepiadoideae by having four pollinia attached to a translator, rather than two pollinia as in Asclepiadoideae. In the Periplocoideae the exine consists of a tectum and a granular stratum. In Secamonoideae the exine consists of three layers: an outer tectum, subtended by a well-developed granular layer, which is followed by a foot layer. In the Asclepiadoideae the exine consists of a tectum (distal exine layer), a thin granular layer, and an inner foot layer.
10.2307/2394974|Two new species of Saurauia (S. pustulata and S. squamifructa) are reported among 22 recognized from Mexico and Central America. The species are divided into four taxonomic series based on the prominence of the tertiary veins of the leaves, the distribution of trichomes on the sepals and the pubescence of the ovary. Trichomes are recognized as useful for identifying species and a key to the various trichome types occurring in Saurauia is provided. The morphology of the versatile anthers of Saurauia is discussed. The dehiscence of the anthers is interpreted as basal and extrorse by rimiform pores. The similarities between Saurauia and the Ericales, especially the Clethraceae, are stressed. The revision and morphological studies are based upon the study of herbarium specimens from 11 important herbaria. These include most of the type specimens as well as most of the specimens annotated by Buscalioni in an earlier revision from 1912-1927.
40982876|This paper reviews monocot flower structure and gynoecium development and evaluates these data to clarify the evolutionary history of the monocot flower. Despite some congruence between molecular and morphological data regarding the delimitation and phylogenetic relationships of monocots, there is currently no universally accepted view on the morphology of the ancestral monocot flower, reflecting a high degree of parallelism in monocot floral evolution. We focus on two character suites that encompass the key features of monocot flowers: (1) the typical monocot groundplan of trimerous-pentacyclic flowers, and (2) a character suite related to carpel fusion, including postgenital fusion between carpels and the presence of septal nectaries. It is likely that the trimerous-pentacyclic flower represents a major synapomorphy of monocots; this flower groundplan is virtually absent from the closest relatives of monocots. Such close correlation of a particular groundplan with a phylogenetic group is analogous with the absence of the typical eudicot flower groundplan in basal eudicots, though in both instances the underlying constraints are obscure. In monocots, morphogenetic studies and analysis of character correlations lead us to favor a hypothesis that the ancestral monocot conditions were postgenital fusion between carpels and presence of septal (gynopleural) nectaries. This character-suite optimization contrasts with optimizations of individual morphological characters, which suggest that the ancestral monocot flower possessed congenitally united carpels (with no contribution of postgenital fusion) and lacked septal nectaries. Among extant early divergent monocots, flowers of Japonolirion Nakai (Petrosaviaceae s. l. or Japonoliriaceae, Petrosaviales) appear to most closely resemble those of the ancestral monocots. A gynoecium with free carpels represents a derived condition in monocots; it evolved independently in three unrelated groups (Triuridaceae, Arecaceae, Alismatales), with several gains of apocarpy in Alismatales and palms. All three monocot groups that include free-carpellate species show significant variation in their individual floral groundplans.
25488205|Trichocoleopsis S. Okamura and Neotrichocolea S. Hatt. are two water saccate liverwort genera endemic to East Asia whose systematic positions have been controversial. To address their phylogenetic positions and relationships within liverworts, two data sets were analyzed using maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood methods: (1) four genes (psbA, rps4, 26S, and nad5) of 57 taxa, and (2) nine genes (chloroplast small subunit [SSU], large subunit [LSU], atpB, rbcL, psbA, and rps4; nuclear ribosomal 18S and 26S; mitochondrial nad5) of 24 taxa. All of our analyses suggested the sister relationship between Trichocoleopsis and Neotrichocolea, which is also supported by morphological characters, such as a lobed leaf with ciliate margins, water sacs, coelocaules, and interior capsule wall cells with thin walls. Traditional classifications usually considered Trichocoleopsis and Neotrichocolea as members of Lepidolaenaceae or Trichocoleaceae, whereas our results strongly suggested that the Trichocoleopsis-Neotrichocolea clade allied with Ptilidiaceae, which is supported by the similar ciliate and lobed leaves. However, considering many differences between them, such as in the perianth, sporeling type, water sacs, and rhizoids, we support a family rank for the Neotrichocoleaceae, containing Trichocoleopsis and Neotrichocolea, as previously suggested by Inoue in 1974.
10.2307/2395066|Leaf-branch relationships and certain aspects of leaf ontogeny are described in representatives of 15 of the hymenophyllaceous genera (sens. Copeland). A series is discussed from leaves which are non-appendicular, i.e. which are direct continuations of stems, to others which are appendicular, i.e. which are bilateral and dorsiventral and different from stem apices from their inception. The results are discussed in a broader context of leaf determination and megaphyll phylogeny in the Filicales.
10.2307/2399726|Six varieties are recognized in Acacia caven (Leguminosae, Mimosoideae; Acacia subg. Acacia, subsection Polyseriae), based on herbarium studies of vegetative characters, population-level studies of fruit and seed characters, and a map of the species' distribution and morphological variation patterns in southern South America. Two new varieties are described. Ecological and evolutionary aspects of carpological variations are discussed, and a framework is established for further studies in this and related species.
10.2307/2394944|A discussion is presented of the pollen ultrastructure of 184 species from 11 Compositae tribes. For the Vernonieae, Astereae, Inuleae, Arctotideae, Mutisieae and Cichorieae the data represent an initial effort at defining the morphological parameters of these tribes. For the Heliantheae, Ambrosieae, Helenieae, Anthemideae and Senecioneae supplemental data obtained from current studies augment previous observations made for these tribes. Although ultrastructural characters are given primary emphasis, light microscope observations, particularly the analyses of sectioned pollen walls, are also included. The results of our work are discussed in relation to taxonomy and phylogeny within the Compositae.
10.2307/2399244|Among recent collections from Peru and adjacent regions are the six new species of Apocynaceae described here. A new combination is also proposed for the widespread plant previously known as Mandevilla velutina. The genus Pacouria is reported for the first time from Peru and the very unusual fruits of Allamanda weberbaueri described for the first time.
10.2307/2399892|A phylogenetic analysis of 39 species of the tribe Rubieae and of 15 taxa belonging to 12 other tribes of Rubiaceae has been performed using the DNA sequence of the chloroplast atpB-rbcL intergene region. The subfamily Rubioideae may be characterized as a monophylum, i.e., by a characteristic 204-bp deletion, shared by the representative tribes Coccocypseleae, Psychotrieae, Hedyotideae (paraphyletically linked to Spermacoceae), Anthospermeae, Theligoneae, and Paederieae, which, in this order, step-wise approach the advanced Rubieae. This tribe is clearly monophyletic and characterized by an additional 50-bp deletion. Five clades can be recognized within Rubieae, which mostly corroborate, but also partly contradict, traditional groupings (i.e., Galium and Asperula appear to be of polyphyletic origin); some of these results may have taxonomic implications.
3298606|Euphorbia subg. Lacanthis accounts for more than 70% of the Euphorbia species in Madagascar. These spiny succulent plants, with about 80 species endemic to the island, include E. milii ("Crown-of-Thorns"), which is popular in the worldwide horticultural trade. The genus was last revised by Boissier in 1862, and the taxonomy of the spiny succulents is currently much confused. Using DNA sequence data, phylogenetic relationships within subgenus Lacanthis are clarified and the diversification of Madagascan Euphorbia is examined. Maximum parsimony and Bayesian approaches are used to analyze ITS sequence data. The results confirm that some African taxa originally included in the subgenus comprise a distinct clade that is not closely related to the monophyletic Euphorbia subg. Lacanthis s. str., an exclusively Madagascan group whose basally branching lineages comprise species from northern and eastern Madagascar, whereas the more derived clades show a central and southern distribution. This suggests a northern Madagascan origin for subgenus Lacanthis, with species in the basally branching groups showing small spine-like stipular formations; other more recently derived spiny forms, such as E. milii, colonized the rest of the island, including the drier southern parts.
10.2307/3298564|A global strategy to conserve biodiversity must aim to protect representative examples of all of the world's ecosystems, as well as those areas that contain exceptional concentrations of species and endemics. Although lacking the richness of tropical forests, deserts, tropical lakes, and subpolar seas all contain distinct species, communities, and ecological phenomena. We analyzed global patterns of biodiversity to identify a set of the Earth's terrestrial, freshwater, and marine ecoregions that harbor exceptional biodiversity and are representative of its ecosystems. We placed each of the Earth's ecoregions within a system of 30 biomes and biogeographic realms to facilitate a representation analysis. Biodiversity features were compared among ecoregions to assess their irreplaceability or distinctiveness. These features included species richness, endemic species, unusual higher taxa, unusual ecological or evolutionary phenomena, and the global rarity of habitats. This process yielded 238 ecoregions-the Global 200-comprised of 142 terrestrial, 53 freshwater, and 43 marine priority ecoregions. Effective conservation in this set of ecoregions would help conserve the most outstanding and representative habitats for biodiversity on this planet.
10.2307/2399902|Although the proportion of "functional" DNA is eukaryotic genomes is both debatable and subject to definition, most sequences gathered for phylogenetic purposes are indisputably functional. For example, patterns of variation are likely to be strongly constrained in ribosomal RNA's because of their structural and catalytic roles in protein translation, and in protein-coding genes, because of protein function itself. Although seemingly obvious, these concerns are usually ignored by workers producing gene trees. We have examined the extent of functional constraints in land- plant rbcL sequences. Not only do rbcL sequences appear to change with essentially clocklike regularity, but nucleotide-based cladograms imply that approximately 97.5% of codon changes on internal branches are functionally neutral (i.e., synonymous or functionally labile). From this perspective, rbcL evolution appears to be strongly constrained by function. Transforming nucleotide data into ad hoc string recognitions alters the size of the unit character sufficiently to highlight "blocks" of conservative information that may or may not be functionally constrained. Simultaneous cladistic analysis of all available evidence will highlight the proportion of congruent information, despite diverse functional constraints among the characters analyzed. We demonstrate the strength of this approach using different forms of the same rbcL evidence (i.e., nucleotides, strings, or amino acids) in combination with the seed-plant data of Nixon et al.
40035767|A revision of the genus Roldana La Llave (Asteraceae: Senecioneae) is given, including a key to species and complete nomenclature with synonymies, description, distribution, and discussion sections for 48 species; eight varieties are recognized and 11 new combinations are made, including one species transfer to the genus Psacaliopsis H. Rob. & Brettell. A phytogeography section for the genus, which is distributed throughout the highlands of Mexico and Central America, with one species entering the southwestern-most U.S.A., is also included. New combinations are established for R. acutangula (Bertol.) Funston, R. aliena (B. L. Rob. & Seaton) Funston, R. hartwegii var. carlomasonii (B. L. Turner & T. M. Barkley) Funston, R. hartwegii var. durangensis (H. Rob. & Brettell) Funston, R. hartwegii var. subcymosa (H. Rob.) Funston, R. kerberi var. calzadana (B. L. Turner) Funston, R. kerberi var. manantlanensis (R. R. Kowal) Funston, R. petasitis var. cristobalensis (Greenm.) Funston, R. petasitis var. oaxacana (Hemsl.) Funston, R. petasitis var. sartorii (Sch. Bip. ex Hemsl.) Funston, as well as for the excluded taxon P. pinetorum (Hemsl.) Funston & Villaseor. Neotypes are designated for Cineraria platanifolia Schrank, R. ehrenbergiana (Klatt) H. Rob. & Brettell, R. lobata La Llave, R. petasitis (Sims) H. Rob. & Brettell, Senecio acerifolius K. Koch, S. canicidus Sess & Moc., and S. prainianus A. Berger. Lectotypes are designated for Cacalia nutans Sess & Moc., C. peltata Sess & Moc., P. pinetorum, R. albonervia (Greenm.) H. Rob. & Brettell, R. aschenborniana (S. Schauer) H. Rob. & Brettell, R. gilgii (Greenm.) H. Rob. & Brettell, R. heracleifolia (Hemsl.) H. Rob. & Brettell, R. heterogama (Benth.) H. Rob. & Brettell, R. kerberi (Greenm.) H. Rob. & Brettell, R. langlassei (Greenm.) H. Rob. & Brettell, R. lanicaulis (Greenm.) H. Rob. & Brettell, R. petasitis var. cristobalensis, R. petasitis var. sartorii, S. brachyanthus Greenm., S. chapalensis var. areolatus Greenm., S. chrismarii Greenm., S. ghiesbreghtii Regel var. pauciflorus J. M. Coult., S. grandifolius Loes. var. glabrior Hemsl., S. hederoides Greenm., S. hypomalacus Greenm., S. lobatus Sess & Moc., S. macrobotrys Hemsl., S. rotundifolius Sess & Moc., and S. schumannianus S. Schauer.
10.2307/2394943|Pollen morphology of the Pyrolaceae and Monotropaceae reinforces the view that the Pyrolaceae and Ericaceae are closely related and that the Monotropaceae should be treated as a distinct family. It further supports the separation of Moneses uniflora and Orthilia secunda from the genus Pyrola, and in the Monotropaceae it suggests a realignment of species within the Hypopitys-Monotropa complex.
10.2307/2399293|Polygonanthus is reported here to have a Polygonum-type embryo sac, like Anisophyllea but unlike Combretocarpus (with an Allium-type embryo sac). This, together with the results of comparisons of other embyrological character states reported earlier, indicates an isolated position for Combretocarpus within the family Anisophylleaceae. On the basis of the available embryological data, we suggest that Anisophylleaceae appear to be distinct from both Rosales sensu stricto and Saxifragales. The family shares many embryological features with Myrtales and may be regarded, at least for the time being, as constituting a distinct order in that phylogenetic lineage.
10.2307/2399801|This is the first published revision of Anthurium sect. Pachyneurium since that of Engler in 1905. Section Pachyneurium is one of 19 sections (all but one of which were treated by Engler, 1905, in his revision of Anthurium). The section consists of 114 species representing 126 taxa in two series, series Pachyneurium Schott, and the new series Multinervia Croat, with 110 and 16 taxa respectively. Forty-eight taxa (including nine subspecies of varieties) are described as new.
10.2307/2399738|Clustering analysis, Principal Component Analysis (PCA), and Minimum Spanning Tree (PRIM) were used to define three taxa of Brunellia: B. antioquensis (Cuatrec.) Cuatrec., B. comocladifolia Humb. & Bonpl., and B. sibundoya Cuatrec. The subspecies were studied also. Seventeen OTUs represented the three taxa, and 32 morphological characters were sampled for all OTUs. Two species, B. comocladifolia and B. sibundoya, and four subspecies instead of six were recognized. The two species are localized at different elevations. Diagnostic characters at the specific level are related to the seed shape, indumentum of follicles and stipule number. The infraspecific variation is related to the number of lobules of the calyx and the number of carpels and is associated with variation in humidity. As a result of the phenetic study, B. antioquensis is considered a subspecies of B. sibundoya; B. comocladifolia subsp. boyacensis is a synonym of subsp. cundinamarcensis; and B. sibundoya subsp. sebastopola is synonymous with B. sibundoya subsp. sibundoya. The pollen structure of the exine, studied using a scanning electron microscope (SEM), shows infraspecific variation also. The subspecies are found in different geographic areas, and these areas are correlated with four different character combinations. The chromosome number, 2n = 28, is reported for the first time for B. comocladifolia Humb. & Bonpl. subsp. cundinamarcensis Cuatrec. and B. sibundoya Cuatrec. subsp. sibundoya.
10.2307/3298534|The genus Doronicum (Asteraceae: Senecioneae) comprises perennial herbs distributed in Europe, North Africa, and Asia. A worldwide revision of the genus recognizing 26 species and 4 subspecies is presented. In the present taxonomic treatment no infrageneric groups are recognized. Seven names are newly lectotypified herein: Arnica doronicum Jacq., Doronicum caucasicum M. Bieb., Doronicum portae Chabert, Doronicum scorpioides Lam., Doronicum souliei Cavill., Doronicum thibetanum Cavill., and Doronicum turkestanicum Cavill. A new chromosome count is provided for D. carpetanum subsp. diazii.
10.2307/2394915|Five American species of aroids are described as new to science: Philodendron barrosoanum, P. dressleri, P. frits-wentii, and P. grazielae, and Caladiopsis dodsonii. One species is transferred to the appropriate genus on the basis of recently collected flowering material, and the new combination, Epipremnum aureum (Linden & Andre) Bunt., is made. George S. Bunting, Bailey Hortorium, Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y.
40982873|The recycling of transpired water is well known to be an important source of rainfall, particularly in the tropics, and angiosperme have transpiration capacities higher than any other plants throughout evolutionary history. Thus, the evolution and rise to ecological dominance of flowering plants are proposed to have strongly altered climate. Transpiration capacity is closely correlated with leaf vein density, and the average vein density of angiosperm leaves is four times greater than that of all other plants, living or extinct. A rapid transition to high vein densities occurred separately in three or more flowering plant lineages about 100 million years ago. Climate modeling of the impact of this physiological revolution indicates that the tropics would be hotter, drier, and more seasonal in the absence of the angiosperms, and the overall area of tropical rainforest would decline substantially. Because angiosperm diversity is influenced by rainforest area and by precipitation abundance and evenness, the high diversity of angiosperms is partially a product of a positive feedback loop with the climate modifications initiated by the angiosperms themselves. Lineage diversifications among vertebrate and invertebrate animals and nonangiospermous plants in the wake of the angiosperm radiation may be tied to the unprecedented impact of angiosperms on climate. El reciclaje de agua transpirada es bien conocida por ser una importante fuente de precipitaciones, especialmente en el trpico, y los angiospermas tienen la capacidad de transpiracin ms alta de la historia evolutiva. Por consiguiente, se propone que la evolucin y el ascenso de angiospermas a una posicin de dominancia ecolgica ha alterado fuertemente el clima. La capacidad de transpiracin est estrechamente relacionada con la densidad vascular de las hojas y la densidad vascular media de las hojas angiosprmicas es cuatro veces mayor que del resto de plantas, vivas o extinguidas. Hace unos 100 millones de aos tuvo lugar, de forma separada, una rpida transicin hacia altas densidades vasculares en tres o ms linajes de angiospermas. La modelizacin climtica del impacto de esta revolucin fisiolgica indica que los trpicos seran ms calientes, secos, y ms estacionales sin los angiospermas, con una consiguiente reduccin sustancial de las reas de selva lluviosa. La gran diversidad de angiospermas es, parcialmente, un producto de las modificaciones climticas iniciadas por los propios angiospermas, debido a que la diversidad de angiospermas es facilitada por el rea de selva lluviosa y por la abundancia y regularidad de precipitaciones. La diversificacin de un nmero significativo de linajes entre animales vertebrados e invertebrados y plantas no angiosprmicas en pos de la radiacin angiosprmica podra ser el resultado del impacto sin precedentes de los angiospermas sobre el clima.
10.2307/2399876|Data from the chloroplast genes rbcL and ndhF, totaling more than 3500 base pairs of DNA sequence, were used to examine the monophyly of the Scrophulariaceae, including several groups that have been suggested to belong to or to be derived from the Scrophulariaceae. Thirty-two taxa representing the Lamiales s.l. and outgroups were sampled and each of the sets of gene sequences was analyzed separately and in combination. Results indicate that two distinct clades composed of elements of the traditional Scrophulariaceae exist and that a monophyletic Scrophulariaceae, even one liberally circumscribed to include several small families, cannot be supported by these data. One group, designated "scroph I," includes Verbascum, Celsia, Selago, Scrophularia, Buddleja, and Nicodemia. A second group, "scroph II," includes Antirrhinum, Digitalis, Veronica, and the Plantaginaceae, Callitrichaceae, and Hippuridaceae. Schlegelia and Paulownia, often assigned either to the Scrophulariaceae or Bignoniaceae, do not appear with either family.
10.2307/2399294|Eight new species from the trans-Andean parts of Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru are described, each in a different family. The new species are: Bonamia leonii (Convolvulaceae), Prockia pentamera (Flacourtiaceae), Marila parviflora (Guttiferae), Lozania glabrata (Lacistemataceae), Rouchera monsalveae (Linaceae), Carapa megistocarpa (Meliaceae), Desmoncus cirrhifera (Palmae), and Allophylus dodsonii (Sapindaceae). In addition, a new combination for Albizia paucipinnata-Pithecellobium paucipinnatum-is proposed.
10.2307/2395329|The capacity to view recent data in proper relation to other information, or the ability to correctly judge the significance of facts and ideas, requires a knowledge of both the past mistakes and the forward strides within a discipline. This paper is intended to help the reader formulate perspectives concerning 65 years of plant serotaxonomic research. The discovery that the immune reaction was only relatively specific and that the degree of cross-reactivity was essentially proportional to the degree of relationships between organisms had important implications for comparative systematic serology. It is the specific reactions, between determinants and antideterminants, which provide a measurement of protein similarities. The comparison of protein mixtures, rather than purified single proteins, has dominated taxonomic research because such an approach provides serological overall similarity, and thus a multicharacter comparison. The "antisystematic" reactions have recently been shown to result from variation in the systematic ranges of determinants; and the absorption (presaturation) technique for removing common determinants increases the accuracy of serological placements. The following items were evaluated: antigenic preparations, adjuvants, injection procedures, single versus mixed protein extractions, kind of plant tissue extracted, and the interference of secondary compounds. Cornus canadensis and C. suecica were found to be serologically very similar. The tested species of the genus Cornus were divided into three distinct serological groupings. The serological data support the separation of the Cornaceae and Nyssaceae; and the inclusion of Camptotheca and Nyssa in the Nyssoideae, and Davidia in the Davidioideae, both of the family Nyssaceae. Nyssa biflora and N. sylvatica were serologically very similar; N. ogeche and N. aquatica were serologically distinct from each other and from N. biflora and N. sylvatica. Nyssa ogeche was the most distinct species of the genus. Corokia cotoneaster had very little serological similarity with any of the tested species of the Cornales.
10.2307/2398820|The Flora of Panama Sapotaceae treatment by Blackwell is updated. Pouteria congestifolia Pilz and P. leptopedicellata Pilz are newly described and the combination Pouteria buenaventurensis (Aubr.) Pilz is made. As now revised, the Panamanian flora includes 44 species in 11 genera, an increase from the 24 species in 6 genera known to Blackwell. This revision is based on collections made in the past decade.
10.2307/2398981|The distribution patterns of seven different arthropod taxa representing eleven individual monophyletic lineages with representatives in eastern North America, Europe, and northeastern Asia were analyzed. Taxon cladograms representing relationships among taxa were converted to area cladograms representing relationships among areas. Nine of the area cladograms were found to represent one congruent repetitive distribution pattern. The two remaining cladograms represented two additional independent distribution patterns. The distribution patterns were correlated with geological events that have alternately divided and reunited the principal land areas during the past 180 million years.
41238119|A taxonomic revision of the genus Gouania Jacq. (Rhamnaceae) is presented for Madagascar and the other western Indian Ocean islands. Seventeen species are recognized, of which nine are described and published as new (all endemic to Madagascar): G. ambrensis Buerki, Phillipson & Callm., G. callmanderi Buerki, G. cupreifolia Buerki, Phillipson & Callm., G. cupuliflora Buerki, Phillipson & Callm., G. gautieri Buerki, Phillipson & Callm., G. perrieri Buerki, Phillipson & Callm., G. phillipsonii Buerki, G. taolagnarensis Buerki, Phillipson & Callm., and G. zebrifolia Buerki, Phillipson & Callm. Sixteen species occur in Madagascar, of which 13 are endemic and three are common to Madagascar and one or more of the smaller Indian Ocean islands. The latter include G. laxiflora Tul., a species which is also present on mainland Africa. One species, G. mauritiana Lam., is endemic to Runion Island. We recognize two subspecies within G. scandens (Gaertn.) R. B. Drumm.: G. scandens subsp. scandens and G. scandens subsp. glandulosa (Boivin ex Tul.) Buerki, Phillipson & Callm., the latter transferred from G. glandulosa Boivin ex Tul. Past confusion about the identity of this species is discussed. Five names are lectotypified: G. aphrodes Tul., G. glandulosa [= G. scandens subsp. glandulosa], G. laxiflora, G. lineala Tul., and G. tiliifolia Lam. Both lectotype and epitype are designated for G. mauritiana. Conservation assessments are provided for all species within their primary areas of occurrence.
10.2307/2400002|The neotropical rainforest tree Dialypetalanthus fuscescens Kuhlm. is the only species of the Dialypetalanthaceae. In-depth morphological and anatomical documentation is presented, including newly recorded features such as indeterminate inflorescences, anthers with calcium oxalate packages, silica bodies in the wood, U-shaped placentas and dendritic hairs, and corrections of erroneous literature observations, e.g., on supposed stipular dimorphism. The genus is heterobathmic, combining advanced gynoecial characters with such primitive features as free petals, dimery, stipules, and (here postulated) cantharophily. In the past, Dialypetalanthus was most frequently suggested to be related to Myrtales or Gentianales. However, because of the lack of bicollateral vascular bundles, presence of well-developed stipules, paracytic stomata, obvious endosperm and unitegmic ovules, seed-coat structure, and gynoecial origin of the disk, a close relationship with the Myrtales is unlikely. An affinity with the Gentianales, the Rubiaceae in particular, is accepted instead. It is concluded that ontogenetic and micro- and macromolecular data are much needed for a further elucidation of the relationships of Dialypetalanthus.
40035745|To elucidate deeper relationships within Rauvolfioideae (Apocynaceae), a phylogenetic analysis was conducted using sequences from five DNA regions of the chloroplast genome (matK, rbcL, rpl16 intron, rps16 intron, and 3' trnK intron), as well as morphology. Bayesian and parsimony analyses were performed on sequences from 50 taxa of Rauvolfioideae and 16 taxa from Apocynoideae. Neither subfamily is monophyletic, Rauvolfioideae because it is a grade and Apocynoideae because the subfamilies Periplocoideae, Secamonoideae, and Asclepiadoideae nest within it. In addition, three of the nine currently recognized tribes of Rauvolfioideae (Alstonieae, Melodineae, and Vinceae) are polyphyletic. We discuss morphological characters and identify pervasive homoplasy, particularly among fruit and seed characters previously used to delimit tribes in Rauvolfioideae, as the major source of incongruence between traditional classifications and our phylogenetic results. Based on our phylogeny, simple style-heads, syncarpous ovaries, indehiscent fruits, and winged seeds have evolved in parallel numerous times. A revised classification is offered for the subfamily, its tribes, and inclusive genera.
10.2307/2399471|Pollen of 67 species of the five genera of the Columnea alliance (Gesneriaceae: Gesnerioideae) was examined to assess its value in generic classifications. Several distinct groups of pollen can be recognized by pollen shape, pattern of exine sculpturing, and shape and size of the colpus. Columnea sensu stricto has a peculiar pollen type supporting its treatment as distinct from the other four genera of the alliance. Bucinellina is also distinct from the other genera, and its status as a genus is likewise supported. Pollen structure does not confirm the distinctiveness of Trichantha, Pentadenia, and Dalbergaria and may be used better at the sectional rather than the generic level.
40389940|Geological events of biological importance in the history of the Andes include their impact on global climates through an influence on atmospheric circulation, rainfall patterns, and the atmospheric concentration of CO habitat diversification from lowlands through pramo to glaciated peaks; and migratory pathways ranging from discontinuous (mesic elements), highly discontinuous (pramo elements), barriers (to east-west migrations), to selective pathways (via the dry Andean valleys). The timing of these effects is a function of the uplift history of three (to nine) morphotectonic segments of the Andes resulting in (1) mostly lowland swamp and fluvial environments in the Cretaceous and Paleocene, (2) moderate uplands beginning in the Late Eocene (ca. 40 million years ago [Ma]), (3) appression of an offshore volcanic chain (the proto-Cordillera Occidental) in the Oligocene (ca. 30 Ma), (4) uplift of the proto-Cordillera Oriental and the Altiplano to about half their present altitude by the Middle Miocene (ca. 15 Ma), and (5) uplift of the remaining half within approximately the past 10 million years. The early appearance of a biological community recognizable as the Atacama Desert is estimated at ca. 15 Ma, and the beginnings of a pramo at ca. 3.5 Ma. Longer-term (Milankovitch) and shorter-term (Younger Dryas, Medieval warm/dry period, Little Ice Age, Heinrich, and Dansgaard-Oeschger [D-O]) climatic events, known initially from the high latitudes, are now widely recognized throughout Latin America, including the Andes. They document a dynamic physical environment from the Cretaceous through the Holocene and on all timescales.
40035050|The new outline of relationships in basal branches of the family Compositae Giseke confirms that the sister group to the tribe Cardueae Cass. are not Mutisieae Cass., but rather a group of African genera now classified as the tribe Tarchonantheae Kostel. This change implies that the monophyly of the Cardueae must be reassessed on a molecular basis. Moreover, new collections in recent years allow us to extend our sampling to 70 of the 74 genera of the tribe. We performed a new molecular study of the tribe using one nuclear region (ITS) and two chloroplastic markers (trnL-trnF and matK) in addition to a more appropriate outgroup. Our results confirm that the Cardueae is a natural group but indicate some changes in subtribal delineation: the subtribe Cardopatiinae Less. is recognized and some genera are moved to other subtribes (Myopordon Boiss., Nikitinia Iljin, Syreitschikovia Pavlov, and the Xeranthemum L. group). A recapitulation of a number of interesting questions that remain unresolved in the classification of some large genera is presented. /// El nuevo esquema de las relaciones en las ramas basales de la familia Compositae Giseke ha confirmado que el grupo hermano de la tribu Cardueae Cass. no es la tribu Mutisieae Cass., sino ms bien un grupo de gneros africanos que ahora se clasifican como tribu Tarchonantheae Kostel. Este cambio implica que la monofilia de las Cardueae establecida sobre bases moleculares debe confirmarse. Adems, nuestras nuevas recolecciones en los ltimos aos hacen que nuestro muestreo se extienda a 70 de los 74 gneros de la tribu. Hemos llevado a cabo un nuevo estudio molecular de la tribu usando una regin nuclear (ITS) y dos cloroplsticas, adems de seleccionar un grupo externo ms adecuado. Nuestros resultados confirman que las Cardueae son un grupo natural, pero aconsejan algunos cambios en la delimitacin subtribal: el reconocimiento de la subtribu Cardopatiinae Less. y el cambio de algunos gneros a otras subtribus (Myopordon Boiss., Nikitinia Iljin, Syreitschikovia Pavlov y el grupo Xeranthemum L.). Presentamos tambin una recapitulacin sobre ciertas cuestiones interesantes que quedan sin resolver en la clasificacin de algunos grandes gneros.
10.2307/3298594|Gochnatia is one of the largest genera of the tribe Mutisieae (Asteraceae) and has been traditionally characterized by its homogamous capitula with isomorphic corollas. A morphological study of Gochnatia and associated genera, i.e., Actinoseris, Chucoa, Cnicothamnus, Cyclolepis, Hyalis, Ianthopappus, Nouelia, Pleiotaxis, and Wunderlichia, was carried out to evaluate the circumscription of Gochnatia and its sections, and the affinities of this complex of genera. The characters studied involve habit, leaf features (consistency, pubescence type, shape, margin, and venation), types of capitulescence, involucre features (shape, size, phyllary series, pubescence, and shape), paleae, floret features (morphology, sex, number, color of corolla, anthers, style shapes, achenial pubescence, and pappus). Analysis of these features revealed: (1) although Gochnatia is highly variable in most of the characters studied, it can be defined by this suite of features: isomorphic to subdimorphic corollas, apiculate anther appendages, and smooth style branches; (2) sections of Gochnatia needed to be re-evaluated. As result of this, two sections, i.e., sect. Discoseris and sect. Pentaphorus, are confirmed; two sections are proposed, i.e., sect. Glomerata sect. nov. and sect. Rotundifolia sect. nov.; three sections are redefined, i.e., sect. Hedraiophyllum, sect. Leucomeris, and sect. Gochnatia, while sect. Anastraphioides is formally published; and (3) the combination of apiculate anther appendages and smooth style branches is unique to Actinoseris, Cnicothamnus, Cyclolepis, Gochnatia, Hyalis, Ianthopappus, and Nouelia within the Mutisieae. This group of genera is recognized here as the Gochnatia complex, with Gochnatia as the basal genus of this complex. Chucoa, Pleiotaxis, and Wunderlichia do not belong to the Gochnatia complex.
10.2307/2398798|The diversity of sexual systems in plants has been generally attributed to selection for an optimal amount of genetic recombination. However, sexual systems such as hermaphroditism (including heterostyly), monoecism, andromonoecism, gynomonoecism, dioecism, androdioecism, and gynodioecism may also be viewed as different patterns of relative resource allocation to paternal and maternal functions to optimize paternal and maternal reproductive success in different ways. These different patterns may arise in large part in response to reproductive competition resulting from sexual selection. But the efficacy of sexual selection in zoophilous species is mainly determined by pollinator behavior. It follows then that the evolution of a particular sexual system must be influenced by the dynamics of the pollination system. The role of pollinators in the evolution of sexual systems is examined by considering several types of interactions between flowers and pollinators. The role of cost-sharing between paternal and maternal functions in pollinator attraction is stressed in the evolution of hermaphroditism. Andromonoecism is considered in terms of loss of pistils in that part of the flower crop which is produced merely to attract pollinators and/or to fulfill male function. In the evolution of andromonoecism to monoecism, the role of stamens of hermaphroditic flowers in the functional integrity of the pollination system is evaluated. The importance of long mouth parts of pollinators to promote compatible pollinations in the evolution of heterostyly is pointed out. The evolution of protogyny is considered in relation to long inhabitation of pollinators in flowers and inflorescences. The evolution of dioecism is examined in relation to the ability of pollinators to respond to minor changes in floral resources thereby altering the patterns of pollen donation and pollen receipt. Finally, the importance of stamens in hermaphroditic plants in attracting pollen collecting bees is emphasized in the maintenance of androdioecism. The development of a general hypothesis to explain the diversity of sexual systems will require not only a comprehensive knowledge of pollination ecology but also a revision of the sexual system classification that will take into account functional gender rather than intrinsic gender estimates based solely on morphology.
10.2307/2666229|Altoparadisium is described as a new genus of Paniceae based on A. chapadense, sp. nov., from the campo rupestre habitats of Goias, Brazil. Altoparadisium chapadense is illustrated and fully described morphologically and anatomically. It is extremely unusual in the Paniceae in possessing only two spikelet bracts and in having spikelet reduction from the apex as well as the base. The bracts are interpreted to be homologous to an upper glume and lower lemma. The only flower is interpreted to be homologous to the upper flower of a typical panicoid spikelet. It is a C
10.2307/2399776|Systematic relationships of the Campanulales were reexamined through the integration of data accumulated from morphological, anatomical, embryological, palynological, cytological, ultrastructural, chemical, molecular, and paleontological studies. Interpretation of these data suggests that the most natural circumscription of the order may be achieved by retaining Asteraceae and Calyceraceae, adding Menyanthaceae, removing Donatiaceae and Stylidiaceae to Ericales, and including Brunonia in Goodeniaceae rather than its own family. Phylogenies based on chloroplast DNA restriction fragment analysis and rbcL sequencing, supported by embryological and chemical data, suggest a basal dichotomy into two clades. The first (Menyanthaceae, Goodeniaceae, Calyceraceae, and Asteraceae) has multinucleate tapetal cells, lacks endosperm haustoria, and produces deterrent chemicals (either seco-iridoids or sesquiterpene lactones, but not both) via the mevalonate pathway. The second (Campanulaceae, Cyphiaceae, Lobeliaceae, Sphenocleaceae, and Pentaphragmataceae) has binucleate tapetal cells and terminal endosperm haustoria, but cannot synthesize deterrent chemicals via the mevalonate pathway. Numerous characteristic morphological features (e.g., epigyny, zygomorphy, secondary pollen presentation, uniovulate ovaries) appear to have had multiple origins within the order, vitiating their use as synapomorphies. The order originated no later than the Oligocene, very near the base of the Asteridae, probably in the Cornales-Saxifragales complex.
40982867|Podostemaceae, a family of plants restricted to river rapids and waterfalls, are widely reported to have a high degree of local species endemism. We tested this idea for Neotropical members of the family using historical records, herbarium holdings, personal field collections, and geographic information systems analyses. In contrast to estimates of endemism based on the landmark studies of P. van Royen (66%), we report 15%-37% based on current taxonomy. Examples of regional endemism, based on extent of occurence and longest geographic axis measures, are discussed for a subset of species. Major hydrographic regions (Amazon River System, Paran River System) and major areas (eastern Brazil) are shown to possess largely unique podostemad floras. We propose rivers and river systems as the most appropriate units to assess endemism for Podostemaceae, and consider one-river and two-river endemics as narrowly distributed. Limitations in the current taxonomy are discussed relative to establishment of meaningful estimates of local species endemism. We provisionally apply IUCN assessment categories to Neotropical Podostemaceae and report that approximately one third of the species fall into one of three categories: Data Deficient (DD), Least Concern (LC), and Vulnerable (VU). Ten species are Critically Endangered (CR). Species of Podostemaceae are restricted to an environment that has experienced major human impactstropical rivers. Large dams make long reaches of rivers inhospitable. Expanded use of hydropower in Latin America will exacerbate the problem. Podostemaceae, urna familia botnica restrita a ambientes de corredeiras e cachoeiras,  amplamente reportada como de espcies com alto grau de endemismo local. Testamos esta hiptese para os representantes neotropicais da famlia, utilizando os dados histricos da literatura, material depositado em herbrio, coletas empreendidas pelos autores e urna anlise atravs do sistema de informao geogrfica. Em contraste com a estimativa de endemismo referenciada nos estudos de P. van Royen (66%), reportamos 15%-37% de espcies endmicas, baseadas na taxonoma atual. Exemplos de endemismo regional, suportados pela amplitude de oeorrneia e de maior eixo geogrfico so discutidos para um subgrupo de espcies. Grandes regies hidrogrficas (Bacia do rio Amazonas, Bacia do rio Paran) e grandes reas (sudeste do Brasil), demonstraram possuir urna ampia e distinta flora de Podostemaceae. Propomos ros e bacas como a unidade mais apropriada para acessar o endemismo de Podostemaceae, considerando endmicas de um-rio e de dois-rios como distribuio restrita. Limitaes no conhecimento taxonmico atual so discutidas com relao ao estabelecimento de urna estimativa significativa de endemismo local de espcies. Aplicamos provisoriamente o estado de conservao de espcies neotropicais de Podostemaceae de acordo com as categoras da IUCN, reportando que aproximadamente um tero das espcies se encaixa em urna das seguintes categoras: Dados Insuficientes (DD), Nao Ameaada (LC) e Vulnerveis (VU). Dez espcies esto Crticamente Ameaadas (CR). As espcies de Podostemaceae so restritas a ambientes que tm sofrido os maiores impactos antrpicosos ros tropicais. Grandes reservatrios tornam grandes extenses dos ros inabitveis. A expanso do uso de energa proveniente de hidreltricas na Amrica Latina iro exacerbar este problema.
10.2307/2399939|Chromosome counts, now available for 33 of the approximately 40 species of Lapeirousia, show the genus to be remarkably variable cytologically. Excluding polyploidy, numbers range from n = 10 to 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, and 3 in what we believe to be a descending dysploid series. A cycle of polyploidy and secondary descending dysploidy appears to have occurred in the tropical African section Paniculata. In L. erythrantha of the section there are both diploid populations with n = 4 and polyploid populations with n = 6, the latter karyotype having about twice as much chromosome material as the n = 4 karyotype. Although chromosome numbers vary among the species, the single large chromosome pair and total amount of chromosome material appear to be conserved, indicating the progressive fusion of small chromosomes, from a putatively ancestral bimodal karyotype with one long and nine short chromosome pairs. A phylogeny for section Paniculata is proposed based largely on karyotype change. An unusually high frequency of B chromosomes is evident in species with higher chromosome numbers. Not before detected, their irregular presence in populations probably explains past difficulty in determining chromosome numbers in several species of the genus.
10.2307/2398777|Homeria is native to southern Africa, where its center of speciation and variation is the western Cape coastal mountain belt and immediate interior, an area of mediterranean climate. Only one species, H. pallida occurs exclusively outside the winter rainfall area of the Cape Province, and it ranges widely across the winter dry highland grassveld of southern Africa. Homeria belongs to a group of corm-bearing, bifacial-leafed genera of Old World Iridoideae-Irideae and is closely related to the African genus Moraea. It comprises mainly large-flowered outcrossing species adapted either to fly or bee pollination, but a few species are self-compatible and autogamous, including three in which complex heterozygosity occurs. In this study, the first revision of the genus since Flora Capensis (1896), in which six species were admitted, Homeria is divided into four sections. Thirty-one species are recognized of which ten are described here for the first time. Basic chromosome number is n = 6 and the genus comprises mostly diploid species, with a few polyploids; three species exhibit aneuploidy, 2n = 10, 9, and 8. First chromosome counts for a few species are presented, as well as new counts for several others.
10.2307/2398816|Four new species of Dioscorea from northeastern Peru are described: D. revillae F. Ayala, D tamshiyacuensis F. Ayala, D. claytonii F. Ayala, and D. schunkei F. Ayala & T. Clayton.
10.2307/2398945| The newly described species are Central American members of the Aphelandra pulcherrima complex (Acanthaceae). Aphelandra panamensis McDade occurs in cloud forests at middle elevations in central and eastern Panam. Aphelandra golfodulcensis McDade is found in southwestern Costa Rica and adjacent Panam at low to middle elevations. Aphelandra leonardii McDade is known from the lowlands of eastern Panam and from middle elevations in central Costa Rica. 
40035670|Floral architecture and floral organ shape are interrelated to some extent as can be seen in the diversity of extant angiosperm groups. The shape of fragmentary fossil material, such as single organs, may therefore give hints for the reconstruction of the architecture of a flower. This study is partly a review and partly provides original material and new points of view on organ-architecture interrelationships. Several topics are illustrated with examples: (1) autonomous and imprinted shape, exemplified by cuneate organs, especially stamens; (2) conditions for valvate anther dehiscence; (3) lability in number and shape of reduced organs that have decreased in size and lost their original function; (4) long hairs as filling material of irregular spaces; (5) architectural conditions for the presence of orthotropous ovules; (6) structural differences between exposed and covered organ parts in bud; and (7) sepal aestivation and petal elaboration.
10.2307/2394849|Studies are being made of plant microfossils from seven Tertiary formations in Mexico, Panama, and Puerto Rico. The Puerto Rican samples from the Oligocene San Sebastian Formation have yielded 165 morphological forms; 44 have been identified, and 15 of these have no previously known fossil record. Community types include a coastal, brackish-water assemblage of Rhizophora and Pelliciera, an upland tropical to subtropical community, and an arboreal cool-temperate community of Fagus, Liquidambar, and Nyssa. Of the 44 genera identified, 31 presently grow in Puerto Rico, three grow on other islands of the Antilles, seven are found in ecologically comparable habitats elsewhere in Latin America, and only the three temperate trees require habitats not presently available on the island. The temperate element suggests altitudes greater than those of today, and recently available geological data reveal the presence of Oligocene highlands of 13,000 to 15,000 feet elevation. These would be sufficient to provide cool-temperate conditions in an insular environment at 18 degrees north. Ancestral Puerto Rico (Hispaniola, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands) provided an effective landbridge between northern South America, the West Indies, and Mexico (Yucatan). However, the Oligocene seas extended across at least part of peninsula Florida and up to 120 miles inland along the Texas Gulf Coast; thus the barrier to migration from the Antilles into southeastern North America was probably greater than at present. Of the 44 genera identified all have affinities with northern South America, eastern Mexico, and the Antilles; and none have exclusive affinities with the vegetation of southeastern North America. Studies from Panama and Veracruz, Mexico, suggest tropical elements in the modern and fossil floras of southeastern North America were introduced along an Isthmian-coastal Mexico route during the early Tertiary or subsequently through long-distant dispersal into tropical outliers (southern peninsula Florida).
42703718|The exceptional botanical wealth of southern Africa has been known internationally since the early 17th century. However, it is only during the past 25 years that a succession of regional floristic checklists has been published, culminating in one for southern Africa (Namibia, Botswana, Swaziland, Lesotho, and South Africa) (Germishuizen & Meyer, 2003) and another enhanced with primary biological information such as growth form, plant height, and altitudinal range occurrence for South Africa (Germishuizen et al., 2006). These printed products (Germishuizen & Meyer, 2003; Germishuizen et al., 2006) delivered floristic checklists for southern and South Africa, respectively, on time for achieving Target 1 of the 2010 Global Strategy for Plant Conservation (GSPC). These works reflected the cumulative work of several generations of taxonomists, collectors, recorders, and databasers and were based on extensive regional herbarium collections. Two additional goals are now required for the first 2020 GSPC Target, namely adding descriptive and other Flora-style information, and disseminating such information electronically.
40035665|The fossil record of angiosperms has more potential than ever for contributing to the resolution of major questions in the evolution of the flowering plants due to the better understanding of the significance of leaf and pollen records and because of the increasingly complete and informative fossil record of flowers. Nonetheless, the record has fallen short of its potential (and of its potentially synergistic value) because, although it is better understood than ever, there are still problems in identifying fossils' affinities that have not been fully resolved and that have major implications with respect to determining timing in angiosperm evolution with either molecular clock-based models or minimum-age node mapping. This issue is of particular significance with respect to early angiosperm radiation, where more careful studies of existing specimens seem to have unrealized value for increasing our comprehension of floral evolution and homology, potentially in the context of strides in understanding MADS-box genes. Subjective methods with typological overtones are still often used in identifying fossils, even though phylogenetic context is available. Identification using phylogenetic context, among other things, does not obscure relative character changes within monophyletic groups, does not lend itself to facultative interpretation of affinities to suit outcomes of various models, and, thus, does not impede our understanding of angiosperm evolutionary history. Nonetheless, a reasonably good fossil record of angiosperms is emerging from the combined efforts of many laboratories and, when carefully evaluated, reveals an interesting and possibly informative pattern of flowering plant evolution. One of its most striking aspects is the rapid radiation of angiosperm taxa that are now unusually diverse around two particular times in geological history: the Turonian and Early Tertiary. Possible reasons for these intervals of rapid radiation among angiosperms will be discussed.
10.2307/2399786|Increasing concern for Earth's biological resources-their inventory, protection, and use-has prompted efforts to modernize practices and procedures for botanical data collection, storage, and retrieval. America's Global Change Research Program, the International Geosphere/Biosphere Program, the International Space Year, and related multinational efforts are already requiring massive species databases and analyses of plant species information, much of which is either not readily available, or locked in herbaria on specimen sheets. One of the first orders of business for botanists and taxonomists should be to explore new and emerging technologies that can reduce the time, expense, and human resource requirements for automating existing herbarium data, optimizing field data collection, and analyzing massive, computerized biophysical data sets. A few of these prospects are described here in context of my research on the flora of the Rocky Mountains.
10.2307/2399498|The vast majority of the 4,500-5,000 species in the primarily tropical family Melastomataceae do not produce floral nectar, instead relying on pollen as the pollinator reward. To determine the anatomical basis for nectar production in the relatively few nectar-producing taxa, we examined 40 species in 17 genera representing known nectar producers and genera and species not reported to secrete nectar. Our anatomical investigations included six species in three genera of Memecylaceae, a family traditionally placed within Melastomataceae. We also conducted field observations to clarify the site of nectar secretion in several genera. No structural nectaries (derived from differentiated parenchyma) were detected in any of the species examined. Rather, most nectar-secreting species appear to produce the nectar from a thickened staminal vascular bundle. Within the order Myrtales, this type of nonstructural androecial nectary is limited to Melastomataceae and is apparently very rare among angiosperms as a whole. Two additional methods of nectar production in Melastomataceae were revealed: secretion from the petal tips in Medinilla, and, although field confirmation is still required, from the stigma in Miconia. Given the ancestral myrtalean nectary type, it seems clear that structural nectaries were lost in the evolutionary lineage ancestral to Melastomataceae and Memecylaceae. In most nectar-producing Melastomataceae the re-evolution of nectaries appears to be related to a shift in pollinator interactions, specifically from vibratile-pollination bees at lower elevations to vertebrates at higher elevation. We consider the independent development of nectaries in several lineages of Melastomataceae to be the most parsimonious explanation for the diversity of nectary types within the family and for the scattered phylogenetic positions of nectar-producing taxa.
10.2307/2399847|The analysis of rbcL sequences of representative species of 13 of the 20 genera of the Cupressaceae sens. str. has produced a cladogram that agrees with data derived from other sources. The monophyly of the family is well supported. The cladogram provides support for the recognition of a basically northern subfamily (Cupressoideae) and a southern subfamily (Callitroideae), but the boundary between the subfamilies needs to be realigned by moving Tetraclinis from the Callitroideae to the Cupressoideae. The tribal arrangement of Li is largely artificial: the Libocedreae, Cupresseae, and Thujopsideae are clearly paraphyletic.
10.2307/2399940|Meiotic chromosome numbers in Castilleja are reported for 105 collections representing 34 species, mostly from Mexico, with a few from Central America and South America. Chromosome numbers of the following 19 species are reported here for the first time: C. bryantii, C. ecuadorensis, C. fissifolia, C. fruticosa, C. gracilis, C. hirsuta, C. integrifolia, C. irazuensis, C. linifolia, C. nubigena, C. ornata, C. ortegae, C. purpusii, C. roei, C. scorzonerifolia, C. stenophylla, C. talamancensis, C. tenuifolia, and C. virgata. Of the 34 species, 24 are exclusively diploid (n = 12); five are tetraploid (n = 24) only; two are octoploid (n = 48) only; three have two or more levels of ploidy (n = 12, 24, and 72). These polyploid species (including C. aspera, C. integrifolia, and C. tenuiflora) are the most troublesome taxonomically and substantiate our contention that polyploidy and hybridization are largely responsible for the complex morphological variation found in Castilleja. It is estimated that only 25% of Mexican elements of Castilleja (excluding C. affinis and C. subinclusa) exhibit polyploidy, in contrast to more than 50% polyploidy in western North American representatives. The unusual chromosome number of n = 10 in the closely related C. gracilis and C. tenuifolia is postulated to be an aneuploid reduction from an n = 12 progenitor. The role of chromosome number, especially polyploidy, in the evolution of Castilleja and its taxonomic significance is indicated for individual species.
10.2307/2399694|Nivenia, Klattia, and Witsenia, a monophyletic assemblage of 13 species of the southwestern Cape, South Africa, have pollen grains with sculpturing similar to the basic type for Iridaceae (and for the monocots). The nearly spherical grains have a broad sulcus and reticulate to microreticulate exine. The supratectal gemmae, found only in Witsenia, are unique in Iridaceae. In Nivenia species the walls of the reticulum are lightly sculptured, sometimes laterally verrucate or micropapillate, the degree of sulpturing varying with the species. The pollen grains differ in size for all the species examined, and in four of the five heterostylous species of Nivenia there are statistically significant size differences between the long- and short-styled morphs.
10.2307/2666174|A phylogenetic analysis based on morphological characters of Euphorbiaceae tribe Aleuritideae was performed, examining the monophyly of subtribe Aleuritinae and its delimitation into three genera. The subtribe was supported as monophyletic and its current classification justified. Differences between the genera, though small, are based on apomorphies, and the genera are monophyletic. Within subtribe Aleuritinae, Aleurites (2 species) is sister to both monotypic Reutealis and Vernicia (3 species). Monophyly was not confirmed for tribe Aleuritideae. One of the selected outgroups for Aleuritideae (Paracroton, formerly Fahrenheitia) appeared within the ingroup in the most parsimonious cladograms. For the other subtribes, monophyly was tentatively supported for only subtribe Garciinae (monogeneric), Crotonogyninae (3 genera), and Neoboutoninae (2 genera). The largest subtribe, Grosserinae (7 genera), is probably paraphyletic, because Domohinea (recently placed in synonymy of Tannodia by Radeliffe-Smith) and Tannodia group with subtribe Aleuritinae.
10.2307/2399456|Guidelines for preparing and mounting specimens of Cyclanthaceae, as well as a key to the genera, are presented in order to facilitate collecting of a difficult and often neglected family. In general, specimens should be prepared so the depth of the leaf division is apparent and the lower surface of the basal part of the leaf is visible or accessible.
40389948|No other line of practice requires application of science more urgently than conservation. Here we explore several elements that must be put in place to establish lines of communication between scientists and managers of protected areas. First, it is necessary that scientists are aware of the information needs of managers, that they produce the relevant information, and that this information is available to managers. Second, it is necessary that managers not only know how to access, process, and incorporate the information, but that they also internalize their need for that science and the clear advantages of incorporating it into their practice. We propose several mechanisms to ensure an adequate flow of information between the two groups: active dialogue between the parties, translators of science located both in academia and government and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and execution of joint projects. In particular, we argue that science-oriented NGOs can play a major role in bridging the gap between basic science and on-the-ground conservation. We finish by describing three case studies in which some of these models have been explored in Colombia and how science has been applied to address conservation and management concerns.
10.2307/2399350|Between 1854 and 1858, Augustus Fendler resided in Colonia Tovar, a German village in the Coastal Cordillera of Venezuela, where he assembled one of the finest collections of plant specimens for his time. Fendler's life in Colonia Tovar is described from his correspondence with Daniel C. Eaton, Asa Gray, George Engelmann, and Joseph Henry. Because of his devotion to plant collecting and his acute powers of observation, Fendler's 2,630 flowering plant specimens from Venezuela are extremely valuable; 223 (8.5% of his total collections) have been designated as types. Although most specimens were labeled as having been collected in Colonia Tovar, state of Aragua, Venezuela, Fendler's field notebooks cite many different localities in the states of Carabobo and Aragua, and in the Distrito Federal. A map and list of Fendler's collecting localities are provided. An annotated list including collection data extracted from his notebook is given for the angiosperm types that he collected.
10.2307/2394740|The natural history of the subtribe Catasetinae is briefly discussed. The present taxonomic status of the genera Catasetum, Cycnoches and Mormodes is reviewed, and the phylogenic relationships between the genera and the species groups in Catasetum are discussed. The production of separate male and female inflorescences is explained as being triggered by the relative amounts of sunlight received by the plants. Those plants which receive filtered sunlight produce male flowers and those receiving full sunlight produce female flowers. The pollen throwing apparatus and the pollination mechanisms of the various genera are discussed on the basis of field observations. Variation in populations of Catasetum platyglossum Schltr. and C. macroglossum Rehb. f., which are sympatric on one margin of their ranges in western Ecuador, is evaluated. The two populations were once separated by a band of rainforest on a low mountain range. This region has become sufficiently arid for the species to come together and pollination by a common agent has produced several highly variable hybrid swarms. Calaway H. Dodson, Missouri Botantical Garden, 2315 Tower Grove Ave., St. Louis 10, Missouri.
10.2307/2399577| Subequal tepals spreading from the base, free stamens, and short slender style branches with simple, obtuse to emarginate apices, the defining generic criteria for the southern South American Calydorea (IridaceaeTigridieae) (Herbert, 1843a) also characterize the Florida (U.S.A.) monotypic Salpingostylis (Small, 1931), the Mexican Cardiostigma (Baker, 1876), and the Venezuelan Itysa Ravenna (1986). Salpingostylis and Cardiostigma hardly differ from one another and are congeneric; they can be distinguished from Calydorea only by their secund flower, weakly eccentric style that divides near the apex of the anthers, and short style branches. Itysa also has secund flowers with spreading subequal tepals, free stamens and slender, simple style branches. It is unusual only in having the anthers coherent at their bases and a style that divides above the level of the anthers. Typical Calydorea has upright flowers and a central style that divides near the bases of the anthers into relatively longer style branches that twist weakly so that they come to lie between, rather than opposite, the style branches. We consider the differences between Calydorea, Cardiostigma, Salpingostylis, and Itysa too insignificant to merit generic segregation and unite them all under Calydorea. An unusual species of Calydorea, C. pallens, which has unequal inner and outer tepals and style branches that lie opposite the anthers, is strikingly similar to Catila amabilis (Ravenna, 1983), the latter having somewhat larger and more intensely colored flowers, the anthers of which clasp the style branches after anthesis. These two species belong in the same genus, and we recommend treating both as Calydorea in which we consider them to be relatively unspecialized. Other members of Tigridieae, notably Onira, Eleutherine, and Gelasine, that have free stamens and simple style branches are considered in relation to Calydorea. The phylogenetic position of the species or species clusters of Calydorea are analyzed cladistically and are discussed in relation to other taxa of Tigridieae and the basic character states of the tribe and its sister taxon Mariceae. 
10.2307/2399218|If it is agreed that an understanding of biohistory in some ways is tied to an understanding of geohistory, then one might also agree that what is needed is a precise means of specifying how a given biohistory is explicitly tied to a particular geohistory. The constraint in this type of analysis is the branching diagram, or cladogram, that permits a precise comparison of geographic area cladograms to demonstrate congruence between the cladistic message from biology with the cladistic message from geology. A proposal for identifying these cladistic constraints is given using a comparison of several different historical geologies of the Caribbean region as an example that contrasts with the constraints used by previous biogeographies in which an a priori notion of process, e.g., dispersal or extinction, was used to direct the outcome of biogeographic analysis.
10.2307/2398834|Bouteloua was established in 1805 by Mariano Lagasca. The type species is B. curtipendula (Michaux) Torrey, originally named B. racemosa by Lagasca. In the present treatment, 39 species are recognized, 29 of these restricted to North America and Central America, 2 species are endemic to the Antilles, 2 species occur in the Antilles, as well as at other locations, 5 species are distributed in both North and South America, and 1 species, B. megapotamica, is represented only in southern South America. Bouteloua is a characteristic member of the tribe Chlorideae of the subfamily Eragrostoideae (Chloridoideae). The species all are C
10.2307/2395106|A review of the literature reveals 124 mosses which have been reported for Trinidad.
10.2307/2399396|Bluegreen algae (Cyanobacteria) growing on the leaf surfaces of understory plants in a tropical rainforest can fix atmospheric nitrogen. Rates of fixation are strongly influenced by the presence of glucose and mineral nutrients leached from the host leaf, by light intensity as it relates to the photosynthetic rates of the algae, and by desiccation especially as it is influenced by the co-occurrence of epiphyllous bryophytes. A significant portion of this newly fixed nitrogen is transferred to the host leaf and may account for 10-25% of the total nitrogen in a leaf.
42703722|The status and trends of issues related to the conservation of orchids native to the United States, Canada, and Greenland are considered. We focus on nine of the 16 Targets of the Global Strategy for Plant Conservation (GSPC). The first two targets, which all other targets rely upon, appear to have been adequately achieved, in addition to Target 11. Limited progress has been made on six other GSPC targets. Three case studies of efforts to conserve the native threatened orchids, Platanthera leucophaea (Nutt.) Lindl., Isotria medeoloides (Pursh) Raf., and Tolumnia bahamensis (Nash) Braem, are presented to demonstrate the difficulties as well as the issues associated with effective conservation. We describe our efforts to establish an international program to conserve all native orchids in the United States and Canada. The North American Orchid Conservation Center (NAOCC) is an internationally focused effort that is based on public-private partnerships. The goal of NAOCC is to conserve the genetic diversity of all native orchids through efforts to develop an international collection of seeds and orchid fungi. The NAOCC also focuses on the cultivation of all native orchids in an international network of botanic gardens, and they partner with private and public landowners to develop techniques to conserve and restore all native orchid species.
10.2307/2666144|Detailed descriptions, habitat preferences, geographic ranges, and representative specimens are given for the 13 taxa of the Acacia coulteri group from Mexico, Central America, and the southwestern United States. These species form a distinct group within Acacia series Vulgares, lacking prickles and usually having persistent stipules. A principal components analysis (PCA) of vegetative and floral features shows that the specimens examined form discrete units in plots of the first three principal components. The groups established by PCA mostly coincide with previously described species. The taxa within this group are phenetically similar, sharing many morphological features. These data also suggest that there is occasional gene flow between species, but that hybrids are not common. About half the species have restricted ranges (A. compacta, A. dolichostachya, A. durangensis, A. millefolia, A. russelliana, A. sericea, and A. willardiana), but the remainder are wide-ranging, either from Oaxaca and Puebla north into central and northern Mexico (A. acatlensis, A. coulteri, A. mammifera, and A. salazari), or south into Central America (A. centralis and A. usumacintensis).
10.2307/2399320|Dilodendron of Brazil and adjacent regions and Dipterodendron of Central America and northern South America are congeneric. Here we discuss their relationships, present a key to the three species that we recognize in the combined genus, and make the appropriate new combinations for Dilodendron costaricense (Radlk.) Gentry & Steyerm. and D. elegans (Radlk.) Gentry & Steyerm.
3298623|Interest in development of new tropical ornamental aroid cultivars has accelerated rapidly during the past 20 years. This was stimulated by high market demand and newly published research that presented potential breeders with techniques to control aroid flowering by application of gibberellic acid sprays. In addition, research demonstrated how seed production could be enhanced by controlling relative humidity in aroid genera that were previously difficult to hybridize. Subsequent genetic studies showed foliar variegation patterns to be simply inherited, which made planning crosses easier. This paper reviews some of the important techniques used in developing new ornamental aroid cultivars.
3298574|Tribes Epilobieae, Gongylocarpeae, and Onagreae, a monophyletic branch in the family Onagraceae, comprise genera endemic to or having their major basal radiation in the Madrean Floristic Region of southwestern North America. Parsimony analysis of endemicity (PAE) and panbiogeography (track compatibility analysis) were performed in order to seek an historical explanation for the patterns of high diversity and endemicity for the group in this region. Twenty-one areas of endemism are delimited, based on previous biogeographic schemes and presence of endemic plant and animal taxa. Based on distributional data on 173 species, a strict consensus PAE cladogram shows four main groups of areas: northern North America, the central Mexican areas, western North America, and eastern North America. Track compatibility analysis resulted in two strongly supported generalized tracks: one includes eastern North America, and the other western North America. PAE and panbiogeographical analyses of the distributional patterns of these taxa suggest a close relationship of eastern and western North America, with both areas more related to the Neotropics than to the Palearctic, and a rather weak association between northern North America and Asia. The discovery of two tracks in eastern and western North America for Epilobieae, Gongylocarpeae, and Onagreae reveal little relationship of North America with Asia or other continents. These tribes display a distinct but contemporaneous biogeographical history that differs from those of the Holarctic. These eastern and western tracks show that ancestral biotas existed on each side of North America, with the species of each track sharing a common history.
10.2307/2394819|Three genera, previously unreported for Panama, Bathysa, Duroia, and Exostema are discussed with B. panamensis and D. panamensis described as new. Four new species of Cephaelis, one new species of Faramea, and four new species and one subspecies of Psychotria are also described. Complete diagnoses of Ronabea latifolia Aublet and Uragoga emetica (L.f.) Baillon are included. Additional notes on Coussarea and Schradera are presented.
10.2307/2399692|Study of neotropical Euphorbiaceae for various floristic and taxonomic projects has uncovered several novelties. New taxa proposed in this paper are Dalechampia liesneri from southern Venezuela, Richeria tomentosa from Colombia, Tragia rubiginosa from Peru, and the genus Tacarcuna, including the three new species T. gentryi, from the border of Panama and Colombia, T. amanoifolia from Peru, and T. tachirensis from Venezuela. In addition it is shown that Caryodendron janeirense Muell. Arg. is the correct name for the plant hitherto known as C. grandifolium (Muell. Arg.) Pax.
42703717|Politically and botanically diverse, the Caribbean region is a biodiversity hotspot. Current estimates for seed plant species richness are nearly 11,000 indigenous taxa, of which approximately 72% are endemic to the region. Politically, the region comprises independent countries as well as overseas territories and countries of the European Union member states and the United States. Success in implementing the 2010 targets of the Global Strategy for Plant Conservation (GSPC) across the region was mixed, and a lack of capacity was consistently cited as a major impediment to full implementation. Several regional initiatives promote coordinated conservation activities and disseminate key information needed for GSPC implementation, including the Caribbean Botanic Gardens for Conservation, whose last meeting in Cuba identified capacity gaps needed for achieving GSPC success. This echoed an earlier regional GSPC workshop held in Montserrat and coordinated by Royal Botanic Gardens Kew and the Secretariat of the Convention on Biological Diversity (SCBD). RBG Kew has an active regional training program and is working with international partners to respond to needs identified locally. This coordinated approach, together with the development of the GSPC Toolkit, can provide a roadmap to meet the challenges of building capacity to achieve the revised 2020 targets in this biodiverse region.
40035746|A parsimony cladistic analysis based on 55 morphological characters was performed for the Cascabela Raf.-Thevetia L. species complex (Apocynaceae), including 22 terminals, sampling at least one species of each genus in Plumerieae sensu Endress and Bruyns. The consensus of the 12 most parsimonious trees (length = 164, consistency index = 0.50, retention index = 0.75) can be correlated to three previous subtribal classifications. The topology supports the monophyly of the Cascabela-Thevetia species complex, but it is not conclusive to whether Cascabela should be recognized as a genus or as a subgenus of Thevetia. Because there are two important and easy-to-diagnose characters supporting each clade (digitiform suprastaminal appendages and embryos not compressed in Cascabela; reniform fruits and segmented endocarp in Thevetia), the recognition of two genera is preferred here. Therefore, the new combination C. pinifolia (Standl. & Steyerm.) Alvarado-Crdenas & Ochot.-Booth is proposed. Keys and synoptic descriptions for the two genera and their species are provided.
10.2307/2992039|Grimmia subg. Orthogrimmia comprises nine species distributed on mountain chains or high latitudes mainly in the Northern Hemisphere. This subgenus is defined by the following combination of characters: leaves V-shaped in transverse section, margins flat (seldom recurved in G. reflexidens), proximal marginal cells with the transverse walls thicker than the longitudinal walls, setae erect and straight (curved only in G. arenaria), and capsules symmetric and smooth. I recognize two sections: sect. Donnianae, including G. arenaria Hampe, G. donniana Sm., and G. triformis Carestia & De Not.; and sect. Montanae, comprising G. alpestris (F. Weber & D. Mohr) Schleich., G. caespiticia (Brid.) Jur., G. montana Bruch & Schimp., G. nivalis Kindb., G. reflexidens Mull. Hal., and G. ungeri Jur. Grimmia brachyphylla Cardot, considered by other authors to be synonymous with G. montana, is shown to be conspecific with Coscinodon humilis, and is here lectotypified. Grimmia sinensianodon is considered to be synonymous with Coscinodon cribrosus, and not with G. caespiticia, as previously believed. All taxa are keyed and described, and typified where indicated. Illustrations and distribution maps are provided for each species.
10.2307/3298525|Eighty-nine new chromosome counts are reported from 85 populations of 15 species of Hypochaeris (Asteraceae, Lactuceae) from South America, including first reports from nine taxa (H. apargioides, H. clarionoides, H. palustris, H. scorzonerae, H. setosa, H. sonchoides, H. spathulata, H. tenuifolia, H. thrincioides). Most are 2n = 8 with bimodal and asymmetric karyotypes. Tetraploidy (2n = 16) is documented for the first time in some populations of H. meyeniana, H. scorzonerae, and H. tenuifolia. A summary of previous and new counts reveals that only two uniformly tetraploid species are known (H. incana and H. stenocephala). Five taxa also show infraspecific polyploidy: H. chondrilloides, H. meyeniana, H. scorzonerae, H. sessiliflora, and H. tenuifolia. Polyploidy, therefore, occurs in about 10% of the South American taxa. The South American representatives of the genus are all based on x = 4 in contrast to more conspicuous karyotypic differences among European taxa (2n = 6, 8, 10, 12). This pattern of greater cytological uniformity among many species of the New World (ca. 50 known, 32 now counted chromosomally) suggests that the group was derived from European ancestors rather than the reverse. It appears that Hypochaeris in South America radiated explosively into many habitats from sea level to over 3000 m, but that this radiation has not often been accompanied by conspicuous chromosomal change. The absence of aneuploidy and relatively low frequency of polyploidy, plus few known cases of present interspecific hybridization, suggest a weakened role for hybridization as an evolutionary mechanism in the group. Data so far suggest diploid recombinational speciation as the dominant mode accompanied by genetic rather than dramatic cytological alterations, plus occasional polyploid derivatives.
10.2307/2395224|A classification of ultimate inflorescence units in the Cyperaceae is proposed, establishing six groups. It is concluded that there is no evidence for considering: (1) the rachilla of the Cyperus-, Scleria- or Rhynchospora-type of spikelet to be sympodial; (2) nor the apparently simple flowers in the Cypereae, Scirpeae, and Rhynchosporeae to be pseudanthia; (3) nor the female flower in Scleria to be terminal; (4) nor the rachilla of the female flower-bearing spikelet in the Cariceae to be sympodial. Evidence is presented which throws doubt on the concept that Scleria is related to the Diplacrum-Bequerelia group of genera, and other evidence is presented which shows that the apparently terminal female flower in the Lagenocarpeae is really lateral.
10.2307/2395303|Insufficient genetic variability and the swamping effects of gene flow are inadequate explanations of limits to natural selection. Comparison of evolutionary responses in different populations subjected to similar selective forces, comparison of rare and widespread species, and comparison of marginal and central populations are all neglected research areas that bear on the nature of limits to natural selection. Plant populations provide us with well-defined, operationally viable systems for addressing these comparisons. Several possible constraints on range extension of ecologically marginal populations are considered in detail. Selection on fitness components that are themselves negatively correlated will be ineffective: such negative correlations are to be expected in natural populations. Small size of marginal populations will reduce severely the probability of obtaining appropriate character combinations; it will increase the swamping effects of gene flow; and it may lead to inbreeding depression effects. Gene flow will have different effects depending on whether the genes concerned are effectively neutral, advantageous, or deleterious in the population into which they migrate. Gene flow will spread beneficial genes rapidly, but may retard divergence if density of marginal populations is low and swamping effects are high. Finally a population entering a new habitat is likely to meet new competitors and predators: the coevolutionary responses of the latter may counteract adaptive responses by the species undergoing range extension. All these factors are likely to interact in important ways in marginal populations. The study of limits to natural selection is likely to be a fruitful future research area, and one in which the detailed documentation of the systematist will provide invaluable baseline information.
10.2307/2399522|Comparing the Dioclea glabra collections cited by Bentham in Flora Brasiliensis in 1859, with the collections cited in his original descriptions of D. glabra and D. coriacea in 1837, reveals that the 1859 D. glabra collections include three species: D. glabra Benth. and D. coriacea Benth. (here lectotypified), and D. scabra (Rich.) Maxwell comb. nov. (here described and assigned a neotype). Dioclea scabra var. brownii and var. schultzii, both new varieties, are also described. The three species are placed in their appropriate sections.
10.2307/2399883|The baobabs comprise eight species with large, spectacular, nocturnal flowers. The African baobab, Adansonia digitata, has long been known to be bat-pollinated. In this paper I document the floral biology and pollination systems of the remaining seven species. The two species in section Brevitubae, both endemic to Madagascar, are pollinated by nocturnal mammals (fruit bats and lemurs). In contrast, the five species in section Longitubae, four endemic to Madagascar and one to Australia, are pollinated by long-tongued hawkmoths. In all cases, animals besides the legitimate pollinators also exploited nectar and pollen. The two pollination systems occurring in the genus correlate closely with differences in the floral morphology, phenology, and nectar production.
10.2307/2399469|Factors controlling species diversity are usually presented as a laundry list without organization-for instance, "The tropics have more species than the temperate zones because of greater stability and reduced seasonality and higher productivity and more diverse resources and ...." This paper instead proposes a fourfold grouping of factors, termed the QQID approach. Q = resource quality, consisting of the habitat and resource factors that determine the "number of niches." Q = resource and consumer quantity, consisting of factors determining the quantity of resources (i.e., area and productivity), and factors determining the number of consuming individuals (especially body size) that divide those resources. I = species interactions, which may boost or lower species diversity through effects on individual numbers or individual fitnesses. D = dynamic processes (e.g., extinction, immigration, and speciation), which affect species diversity in both equilibrial and nonequilibrial situations. I illustrate this approach by applying it to understand the famous gradients of species diversity over altitudinal and latitudinal gradients. A major problem for the future involves seeking generalizations as to which factors are likely to be most important under which circumstances. Another problem is to convert this empirical fourfold grouping into a natural hierarchy of factors, possibly based on a hierarchy of processes in space and time.
10.2307/2398776| To complete this survey of floral structure the number of Ludwigia species prepared anatomically--cleared, sectioned, or both--was increased to 37. In general, nectaries of diplostemonous ludwigias are trichome-covered depressions in the (often raised) summit of the ovary, whereas nectaries of sects. Dantia, Microcarpium, and Miquelia are convex and hairless. Nectaries of sect. Ludwigia, though hairless, are otherwise closer to those of the diplostemonous ludwigias. Vascular features are not useful for grouping Ludwigia species. For example: the degree to which petal midveins extend basally differs markedly from species to species, some midveins ending in the vascular girdle, others passing through the girdle to the flower's base. But species that are alike for this trait are too unlike in others ways to be allied. The level at which the major bundles of a Ludwigia flower part is not a trustworthy indicator of evolutionary level: in some species, at least, it has more to do with the shape of the flower than with gradual phyletic union of appendages. In some ludwigias large bundles in the locular radii retard dehiscence and ensure slow dispersal of seeds. Onagraceous styles commonly carry one bundle in each locular radius and no others, but some of the ludwigias have a second set in the septal radii at the style's base, apparently an archaic trait. Ludwigia is the only onagraceous genus in which ovules are supplied by central as well as by transseptal bundles, a peculiarity linked functionally with deeply intrusive placentas and maybe with pollen tetrads. To account for this dual supply--at the same time for Ludwigia's oddly placed nectaries and lack of a floral tube--I argue that epigyny evolved twice in the family, once in the line leading to Ludwigia and once in the line leading to all other onagrads. 
10.2307/2666133|Phylogenetic relationships among 122 species of Lauraceae representing 44 of the 55 currently recognized genera are inferred from sequence variation in the chloroplast and nuclear genomes. The trnL-trnF, trnT-trnL, psbA-trnH, and rpl16 regions of cpDNA, and the 5' end of 26S rDNA resolved major lineages, while the ITS/5.8S region of rDNA resolved a large terminal clade. The phylogenetic estimate is used to assess morphology-based views of relationships and, with a temporal dimension added, to reconstruct the biogeographic history of the family. Results suggest Lauraceae radiated when trans-Tethyean migration was relatively easy, and basal lineages are established on either Gondwanan or Laurasian terrains by the Late Cretaceous. Most genera with Gondwanan histories place in Cryptocaryeae, but a small group of South American genera, the Chlorocardium-Mezilaurus clade, represent a separate Gondwanan lineage. Caryodaphnopsis and Neocinnamomum may be the only extant representatives of the ancient Lauraceae flora documented in Mid- to Late Cretaceous Laurasian strata. Remaining genera place in a terminal Perseeae-Laureae clade that radiated in Early Eocene Laurasia. Therein, non-cupulate genera associate as the Persea group, and cupuliferous genera sort to Laureae of most classifications or Cinnamomeae sensu Kostermans. Laureae are Laurasian relicts in Asia. The Persea group and Cinnamomum group (of Cinnamomeae) show tropical amphi-Pacific disjunctions here credited to disruption of boreotropical ranges by Eocene-Oligocene climatic cooling. The Ocotea complex accommodates remaining Cinnamomeae and shows a trans-Atlantic disjunction possibly derived from a Madrean-Tethyan ancestral distribution. These findings support Laurasian ancestry for most extant Lauraceae, with their considerable neotropical representation primarily derived from Early Miocene radiation of the Ocotea complex upon reaching South America.
10.2307/2399981|Floral biology and pollination mechanisms of 33 herbaceous monocot species were studied in the tropical cloud forest of Henri Pittier National Park, Venezuela. The frequency distribution of pollination systems was as follows: cantharophily (35.1%), ornithophily (24.3%), melittophily (16.2%), myiophily (10.8%), anemophily (8.1%), and chiropterophily (5.4%). Of 71 visiting species recorded on 33 plant species, 67.6% were pollinators and 32.4% were only visitors; coleopterans and dipterans were the most diverse groups. Studies of floral biology showed that 46.9% of the species were monoecious-dichogamous and 53.1% were hermaphroditic-adichogamous. Among adichogamous species, 15.6% were herkogamous. The pollination units were the flowers or inflorescences in hermaphroditic and monoecious species. Bat-, bird-, and bee-pollinated species produced nectar, although pollen was also found as a reward in bee- and bat-pollinated species; beetle pollination was associated with floral parts as the reward. Floral longevity of vertebrate-pollinated species ranged from 10 to 24 hours; floral longevity for bee-pollinated species was similar or longer than for vertebrate-pollinated species. For cantharophilous and wind-pollinated species, pollination unit longevity was increased by the longevity of the female flowers. These different patterns in time of anthesis, floral longevity, and pollinator species, together with vertical and horizontal species distribution, are mechanisms that promote pollination specificity and intraspecific pollen transportation in the understory cloud forest.
3298647|In the preservation of plant biodiversity, there are fundamental genetic and ecological similarities involved in: (1) predicting the fate of small, isolated populations, (2) ensuring the successful reintroduction of endangered species back into natural habitats, and (3) understanding the establishment of species beyond their native ranges. In all three cases, populations small in size may experience high levels of inbreeding and subsequently the expression of inbreeding depression. The ability of these populations to persist will depend, in part, on the magnitude of inbreeding depression and the ability of selection to remove (or purge) the genetic load that causes inbreeding depression. The loss of genetic variation caused by inbreeding or drift in these small populations will restrict their evolutionary potential, placing a high premium on the ability of plants to respond plastically to environmental variation. When plants make appropriate phenotypic adjustments in truly novel environments while maintaining high fitness, we suggest the use of a new term, "opportunistic plasticity," for this attribute. Opportunistic plasticity may be particularly critical and advantageous in the case of plant introductions in ecological restoration where habitats resemble but are not identical to seed collection sites, or in the initial establishment phase of exotic species in non-native locations where many aspects of the environment differ from the native range. Overall phenotypic plasticity may also be an important means of dealing with environmental heterogeneity in many small populations, but unfortunately we have limited data on the interaction between inbreeding and plasticity in plants. The science and practice of conservation biology has generally appreciated the importance of inbreeding, but we feel that it will benefit greatly by considering the potential interactions between inbreeding and phenotypic plasticity and their effects in the establishment and persistence of small populations.
10.2307/2399990|The Myrtoideae usually present small, epigynous, 4-5-merous, polystemonous flowers that last one day. Bee-pollination in which pollen is the sole reward is the dominant pollination system. Nectar has been best documented in Syzygium but probably also occurs in other bee-pollinated genera. The most common bee visitors are Apidae: Meliponinae and Bombinae. Bird- and mammal-pollination occur in Old World Syzygium with nectar as the primary reward. Bird-pollination with petals as the reward occurs in New World Acca and Myrrhinium. General floral morphology is very uniform, while inflorescence types and flowering strategies are very diverse. Stigmas are dry and ovules are anatropous, hemicampylotropous or anacampylotropous and have an outer 2-6-layered integument and an inner 2-layered integument or a single integument. The ovary usually contains more ovules than will form seeds. Flowering strategies vary from mass-flowering types, in which the flowering episode typically takes only a few days, to steady-state types of up to 90 days duration. Flowering at dry/wet season transition is common in seasonal climates, and fire-induced flowering is found occasionally. Outbreeding is probably widespread, although both self-compatible and self-incompatible species exist. The self-incompatible species have self pollen tubes penetrating the micropyles, so preferential outcrossing may be maintained by a late-acting mechanism. Cryptic dioecy, in which female flowers have "mimic" sterile anthers occurs in several genera. Apomixis occurs in Syzygium and this has been reported to be linked to the polyembryony found in this genus. Myrtoid fruits are fleshy berries or drupes, dispersed by birds, bats, and other small mammals. Fruit size, color, texture, and number of seeds are all very variable. Seed coats may be absent to bony, but have a smooth surface. The endosperm is mainly digested by the developing embryo. Early embryology is relatively uniform but final embryo morphology varies widely across the genera. Germination times vary from 10 days to over 2 years and seed viability periods from 15 days to 1 year.
10.2307/2399549|The botanical collections made in the Venezuelan Guayana during recent years have provided specimens representing seven new species of Turnera, described here: T. annectens, T. argentea, T. castilloi, T. cicatricosa, T. huberi, T. paruana, and T. steyermarkii. One new combination is proposed: Piriqueta cistoides subsp. caroliniana (Walter) Arbo. A neotype is designated for Piriqueta undulata Urban, because the syntype on which it was based was destroyed in the Berlin herbarium.
10.2307/2399921|Chromosome numbers are reported for 59 collections of grasses from Bolivia representing 43 species and 21 genera. First chromosome counts are reported for the following six species: Imperata tenuis, 2n = 20; Paspalum acuminatum, 2n = 40; P. kempffii, 2n = 40; P. lenticulare, 2n = 40; P. lineare, 2n = 80; P. macedoi, 2n = 40. Counts differing from previously reported numbers are given for the following five species: Gymnopogon spicatus, 2n = 40; Leersia hexandra, 2n = 72; Pennisetum setosum, 2n = 45; Setaria vulpiseta, 2n = 54; Thrasya petrosa, 2n = 20.
10.2307/2399916|The subtribal classification of the Diseae (Orchidoideae) is reviewed in light of the available morphological, leaf anatomical, and palynological data. These data are critically assessed, and the more prominent features are illustrated. The data are analyzed cladistically, and the robustness of the various components of the most parsimonious tree is assessed by a bootstrap analysis. Based on the cladistic analysis and the bootstrap analysis, a new classification is proposed for the Diseae. The results of the bootstrap analysis are used to establish the nodes at which formal taxa should be recognized. This classification recognizes five monophyletic subtribes: the Satyriinae, Disinae, Brownleeinae (a new subtribe), Huttonaeinae, and Coryciinae. It is suggested that Brownleea, the only genus of the Brownleeinae, may be of hybrid origin, as it shares the autapomorphies of the Disinae and Coryciinae. Huttonaea is shown to be more closely related to the Diseae than to the Orchideae, and is consequently included as a subtribe of the Diseae. The new classification is formally presented, and a key to the genera is provided.
10.2307/2399825|Tradescantia crassifolia (Commelinaceae), a widespread species in Mexico, is reported from the United States for the first time, based on two nineteenth-century collections. The specimen from Texas is considered reliably localized; that from New Mexico is deemed questionable.
10.2307/2395063|The use of chemical data in fern systematics follows three main approaches: physiological studies, protein studies, and comparisons of secondary metabolite distributions. Physiological studies are useful at generic and higher taxonomic levels. These investigations include work on: (1) fern antheridogens and the differential response of various fern families to antheridial induction by these hormones, (2) the phenol glucosylation pathway, in which vascular plants possess the ability to glucosylate exogenously administered phenolic compounds, while non-vascular plants do not, and (3) differences in D-methionine metabolism in vascular and non-vascular plants. Protein work in ferns is limited and consists mainly of serological and electrophoretic studies. Secondary metabolites remain the largest body of chemical data available for chemosystematic research and are most effectively used at generic and lower taxonomic levels. Studies of acylphloroglucinol compounds in Dryopteris and some recent work with flavonoids in the fern genera, Gymnopteris and Hemionitis, are described as examples of chemosystematic studies employing secondary metabolites.
10.2307/2399069|The evolution of dioecy within a plant population introduces a situation in which there is divergent selection for means of achieving reproductive success. Male and female individuals play different roles in the reproductive biology of a dioecious species and hence have very different resource demands imposed upon them. The selection pressures presented by these different resource demands could in turn lead to the evolution of sexual dimorphism. Empirical studies of several dioecious plant species have shown that male and female plants differ in their resource allocation patterns. These differences between the sexes have also been shown to lead to sexual dimorphism in a wide range of life history characteristics in the dioecious perennial Chamaelirium luteum, including age at first reproduction, flowering schedules, size and size dynamics, and mortality rates. Quantitative genetic studies of resource allocation patterns for C. luteum suggest that the observed sexual dimorphism is probably the result of independent selection on the two sexes separately rather than the result of selection specifically favoring sexual dimorphism.
40035666|In the past decade, there has been a rise in interest in the plant fossil record. Fossils potentially provide information for assessing homology and evolutionary change (e.g., the popular missing link phenomenon), character evidence that affects phylogenetic conclusions and, thus, our understanding of modern relationships, evidence of past distributions that can aid in understanding biogeographic histories, and estimates of minimum ages of the clades to which they belong. Recently, many molecular biologists have used fossils in their analyses as a way of providing a calibration point for evolutionary models used to approximate ages for the nodes of phylogenetic trees. However, there has been little, if any, discussion of the criteria by which calibration fossils can be selected for these studies. When considering the use of a fossil as a calibration point, it is critical to take into account the quality of preservation, the method and details of identification (reliability of the taxonomic placement), and the accuracy of the published age. Here, we provide basic criteria for the use of fossils to calibrate molecular evolutionary models. These approaches not only provide better primary estimates for ages of clades, but also provide more reliable sources for those molecular biologists wishing to clean up their molecular clocks.
10.2307/2398938|Recent field, cytological, experimental hybridization, and morphological studies indicate that the patterns of diversity in South American species of Epilobium can best be understood by recognizing 12 native species. These have been derived from at least five independent pre-European introductions of Epilobium into South America, with subsequent diversification in some of these lines. Two groups have ancestral affinities with North America: Epilobium ciliatum ssp. ciliatum is consubspecific with North American populations; the primarily northern Andean group, consisting of E. denticulatum and allied species, has no close relatives in the Northern Hemisphere, but has a chromosomal arrangement identical with that of some North American species. Two other lines are derived directly from Australasian ancestors: Epilobium hirtigerum is conspecific with a widespread species of Australia and New Zealand, and E. conjungens, with its unusual creeping habit and consistently opposite leaves, is closely allied to E. brunnescens ssp. brunnescens of New Zealand. Progenitors of these species presumably arrived by long-distance dispersal via the prevailing westerlies. The remaining species are southern South American, and show no close affinities with species found in other geographical areas. Fertility data from experimental hybrids suggest a close alliance between some of the morphologically distinct species in this group. Their precise relationships, however, and the origin of possible ancestors, remains obscure, although Australasia appears to be the most likely source. Three other species have been introduced into South America in historical times, two from Europe and one from North America.
10.2307/2399195|The Mojave and Colorado Deserts of the American Southwest are geologically recent in origin, resulting primarily from the rain-shadow caused by the Late Pliocene-Pleistocene elevation of the Sierra Nevada, Transverse, and Peninsular ranges. Their age thus is perhaps two to three million years. The present vegetation is even more recent, largely Holocene in origin, and still evolving. During the last, Wisconsin, glacial episode the California deserts were well supplied with huge, deep lakes and large streams and an open woodland, possibly grassy, supporting numerous large mammals, now mostly extinct. The desert flora, however, is in large part more ancient, having been assembled since early Paleogene time from many sources. Most of the perennials are probably former members of the Madro-Tertiary Geoflora that dominated southern California and adjacent areas during the Tertiary. They are species of dry habitats preadapted to long periods of drought, hot, dry summers, and cool, wet winters and thus able to populate and adapt to the varied desert habitats when they became available. They survived cool, pluvial, glacial periods by migration southward or to lower elevations. Some elements of the American southwestern desert flora are derived from Mexico, South America, central Asia, and a few possibly from North Africa and the Mediterranean region by overland immigration or long distance dispersal. In some instances this was aided by changing ocean size due to continental movement, glacial sea-level lowering, and to changes in oceanic-current patterns. Some desert plants, at least some of the ephemerals, may well be of very recent, even Holocene, origin in our arid Southwest.
10.2307/2399349|The Lupinus lanatus complex is a group of closely related species that grow in southeastern Brazil and northeastern Argentina. They are herbaceous, perennial or occasionally biennial plants with basal leaves in the juvenile plant simple or three-foliate, stipules 3-7 cm long or longer, and large flowers 15-20 mm long having the banner glabrous and well reflexed from the wings. Two species, L. magnistipulatus and L. setifolius, are described for the first time.
10.2307/2399537|A new subgenus in Isoetes, Euphyllum, is proposed for three extant species and for members of the fossil genus Isoetites. This new subgenus is distinguished from subg. Isoetes by the possession of a number of plesiomorphic characters, including completely alate leaves and the absence of peripheral fibrous bundles. Descriptions and a key to the three modern species of Euphyllum are presented.
10.2307/2399798|A newly described mode of fruit dispersal mechanism in bambusoid grasses of the genera Sucrea and Raddia (Poaceae: Bambusoideae: Olyreae), previously unknown, is here discussed.
3298572|Using sequence data from the ITS region (internal transcribed spacers ITS1 and ITS2 of nuclear ribosomal DNA and the 5.8S rRNA gene) and chloroplast DNA sequence data from the trnL intron, we examined the evolutionary relationships of Old and New World Smelowskia species with its putatively related genera (Brassicaceae). ITS and trnL sequence data were obtained from all 13 Smelowskia species and from 13 taxa of the related genera Descurainia, Ermania, Gorodkovia, Hedinia, Polyctenium, Redowskia, Sinosophiopsis, and Sophiopsis. Results from maximum parsimony analyses showed a polyphyletic origin for Smelowskia, with the taxa split into two major clades. Smelowskia taxa plus Ermania, Gorodkovia, Hedinia, Redowskia, Sinosophiopsis, and Sophiopsis formed one clade (Smelowskia s.l. clade), whereas the other clade included Smelowskia holmgrenii (Holmgrenii subclade) and the genus Polyctenium (Polyctenium subclade). Descurainia formed a separate clade. ITS and trnL molecular data, along with a comparison of key morphological traits for each genus, support recognition of a single genus that would include Smelowskia, the three monotypic genera Ermania, Gorodkovia, and Redowskia, as well as the genera Hedinia, Sinosphiopsis, and Sophiopsis (although not all species were examined in these genera). The molecular data are consistent with an Asian origin for Smelowskia s. str., followed by diversification in Asia and North America, subsequent to migration into arctic-alpine regions of western North America. ITS sequence divergence estimates ranged from 0 to 4.1% within Smelowskia s. str., and up to 6.45% within the Smelowskia s.l. clade; whereas trnL sequence divergence estimates ranged from 0 to 1.85% within Smelowskia s. str., and up to 3.71% within the Smelowskia s.l. clade, indicating pleistocenic speciation within Smelowskia as a whole.
10.2307/2394823|Chromosomal morphology in Claytonia involving symmetry, large size and few satellites is correlated with the gross morphologically less specialized species and their classification into sections, while karyotypes with asymmetrical and medium- or small-sized chromosomes having the most satellites typify the advanced perennials and one annual species studied. These data further suggest that there are at least two lines of evolution in the genus, viz. from sect. Caudicosae to sect. Rhizomatosae to sect. Claytonia, and from a taxon similar to C. sibirica to sect. Limnia.
10.2307/2666200|The nucleotide sequences of the internal transcribed spacers (ITS 1 and ITS 2) and 5.8S coding region of nuclear ribosomal DNA, as well as the non-coding trnL-trnF spacer regions of the chloroplast DNA, were determined and analyzed to estimate the phylogenetic position of Takhtajania perrieri (Capuron) Baranova & J.-F. Leroy within the Winteraceae. Using representatives of each genus of Canellaceae as outgroups (Canella, Capsicodendron, Cinnamodendron, Cinnamosma, Pleodendron, and Warburgia), both maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses place Takhtajania in a basal position sister to the remainder of the Winteraceae. Although the overall topology within the Winteraceae was mostly congruent between nuclear and chloroplast data sets, the trnL-trnF data resulted in lower support values in comparison to the ITS data, and failed to resolve basal relationships in the family, yielding alternative equally parsimonious solutions. The combined nuclear/chloroplast data set resulted in a single tree identical to that generated by nuclear data alone, but demonstrated strengthened support for a basal branch leading to Takhtajania, as well as for the position of Tasmannia as the next branch within the family. Potentially conflicting signals from nuclear and chloroplast data indicate that further taxon sampling or additional sequence data may be required to infer infrafamilial phylogenetic relationships for Canellaceae.
10.2307/2398978|The affinities between the floras of eastern Asia and eastern North America are widely recognized, but close affinities also exist between some elements of the floras of northeastern Asia (China, eastern USSR, and Japan) and northwestern North America. This relationship is indicated in taxonomic treatments either by no formal taxonomic recognition of the disjunct populations, or by varietal or specific separation of the disjuncts. After listing 31 examples of this disjunction, I offer a protocol for their comparative, evolutionary study. In addition to making careful morphological and cytological comparisons, it should be possible to test the degree of genetic similarity and ecological comparability of the vicariants. By growing them for use in breeding tests, allozyme studies, and for controlled environment testing, it should be possible to determine the degree of genetic similarity or divergence that the vicariants may reveal. By comparing physical and biotic aspects of their ecologies, one could assess their habitat/niche similarities. Data from such studies can test either of two hypotheses: (1) The disjuncts are conservative and have not diverged in any significant way since their separation. (2) The disjuncts have diverged to become passively genetically isolated and ecophysiologically distinct, despite their close taxonomic affinity. At present, only very few examples of paired genetic-ecologic tests are known.
10.2307/2399837|Four thousand two hundred eighty-seven specific and infraspecific taxa in 1213 genera and 195 families of vascular plants are reported from the forests occurring on limestone outcrops in southern and southwestern China; the majority are from the provinces of Guangxi, Guizhou, and Yunnan. Data of natural conditions in the explored area, including geology, geography, meteorology, soil sciences, and vegetation, are presented. The flora is treated in 14 distribution types, for example, tropical elements total 69.1% of the flora, northern temperate 9.9%, East Asian 9.9%, and endemics of China 4.7%. Some genera, such as Camellia, Eurya, Hydrangea, Rhododendron, and Symplocos, are poorly represented in the limestone forests, while Chirita, Excentrodendron, Paraboea, Platycarya, and some other genera are endemic or very abundant in this kind of vegetation. About one-third of the species are endemic or dominant species in the limestone vegetation. Characterized by calciphiles, a "limestone flora" is a valid floristic category distinct from non-limestone floras, especially an acid-soil flora in the same region.
40035737|A review of amphicarpy, basicarpy, and geocarpy is provided, and the definitions of these terms are clarified. Additional distinction is made between active and passive geocarpy. The literature on amphicarpy, basicarpy, and geocarpy is surveyed for reports of taxa displaying these traits, and a survey detailing basicarpy, amphicarpy, and geocarpy in the African and Madagascan flora is presented. Amphicarpy, basicarpy, or geocarpy is reported for 21 families and 40 genera of angiosperms. Interestingly, a number of holoparasites are basicarpic or geocarpic, but other than a predominance of species that occur in habitats with unstable substrates (arid or afroalpine), there appears to be little or no trend among the species listed that would enable the construction of a "profile" of features that would suggest that species or genera are predisposed toward being amphicarpic or geocarpic.
10.2307/3298659|The genus Draba includes about 350 species distributed primarily in the Northern Hemisphere, with some 80 species in South and Central America. Although species of Draba are well described morphologically, the existing sectional classification is highly controversial. American taxa exhibit enormous morphological differences even among species of the same section. We tested the hypothesis that variation accumulated during migration and differentiation of American Draba. The present phylogenetic study is based on analyses of the ITS (internal transcribed spacer) regions of the nuclear ribosomal DNA and the chloroplast trnL-intron and spacer sequences from 72 American Draba taxa and 6 European Draba species. Results suggest that some intrageneric groupings correspond primarily to phytogeography, and that only to a small degree do these findings agree with previous sectional classification. Differences between ITS- and trnL-derived phylogenies suggest extensive genetic contact may have existed between some of the groups or sections and that this disjunction between European and American Draba is demonstrated by ITS sequence data. Plastid DNA sequences suggest that the "European" plastome types may be more widely distributed among the American Draba species, perhaps through multiple transmissions of Eurasian chloroplast types into American Draba. Additional systematic analysis demonstrates that the genus Erophila has to be integrated into Draba. Analysis on the tribal level reveals the entire Draba complex to be close to European Arabis and Aubrieta. The data provide additional support for previous assumptions that the existing tribal classifications of the Brassicaceae are mostly artificial and that the segregation of Draba and Arabis into separate tribes or subtribes does not accurately reflect their phylogenetic relationship.
10.2307/2399177|A systematic revision of Fuchsia sect. Hemsleyella, a distinctive group of apetalous species restricted to the tropical Andes, is presented. Fourteen species are recognized, including three new species. Members of this group are protogynous and are hummingbird pollinated; they are generally rare and present little opportunity for sympatry or interspecific hybridization. The first reported chromosome counts for the section indicate that seven species are diploid and two are tetraploid; two possible hybrids were also tetraploid. Pollen grains in the section are large, with the longest axis usually over 100  m long, and are basically 2-aperturate, although 3-aperturate grains are present in some species; there is no clear correlation between polyploidy and 3-aperturate pollen grains in this section. A series of specialization trends linked mostly to increasing seasonality is evident in the section: from species with leaves that are opposite-ternate, persistent and elliptic-ovate to ones with alternate, deciduous, cordate and long-petioled leaves; from terrestrial to epiphytic or rock-inhabiting shrubs; from non-tuberous to tuberous plants; and from short- or medium-length floral tubes to floral tubes over 10 cm long. In its assemblage of characters, sect. Hemsleyella is most similar to sect. Ellobium, from Mexico and Central America.
10.2307/2399116|Inflorescence and floral morphology and floral vascular anatomy of the subfamily Liquidambaroideae (Liquidambar L., Altingia Nor.) are described. The inflorescence appears to be a greatly condensed compound raceme with proximal pistillate heads and distal staminate heads. Functionally pistillate flowers contain sterile or even fertile stamens. Functionally staminate flowers may show evidence of partially developed gynoecia. There is no morphological or anatomical evidence of sepals or petals. In functionally pistillate flowers a cycle of sterile phyllomes of uncertain nature (staminodia?, disc lobes?) is inserted on the hypanthium between the stamens and carpels of the partly inferior ovary. In pistillate flowers the stamens derive a single trace and the phyllomes a ramifying system of bundles from hypanthial trunk bundles. Each carpel contains a dorsal and two ventral bundles. Numerous ovules on each carpel margin receive traces from the ventral bundles. The gynoecium is interpreted as the most primitive within the Hamamelidaceae, and subfamilial status of Liquidambaroideae, rather than segregation as the family Altingiaceae, is supported.
3298645|The analysis of genetic data for the purpose of identifying conservation priorities may draw from one or more biological subdisciplines depending on the specific questions at hand. As such the proliferation of different methods for analyzing and interpreting genetic data in such fields as molecular systematics and population genetics has been paralleled in conservation. We explore the respective realms of utility for these fields and approaches by discussing the juxtaposition of analyses of character distributions with more commonly and often casually used tree-based analyses. In so doing, the biological, philosophical, and methodological convergences and conflicts of these frameworks are explicated using empirical examples, as are some of the areas of overlap among and disagreement over phylogenetic species criteria and other alternatives. In the arena of conservation biology, systematics and population genetics complement one another and may facilitate the identification of management units at intraspecific levels, or more properly intra-nominal levels when species boundaries are defined according to the biological species concept. The comparison of these methods heightens the contrast between graphical representation of reciprocal monophyly at traditionally intra-nominal levels and the identification of groupings actually supported by fixed diagnostic characters as prospective conservation tools. Since character fixation is widely regarded as an early stage in the "ontogeny" of species evolution, character-based approaches to delineating management units provide a suitable framework from within which to explore the complementarity of the two major subdisciplines of evolutionary biology and their respective contributions to conservation.
10.2307/2399546|The allotetraploid Cystopteris tennesseensis and its putative diploid progenitors, C. bulbifera and C. protrusa, constitute the C. tennesseensis complex. Although previous studies provided evidence of morphological, ecological, and chromosomal differences among the members of this complex, puzzling morphological variability precluded consistent identification and treatment of the taxa. The current study combined morphometric analyses with surveys of chromosomal, isozymic, and gametophytic features and supported past treatments of the complex as three separate species. The diploids shared no allozymes for the nine enzymes examined, and meiotic analyses of triploid hybrids with C. tennesseensis provided additional evidence that the diploid genomes are nonhomologous. Because C. tennesseensis has a relatively narrow range and contains isozymic profiles that are consistently additive of diploid patterns, we suggest that this allopolyploid is a relatively young species. Isozymic variation in the tetraploid parallels that observed in the diploids, implying that genetic variability was introduced through recurrent hybridization. Analyses of isozymic data and gametophytic features indicated that the diploids outcross frequently and thus may form hybrids readily when sympatric with the tetraploid. In part because of these characteristics, precise identification of species and hybrids in this complex is difficult and depends on evaluation of cryptic features.
10.2307/2399573|The systematic positions of the monotypic Guayanan genera Carptotepala Mold. and Comanthera Lyman B. Smith are reevaluated. Carptotepala jenmanii (Gleason) Mold. is here placed in Syngonanthus sect. Thysanocephalus near S. xeranthemoides, under the name S. jenmanii (Gleason) Giulietti & Hensold. Comanthera kegeliana (Koern.) Mold. is here returned to Syngonanthus sect. Eulepis, as S. kegelianus (Koern.) Ruhl. Synonymies are given for each species.
10.2307/2399450|The present flora of the northern Rocky Mountains has diverse origins. The Late Cretaceous mesothermal to megathermal evergreen vegetation of this region had few taxa, even at the familial level, that live in the northern Rocky Mountains today. The terminal Cretaceous event resulted in broad-leaved deciduous taxa occupying mesothermal climate in the northern Rocky Mountain region, where they underwent major diversification. The early Eocene thermal maximum severely restricted the areas of microthermal climate and created a climatic/geographic bottleneck for microthermal lineages. By the early middle Eocene, volcanic uplands that supported microthermal coniferous forests of Pinaceae and Cupressaceae had developed in parts of the northern Rocky Mountain region. These Eocene coniferous forests contained a diverse broad-leaved subsidiary element, most of which represented adaptive radiations of mesothermal clades into newly created microthermal climate. During the later Eocene, microthermal vegetation was progressively enriched by internal diversification and by adaptation of mesothermal groups to microthermal climate; extinction also was a major factor in the changing composition of the microthermal flora. The Eocene volcanic uplands of western North America played a major role in the diversification of arcto-tertiary clades; dispersals between western North America and Eurasia of members of these clades was readily accomplished during the later Eocene by way of Beringia. Some of the Eocene microthermal lineages survive relatively unchanged in the northern Rocky Mountains today, and other extant lineages, although ultimately derived from taxa in the Eocene uplands, represent morphological types that originated and diverged in Eurasia, arriving in North America by migration. Oligocene and Neogene floras are largely unknown in the northern Rocky Mountains, although the Columbia Plateaus to the west contain many assemblages of these ages. These assemblages represent microthermal broad-leaved deciduous or coniferous forests, and most constituent taxa represent lineages that were derived from Eocene upland vegetation following the terminal Eocene temperature deterioration. With the presence of many extant northern Rocky Mountain lineages, the Columbia Plateaus assemblages provide evidence that the northern Rocky Mountain region was probably occupied primarily by coniferous forest during the Oligocene and most of the Neogene. During the mid-Miocene thermal maximum, numerous microthermal lineages were exchanged between western North America and Eurasia. Other extant northern Rocky Mountain lineages are known during the Miocene only in areas such as Alaska and probably represent migrants into the northern Rocky Mountains during the late Neogene. The present flora of the northern Rocky Mountains therefore clearly represents a complex overlay of numerous historical biogeographic patterns.
10.2307/3298581|Invasive species are a major global threat to both biodiversity and agriculture and thus are a high priority for conservation science. Governments recognize this and are devoting increasing resources toward solving the problem. Even so, there is inadequate information on where invasives occur and thus where society can best use these resources. Disturbed areas tend to be very favorable to invasives, especially the weedy species. We map the world's disturbed areas, the global weed patch, using maps of original and current landcover. At least 29.4 million km
10.2307/2992098|The Euphorbieae and Hippomaneae, though both usually placed in subfamily Euphorbioideae, differ in many inflorescence details and can be linked unambiguously only by one cryptic character: the rod-shaped starch grains in the latex. While the Hippomaneae have inflorescences very similar to those of many other members of the Euphorbiaceae, the Euphorbieae have an inflorescence so specialized that one seems to be forced to relate it to other members of the family through a hypothetical ancestor with a synflorescence of axillary bisexual cymes more primitive than most extant taxa possibly other than Jatropha.
10.2307/2399227|The problem of ascribing adaptive significance to traits that enable graminoids to tolerate or evade ungulate herbivory is examined. Some of these traits may have originally evolved in response to nongrazing selection pressures, thus constituting grazing exaptations rather than true adaptations. The fossil record indicates that semiarid habitats, extensive grasslands, and grazers appeared, interacted, and evolved together. However, several traits that are advantageous in semiarid habitats have beneficial effects for grazed plants. Other traits, such as developmental plasticity, enhance competitive ability in certain environments, but also increase grazing tolerance or resistance. Experiments and simulation modeling showed that defoliation responses are embedded in a network of interacting processes, including photosynthesis, transpiration, nutrient uptake, and resource allocation. Responses and adaptations to defoliation must be interpreted in this context. Although traits may have arisen due to non-herbivorous selection pressures, they may subsequently have been selected, combined, or amplified through grass-grazer coevolution to form species, polymorphic populations, phenotypically plastic individuals, or communities of species that evade, resist, or tolerate herbivory.
10.2307/2399302|The Lisianthius skinneri (Gentianaceae) species complex consists of six closely related species in Panama. Lisianthius skinneri is widespread in Central America at low elevations and is morphologically variable. Five mostly cloud-forest species are endemic to central Panama: L. jefensis, L. peduncularis, L. aurantiacus, L. habuensis, and L. weaveri. The last three species are described as new. Divergence in floral and vegetative morphology among species is compared and contrasted with genetic divergence (DNA and isozymes) previously presented. Morphological divergence within the species complex is not correlated with molecular divergence.
10.2307/2399750|Zosterophylls have been considered the probable ancestors of lycopsids since the establishment of the group in 1968 by Banks. Both share the characters of exarch protosteles and reniform sporangia, and it is argued that characters separating the two, e.g., microphylls and leaf-associated sporangia, could easily be derived by modification of zosterophyll emergences and sporangial position. Recently, different opinions concerning the derivation of lycopsid features have been proposed and an earlier time of occurrence of lycopsids has been suggested. The purpose of this paper is to evaluate the position of zosterophylls relative to lycopsids employing current information and considering prevailing theories. Aspects of morphology and ecology of zosterophylls and lycopsids are summarized, various evolutionary theories are evaluated, and a preliminary phylogenetic analysis involving zosterophylls, lycopsids, and selected other types of early land plants is presented. The cladograms suggest that zosterophylls and lycopsids are monophyletic based on the characters employed in the study. However, critical information is lacking that would allow a more precise estimate of affinity among all early land plants and between zosterophylls and lycopsids. Determining homologies is difficult, and early land plants exhibit extensive homoplasy.
42703729|Taxonomic keys, illustrations, descriptions, synonymy, distribution maps, and an index to collectors' names and numbers are given for the Neotropical taxa belonging to Elaphoglossum Schott ex J. Sm. sect. Squamipedia Mickel & Atehorta. Eighteen taxa are recognized herein, consisting of 16 species, with one of the species, E. peltatum (Sw.) Urb., having three forms. Three new species are described: E. anthracinum A. Vasco, Mickel & R. C. Moran, E. blepharis A. Vasco, Mickel & R. C. Moran, and E. rhomboideum A. Vasco, Mickel & R. C. Moran. The following name is lectotypified: Acrostichum flabellatum Humb. & Bonpl. ex Willd. var. sphenophyllum Kunze. Four species are atypical in the genus by having divided laminae: E. colombianum (Maxon) Mickel and E. moorei (E. Britton) Christ have pinnately divided laminae, E. peltatum (Sw.) Urb. has isodichotomously divided laminae, and E. tripartitum (Hook. & Grev.) Mickel has ternately divided laminae. The Neotropical species of the section can usually be distinguished from other species of Elaphoglossum by long-creeping, green rhizomes; thin, translucent, light orange or brown rhizome scales; distichous leaves; paired peglike aerophores on each side of the rhizome slightly proximal to the petiole bases; a lack of phyllopodia; leaves that are typically < 15 cm long; and echinulate spores. One species, E. nidiforme Mickel, is atypical by its large size and short-creeping rhizomes but is included here in Elaphoglossum sect. Squamipedia based on previous molecular phylogenetic analyses. All Neotropical species of Elaphoghssum sect. Squamipedia are epiphytes, usually in middle- to high-elevation forests. The section is most diverse in the Andes from Colombia to Bolivia, where 17 taxa occur. Se presentan una clave, ilustraciones, descripciones, sinonimia, mapas de distribucin y un ndice de colectores por apellidos y nmeros de coleccin para los taxones neotropicales pertenecientes a Elaphoglossum Schott ex J. Sm. seccin Squamipedia Mickel & Atehorta. De esta seccin se reconocen 18 taxones que representan 16 especies. Dentro de una de las especies E. peltatum (Sw.) Urb., se reconocen tres formas. Se describen tres nuevas especies: E. anthracinum A. Vasco, Mickel & R. C. Moran, E. blepharis A. Vasco, Mickel & R. C. Moran y E. rhomboideum A. Vasco, Mickel & R. C. Moran. Se lectotipifica el nombre Acrostichum flabellatum Humb. & Bonpl. ex Willd. var. sphenophyllum Kunze. Cuatro de las especies dentro de la seccin son atpicas en el gnero por tener lminas divididas: E. colombianum (Maxon) Mickel y E. moorei (E. Britton) Christ las tienen pinnadamente divididas, E. peltatum (Sw.) Urb. dicotmicamente divididas y E. tripartitum (Hook. & Grev.) Mickel ternadamente divididas. Las especies neotropicales de la seccin usualmente pueden distinguirse de otras especies de Elaphoglossum por sus rizomas verdes largamente rastreros, escamas del rizoma delgadas y translucidas de color pajizo, marrn o naranja claro, hojas dsticas, aerforos en forma de gancho a cada lado del rizoma casi proximales a la base del peciolo, filopodios ausentes, hojas tpicamente menores a los 15 cm de largo y esporas equinuladas. Una especie, E. nidiforme Mickel, presenta una morfologa atpica con hojas bastantes ms largas y rizomas cortamente rastreros, sin embargo es incluida en el presente trabajo debido a que los anlisis filogenticos moleculares la ubican dentro de Elaphoglossum seccin Squamipedia. Todas las especies neotropicales de Elaphoglossum seccin Squamipedia son epfitas usualmente en bosques montanos o montano-altos. La seccin es ms diversa en los Andes, desde Colombia hasta Bolivia, en donde puenden encontrarse 17 taxones.
25488207|A putative natural hybrid in Ligularia Cass., which is morphologically intermediate between L. paradoxa Hand.-Mazz. and L. duciformis (C. Winkl.) Hand.-Mazz., was found on Mt. Maoniu in northwestern Yunnan, China. We employed analyses of morphology, seed vigor, somatic chromosome numbers, meiotic behavior of chromosomes, inter-simple sequence repeat (ISSR) markers, and trnL-F sequencing to test the hypothesis that the unidentified taxon is a natural interspecific hybrid between L. paradoxa and L. duciformis. Examination of morphological characters demonstrated the intermediacy of the putative natural hybrid between L. paradoxa and L. duciformis. Seed germination of the putative natural hybrid was absent, and no embryo was found in seeds of the putative natural hybrid. The meiotic behavior of the putative natural hybrid was abnormal. Among 10 ISSR primers that we tested in all three taxa, four primers produced different ISSR markers between the putative parents. The putative natural hybrid shared all ISSR markers of the putative parents. However, no taxon-specific band existed in the samples of the putative natural hybrid. The data from ISSR markers are concordant with morphology in implicating L. paradoxa and L. duciformis as parents of the putative natural hybrid. Ligularia paradoxa was determined as the female parent of this natural hybrid by nucleotide sequence from the chloroplast trnL-F region. Therefore, this taxon is confirmed to be a natural hybrid between L. paradoxa and L. duciformis and is described herein.
10.2307/2399968|In the past several decades, the science of ethnobotany has evolved from a discipline primarily concerned with making lists of useful plants in a particular geographic region or among an individual tribe, to a multidisciplinary endeavor focused on understanding the relationship between plants and people. Ethnobotanists are involved in projects ranging from community level germplasm conservation to multinational biodiversity prospecting. One result of the renewed interest and activity in ethnobotany has been the increased public awareness of this branch of biological science. Several projects utilizing the contemporary ethnobotanical paradigm are discussed, including in-situ germplasm conservation in the western United States, ethnobotanical market surveys in Mexico, the management and use of Sabal palm resources in Mexico, quantitative studies in the Neotropics, and ethnopharmacological studies linked to drug development in Samoa. The Belize Ethnobotany Project's multidisciplinary approach to the study and conservation of traditional medicines and the development of an ethno-biomedical forest reserve in Belize are also reviewed. Contemporary ethnobotanical studies have value not only for the research questions they address, but as a way of catalyzing awareness of the value of biological diversity and support for its conservation among a broad range of people.
10.2307/2399113|Information on fossil Nothofagus, and related genera, is reviewed based on pollen grains, leaves, woods, and flowers and fruits. The available data suggest that ancestors of Nothofagus and related families probably originated in West Gondwanaland. By the Santonian, Nothofagus was the only living genus already differentiated in the southern Hemisphere. Northern counterparts included several species in living genera of the Betulaceae, Myricaceae, and Ulmaceae. Rapid evolution and speciation of Nothofagus took place in the Eocene. After the pollen types and the main leaf forms were established in the Cretaceous and Eocene, respectively, the rate of morphological change was slow. More speciation was possible after the Miocene in New Guinea and also in other areas during the Plio-Pleistocene. Several lines of evidence support former suggestions of giving Nothofagus a higher taxonomic rank.
10.2307/2398862| Twenty-one species are recognized for Flaveria in this first revision of the genus since 1915. Three new species are described. Morphological, cytological, chemical, and artificial hybridization approaches were used in the study. Interspecific crosses revealed both weak and strong reproductive barriers among various species of Flaveria, Sartwellia, and Haplosthes. Flaveria includes both self-compatible and self-mcompatible species, some of which exhibit C
10.2307/2398984|The genus Crataegus possesses some 150 species, more or less, according to how apomictic complexes are treated. Two of the largest series: Oxyacanthae (mainly European, of about 25 species) and Azaroli (Mediterranean to Central Asiatic, of about 12 species) do not at first sight impinge on the topic of this paper, but their cladistic significance indicates otherwise. In temperate Asia east of about 75
10.2307/2398837|In an analysis of sugars, amino acids, and other substances (lipids, antioxidant organic acids, phenolics, alkaloids, proteins) of nectar, the hybrid Erythrina \times bidwillii showed a quantitative intermediacy and qualitative additiveness in amino acids compared to its parents, E. herbacea and E. crista-galli, and intermediacy in sugars and the other compounds.
10.2307/2399889|A parsimony analysis of rbcL sequences from 49 Rubiaceae genera (representing 23 tribes) and 7 outgroup taxa was performed. Species representing 48 genera of Rubiaceae were sequenced: Anthospermum, Antirhea, Bertiera, Bouvardia, Calycophyllum, Catesbaea, Cephalanthus, Cinchona, Coffea, Cubanola, Deppea, Enterospermum, Erithalis, Exostema, Gardenia, Guettarda, Haldina, Hallea, Hamelia, Hillia, Hintonia, Hoffmannia, Hydnophytum, Ixora, Keetia, Luculia, Meyna, Mitriostigma, Morinda, Mussaenda, Nauclea, Nertera, Oldenlandia, Ophiorrhiza, Parapentas, Pentagonia, Pentas, Pentodon, Pinckneya, Pogonopus, Psychotria, Rachicallis, Rogiera, Rubia, Sarcocephalus, Theligonum, Uncaria, and Vangueria. The cladistic analysis resulted in 24 equally parsimonious trees with a consistency index (C.I.) of 0.38. The results were analyzed to test higher-level classification and reconstruction of Rubiaceae phylogeny, and to place taxa with disputed taxonomic positions. There are three groups of taxa more or less corresponding to three of Robbrecht's four subfamilies: Cinchonoideae s. str., Ixoroideae s.l., and Rubioideae. There is no support for the subfamily Antirheoideae, the taxa of which are nested within Cinchonoideae s. str. and Ixoroideae s.l. The positions of Luculia and Hintonia are uncertain. The tribal positions (sensu Robbrecht) are supported for a majority of the genera, but other indicated relationships contradict earlier classification. The data, although based on a limited number of taxa, support the monophyly of the tribes Anthospermeae, Chiococceae s.l., Guettardeae, Hamelieae, Hedyotideae, Naucleeae s.l., Psychotrieae, and Vanguerieae, but there is no support for the positions and/or narrow circumscriptions of Cephalantheae and subtribe Mitragyninae (Cinchoneae), or for a wide circumscription of Cinchoneae. The rbcL data also give useful suggestions for taxonomic positions of the following genera with uncertain affiliations: Bertiera, Catesbaea, Deppea, Hillia, Ophiorrhiza, Rachicallis, and Theligonum.
10.2307/2399283|DNA content varies well over 100-fold among diploid herbaceous angiosperms. Differences exceeding two- to three-fold commonly exist among congeneric species. There is no overall correlation between DNA content and evolutionary or genetic complexity, and apparently only a small percentage of a plant genome has coding functions. The question of adaptive versus nonadaptive roles of variation in nuclear DNA content is addressed. The geographic, ecological, and taxonomic distributions of DNA content are not random; they apparently represent the results of natural selection. Several examples of evolutionary changes of DNA content and of geographical and ecological correlates are presented. Variation in DNA content is discussed in terms of the nucleotypic theory. The nucleotype is determined by the total quantity of DNA, both genetic and nongenetic, that has been correlated with several factors, including nuclear volume, cell volume, mitotic cycle time, and the duration of meiosis. It is proposed that differences in DNA content have striking and multiple nucleotypic effects on plant development and adaptation. A precise technique for the scanning microspectrophotometric determination of DNA content from Feulgen-stained leaf epidermal cells is presented.
10.2307/2398922|Roggeveldia is a new genus recently discovered in the western Karoo, Cape Province, South Africa. Its vegetative morphology, including a cormous rootstock and single leaf is like that of Moraea and Homeria (Iridoideae-Irideae). Floral characters, anomalous for this alliance, include entirely free stamens and simple terete style branches, features characteristic of Sisyrinchieae, especially the South African Bobartia. Floral similarity is probably a result of convergence. Chromosome number in R. fistulosa is n = 6, which is consistent with numbers in Moraea and Homeria, but not with Sisyrinchieae.
40035768|Se presenta una revisin del gnero Junellia Moldenke, nom. cons. El gnero comprende 39 especies y seis variedades distribuidas en Amrica del Sur, desde Per y Bolivia hasta la Argentina y Chile. Se establece un reordenamiento de las categoras infragenricas a nivel de secciones; se cambia de subgnero Junellia subgn. Thryothamnus (Phil.) Botta secc. Junelliopsis Botta, dndose la siguiente nueva combinacin: Junellia subgn. Junellia secc. Junelliopsis (Botta) P. Peralta & Mlgura; y se funda una nueva seccin para las especies excluidas de Junellia subgn. Thryothamnus secc. Junelliopsis: Junellia subgn. Thryothamnus secc. Dentium P. Peralta & Mlgura. Las siguientes secciones y series se sinonimizan: Junellia subgn. Thryothamnus secc. Junelliopsis Botta, Verbena L. secc. Junellia (Moldenke) Tronc. ser. Minutifoliae Tronc., Verbena secc. Junellia ser. Thymifoliae Tronc., Verbena secc. Verbenaca Walp. ser. Erinaceae Walp., Verbena secc. Verbenaca ser. Seriphioideae Walp. y Verbena ser. Pauciflorae Briq. Se neotipifican: Verbena juniperina Lag., V. ligustrina Lag., V. minima Meyen, V. thymifolia Lag., V. tridactylites Lag. y V. tridens Lag. Se lectotipifican: Diostea filifolia Miers, V. asparagoides Gillies & Hook. ex Hook., V. bisulcata Hayek, V. connatibracteata Kuntze, V. digitata Phil., V. lorentzii Niederl. ex Hieron., V. ourostachya Briq., V. pygmaea R. E. Fr., V. selaginoides Kunth ex Walp., V. spathulata Gillies & Hook. ex Hook. var. grandiflora Schauer, V. spathulata var. parviflora Schauer y V. uniflora Phil. var. glabriuscula Kuntze. Se transfieren a la sinonimia los siguientes taxones: Junellia echegarayi (Hieron.) Moldenke var. cordifolia Moldenke, J. echegarayi var. puberulenta Moldenke [= J. echegarayi], J. spathulata (Gillies & Hook. ex Hook.) Moldenke var. grandiflora (Schauer) Botta [= J. spathulata var. glauca (Gillies & Hook. ex Hook.) Botta], J. tripartita Moldenke, J. longidentata Moldenke var. glandulosa Botta [= J. aspera (Gillies & Hook. ex Hook.) Moldenke var. aspera], V. comberi Sandwith [= J. caespitosa (Gillies & Hook. ex Hook.) Moldenke], V. dolichothyrsa Sandwith [= J. connatibracteata (Kuntze) Moldenke], V. colchaguensis Phil. [= J. lavandulaefolia (Phil.) Moldenke] y V. scoparia Gillies & Hook. ex Hook. var. puberula Tronc. [= J. scoparia (Gillies & Hook. ex Hook.) Botta]. Se realizan dos nuevas combinaciones a nivel subespecfico: J. toninii (Kuntze) Moldenke var. mulinoides (Speg.) P. Peralta & Mlgura, J. aspera var. longidentata (Moldenke) P. Peralta & Mlgura. Se incluye una clave para identificar las especies y variedades, se actualiza la sinonimia de cada una de ellas, que se describen e ilustran y se brinda su distribucin geogrfica. /// A systematic treatment of the genus Junellia Moldenke, nom. cons. is presented. The genus comprises 39 species and six varieties growing in South America from Peru and Bolivia to Argentina and Chile. Infrageneric names are re-ordered at the sectional level; Junellia subg. Thryothamnus (Phil.) Botta sect. Junelliopsis Botta is moved to another subgenus and the resulting new combination is made: Junellia subg. Junellia sect. Junelliopsis (Botta) P. Peralta & Mlgura; and a new name for taxa excluded from Junellia subg. Thryothamnus sect. Junelliopsis is established: Junellia subg. Thryothamnus sect. Dentium P. Peralta & Mlgura. The following sections and series are synonymized: Junellia subg. Thryothamnus sect. Junelliopsis Botta, Verbena L. sect. Junellia (Moldenke) Tronc. ser. Minutifoliae Tronc., Verbena sect. Junellia ser. Thymifoliae Tronc., Verbena sect. Verbenaca Walp. ser. Erinaceae Walp., Verbena sect. Verbenaca ser. Seriphioideae Walp., and Verbena ser. Pauciflorae Briq. The following taxa are neotypified: V. juniperina Lag., V. ligustrina Lag., V. minima Meyen, V. thymifolia Lag., V. tridactylites Lag., and V. tridens Lag. Lectotypes for the following species are given: Diostea filifolia Miers, V. asparagoides Gillies & Hook, ex Hook., V. bisulcata Hayek, V. connatibracteata Kuntze, V. digitata Phil., V. lorentzii Niederl. ex Hieron., V. ourostachya Briq., V. pygmaea R. E. Fr., V. selaginoides Kunth ex Walp., V. spathulata Gillies & Hook. ex Hook. var. grandiflora Schauer, V. spathulata var. parviflora Schauer, and V. uniflora Phil. var. glabriuscula Kuntze. The following taxa are synonymized: Junellia echegarayi (Hieron.) Moldenke var. cordifolia Moldenke, J. echegarayi var. puberulenta Moldenke [= J. echegarayi], J. spathulata (Gillies & Hook. ex Hook.) Moldenke var. grandiflora (Schauer) Botta [= J. spathulata var. glauca (Gillies & Hook. ex Hook.) Botta], J. tripartita Moldenke, J. longidentata Moldenke var. glandulosa Botta [= J. aspera (Gillies & Hook. ex Hook.) Moldenke var. aspera], V. comberi Sandwith [= J. caespitosa (Gillies & Hook. ex Hook.) Moldenke], V. dolichothyrsa Sandwith [= J. connatibracteata (Kuntze) Moldenke], V. colchaguensis Phil. [= J. lavandulaefolia (Phil.) Moldenke], and V. scoparia Gillies & Hook. ex Hook. var. puberula Tronc. [= J. scoparia (Gillies & Hook. ex Hook.) Botta]. Two new combinations of subspecific names are established: J. toninii (Kuntze) Moldenke var. mulinoides (Speg.) P. Peralta & Mlgura and J. aspera var. longidentata (Moldenke) P. Peralta & Mlgura. A key to identify these species is given, as well as synonymy, descriptions, illustrations, and geographical distribution.
10.2307/2991997|Calamagrostis porteri subsp. insperata was known from only two extant populations in Ohio prior to the late 1980s. Recent searching has documented more than 80 populations of this rare grass in five states. Although more populations exist than previously believed, the habitat requirements for this subspecies are still unknown. To quantify these requirements, data were collected on photosynthetic photo-flux density (PPFD), air and soil temperature, vapor-pressure deficits (VPD), soil moisture and depth, pH, percent organic matter, and associated species cover from three populations in southern Illinois. Leaf area, predicted total leaf area, and number of tillers per m
25488209|This paper constitutes the first report of the chemical nature, and histochemical localization of secretions in Brazilian species of Panicum L. sect. Lorea Zuloaga (Poaceae, Panicoideae, Paniceae); the study also includes an anatomical analysis. Lipid secretions were found in leaf sheaths and ligular regions. Lipids accumulate in specialized epidermal cells, at times surrounding the bases of the macrohairs, and in the mesophyll. Viscous secretions have been previously reported for P. vaginiviscosum Renvoize & Zuloaga and P. acicularifolium Renvoize & Zuloaga, species in section Lorea that are analyzed anatomically here. Lipid secretions are now also reported for the first time in eight other species of section Lorea: P. bahiense Renvoize, P. chnoodes Trin., P. cipoense Renvoize & Send., P. durifolium Renvoize & Zuloaga, P. euprepes Renvoize, P. molinioides Trin., P. poliophyllum Renvoize & Zuloaga, and P. trinii Kunth.
10.2307/3298601|Osmorhiza Raf. (Apiaceae) consists of 10 species disjunctly distributed in temperate Asia (1 sp.) and the Americas (9 spp.). Osmorhiza berteroi and O. depauperata show an American antitropical disjunction. Within North America, these two species are also disjunctly distributed in eastern and western North America and the Great Lakes regions. A phylogenetic analysis was conducted to clarify inter- and intraspecific relationships based on sequences of the ITS and 5.8S regions of nrDNA. With Anthriscus, Geocaryum, and Myrrhis as outgroups, the monophyly of Osmorhiza is strongly supported. The ITS phylogeny suggests the basal position of the Asiatic 0. aristata and the monophyly of the nine New World species. The ITS sequence of Osmorhiza aristata is relatively divergent from those of all other species even though it is morphologically similar to the eastern North American O. claytonii and 0. longistylis (which form a clade), suggesting early divergence followed by morphological stasis. Osmorhiza berteroi, 0. brachypoda, 0. depauperata, 0. mexicana, 0. occidentalis, and 0. purpurea constitute a monophyletic group (= western North American clade). The morphologically distinct 0. glabrata from the central Andes forms a trichotomy with the eastern North American clade (0. claytonii and 0. longistylis) and the western North American clade in parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses. The 11 populations studied of the widespread 0. berteroi form a clade, and showed little sequence divergence, suggesting recent establishment of the widely disjunct populations following long-distance dispersal. Disjunct populations of 0. depauperata from the Rocky Mountains and eastern North America have an identical ITS profile. Osmorhiza occidentalis, however, shows a high level of infraspecific sequence divergence. The ITS phylogeny and the low sequence divergence values suggest rapid diversification of Osmorhiza in western North America.
10.2307/2399551|Devia xeromorpha, a new genus and species of Iridaceae-Ixioideae, is a local endemic of the Roggeveld Escarpment in the western Karoo, South Africa. The new taxon is probably most closely related to the southern and tropical African Crocosmia, a member of subtribe Tritoniinae of Ixioideae-Ixieae. Devia xeromorpha is remarkable in the Tritoniinae in its narrow, four-grooved leaves; dusty pink, actinomorphic flowers with helically rotated anthers; and tussock-forming habit. The foliar marginal epidermal cells are heavily thickened, and submarginal sclerenchyma is absent; the bundle caps are strongly developed and reach to the epidermis; and stomata are restricted to the laminar grooves. The seed coat of Devia is of the basic type for Iridaceae in its brown, microreticulate outer surface. Basic chromosome number for Tritoniinae is x = 11 but Chasmanthe and some species of Tritonia have n = 10. Devia, with n = 10, is consistent with this pattern, but it differs from Crocosmia which has the basic number for the subtribe. Although some of the differences between Devia and Crocosmia reflect xeromorphic adaptations in the former (persistent tunics, proteranthous and peculiar fibrotic leaves), the genus appears to have followed an independent evolutionary pathway, becoming specialized in the structure of the leaf and in orientation of the stamens and style.
10.2307/2399322|Hexaglottis is a genus of six species occurring along the west and south coast of southern Africa, an area of predominantly winter rainfall. It is a member of tribe Irideae subtribe Homeriinae, which is characterized by a cormous rootstock and secondarily bifacial leaves. Hexaglottis is defined largely by an unusual flower structure with shortly clawed subequal tepals and completely divided filiform style arms. This revision includes three new species, H. namaquana, H. riparia, and H. brevituba, and three that were described before 1800. On the basis of chromosome cytology, experimental hybridization, and vegetative morphology, H. nana is excluded from Hexaglottis; it is probably allied to the genus Rheome. The relationships and history of Hexaglottis are discussed, and, following a detailed presentation of taxonomically important characters including chromosome cytology, Hexaglottis is analyzed cladistically. Hexaglottis namaquana is suggested to be an isolated and primitive relict and the sister species of the remainder of the genus. The southern African genus Homeria is probably the closest ally and sister group of Hexaglottis. The putative ancestry of these two genera is traced back to a group of species of Moraea section Moraea. Basic chromosome number in Hexaglottis is x = 6, while H. nana has x = 10, a number shared with Rheome and basic for Moraea.
10.2307/2399649|Zapoteca (Leguminosae: Mimosoideae) is a relatively well-circumscribed genus belonging to the tribe Ingeae distributed from the southwestern United States and northern Mexico to northern Argentina and the West Indies. The highest concentration of taxa occurs in the dry forests of southern Mexico and, to a lesser extent, in Central America and the northern Andes. The predominance of allopatric distributions and the apparent low frequency of hybrids suggest that speciation in this genus has primarily arisen from genetic differentiation of geographically isolated populations. The recent climatic episodes of the Pleistocene appear to have had a prominent role on the current distributional patterns of Zapoteca species. Zapoteca species have similar reproductive biologies. All probably have nocturnal anthesis and are pollinated by unspecialized settling moths. Self-compatibility appears to be widespread in the genus, Z. tetragona being the only known self-incompatible species. Andromonoecy is another widespread component of the breeding system of Zapoteca species. This probably maximizes the use of reproductive energy without reducing pollinator attraction. The basic chromosome number of Zapoteca (x = 13) and some of the generalized characters of the polyads (i.e., acalymmate, discoid, 16-grained polyads) indicate a relationship between Zapoteca and the remaining genera of the Ingeae, with the exception of Calliandra sensu stricto, which is cytologically and morphologically isolated in this tribe. I recognize 17 species in Zapoteca, three of which (Z. alinae, Z. andina, and Z. tehuana) are newly described. Eleven subspecies are recognized, of which Z. portoricensis subsp. pubicarpa is newly described. A subgeneric classification is proposed, where taxa are grouped into four morphologically distinct subgenera: Nervosa, Zapoteca, Aculeata, and Amazonica. The subgenera are based primarily on differences in vegetative characters: number of pairs of pinnae, number of leaflet pairs per pinna, leaflet size, leaflet texture, venation patterns, and stipule type.
10.2307/2399366|Observations conducted in East Texas on the pollination biology of Brasenia schreberi J. F. Gmel. confirm that anthesis is diurnal, with individual flowers opening and closing for two consecutive days. First-day flowers are morphologically and functionally pistillate. They are characterized by short, undehisced stamens and elongated, papillate stigmas that radiate outward over the perianths, providing an expanded surface area for pollen adherence. Second-day flowers are morphologically and functionally staminate. Staminal filaments are elongated, elevating the dehiscent anthers to a position above the centrally aggregated stigmas. Although self-pollination occurs, dichogamy prevents individual flowers from self-fertilizing. Notiphila cf. cressoni (Diptera; Ephydridae) was the most frequent insect visitor. Based on behavior and pollen loads, insect pollination is insignificant. The expanded stigmatic surface area, exserted stamens, and additional floral and vegetative features are adaptations for wind pollination. Data from pollen dispersal experiments indicate that anemophily is the primary mechanism of pollen transfer. This pollination mechanism is unique in the Nymphaeaceae sensu lato. Evidence from pollination biology, floral anatomy, seed anatomy, and embryology indicates a close evolutionary relationship between the Cabombaceae and Nymphaeaceae sensu stricto. Genera of the Nymphaeaceae s. str. and Nelumbonaceae exhibit a phyletic elaboration of the flower, whereas the Cabombaceae represent a phyletic reduction.
10.2307/2992028|Cydista (Bignoniaceae) is a genus of six primarily lowland species ranging from central and southern Mexico to Paraguay and eastern Brazil. All species are lianas with showy white to magenta campanulate-funnelform flowers, linear to linear-oblong fruit, and winged seeds. This paper builds on the work of the late Alwyn H. Gentry and utilizes an extensive database produced from his investigations. Descriptions, separate keys to flowering and fruiting material, maps of species distributions, graphs of flowering and fruiting phenology, and an illustration are presented.
40035497|Se han estudiado caracteres foliares de 25 taxones europeos, norteafricanos, norteamericanos y sudamericanos, terrestres, anfibios y acuticos, del gnero Isoetes L. (Pteridophyta, Isoetaceae). Los caracteres morfolgicos foliares investigados tienen un valor diagnstico variable. Son especficos y deberan incluirse en las descripciones taxonmicas las ornamentaciones cuticulares, los tipos de mrgenes, los modelos y las relaciones longitud/anchura (relaciones l/a) celulares de las clulas epidermicas, los tipos de protuberancias intercelulares pcticas (PIP), los modelos y las relaciones l/a celulares de las clulas epidrmicas del velo, el modelo epidrmico adaxial de los esporangios y la naturaleza de sus paredes celulares. Son caracteres de grupos de especies los contornos de las secciones foliares, los tipos de colnquima (en haces, lacunar o parcialmente laminar, los dos ltimos descritos aqu por primera vez), los tipos de clulas de los diafragmas, la presencia y tipos de PIP, la extensin de la endodermis en las cmaras aerferas, la lgula secretora persistente o esclerosada tempranamente. Son genricos la presencia de lgula secretora y los tipos de endodermis. Al gnero se le ha atribuido escasez de caracteres morfolgicos o variacin de stos con el ambiente, dos conceptos que aqu se discuten ante las nuevas evidencias. /// Foliar characters were studied in 25 European, North African, North American, and South American terrestrial, amphibious, and aquatic taxa of the genus Isoetes L. (Pteridophyta, Isoetaceae). The foliar characters investigated have a variable diagnostic value. The presence and types of cuticular ornamentations, types of margins, epidermal patterns and cell ratios of the epidermis, types of IPP (intercellular pectic protuberances) in the cells of the leaf diaphragms, epidermal patterns and cell ratios of velum, epidermal patterns, and nature of walls in the adaxial epidermis of sporangia may be good diagnostic specific characters that should be included in taxonomic descriptions. Transverse sections of the microphylls, the types and distribution of collenchyma (fascicular, lacunar, or partially laminar collenchyma, with the latter two types described here for the first time), the cell types of leaf diaphragms, the presence of IPP in these cells, the partial or complete endodermis in the air chambers, and the presence of a persistent mucilage-secreting or an early lignified ligule are features that characterize species groups in Isoetes. The mucilage-secreting ligula and the types of endodermis can be considered as generic traits in Isoetes. The genus was largely considered as lacking good diagnostic characters or having rather environmentally influenced traits, two concepts that are discussed here after presentation of the new evidence.
10.2307/2399597|Among the families of Hamamelidae, Ticodendron incognitum Gomez-Laurito & Gomez P. contains S-type sieve-element plastids, the specifics of which (diameter and starch grains) would place it within or close to Betulaceae/Corylaceae. The absence of persistent, nondispersive P-protein bodies in the sieve elements of Ticodendron excludes the families of the Urticales and the Fagaceae, all regularly containing persistent P-protein bodies, from the list of its closest relatives.
10.2307/2399547|Whereas the numbers of fern species in the eastern Paleotropics and the Neotropics are comparable, the diversity at the subgeneric and especially the generic level is much higher in the eastern Paleotropics. This unexplained phenomenon is termed the "American Paradox" in the present paper.
10.2307/2666145|Gamosepaly is reported in 12 genera of the Brassicaceae and is considered to have evolved independently as many times. It is concluded that gamoscpaly is not a useful character for the circumscription of genera in the family. The boundaries of Desideria and several other genera are critically evaluated, and a taxonomic revision of Desideria is presented. A new name (D. haranensis), eight new combinations (D. baiogionensis, D. flabellata, D. himalayensis, D. incana, D. linearis, D. prolifera, D. pumila, and D. stewartii), and eight new synonyms (Christolea karakorumensis, C. pinnatifida, C. scaposa, Desideria pamirica, Ermania bifaria, E. kachoori, E. kashmiriana, and E. parkeri) are proposed. As herein delimited, Christolea consists of only two species; Ermania is reduced to synonymy of Melanidion, and Ermaniopsis and Oreoblastus are reduced to synonymy of Desideria. The relationship and distinguishing characters of Desideria, Christolea, Ermania, Eurycarpus, Leiospora, Melanidion, and Solmslaubachia are discussed.
41805962|A revision of North American species of the genus Grindelia Willd. (Asteraceae) was carried out. Forty-one species, 10 varieties, and two forms are recognized, and a key is given. The following new combinations are made: G. fastigiata Greene var. revoluta (Steyerm.) Adr. Bartoli & Tortosa [ G. revoluta Steyerm.], G. hirtella (B. L. Rob. & Greenm.) Adr. Bartoli & Tortosa [ G. squarrosa (Pursh) Dunal var. hirtella B. L. Rob. & Greenm.], G. humilis Hook. & Arn. var. platyphylla (Greene) Adr. Bartoli & Tortosa [ G. robusta Nutt. var. platyphylla Greene], G. lanceolata Nutt. var. subincisa (Greene) Adr. Bartoli & Tortosa [ G. subincisa Greene], G. leptocarpa (De Jong & Beaman) Adr. Bartoli & Tortosa [ Olivaea leptocarpa De Jong & Beaman], G. squarrosa f. pseudopinnatifida (D. Lve & J.-P. Bernard) Adr. Bartoli & Tortosa [ G. perennis A. Nelson f. pseudopinnatifida D. Lve & J.-P. Bernard], G. squarrosa var. eligulata (Steyerm.) Adr. Bartoli & Tortosa [= G. oxylepis Greene var. eligulata Steyerm.], and G. tricuspis (Sch. Bip.) Adr. Bartoli & Tortosa [ O. tricuspis Sch. Bip.]. Aster glutinosus Cav. is proposed as lectotype for the genus Demetria Lag. and a neotype is designated for D. spathulata Lag. The following names are lectotypified: G. inuloides Willd., G. lanceolata, G. nana Nutt., G. nana var. integrifolia Nutt., G. platylepis Greene, G. subincisa [ G. lanceolata var. subincisa], and G. texana Scheele [ G. lanceolata var. texana (Scheele) Shinners]. Seventeen taxa are illustrated for the first time. Se lleva a cabo una revisin de las especies norteamericanas del gnero Grindelia Willd. (Asteraceae). Se reconocen 41 especies, 10 variedades y dos formas y se incluye una clave para su determinacin. Se realizan las siguientes nuevos combinaciones: G. fastigiata Greene var. revoluta (Steyerm.) Adr. Bartoli & Tortosa [ G. revoluta Steyerm.], G. hirtella (B. L. Rob. & Greenm.) Adr. Bartoli & Tortosa [ G. squarrosa (Pursh) Dunal var. hirtella B. L. Rob. & Greenm.], G. humilis Hook. & Arn. var. platyphylla (Greene) Adr. Bartoli & Tortosa [ G. robusta Nutt. var. platyphylla Greene], G. lanceolata Nutt. var. subincisa (Greene) Adr. Bartoli & Tortosa [ G. subincisa Greene], G. leptocarpa (De Jong & Beaman) Adr. Bartoli & Tortosa [ Olivaea leptocarpa De Jong & Beaman], G. squarrosa f. pseudopinnatifida (D. Lve & J.-P. Bernard) Adr. Bartoli & Tortosa [ G. perennis A. Nelson f. pseudopinnatifida D. Lve & J.-P. Bernard], G. squarrosa var. eligulata (Steyerm.) Adr. Bartoli & Tortosa [ G. oxylepis Greene var. eligulata Steyerm.] y G. tricuspis (Sch. Bip.) Adr. Bartoli & Tortosa [ O. tricuspis Sch. Bip.]. Se propone Aster glutinosus Cav. como lectotipo del gnero Demetria Lag. y se designa un neotipo para D. spathulata Lag. Los siguientes nombres son lectotipificados: G. inuloides Willd., G. lanceolata, G. nana Nutt., G. nana var. integrifolia Nutt., G. platylepis Greene, G. subincisa [ G. lanceolata var. subincisa] y G. texana Scheele [ G. lanceolata var. texana (Scheele) Shinners]. Se ilustran por primera vez 17 taxa.
10.2307/2399553|The African genus Lapeirousia (Iridaceae-Ixioideae) comprises two subgenera each with two sections. The basic chromosome number for the genus is postulated to be x = 10 in a strongly bimodal karyotype with one long and nine much smaller pairs. This karyotype occurs in at least some species of three sections and is exclusive in subg. Paniculata Goldbl. & Manning sect. Fastigiata Goldbl. In subg. Lapeirousia the bimodality is preserved in all species, but chromosome number ranges from n = 10 to 8. Genera most closely allied to Lapeirousia also have x = 10 and asymmetric but less strongly bimodal karyotypes. Sect. Paniculata, which is entirely tropical in distribution, has species with n = 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, and 3. Species of the section with the highest chromosome numbers have bimodal karyotypes with one longer chromosome pair. Total chromosome length, a crude measure of genome size, is similar in all except two species, which have n = 6 and approximately twice the total chromosome length compared with all other species examined. Polyploidy appears to have been involved in the evolution of only these two species. Dysploid reduction is thought to have been responsible for the variation in chromosome number noted in other species. Evidence from comparative morphology suggests that descending dysploidy occurred repeatedly in the genus and that low numbers, n = 4 and 3, were achieved in separate lineages.
10.2307/3298544|Phylogenetic relationships of the six extant species of four genera of the Saururaceae are resolved based on sequence data: 18S and ITS from the nuclear genome; rbcL and trnL-F from the chloroplast genome; and matR from the mitochondrial genome. Zippelia begoniaefolia, from a genus of Piperaceae, is used as an outgroup. Results are presented in separate and combined analyses of sequence data. Forty-nine morphological characters reconstruct the phylogeny in this family, again using Zippelia as outgroup. Whether the topologies of Saururaceae are based on individual genomic data sets, the combined DNA sequence data sets, morphological data sets, or the combined DNA sequence and morphological data sets, all are closely congruent. In all analyses, the monophyly of Saururus and Gymnotheca, respectively, is strongly supported, and the sister relationship between Gymnotheca and Saururus is well supported. In the analysis of nuclear DNA data sets, Anemopsis is the sister group to all other Saururaceae, with Houttuynia then sister to Saururus and Gymnotheca, and with Saururus sister to Gymnotheca; however, in the analyses of the other data sets, Anemopsis is the sister group of Houttuynia, and the Anemopsis-Houttuynia clade lies sister to the Saururus-Gymnotheca clade. The result that the Anemopsis-Houttuynia clade comprises the sister group of Saururus-Gymnotheca clade is novel and differs from previous phylogenetic opinion.
10.2307/2394972|Daphniphyllum woodsonianum from Sumatra and D. philippinense from Luzon are described as new. The former is similar to D. glaucescens subsp. scortechinii (based on D. scortechinii Hook. f.) while the latter resembles D. glaucescens subsp. borneense (based on D. borneense Stapf).
10.2307/2399142|Six new species of Moraea, all with similar small, pale to deep blue-purple flowers and reduced style branches instead of the broad petaloid style branches typical of the genus, are described from the southwest and interior west coast of southern Africa. This flower type, typical of the southern African Homeria, was previously known only in a few species of Moraea, notably sect. Polyanthes, and the flowers of the new species resemble especially those of M. crispa. However, of the new species only M. pseudospicata appears related to M. crispa. The others differ either in vegetative morphology, chromosome number, or in details of the flower, and the unusual flower seems to have evolved independently in at least three of them. Moraea graniticola, M. hexaglottis, and M. rigidifolia are each known from single populations in the southern Namib Desert of Namibia and are referred to sect. Moraea. Moraea worcesterensis, known from one site near Worcester in the southwest Cape, is probably closely related to M. algoensis of sect. Vieusseuxia. Moraea deserticola, restricted to the Knersvlakte in southern Namaqualand, is allied to M. speciosa of sect. Polyanthes.
10.2307/2398797|The notions that gene flow in plants is restricted and that neighborhood size and area are small are based upon data on pollination, and pollen and seed dispersal. However, neighborhood size and area estimates from these data incorporate several assumptions: (1) Pollinator flight distance is representative of pollen dispersal distance; (2) All pollen picked up by pollinators from one plant is deposited on the next one visited; (3) Pollinator flights between plants are random in direction; (4) Pollen-pistil compatibility is independent of the proximity of egg and pollen parents; (5) Seed viability is independent of the proximity of egg and pollen parents; (6) Seed production is independent of the proximity of seeds to the source; (7) The fitness of plants is independent of the distance between egg and pollen parent. These assumptions have been found to be unwarranted in many instances leading to the following conclusions: (1) Pollen carry-over may be considerable; (2) Pollinator flight sequences have a directional component; (3) Pollen-pistil compatibility may be lower among near-neighbors than among moderately spaced plants; (4) Seed abortion may be higher following self and near-neighbor crosses than following wide crosses; (5) Seed-set may be lower following crosses of neighboring plants than widely spaced plants; (6) Seed and seedling mortality may increase as the seed source is approached; (7) Fitness of offspring from distant crosses may be superior to that from self or near-neighbor crosses; (8) Gene flow over some distance may be higher in natural populations than in crops. There is abundant reason to believe that dispersal data underestimate gene flow. As a consequence, we may conclude that neighborhood sizes and areas are larger, there is less potential for random differentiation, there is less isolation by distance, there is less potential for geographical differentiation, and that stronger selection is needed to foster and maintain local differences than judged from dispersal data alone. Nevertheless, even if gene flow distances were twice as large as we now think, the spatial scale of gene dispersal: (1) is still small enough to allow substantial differentiation over short distances with moderate selective differentials, and (2) is too small to be a major cohesive force within a species.
40035484|Adiantopsis Fe (Pteridaceae) is a relatively unstudied tropical cheilanthoid fern genus. In the present work, we evaluated the taxonomy and relationships among Caribbean Adiantopsis by examining 136 characters from approximately 500 herbarium specimens. This study identified nine Caribbean Adiantopsis species, three of which are newly described (A. parvisegmenta, A. pentagona, and A. vincentii). Additionally, an intriguing pattern of morphological and reticulate evolution was revealed by the analyses. Adiantopsis consists of three different laminar morphologies; palmate, pedate, and pinnate. The two pedate taxa are hypothesized to be fertile allotetraploid derivatives of the palmate A. radiata (L.) Fe and two different pinnate taxa. In this regard they parallel the origin of the South American A. australopedata Hickey, M. S. Barker & Ponce. Based on our analyses, it appears that pedate laminar morphologies in Adiantopsis independently originated multiple times via hybridization. This study provides testable hypotheses of morphological and reticulate evolution in the genus and presents a novel view of Caribbean Adiantopsis.
10.2307/2399347|Eucharis and Caliphruria are closely related, neotropical genera of petiolate-leaved, white-flowered Amaryllidaceae found in the understory of primary tropical rain forest. Together with the Peruvian endemic Urceolina, Eucharis and Caliphruria form a monophyletic group within "infrafamily Pancratioidinae" on the basis of leaf and seed morphology and ecological specialization. Seventeen species and two natural hybrids within two subgenera are recognized in Eucharis. Eucharis, marked by its crateriform or campanulate flowers, curved perianth tube, pigmented androecium usually developed into a staminal cup, and unicellular stigmatic papillae, is distributed from Guatemala to Bolivia, chiefly in the western Amazon basin and adjacent lower slopes of the eastern Andes. Subgenus Heterocharis represents three relict species and two natural hybrids with many ancestral characters of the genus. Caliphruria (four species, three of which are endemic to Colombia) has funnelform flowers, straight perianth tube, reduced staminal connation, and multicellular stigmatic papillae. Cladistic relationships support the monophyly of Eucharis, Caliphruria, and Urceolina as a unified group. The most parsimonious cladograms suggest that Eucharis is paraphyletic if subg. Heterocharis is included. An alternative hypothesis of generic relationships is tested, and proves less parsimonious. Recognizing the close phenetic relationship of subg. Heterocharis to the rest of Eucharis, the high levels of homoplasy within the cladogram, and ambiguity caused by missing character state data, a less parsimonious phylogeny is accepted as the basis for classification. Keys and descriptions are provided for all species of Eucharis and Caliphruria. Eucharis caucana, a novel hexaploid (2n = 138) species, is described from Colombia.
10.2307/3298582| A taxonomic revision of the Neotropical Ardisia subg. Auriculardisia (Lundell) Ricketson & Pipoly is presented, and a key to the Neotropical subgenera of Ardisia is provided. The group comprises taxa formerly placed by Lundell in his segregate genera Auriculardisia, Amatlania, and Valerioanthus. Ardisia subg. Auriculardisia is defined by its unique calyx lobes, which are asymmetrical, usually notched just below the apex, and always auriculate basally. Six sections are recognized within Ardisia subg. Auriculardisia, comprising 75 taxa: sect. Auriculardisia (Lundell) Ricketson & Pipoly (4 species), sect. Pleurobotryae Ricketson & Pipoly (1 species), sect. Fagerlindia Ricketson & Pipoly (7 species), sect. Wedelia Ricketson & Pipoly (8 species), sect. Amatlania (Lundell) Ricketson & Pipoly (3 species, including 6 subspecies), and sect. Palmanae Ricketson & Pipoly (47 species, including 2 subspecies). Thirteen new species and two new subspecies are described and illustrated. The new combinations Ardisia pellucida Oerst. subsp. pectinata (Donn. Sm.) Ricketson & Pipoly, Ardisia liebmannii Oerst. subsp. jalapensis (Lundell) Ricketson & Pipoly, and Ardisia croatii Lundell subsp. correae (Lundell) Ricketson & Pipoly are proposed. Ardisia carchiana and Ardisia zakii are transferred to Geissanthus as Geissanthus carchianus (Lundell) Ricketson & Pipoly and Geissanthus zakii (Pipoly) Ricketson & Pipoly. /// Se presenta una revisin taxonmica del subgnero neotropical Ardisia subg. Auriculardisia (Lundell) Ricketson & Pipoly y una clave para separar a los subgneros neotropicales de Ardisia. El grupo comprende taxones anteriormente segregados por Lundell en sus gneros Auriculardisia, Amatlania y Valerioanthus. Ardisia subg. Auriculardisia se define por el caracter nico de sus lbulos calicinos asimtricos, normalmente incisos justo debajo del pice y siempre auriculados en la base. Se reconocen seis secciones dentro del Ardisia subg. Auriculardisia, que comprenden 75 taxones, listados a continuacin: Auriculardisia (Lundell) Ricketson & Pipoly (4 especies), sect. Pleurobotryae Ricketson & Pipoly (1 especie), sect. Fagerlindia Ricketson & Pipoly (7 especies), sect. Wedelia Ricketson & Pipoly (8 especies), sect. Amatlania (Lundell) Ricketson & Pipoly (3 especies, incluyendo 6 subespecies) y sect. Palmanae Ricketson & Pipoly (47 especies, incluyendo 2 subespecies). Se describen e ilustran trece especies y dos subespecies como nuevas para la ciencia. Se proponen tres combinaciones nuevas: Ardisia pellucida Oerst. subsp. pectinata (Donn. Sm.) Ricketson & Pipoly, Ardisia liebmannii Oerst. subsp. jalapensis (Lundell) Ricketson & Pipoly y Ardisia croatii Lundell subsp. correae (Lundell) Ricketson & Pipoly. Se transfieren Ardisia carchiana y Ardisia zakii al gnero Geissanthus, como Geissanthus carchianus (Lundell) Ricketson & Pipoly y Geissanthus zakii (Pipoly) Ricketson & Pipoly. 
10.2307/2399102|Cymbopetalum torulosum G. E. Schatz, sp. nov., known from northeastern Costa Rica and a single location in Pacific western Panama adjacent to the Costa Rica border, is distinguished from the sympatric C. costaricense (Donn. Sm.) R. E. Fries by its strongly torulose monocarps. Populations at the La Selva Biological Station of the Organization for Tropical Studies are found on recent alluvial soils. They flower from February to August, are pollinated by the dynastine beetle Cyclocephala sparsa Arrow, and are dispersed by ochre-bellied flycatchers (Mionectes oleaginea). The species hybridizes with C. costaricense.
40035661|Classification and biogeography should be informed by reliable phylogenetic reconstruction. This may be recovered from the mainly speculative literature by a nine-step protocol of critical methods, the "operative transform." Piecemeal total evidence is attained by combining separately published support values for the same branch arrangement with Bayes' Formula. Joint probability correction is advanced for multiple test problems of conclusions of monophyly necessarily regarded as sets. Tables are given for conversion of nonparametric bootstrap values and decay indexes into probabilities, based on four-taxon simulations. Uncontested morphology-based branch arrangements are assigned high priors. Probabilities associated with unaccounted assumptions are addressed by a general correction factor. A probabilistic calculation allows the inference of two or more reliable internodes from a series of less well-supported internodes. A patristic distance of at least two internodes is used to support inference from molecular data alone of an intermediate lineage for recognition of supraspecific segregate taxonomic entities. Recognizing paraphyletic taxa when appropriate preserves attributes of inferred functional evolution providing taxic unity and value. Evolutionary Lazarus taxa contravening Dollo's Rule against re-evolution of complex traits justify interpretations of reticulation. This method of evaluation of the decisiveness of published molecular studies is exemplified with previously published cladograms focused on Malpighiales and the moss family Pottiaceae. Additional consideration of evolutionary process not reflected in phylogenetic analysis leads to reliable hypotheses of evolutionary relationship.
10.2307/2399222|Three major patterns of diversity are defined and a general hypothesis proposed to explain them. These patterns include (a) macroevolutionary diversity, encompassing temporal changes in species richness within and among clades, (b) global diversity, in which gradients of diversity among communities or biotas vary spatially and temporally, and (c) Phanerozoic diversity, which describes large-scale temporal variation in species richness within the entire biosphere. Current explanatory hypotheses for these patterns are generally formulated for systems that are assumed to be in a state of ecological equilibrium, with speciation and extinction rates being diversity-dependent. This paper describes an alternative model of diversification in which speciation and extinction rates are independent of standing diversity. It is postulated that speciation rate is controlled primarily by large-scale changes in lithospheric (geomorphological) complexity. This hypothesis is a deductive consequence of biological data showing that allopatric speciation is the general mode of differentiation, and of geological data showing that tectonic changes within the lithosphere are responsible for the formation of geographic and ecological barriers. This hypothesis makes a number of predictions about patterns of endemism, historical biogeography, and spatial gradients of diversity, and data consistent with these predictions are presented. Other potential regulators of speciation rate (degree of morphogenetic variability within species, behavioral-ecological variability within species, intensity of sexual selection) are discussed and their potential roles in shaping diversity patterns are evaluated. Although they may occasionally be important for explaining some intracladal patterns of diversification, they are insufficient by themselves to account for spatial patterns or long-term changes of diversity within biotas. Extinction rate is postulated to be controlled primarily by spatial and temporal changes in environmental harshness, particularly as the latter is manifested by gradients of temperature and moisture. Considerable neontological and paleontological data suggest that change in harshness is a major factor shaping temporal and spatial patterns of diversity through its effects on extinction rate. Other causal mechanisms of extinction, particularly the tectonic elimination of habitats, may be of importance for specific groups of organisms (e.g., marine shelf communities following continent-continent collisions) at specific localities and times (e.g., near a volcanic eruption) but are not likely to play as important a role as does change in harshness. Together, the two main controls on speciation and extinction define a diversity-independent process of diversification. The biosphere can be viewed as an open thermodynamic system that can be expected to grow in complexity (including diversity) through time as a result of the inflow of matter and energy. This increase in complexity is constrained by external factors (physical changes in the biosphere or atmosphere such as ice ages) rather than by processes intrinsic to the biosphere itself (e.g., species interactions). The temporal history of the biosphere therefore has been nonequilibrial rather than equilibrial.
10.2307/2398914|The pollen of approximately 650 species from at least 25 families has been examined in LM and SEM, and a representative number in TEM. These families include those found in the orders: Centrospermae, Plumbaginales, Polygonales, Primulales, Ranunculales, and Dilleniales. Evidence from pollen morphology: reinforces the close tie between the betalain families and the Caryophyllaceae and Molluginaceae; confirms the exclusion of the Batidaceae, Gyrostemonaceae, and Theligonaceae from the Centrospermae; dismisses any close relationship between the Centrospermae and the Plumbaginaceae, Polygonaceae, or Primulaceae; eliminates the possibility of a close relationship among Plumbaginaceae, Polygonaceae, or Primulaceae; would not support a close relationship among the families in the Order Ranunculales; suggests that the Ranunculaceae may be the closest extant relative of the Centrospermae; supports separate family status for Berberis and Mahonia; indicates that most of the remaining berberidaceous genera are best treated as one family; should be regarded as a critical or key characteristic for determining the position in the dicot hierarchy of Batidaceae. Gyrostemonaceae, and Corynocarpaceae, and, to a lesser extent, Theligonaceae.
40732235|Chromosome numbers and meiotic behavior of 60 individuals of American Paniceae, Poaceae, are provided, including six previously uncounted species: Axonopus andinus G. A. Black (2n = 20), A. iridifolius (Poepp.) G. A. Black (2n = 20), Dichanthelium hebotes (Trin.) Zuloaga (2n = 18), Paspalum geminiflorum Steud. (2n = ca. 20), P. heterotrichon Trin. (2n = 20), and Setaria tenacissima Schrad. ex Schult. (2n = 36). Of the remaining 54 counts, 17 correspond to new ploidy levels in species of Echinochloa P. Beauv., Eriochloa Kunth, Hymenachne P. Beauv., Panicum L., Parodiophyllochloa Zuloaga & Morrone, Paspalum L, and Setaria P. Beauv., and 37 are confirmations of previous reports.
10.2307/2395339| Tabernaemontana pendula and T. longipes, synonymized under T. chrysocarpa in the Flora of Panama, are recognized as distinct from it. Stemmadenia allenii was originally described from fruiting and flowering material of different species, one of which--the most common wet-forest species of the genus in Panama--is now described as S. minima A. Gentry. The first South American record of the North American Tabernaemontana arborea, the first North American record of the South American Odontadenia cognata, and the reconfirmation of the occurrence of Fosteronia myriantha in Panama are reported. 
10.2307/2398860|After defining the state of knowledge and reviewing national inventories, the author looks at the reasons which led him to study Mediterranean and Saharan Africa and to detail their biogeographical significance. For Mediterranean and Saharan Africa, the generic and specific richness, the richness of endemics, and the entire biogeographical range are first analyzed at the family level. In the second part, the various biogeographical elements which play a part in the formation of the floras at the generic and specific levels are defined; several examples are provided respectively for the Mesogean (Mediterranean, Saharo-Arabian and Irano-Turanian) and tropical elements. A third part is devoted to endemism: first generic and specific endemism, then the biogeographical significance of the endemic taxa. It appears that the flora of Mediterranean Africa is about three times richer than that of Saharan Africa and that endemism there is two times greater. Whereas the flora of Mediterranean Africa is for the most part made up of Mediterranean taxa, in Saharan Africa there is a nearly equal distribution of Mediterranean, Saharo-Arabian, and tropical elements. These characteristics are related to the hostile ecological conditions which govern the Sahara now, but also reflect the climatic disturbances which took place during the Pleistocene. A special chapter is devoted to a discussion of the historical interpretation of the flora of Mediterranean and Saharan Africa, taking into account the new data provided by paleoclimatology and paleobotany. It is concluded that the Mediterranean flora is relatively old and goes back at least as far as the middle Miocene, whereas the present Saharan flora is a reflection of intense climatic changes which have severely affected this region since the Pliocene. In each of these cases emphasis has been placed on the role elements of African origin played in the development of the present flora.
10.2307/2395342| The recognition of the Lupinus montanus complex by morphological traits is discussed. Ecological modification of traits is discussed and the island nature of distribution from mountain peak to mountain peak produces semi-isolated gene pools. Long range dispersal and introgression from other lupines has occurred at the northern end of the distribution in San Luis Potos, Mexico, developing L. cacuminus. A similar situation occurred in Costa Rica, with L. valerioi the product of introgression from, as yet, an unknown taxon. In Guatemala var. austrovolcanicus represents local introgression from L. kellermanianus, into L. montanus. Both of the Peruvian (L. praestabilis and L. proculaustrinus) taxa are, likewise the result of long range dispersal and introgression. The geographic range of each of the taxa of the complex is plotted and the interrelationship is discussed. The alkaloids have been plotted from random samples of each of the taxa and the data supports the taxonomic treatment and interpretation of their interrelationship. 
10.2307/2666152|A cladistic analysis of Celastraceae sensu lato (including Hippocrateaceae) was conducted using 69 informative morphological characters representing variation in gross morphology, seed anatomy, seedling development, leaf anatomy, wood anatomy, pollen morphology, and karyotype. The 32 taxa sampled included 31 genera of Celastraceae sensu stricto, 22 genera of Hippocrateaceae, 7 genera that have been associated with Celastraceae (Brexia, Canotia, Forsellesia, Goupia, Lophopyxis, Plagiopteron, and Siphonodon), and outgroups from Corynocarpaceae, Crossosomataceae, Euphorbiaceae, Ceissolomataceae, Huaceae, Saxifragaceae, and Stackhousiaceae. Character state changes mapped onto the phylogenetic hypotheses were generated to infer patterns of evolution of characters, including the aril in Celastraceae s.l. Based on this analysis, the inclusion of Bhesa and Goupia within Celastraceae s.l. is ambiguous, and Siphonodon should be excluded from Celastraceae s.l. Forsellesia (= Glossopetalon) is supported as closely related to Crossosomataceae. Lophopyxis is supported as a member of Euphorbiaceae. Canotia is resolved as the sister group of Acanthothamnus, included within Celastraceae sensu stricto. Brexia is resolved as the sister group of Celastraceae s.l. Theodor Loesener's subfamilies and tribes of Celastraceae s. str. are generally not supported. The Hippocrateaceae are resolved as having a single origin, and as nested within a paraphyletic Celastraceae s. str. with Brassiantha, Dicarpellum, and Sarawakodendron as "transitional" genera between the groups. Campylostemon appears as a derived group within Hippocrateaceae, not as a "transitional" genus. Nicolas Halle's subfamilies of Hippocrateaceae are supported, but his tribes generally are not, with Campylostemoneae and Helictonemateae nested within Hippocrateeae. Plagiopteron is resolved as nested within tribe Hipocrateeae.
10.2307/2399791|The neotropical genus Chionolaena is accepted as including the species of Leucopholis, which has been considered a separate genus by several authors because of its few-flowered capitula. Chionolaena consists of small, more or less woody shrubs with a discontinuous distribution: central Mexico, northern Colombia, and southern Brazil, with disjunct populations in Central America (Costa Rica) and northern Amazonia (southern Venezuela). The most closely related genus is Gnaphaliothamnus from Mexico and Guatemala. Seventeen species of Chionolaena are recognized, one of which, C. mexicana, is described for the first time. Three new combinations are made: Chionolaena capitata, C. chrysocoma, and C. seemannii. Descriptions, typification, synonymy, distribution maps, illustrations, indices, and a key to all taxa are presented. A cladistic analysis of Chionolaena was performed using morphological characters. Polarity of characters was based on outgroup comparison with the genus Gnaphaliothamnus. Two monophyletic groups were resolved: (1) the "concinna species group" (including C. concinna and C. seemannii); and (2) the "mexicana species group" (including C. aecidiocephala, C. arbuscula, C. capitata, C. columbiana, C. chrysocoma, C. eleagnoides, C. isabellae, C. jeffreyi, C. latifolia, C. lavandulifolia, C. lychnophorioides, C. mexicana, C. phylicoides, C. sartorii, and C. wittigiana). Within each group, this resolution places the Mexican species as the sister group of the South American taxa, i.e., a closer historical relationship is indicated between the Colombian and Brazilian areas than between either and the Mexican area.
10.2307/2399200|Genera and species of Bromeliaceae that have been described from the Guayana Highland since Flora Neotropica treatments of the subfamilies Pitcairnioideae and Tillandsioideae by Smith and Downs in 1974 and 1977 are distinguished by amended or completely rewritten keys. Of the species, 26 are here described as new, 24 being Pitcairnioideae. Lindmania is resurrected from the synonymy of Cottendorfia, and an error in the validation of Steyerbromelia is corrected.
41238121|The circumscription of genera within the family Rubiaceae is by no means a precise endeavor at the current time. For example, the genus Relbunium (Endl.) Hook. f. is currently included as a section of Galium L., sensu Dempster, although this placement does not have unanimous support among specialists. To clarify these uncertainties, this study examined whether Relbunium is an autonomous genus or a section of Galium by analyzing the morphology and development of flowers and fruits of the following species: G. latoramosum Clos, G. uruguayenne Bacigalupo, R. equisetoides (Cham. & Schltdl.) Ehrend., R. gracillimum Ehrend., R. hirtum (Lam.) K. Schum., R. humile (Cham. & Schltdl.) K. Schum., R. humilioides M. L. Porto & Ehrend., R. hypocarpium (L.) Hemsl., R. longipedunculatum Mariath & Ehrend., R. mazocarpum Greenm., R. megapotamicum (Spreng.) Ehrend., R. nigro-ramosum Ehrend., R. ostenianum Standl., R. richardianum (Gillies ex Hook. & Arn.) Hicken, and R. valantioides (Cham. & Schltdl.) K. Schum. This morphological data set and analysis were then used to construct a cladogram, which indicates that Galium is a sister group to Relbunium and further characterizes Relbunium as a monophyletic clade that should be considered an autonomous genus.
10.2307/2399760|Approximately 185 species of Lycopodiaceae are known to occur in the Neotropics: ca. 150 belong in the genus Huperzia, ca. 8 in Lycopodium, and ca. 25 in Lycopodiella. The species are enumerated according to assumed relationship, with information of the most important synonyms, a summary of their distribution, comments on their morphology and variability, and reference to selected illustrations. Species delimitation is problematic throughout the family. This is due to the simple morphology and the plasticity of the characters. Morphogenesis seems unstable in many species and may be strongly affected by environmental factors. Most characters are variable within a species, e.g., stem thickness, number of leaf orthostichies, leaf crowding, leaf direction, development of teeth on leaf margins, color, degree of heterophyllous differentiation. Often the diagnostic features of closely related species are without apparent adaptive significance. Hybridization is believed to occur rather freely, but the putative hybrids often have normally developed spores. Three new combinations, Huperzia tubulosa (Maxon) B. Oslashllg., Huperzia watsoniana (Maxon) B. Oslashllg., and Lycopodiella torta (L. Underw. & F. Lloyd) B. Oslashllg., are proposed.
10.2307/2399576|Using comparative morphology studies from 123 species of Aristolochia sect. Gymnolobus subsect. Hexandrae, this taxon is reevaluated. Two series (Hexandrae and Thyrsicae, ser. nov.) and two subseries (Anthocaulicae, ser. nov., and Hexandrae) are recognized. Aristolochia (Thyrsicae) maxima and Aristolochia (Anthocaulicae) iquitensis are designated as types.
10.2307/2991994|The great problem in biodiversity studies in Amazonia is that the existing data are regionally very biased, whether the question is about species distribution patterns, local species diversity levels, or differences in species diversity and species composition among sites. The surroundings of a few cities and biological stations are relatively well inventoried, while most of Amazonia still remains unknown in these respects. The essential questions are, to what extent can these data be extrapolated, and from where do we most urgently need more data? Quantifying biodiversity is not just a question of how many species there are in one hectare. It is also a question of how many different habitats there are, how much the floras of the different habitats differ from each other, and how many species there are in a given region as a whole. Satellite images are invaluable in studying such regional variability, because they provide an overview of wide areas, even inaccessible ones. The color patterns in satellite imagery enable one to identify and map areas that differ in some way; field studies are then needed to find out whether these differences are significant in ecological and floristic terms. Satellite imagery from Peruvian Amazonia shows variation to such an extent that hundreds of sites need to be studied to document and understand it. Because it would take too much time to identify the thousand or so plant species that can be found in a single hectare of forest, we have developed an inventory method based on indicator species. This makes it possible to monitor large areas relatively rapidly and has revealed some intriguing ecological and biodiversity patterns in Amazonia.
40732243|The Chrysobalanaceae, a pantropical family containing about 525 species, has often been nested within the Rosaceae despite evidence for recognizing it as a separate family. In 1963, Prance clearly placed Chrysobalanaceae as a distinct family containing 17 genera. However, the family has been linked with various other families and orders and recently has been placed within the order Malpighiales. Because of these discrepancies, a phylogenetic analysis for the family was launched to examine its monophyly and to investigate the relationships within the Chrysobalanaceae as well as its relationships to other groups. Comparative phylogenetic analyses were performed using morphological, rbcL, and ITS sequences. The data sets were analyzed independently and in combination. After exploration for hard incongruencies among the independent data sets, a simultaneous analysis of all the data was completed. The combined analysis resulted in a resolved, supported topology with several unambiguous morphological synapomorphies. The resulting topology indicated that the family is a well-defined monophyletic group that is sister to Euphronia Mart. & Zuce. (Euphroniaceae). The present tribal groupings, however, are paraphyletic.
10.2307/2399698|Solanum allophyllum has previously been placed in Cyphomandra and in Solanum. This species has a number of morphological features not found in Cyphomandra, but has been included in the genus because it has a similar growth habit, three-leaved sympodial units with inflorescences in branch forks, and tapered anthers with an abaxial thickening. When each of these characters is closely examined, however, important differences are found between the taxa, indicating that the features they share may not be structurally homologous. New evidence derived from crossing studies and cytological investigations also supports the exclusion of S. allophyllum from Cyphomandra. Solanum allophyllum is self-compatible, whereas all but the single domesticated species of Cyphomandra are self-incompatible, and the chromosomes of Cyphomandra are about 2.5 to 5.5 times larger than those of S. allophyllum. The anther morphology, self-compatibility, and small chromosomes are all consistent with placement of this species in Solanum.
10.2307/2399769|By focusing exclusively on the highly conserved inverted repeat region of the chloroplast genome, we extend comparative restriction site mapping to greater evolutionary depths than those to which it has been applied previously. A cladistic analysis of inverted repeat restriction site data is presented in order to enhance understanding of relationships within the Asteridae and to test the possible monophyly of the Asteridae. A total of 114 species, representing 33 families of Asteridae and eight families of Rosidae and Dilleniidae (sensu Cronquist) was examined, of which 99 species exhibited restriction maps of sufficient colinearity to be included in the phylogenetic analysis. Analysis with four restriction endonucleases identified a total of 77 restriction sites, 55 of which were phylogenetically informative. Parsimony analysis identified six major groups that broadly correspond to traditionally recognized orders in the Asteridae: Asterales, Boraginales, Dipsacales, Gentianales, Scrophulariales plus Lamiales, and Solanales. The results further suggest that the Asteridae, as traditionally circumscribed, are not monophyletic. The Apiaceae, Araliaceae, Cornaceae, Hydrangeaceae, Loasaceae, and possibly the Fouquieriaceae, all placed previously by Cronquist in subclasses Dilleniidae and Rosidae, should be included in a broadly defined Asteridae. The Cornaceae, Hydrangeaceae and Loasaceae appear closely related. Unexpected results include a probable sister-group relationship between the Apiales and Dipsacales, and the placement of the Menyanthaceae in the Asterales. Familial relationships within several orders and interordinal relationships remain poorly resolved.
10.2307/2399298|The Malvaceae of the Jammu and Kashmir State are reviewed with a complete synopsis of the taxa recorded from this area. The state is situated on the northern fringe of India and comprises three distinct geographical regions: Jammu, Kashmir, and Ladakh. The family has a moderate representation here, but only a relatively few species are indigenous. Forty-one species in 15 genera are recorded in this treatment: 12 species cultivated (with at least half of them escaped from cultivation) and 29 wild species. A definite decline in the number of taxa of Malvaceae has been observed from the subtropical Jammu region through the temperate Kashmir to the cold, arid Ladakh. Malva bucharica and Althaea broussonetiifolia are recorded for the first time from the Indian subcontinent; Malva microcarpa, M. ambigua, and M. mohileviensis for the first time from India; and Hibiscus micranthus is a new record for Jammu and Kashmir State. All the taxa are keyed, and the species are provided with descriptions and usually followed by brief notes on distribution and economic utility.
10.2307/2399767|Parsimony analysis was used to develop phylogenetic hypotheses for Rosidae and other nonmagnoliid dicotyledons, especially Asteridae. Rosidae were placed among "lower" Hamamelidae as the sister group of Platanus and Hamamelidaceae. "Higher" Hamamelidae (Fagales, Juglandales, and Casuarinaceae), Dilleniidae, and Asteridae nest within a paraphyletic Rosidae. With some expansion, the traditional Asteridae are monophyletic. For example, the problematic Columellia was placed among Asteridae as the sister group of Caprifoliaceae. Asteridae were placed as the sister group of Ericales among rosids circumscribed as Corniflorae in recent classifications of Dahlgren. Special attention was given to problematic groups that have been allied variously with Asteridae, Dilleniidae, and Rosidae. For example, Actinidiaceae and Fouquieriaceae were placed among Ericales. Loasaceae and Sarraceniaceae formed the sister group of Hydrangeaceae in the Corniflorae grade of Rosidae. Dilleniidae were not monophyletic. For example, Paeonia was placed as the sister taxon of the rest of the Rosidae (including dilleniids and asterids), and Ochnaceae as the sister taxon of Linales. Dilleniaceae and Theaceae form a monophyletic group with Paracryphia placed as the sister group of Rhizophoraceae and Anisophylleaceae.
40389943|The complex geography of the Neotropical montane system is a natural laboratory for population divergence. Understanding which geographic barriers (lowland barriers, arid river valleys, and montane barriers above the tree line separate these regions of endemism) are instrumental in promoting and maintaining population divergence is an important step in preserving genetic diversity and endemism within the region. Here, I analyze patterns of genetic differentiation between 16 predefined regions of endemism for 43 co-distributed Zoogeographie species complexes of Neotropical montane forest birds. The analysis shows that lowland barriers generate the highest levels of genetic differentiation, while barriers above the tree line in the Andes show the least. Within the Andes, arid river valleys promote population divergence to varying degrees. The Rio Marann shows the greatest effect, but the Rio Apurmac and Rio Quinimari are also associated with extensive genetic differentiation, while genetic divergence across other river valleys is generally weak. Most barriers are associated with a wide span of divergence times, supporting a protracted history of dispersal postdating barrier formation. If the goal is to maintain genetic diversity, preservation of populations within each region of endemism would help to ensure the continued survival of evolutionarily distinct lineages within species. Considering the alarming rate of deforestation in Neotropical montane regions, preservation of suitable tracts of montane forest is needed within each region of endemism, with special emphasis placed on endemism regions separated by lowland barriers and by deep intermontane river valleys.
10.2307/2992032|The pollen of the species of tribe Spermacoceae currently known as Borreria anthospermoides DC., Diodia brasiliensis Spreng., D. cymosa Cham., D. hispidula A. Rich. ex DC., D. dichotoma (Willd. ex Roem. & Schult.) K. Schum., and D. brasiliensis var. angulata (Benth.) Standl. is studied, and its affinity with the pollen of the genus Galianthe Griseb. is indicated. This palynological study reinforces the suggestion of Cabral and Bacigalupo to extend the boundaries of the genus Galianthe to include the species listed above, because of their fruits with indehiscent mericarps, in the new Galianthe subg. Ebelia (Rchb.) E. L. Cabral & Bacigalupo, together with G. dichasia (Sucre & C. G. Costa) E. L. Cabral, G. humilis E. L. Cabral & Bacigalupo, and G. polygonoides E. L. Cabral & Bacigalupo.
10.2307/2399755|Species of Isoetes are notorious for the difficulties they present in identification. These difficulties are attributable to a series of habitat adaptations that have resulted in morphological simplicity, homoplasy, and reticulate evolution. Internal air chambers in the leaves of all taxa indicate that primitive Isoetes was aquatic. During the breakup of Gondwana, ancestors of modern taxa appear to have passed through a terrestrialization phase, which was accompanied by development of several morphological novelties and reductions including the evolution of sclerotic phyllopodia. This adaptation appears to have evolved after separation of the Indian subcontinent. A new section of the subgenus Isoetes centered in India and possessing non-sclerified, persistent leaf bases is described. Following a terrestrialization phase, several lineages became secondarily aquatic and, in some instances, once again evolved a terrestrial habitat. As a result, the genus now occupies a variety of niches, from wholly aquatic to wholly terrestrial. Most terrestrial species, found as isolated populations of basic diploids, appear to be the result of gradual speciation via isolation and genetic divergence. Some aquatic species, often found in mixed populations containing taxa of different ploides, appear to have evolved abruptly via interspecific hybridization and chromosome doubling. Evidence from distribution patterns, megaspore morphology and viability, chromosome numbers, and electrophoretic profiles of leaf enzymes supports a hypothesis of allopolyploid speciation.
10.2307/2399719|Guadua angustifolia Kunth is the largest and most economically important bamboo in the Western Hemisphere. It is the primary source of building material for urban and rural dwellings in many areas within its geographical range, especially in Colombia and Ecuador. Guadua aculeata Rupr. ex Fourn. from Central America and Bambusa (Guadua) chacoensis N. Rojas from Argentina and Paraguay are two closely related taxa that were often confused with or identified as G. angustifolia. These three taxa comprise the Guadua angustifolia complex. A detailed morphological analysis was performed on all three species using traditional taxonomic methods as well as principal components analysis. The Guadua angustifolia complex was also compared with other sympatric species of the genus. The results indicate that G. angustifolia should be regarded as one polymorphic species consisting of two subspecies, subspecies angustifolia and subspecies chacoensis, which are differentiated by a mosaic of vegetative and reproductive characters. Subspecies angustifolia consists of populations from Central America (formally G. aculeata) and north-western South America that exhibit variability in certain vegetative and reproductive characters.
10.2307/2399205|Seeds of eight and leaves of nine species of Zapoteca were surveyed for nonprotein sulphur-containing amino acids and nonprotein imino acids, and the patterns compared with those of Calliandra species. S-(-carboxyethyl)-cysteine, the major free seed amino acid in all Calliandra species examined, and S-(-carboxyisopropyl)-cysteine, a lesser constituent, were not detected in Zapoteca species. Conversely, an uncharacterized compound not significantly present in Calliandra is the major free amino acid of Zapoteca. The major imino acids of Zapoteca, trans-trans-4,5-dihydroxypipecolic acid, trans-4-hydroxypipecolic acid, and cis-5-hydroxypipecolic acid, are a consistent feature of the genus, but these same compounds are also found together in many Calliandra species. The chemical data are interpreted as supportive evidence for the distinctiveness of these two closely allied groups of plants.
10.2307/2399289|Leaf-architectural and wood-anatomical data on the 18 genera traditionally considered to comprise the Rhizophoraceae were analyzed for insight on the intergeneric affinities. The four genera of the tribe Anisophylleae, considered on other lines of evidence to comprise the family Anisophylleaceae, are not readily separated using new data from leaf structure, or from a new look at the wood-anatomical literature. Leaves of both families are elliptic, and few features distinguish the two families or help separate the tribes of Rhizophoraceae s. str. or help separate the tribes. Anisophylleaceae have no marginal teeth or glands; they differ mainly from the Rhizophoraceae in having alternate leaves and no stipules. Leaves of the tribes Macarisieae, Gynotrocheae, and Rhizophoreae show some tribal-level variations in secondary venation, crystal type and distribution, and a few other features. The Rhizophoraceae leaves have an apiculate glandular tooth known as the Macarisioid type. Wood features, analyzed from the literature, do not readily distinguish the two families. Possible affinities of the Anisophylleaceae are not easily established using vegetative data. The Rhizophoraceae share a number of features with Celastraceae, Eleaocarpaceae, Hugoniaceae, Lepidobotryaceae, and Oxalidaceae.
10.2307/3298635|Relationships between Secamonoideae and their closest relatives in Apocynaceae, as well as genera and species within the subfamily, have been examined, using a molecular phylogeny with the plastid gene matK. Our molecular results show that Secamonoideae form a monophyletic group. Delimitations of genera are also discussed together with the evolution of pollinarium and biomechanical characters within species. The patterns of pollinial organization, as well as change in growth forms, are mapped onto a phylogenetic tree obtained from the plastid gene matK, all of which together significantly contribute toward a better understanding of the evolution of the Apocynaceae s.l.
10.2307/2399453|Fossil pollen of Sabicea (Rubiaceae) has been recovered from the lower Miocene Culebra Formation of Panama. The genus is presently widely distributed in Central and northern South America; it is well represented in the tropical moist and premontane wet forests of Panama. In the lower Miocene it was part of the low- to moderate-altitude insular vegetation characterizing the landscape between southern Mexico and northern Colombia. Its association with other members of the Culebra assemblage indicates tropical paleoclimates similar to those of the present. The genus has not been reported previously in the fossil record.
10.2307/2666210|The discovery in 1994 of Wollemia nobilis, a new conifer genus and species of Araucariaceae, attracted media and public attention that was probably unprecedented for a botanical discovery. If a plant species may be called charismatic, it is this one: tall, handsome, rare, of a lineage dating from the Jurassie, surviving undiscovered in a mountain gorge. It was front-page news around the world and soon became one of Australia's most publicized species. Scientists shared the enthusiasm, offering research collaboration to investigate its many aspects. Wollemia has contributed to understanding of structures in fossil Araucariaceae and conifer-mycorrhizal associations; its survival has added to the picture of long-term regional floristic change. After an extended period of small population size it shows no detectable inter-plant genetic diversity-relevant to the management of rare plant species. Its discovery helped us explain and emphasize to the community the value and nature of biological research and the need for habitat conservation. At the opposite end of the charisma scale are the southern rushes. Australia's relatively inconspicuous Restionaceae and their allies (Centrolepidaceae, Ecdeiocoleaceae. Anarthriaceae). Despite their links with other southern continents and close relationship to the Poaceae, these had been greatly neglected for over 100 years and were largely misclassified generically. Study and fieldwork in recent decades have revealed 61 formerly undescribed species, nearly 40% of the total now distinguished in these families for Australia. DNA sequencing of plastid genes gave surprising results, with evidence that two new plant families should be recognized. New findings are contributing to better understanding of the ancestry of related families and Southern Hemisphere floras. Distinguishing the new rare species allows focus on their conservation needs. Many new species are still being recognized in Australia's flora, among flowering plants and conifers as well as other groups. Wollemia and the southern rushes exemplify the significance of these new finds and newly discovered understanding of relationships. In each case the significance of the discoveries is realized only in the context of the knowledge of organisms and their evolution that comes from research in many fields.
10.2307/2399404|Cipura is a small genus of Iridaceae-Tigridieae that is widespread in tropical South and Central America, Mexico, and the West Indies. It comprises at least five species and is at present poorly understood. The type species, C. paludosa Aublet, is often treated as including the similar C. campanulata Ravenna (syn. C. inornata Ravenna), and the differences between the two are detailed. A new species, C. rupicola, is described from Territorio Federal Amazonas, Venezuela. It is closely allied to the only other known yellow-flowered species, C. xanthomelas Martius ex Klatt (syn. C. flava Ravenna), of interior Brazil. The basic chromosome number in Cipura is x = 7 and chromosome numbers have been established here for C. xanthomelas and C. rupicola, both tetraploid, 2n = 4x = 28.
3298514|The angiosperm family Araliaceae presently comprises roughly 1600 species, over half of which are referable to a single genus, Schefflera, whose circumscription has been broadened substantially over the past three decades. Following up on several previous analyses suggesting that Schefflera may be non-monophyletic, the present study employs an expanded sample of species from this genus, representing much more of the geographic and taxonomic breadth of Schefflera in its current circumscription. Results of phylogenetic analyses based on nuclear (ITS) and plastid (trnL-trnF) DNA sequences indicate that Schefflera is markedly polyphyletic, comprising no fewer than five major clades distributed across the phylogenetic tree of Araliaceae. However, despite its overall polyphyly, the reinstatement of most formerly recognized segregate genera would not yield monophyletic groups. By contrast, comparisons of the molecular cladograms to an informal classification system based on morphology indicate that all but one of its infrageneric groupings are monophyletic. The five clades of Schefflera recognized here also correspond perfectly to geographic distributions: two morphologically distinct clades are centered in the southwest Pacific, and three other clades are centered in the Neotropics, Asia/Malesia, and Africa/Madagascar.
10.2307/2395033|A study of four Piper species and one Pothomorphe species in Costa Rica showed that insects do visit some Piperaceae flowers and are probably involved in pollination. Due to the globular nature of the pollen it is not likely that wind or rain are significant pollination agents. The degree of self-pollination for the species studied has not been determined, although presumably some may occur because Piper nigrum has been found to be partially self-fertile.
10.2307/2398801|The overall objective is to compare the ecological impact of bird-flower coevolution in different geographical areas. However, it is first necessary to define the parameters of such coevolution in broader terms than those of the traditional "syndrome of ornithophily," which focuses very narrowly on some aspects of floral morphology. I recognize three distinct components of flower function: attraction, reward, and filtering mechanisms, and discuss their functioning in an ecological context, and as they relate to the genetic system or "pollination unit" of the plant. Then I turn to nectar-feeding birds, and discuss not only morphological, but ecological and behavioral specializations to flowers as a food source. These discussions develop explicitly my criteria for detecting and evaluating bird-flower coevolution. The different groups of birds known to feed regularly (as opposed to opportunistically) on nectar are then compared according to these criteria, to determine their relative degrees of specialization for, and dependence upon, a high-nectar diet. Different groups are found to vary widely in their degrees of specialization for flower-feeding, and it is evident that bird-flower coevolution has followed very different courses, and led to widely divergent ecological systems in different geographical areas. By any criteria the hummingbirds are the most specialized avian nectarivores, although they are approached in this regard by some members of certain passerine groups, notably among the sunbirds. Several groups of passerine nectarivores also occur with the humming-birds in many New World areas; these groups show low to moderate degrees of specialization for nectarivory, either as pollinators or as parasites on the hummingbird-flower system. The New World tropics thus present a wide range of specializations for flower-feeding in their avifauna, and represent a particularly interesting area for study. Patterns of ornithophily and nectarivory are thus examined in detail for this area, concentrating specifically on Southern Central America, especially Costa Rica. The altitudinal and geographical distributions of the two main groups of hummingbirds, the hermits and nonhermits, are found to differ, as are the taxonomic and ecological affinities of their primary foodplants. The hermits are most numerous in wet lowlands and the adjacent foothills, and are primarily associated with large monocotyledonous herbs, notably Heliconia. The nonhermits reach their greatest taxonomic and ecological diversity in the lower middle elevations, and are the only group present at high elevations; they seem to have coevolved with the flowers of a variety of dicot families, and the bromeliads among the monocots. Passerine nectarivores occur primarily as parasites on the hummingbird-flower system (Coerebidae) and are important as pollinators only in seasonally dry areas when the hummingbirds are poorly represented.
10.2307/2399514| In 1951 Lon Croizat participated in the Franco-Venezuelan expedition to the headwaters of the Ro Orinoco and amassed over 1,000 plant collections, noteworthy because it was the first in that area. Although most of the collections represent widespread riverine species, two new species with restricted distributions have recently been described. We present a brief account of the expedition, a list of Croizat's collections by number and family, and a map illustrating the collecting localities. 
40035761|For recently derived species and when the time separating speciation events is short, the phylogenetic distribution of taxa in a gene tree may not accurately reflect the actual species relationships. The phylogenetic tradition of relying on gene tree and species tree synonymy is not reliable under such historical scenarios. Nevertheless, recent studies have demonstrated that accurate estimates of species relationships are possible when the method of phylogenetic inference considers not only the stochastic processes of nucleotide substitution, but also the random loss of gene lineages by genetic drift--even when there is widespread incomplete lineage sorting. This simulation study examines how the broader phylogenetic context, that is, the species tree topology and branch lengths, influences the ability to recover species relationships when taxa have undergone a recent and rapid radiation. As expected, the time since species divergence and the time between speciation events influences whether phylogenetic relationships are accurately estimated. However, the influence of the timing of divergence on the ability to recover species relationships accurately differed depending on the relative position of the taxa in the species tree. Differences in the ability to recover these relationships across multiple simulated species trees highlight the potential effects of taxon sampling on phylogenetic inference at, or near, the species boundary and under high rates of speciation. By focusing attention on the species tree, rather than on the individual gene trees as the basis for interpretations about species relationships, these results also represent a fundamental shift from the phylogenetic paradigm.
10.2307/2398839|Extrafloral glands are noted on calyces of floral buds, before and during anthesis, and on petiolar stipels at early and later stages of leaf development. Liquid chromatographic sugar analysis of extrafloral and floral nectars shows that the extrafloral nectars (calyx and foliar) are fructose-glucose dominant while the floral nectar is sucrose dominant. Seven species of ants were noted visiting temporally separated calyx and foliar extrafloral nectaries, suggesting a possible myrmecophilous role.
10.2307/2398913|In pollen morphology, as for other characters, the relation between origin, form, and function is basic for taxonomic interpretation. Physicochemical limitations to form development, structures inherited from gymnosperm ancestors, and newly evolved structures are reviewed from this point of view for a few selected angiosperm pollen types. The divergence of structures in closely related taxa suggests that pollen characters may evolve quite independently from other characters and are determined by a highly complex set of factors related to survival during transport and germination. For size and spinosity correlation with flower characters and pollination type is apparent in some cases. Special attention is given to harmomegathic functioning of the pollen grain as a whole, evidence for transfer of function is presented, and two new evolutionary trends are recognized. Peristasy involves reduction of colpate ectoapertures with retention of endoapertures, sphericity, and an exine structure distributing harmomegathic stresses equally over the surface. Latistasy results in a latitudinally oriented harmomegathic stress pattern and has been achieved in different ways. The independent origin of such trends in unrelated taxa is stressed.
10.2307/2991991|Australia is a large continent with a relatively small population, and government agencies and research institutions are devoting considerable resources to the development of new approaches and tools for conserving and managing Australia's biodiversity. Issues of data quality, choice of analysis method, ecological theory, and GIS (geographic information system) use are discussed using examples from recent Australian studies with emphasis on the scientific components. The problem of data quality is examined in terms of a suitable minimum data set and the need for a survey design for representative sampling using results from a survey of 24,000 km
10.2307/2398884|The neotropical marsupial, Caluromys derbianus, the red woolly opossum, is a regular visitor and potential pollinator of Mabea occidentalis (Euphorbiaceae), an understory rainforest tree on Barro Colorado Island, Panama. Caluromys also visits and may pollinate nocturnal nectar-producing flowers of other plants. Nectar is an important food source for the red woolly opossum during seasonal lows in fruit abundance. Pollination by nonflying mammals may commonly occur in tropical forests in light of recent information on tropical tree distribution.
10.2307/2399488|A taxonomic history for the fern genus Polystichum in Latin America and an analysis of the important characters at the species level in the genus provide the context for the recognition of new and overlooked taxa. Three new species are described from Latin America, and a new combination is provided for a Polystichum species from the southern Andes.
10.2307/2398841|Floral morphology and behavior, nectar composition and observational data suggest that Erythrina megistophylla is adapted to passerine bird pollination. It has short, open-mouthed, backwardly directed flowers on horizontal racemes. The primary visitors are members of the Coerebidae (honeycreepers), passerine birds which perch on the inflorescence rachis while probing the flowers. The nectar has a low sugar concentration (6-9% W/V), is hexose dominant, and contains a high concentration of amino acids.
10.2307/2399107|The unacetolysed pollen of 99 species of Erythrina was studied with scanning electron microscopy. The exine sculpturing is basically reticulate but displays considerable variation in several features. Pollen types may be divided into those species with tubular, hummingbird-pollinated flowers and those with gaping flowers, pollinated by a variety of passerine birds. "Hummingbird type" pollen may be defined as medium-sized, with medium-sized lumina and sparse or no sexinous granules. Pollen from passerine-pollinated sections is more heterogeneous but may be distinguished generally by moderate to dense granularity or small lumina size. Some overlap occurs between these groups. Pollen from some passerine-pollinated sections frequently showed an abundance of pollenkitt, which was sparse or lacking in hummingbird groups. These observations are discussed and possible explanations suggested.
10.2307/2992000|Most populations of the federal threatened Mead's milkweed, Asclepias meadii Torr. (Asclepiadaceae), occur primarily in prairie haymeadows in Kansas and Missouri, where annual summer mowing prevents seed production. Exceptions are large populations in fire-managed habitats at the Rockefeller Prairie, a former Kansas haymeadow, and at Weimer Hill, a glade complex in southeastern Missouri. This perennial rhizomatous species is self-incompatible. The few remaining small populations in Illinois, Iowa, and northern Missouri persist vegetatively but no longer produce seeds and are vulnerable to stochastic extinction processes. Allozyme electrophoresis was used to measure the amount and distribution of genetic variation in A. meadii and to provide guidance for its recovery and restoration. Samples were obtained from 19 populations encompassing the extant range of the species in Kansas, Missouri, Iowa, and Illinois. Asclepias meadii was genetically variable for most of the 12 loci examined, with a mean of 1.53 alleles per locus, 40.8% polymorphic loci, and observed heterozygosity of 0.158. These values are comparable to published values for other milkweed species. More than half of the total 42 alleles were rare, with 15 alleles unique to single populations. About 74% of the genetic variation in A. meadii occurs within populations (F
10.2307/2666208|After 50 years in which only one new large mammal had been found worldwide, three new ungulates were found in the same region of Vietnam within 4 years. The context of the finds is discussed in relation to the continuing finds of other mammals and birds. This paper draws conclusions about the types of places that may still conceal undiscovered mammals and predicts where future finds may be made into the next century.
10.2307/2399794|Original chromosome counts for 16 species of tropical African Gladiolus, 5 southern African, and 3 Eurasian species, 17 of these not before examined, confirm that x = 15 is probably the ancestral basic number for the genus. Until now, x = 15 has been the only recorded base number in Gladiolus, but several tropical African species have been found to depart from this pattern, the only known examples of dysploidy in the genus. In subgenus Gladiolus, G. atropurpureus has x = 12 (2n = 24 + 0-5B, 36); G. serapiflorus, G. gregarius, and G. pseudospicatus have x = 11 (2n = 22); G. unguiculatus has x = 13 (2n = 26 + 0-2B, also possibly 2n = 24); and G. actinomorphanthus has 2n = 28. Because on morphological grounds most of these species do not seem to be immediately related, we suggest that dysploid reduction in tropical African Gladiolus may have occurred in four separate lineages. Results confirm polyploidy in G. dalenii, 2n = 60 and 90, and the three Eurasian species examined. The first count for the Malawian G. bellus, 2n = 60, indicates polyploidy in only one more tropical African species of Gladiolus. Counts of 2n = 39 in two populations of G. decoratus suggest triploidy based on x = 13, making this one more possible example of dysploidy for the genus. Although the chromosomes of Gladiolus are relatively small, some karyotypic details provide additional data relating to species relationships. Measurements of total chromosome length show that irrespective of base number, most of the diploid species have a comparable amount of chromosome material. Two species, G. melleri (2n = 30) and G. decoratus (2n = 39), however, have significantly higher amounts of chromosome material, ca. 33-40% above expected levels, a condition possibly related to their characteristic rapid growth and flowering early in the growing season.
10.2307/2399248|Oenothera havardii and O. dissecta, primarily of northern Mexico, and a third species, O. canescens, of the High Plains of the U.S., previously were placed together in subg. Gauropsis by P. A. Munz. New data on morphology, cytology, and seed anatomy were gathered to evaluate the relationships of these species to one another and to the remainder of the genus. Oenothera canescens is diploid, n = 7; O. dissecta tetraploid, n = 14; and O. havardii has both diploid and tetraploid populations. Morphological and anatomical data clearly demonstrate that Oenothera havardii is not closely allied with the other species placed in subg. Gauropsis. Further, O. havardii is not closely related to any other species in the genus, and therefore, it is placed in a new monotypic section, sect. Paradoxus. The remaining two species are not closely related, but they do appear to be more closely related to each other than either is to any other species. For this reason, they are here retained in sect. Gauropsis. Sect. Gauropsis is related to sect. Hartmannia, and especially to the white-flowered species, Oenothera tetraptera and O. kunthiana. The phylogenetic relationships of O. havardii are obscure, at best, but it appears to represent a lineage that diverged relatively early in the evolution of the genus. It may have shared a common ancestor with species of sects. Anogra, Gauropsis, Hartmannia, Kneiffia, Lavauxia, and Xylopleurum.
10.2307/2399828|In this study chromosome numbers (2n) and karyotypes of Sophora secundiflora, S. velutina var. zimbabweensis, S. tomentosa, Styphnolobium japonicum, S. parviflorum, S. protantherum, S. burseroides, and S. conzattii were determined. The first three species presented 2n = 18, with a basic chromosome number of x = 9. These species had small variations in their karyotypes and one chromosome pair with secondary constriction. The other five species presented 2n = 28, x = 14 and their karyotypes were very similar, three pairs showing secondary constrictions. These results agree with Sousa and Rudd's proposal to include species with 2n = 28 in the genus Styphnolobium.
10.2307/2398815|A new species of Styloceras (Buxaceae), S. brokawii A. Gentry & R. Foster, is described from lowland Amazonian Peru. This is the first non-Andean species of the genus and provides significant new phytogeographical evidence as to the origins of this remarkable and isolated genus.
10.2307/2399787|A variety of strategies is being used to capture information from natural history specimens and to develop new research databases containing information on taxonomic groups. Consortia of institutions are being formed for the purpose of capturing data and making them available through centralized or dispersed databases. Geographical information, when analyzed using Geographical Information Systems, provides information useful in management and conservation of taxa and habitats. Images, when analyzed using such techniques as X-ray computed tomography and three-dimensional image processing, can reduce the need to examine actual specimens. Image, sound, and text data are being combined into research and instructional programs. Information on characteristics, distributions, and relationships of taxa are being linked to other data sources, from both collections and non-collections databases. Efforts are underway to develop data standards and data-sharing protocols in order to facilitate sharing of these data among institutions and across disciplines.
10.2307/2399822|A revision of Panicum subg. Dichanthelium sect. Dichanthelium (Poaceae: Panicoideae: Paniceae) for Mesoamerica, the West Indies, and South America is presented, considering exomorphological, anatomical data and caryological characters. Thirty-seven species and seven varieties of section Dichanthelium of Panicum are recognized from this area. Panicum caparaoense is described as a new species, and Panicum dichotomum var. tenue as a new combination. An anatomical description of section Dichanthelium, with photomicrographs of representative species, is given, together with a key, morphological descriptions, and distribution maps. It is concluded that section Dichanthelium is not sufficiently distinct to be regarded as a separate genus. The taxonomic position of Dichanthelium within Panicum is discussed.
10.2307/2399100|Samples containing fossil pollen and spores were collected from six sites representing five Tertiary formations in Panama. The Gatuncillo Formation is middle(?) to late Eocene, based on foraminifera and mollusk fossils. The formation is exposed around Madden Basin and samples were collected in the vicinity of Alcalde Diaz (Penoncito). Material from the early Miocene Culebra Formation was obtained from a well drilled in the Contractor's Hill locality at the base of Gold Hill. The Cucaracha Formation overlies the Culebra and is also early Miocene in age. The Cucaracha material was collected from exposures along the Gaillard Cut section of the Canal. The early Miocene La Boca Formation outcrops in the same area. Although these three formations are similar in age (early Miocene), field evidence demonstrates that they are sequential from the Culebra (oldest), through the Cucaracha, to the La Boca (youngest). The Gatun Formation is late Miocene and early Pliocene in age and core samples were taken from a series of wells drilled in Gatun Lake. The location, stratigraphy, lithology, and depositional environments are summarized for these five formations. In subsequent publications the paleocommunities, paleoenvironments, and biogeographic implications will be considered for each of the microfloras.
10.2307/2399433|The Boraginaceae known from Panama now number 52 species compared with the 33 that were recognized the last time the family was treated. Eight of these are described as new species, five in the genus Cordia and three in Tournefortia. Among the new records for Panama is Moritzia lindenii, the genus being previously unknown in the country. Most genera of Panamanian Boraginaceae are South American in origin. More than half of the species are widespread in the Neotropics, but the remainder show stronger affinities with the rest of Central America than with South America or with the West Indies.
10.2307/2399579|Fruits from 34 specimens of a single population of Dasylirion from the Sierra Madre Occidental of Chihuahua, Mexico, were compared with those of herbarium specimens of D. wheeleri and D. durangense from outside the study area. Variation was found in this population spanning the range between the two taxa. It was concluded that D. wheeleri and D. durangense are conspecific, and the latter is reduced to varietal status. Dasylirion wheeleri var. durangense is also reported for the first time from Sonora.
10.2307/2398791|Six native and one naturalized species of Fuchsia (Onagraceae) from Mexico and Central America are recognized, not including the recently revised sect. Encliandra. One species, Fuchsia jimenezii, and one section, Jimenezia, are newly described, and Ellobium is also recognized as a section. The recognition of subdioecy in Fuchsia paniculata (sect. Schufia) now strengthens evidence of a trend toward male sterility and eventual dioecy in the small, peripheral sections of the genus. The distinctions between that species and the closely related but entirely hermaphroditic F. arborescens are established. Fuchsia jimenezii (sect. Jimenezia) is a phylogenetically key species because it has the antipetalous stamens reflexed into the tube like sect. Encliandra, yet it has the more generalized many-seeded berry and hermaphroditic flowers of most other sections. The new sect. Ellobium joins F. splendens, F. fulgens, and F. decidua into a morphologically and geographically coherent unit, with links to the Andean sects. Fuchsia and Hemsleyella. Fuchsia cordifolia is reduced to the synonymy of F. splendens on the basis of a study of populations from throughout its range.
10.2307/2399371|It is evident that underwater outcrossing (hypohydrophily) arose from aerial pollination systems. However, no mechanism to explain this transition has been proposed. Herein I suggest a system involving bubble pollination, similar to hydroautogamy in Potamogeton, as an intermediate in the transition from aerial to submerged pollination systems. Such an intermediate would provide the opportunity for the gradual evolution of characters that are needed for underwater outcrossing without sacrificing seed production during the transition.
40035766|Systematics and evolutionary biology are being bolstered by a renaissance in cytogenetics and comparative genomics as illustrated by reviewing Peter Raven's integration of cytogenetics and phylogenetics and by presenting updates to his work in three key research areas. The first area is the evolution of chromosomes during the origin of the angiosperms. Raven's analysis of chromosome numbers in the Annonales and other basal angiosperms inspired modern genomic comparisons that have revealed paleopolyploid events, which appear to have occurred early and often during flowering plant diversification. Second, Raven's characterization of chromosome evolution in various genera of Onagraceae is updated in light of a contemporary Onagraceae phylogeny. The possible construction of ancestral karyotypes in the Onagraceae is feasible using techniques that have been successful in analyses of genomic blocks in the Poaceae and Brassicaceae. Third, Raven's work on catastrophic speciation identified the importance of chromosomal rearrangements in the evolution of Clarkia Pursh and the ability of new species to inhabit different environments. Current work in Brassica L. has shown that phenotypic changes contributing to speciation events can arise from relatively few chromosomal rearrangements. A fusion of systematics and cytogenetics is opening new areas of research, with phylogenomics allowing ancestral genome reconstruction, the incorporation of genome-level characters into phylogenetic analyses, and new theories about evolution on a genomic scale.
10.2307/2399773|Phylogenetic relationships among 42 species of Solanaceae representing 12 of the 14 currently recognized tribes were assessed by chloroplast DNA restriction site mapping. Over 1,000 cleavage sites were identified for 10 restriction enzymes and of these, 447 provided information concerning relationships among the included taxa and the outgroup, Ipomoea (Convolvulaceae). The results establish that subfamily Cestroideae is ancestral in the family and is paraphyletic, and that the subfamily Solanoideae is derived from within the Cestroideae and is monophyletic, if it is circumscribed to include Nolana. The tribe Salpiglossideae, characterized by floral zygomorphy and reduction in stamen number, is probably polyphyletic and hence artificial. An analysis of character evolution in the family suggests that the tribe Nicotianeae retains the most primitive morphological characters of any tribe in the family and helps to explain the disjoint position of members of the tribe in two distinct lineages in the Cestroideae. The chromosome base number x = 12 unites the Solanoideae with the Anthocercideae and Nicotiana. The worldwide distribution of the Solanoideae versus the almost exclusively New World distribution of the Cestroideae argues for a predominantly long-distance dispersal, rather than a vicariance explanation of biogeographic distributions in the family. The morphologically distinctive genus Schizanthus is the earliest diverging lineage in the family. Tribal relationships within the Solanoideae remain poorly resolved and await more detailed study.
10.2307/2399989|Oreopolus is here distinguished based on its ternate leaves, triangular entire to shortly mucronate or bilobed stipules, simple inflorescence bracts that resemble stipules, and calyx lobes that do not enlarge in fruit; thus circumscribed it includes only O. glacialis (Poepp.) Ricardi. Cruckshanksia is distinguished by opposite to subalternate leaves, erose bilobed stipules, 2-7-lobed inflorescence bracts that resemble the leaves, and calyx lobes that are markedly enlarged in fruit; seven species are recognized here. Keys and complete descriptions, nomenclature, and distributional information are presented.
10.2307/2399261|Both Gentiana saxosa and G. serotina are protandrous. When flowers open, pollen is presented extrorsely around the closed stigma for one to six days. As the stigma opens, the stamens curve toward the corolla lobes. The length of the female phase, and therefore reproductive flower life, is determined by pollination, although in both species the corolla may remain fresh for longer than one month. Fresh female-phase flowers close at night and fail to reopen on the day following pollination. After five days in the female phase, flowers reacted less quickly to pollination and seed production was reduced; flowers pollinated on their tenth day of stigma presentation produced no seed although they appeared fresh. Senescence of unpollinated flowers differed between species: in G. saxosa the flowers remained open and gradually deteriorated, but in G. serotina the flowers eventually closed before full senescence. Pollination-induced flower senescence has been demonstrated for a number of other angiosperms, and the usual reactions to pollination are corolla abscission, color change, or wilting. In Gentiana, the closed corolla enfolds the large superior ovary and may serve to protect it from predators as well as prevent further pollinator visits. Pollination-induced flower senescence probably also minimizes flower maintenance costs by ensuring that the flower functions no longer than necessary. One correlate of this phenomenon in hermaphroditic flowers is protandry, which ensures pollen dispatch before flower closure.
10.2307/2399085|A review is given of the various botanical evidences for changes in vegetation cover of the Neotropics during the Pleistocene dry periods. Authors who have discussed vegetation changes in terms of plant geography are treated. There are considerable phytogeographic data which support the findings of palynology and geomorphology. The climate changes appear to have affected the vegetation of the entire neotropical region since evidence is presented from Mexico to Southern Brazil and from both the lowland and highland regions. The comparatively recent recognition of climatic and related vegetational changes have caused botanists to re-evaluate some of their earlier theories of speciation and biological diversity in the lowland tropics.
10.2307/2398809| Bamboos, which have woody culms, and several genera with herbaceous culms share a similar type of leaf anatomy and epidermis. Various other morphological features, including a distinctive type of seedling, also indicate a close relationship that supports the grouping of these genera together into a single subfamily, the Bambusoideae. A review of the chromosome numbers in the subfamily reveals that the herbaceous members are mostly diploid while the woody ones are polyploid, with x = 12 the basic number. Such evidence corroborates the hypothesis that bamboos have been derived from herbaceous ancestors. Most bamboos flower infrequently and have had far less opportunity for floral evolution than have the herbaceous members, which flower continuously or at least seasonally. The most primitive inflorescences have therefore been retained in the bamboos while highly specialized ones have developed in the herbaceous members. A knowledge of the former type of inflorescence is useful in an interpretation of the latter. With this in mind, the inflorescence of the herbaceous bambusoid grass, Streptochaeta, has been reexamined. This genus has long been considered to be the most primitive grass, in great part due to the presence of three large structures in the spikelet, thought to be primitive lodicules and two structures interpreted as a primitive, two-parted palea. Comparison of Streptochaeta with other members of the Bambusoideae suggests that the spikelet in fact lacks both lodicules and palea and that these structures represent instead bracts on different axes of a highly modified pseudospikelet. Such a pseudospikelet is comparable to that of a bamboo. While Streptochaeta may be considered primitive in its herbaceous nature and possession of a pseudospikelet, it must be regarded as advanced in other features, among them the lack of lodicules. No one member of the subfamily can be considered most primitive. The least advanced inflorescences are retained in bamboos, such as Bambusa, while the most primitive growth form occurs in herbaceous genera like Streptochaeta, Streptogyna, and Pharus. The significant trends of evolution within the subfamily become apparent, however, only when all of the genera--woody and herbaceous--are considered together. The bambusoid line--with its complex leaf anatomy and epidermis--is itself specialized and not to be regarded as the precursor of the other groups of grasses. 
10.2307/2399250|Collections of passionflowers are often inadequate for taxonomic studies because of insufficient description of their complicated flower structures, i.e., corona, operculum, nectar ring, and limen. These structures are highly important to the taxonomy of Passiflora. Instructions are given here on how to make good, properly labelled collections of passionflowers.
10.2307/2399432|A revision of Panicum subgenus Phanopyrum section Stolonifera is presented. Panicum soderstromii is described as new, and P. andreanum, P. biglandulare, P. crateriferum, P. irregulare, P. chapadense, P. rude, P. piauiense, P. stoloniferum, P. latissimum, P. pulchellum, and the controversial P. venezuelae are included in this section, which can be characterized by the inflorescences with unilateral racemose branches, the upper anthecium short stipitate at its base and glabrous and smooth, and the presence of non-Kranz leaf anatomy. The presence of one or two (rarely three) pairs of crateriform, ocellate glands is a singular feature of this section; these glands may be constantly present, present or absent in some specimens, or completely absent in others. Keys to all 13 species and SEM micrographs of the upper anthecium and glands on the lower lemma are provided. Each species is illustrated.
10.2307/2399285|Each of Rhizophoraceae and Anisophylleaceae, as now defined by Tobe & Raven, are here considered to represent monophyletic units. Conspicuous autapomorphies of the variable Rhizophoraceae are, for example, the constellation of protein bodies of the sieve-tube plastids and the presence of colleters. Autapomorphies of the less variable and smaller Anisophylleaceae are sets of embryological, anatomical, and morphological characteristics as well as aluminium accumulation. The contributors of this symposium show convincingly from various fields how the two families differ in numerous details. These differences in combination support very strongly that the families are distinct from each other and are probably even rather distantly related. The Rhizophoraceae do not belong to Myrtales, from which they were excluded by all participants of a recent Myrtales symposium. Comparisons with various other groups show that Rhizophoraceae agree in many characters with especially Elaeocarpaceae, previously placed in Malvales, Celastraceae of Celastrales, and families of Geraniales, e.g., Erythroxylaceae, Humiriaceae, Linaceae, Lepidobotryaceae, and Oxalidaceae. This is supported in particular by a syndrome of embryological attributes, but also from morphological, anatomical, pollen morphological, and chemical evidence. Anisophylleaceae, which possess a combination of quite trivial character conditions, technically fit most closely with Rosales in the wide sense, i.e., Rosales-Cunoniales-Saxifragales, without approaching any particular family. Anisophylleaceae may have evolved from taxa related also to the ancestors of Myrtales.
10.2307/2394940|A taxonomic revision of the North American species of Aristolochia, exclusive of the Mexican pentandrous group, is presented. A total of 58 species is enumerated with descriptions, illustrations, distribution maps and complete taxonomic synonymy; seven species are novelties.
10.2307/2399296|The Cucaracha microfossil flora is the third in a series of four lower Miocene assemblages studied from southern Central America (Uscari-Costa Rica; Culebra, Cucaracha, La Boca-Panama). Nineteen palynomorphs have been identified (Selaginella, monolete fern spores types 1-3, Cyathea, Ceratopteris, Pteris, cf. Antrophyum, trilete fern spores types 1-2, Crysophila and Manicaria-type palm pollen, Ilex, Compositae, Alchornia, Alfaroa/Engelhardia, Crudia, Eugenia/Myrcia, and Rhizophora). The paleocommunities include a fern marsh, with associated palms, fringed seaward by mangroves, and bordered on the surrounding uplands by versions of the tropical wet, tropical moist, and premontane forests. Evidence for higher-altitude vegetation and communities of drier to arid aspect (open forests, savannahs) continues to be meager for Tertiary floras in the region. Affinities of the flora are distinctly Central and North American, consistent with other paleontological and biogeographic data, as well as paleophysiographic reconstructions for southern Central America. Paleoclimatic conditions were similar to those presently prevailing in coastal, lowland, and mid-altitude (1,200-1,500 m) habitats. Frequent and extensive volcanic activity documented for the region likely disrupted the vegetation, resulting in a shifting mosaic of short-term, more open communities. This may account for a paleobotanical record reflecting primarily dense forests on the slopes, while the few fossil mammalian faunas contain remains of browsers and grazers, suggesting more open forests and savannahs.
40035048|The genus Guettarda (Guettardeae-Rubiaceae) comprises approximately 150 species, ranging from eastern Africa through the islands of the Indian and Pacific Oceans to the Neotropics. Sequence data from the nuclear ribosomal DNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region were used to test the monophyly of Guettarda and its relationships to closely related genera within Guettardeae. The results indicate that Guettarda and two smaller genera, Antirhea and Stenostomum, are polyphyletic. Most Guettarda species fall into two distinct groups: a Neotropical lineage that also includes the widespread Indo-Pacific strand species G. speciosa (the type of the genus), and a New Caledonian lineage that, along with Antirhea and Timonius, comprises a dioecious Paleotropical clade. The Hawaiian endemic Bobea, traditionally considered close to Timonius and assumed to be of Old World origin, appears to be more closely related to Neotropical Guettarda species, suggesting that dioecy may have evolved twice within the tribe. The use of traditional gynoecium characters to delimit genera within Guettardeae is not congruent with the ITS phylogeny; other features, such as inflorescence architecture, sexual system, and palynology, appear to correlate more closely with the molecular phylogeny.
10.2307/2399495|Eleven new species (Licaria tomentosa, Ocotea flavantha, O. liesneri, O. glabra, O. huberi, O. megacarpa, O. roseopedunculata, O. tomentosa, Persea croatii, P. croizatii, and P. fluviatilis) are described. Ocotea julianii is published as a new name for Phoebe steyermarkiana, Phoebe areolatocostae is transferred to Persea, and Ocotea steyermarkiana is transferred to Rhodostemonodaphne.
10.2307/2398985|Based on a general survey of the distribution of Scrophulariaceae in the Holarctic, eastern Asia is shown to be the richest in members of the family among five regions. Western North America has 53% of the genera (16/30) common to eastern Asia, whereas eastern North America has 48% of the genera (17/35) common to eastern Asia. Among 14 genera (excluding the cosmopolitan and pantropical genera) shared by North America and Eurasia, four distributional patterns are recognized: temperate western North America/Mediterranean disjunction (one genus); temperate Eurasia/North America disjunction (three genera); temperate eastern Asia/eastern North America disjunction (four genera), and continuous distribution through the Bering Strait or Aleutian Islands (six genera). Three phases of plant communication between North America and Eurasia are hypothesized. The origin and migration routes of some taxa are traced. Six genera are suggested to have migrated from eastern Asia to North America and four genera are considered to have migrated in the opposite direction, i.e., from western North America to eastern Asia through Beringia or the Bering Strait.
10.2307/3298595| Con base en trabajo de campo y de herbario, se reconocen 23 especies de Quercus para el Estado de Mxico. Diez pertenecen a la seccin Quercus y 13 a la seccin Lobatae. Quince de las especies son endmicas de Mxico, siete estn distribuidas hasta Centro Amrica y slo Quercus rugosa se encuentra en el norte de la frontera mexicana, en los Estados Unidos. El trabajo incluye una clave dicotmica y descripciones morfolgicas de cada uno de los taxa. Adicionalmente, para cada especie se proporcionan datos etnobotnicos, fenolgicos y ecolgicos. /// Based on field and herbarium work, in this paper 23 species of Quercus are recognized for the State of Mxico. Ten of the species belong to section Quercus and 13 to section Lobatae. Fifteen of the species are endemic to Mexico, seven extend to Central America, and only Quercus rugosa is found north of the Mexican border in the United States. The paper includes a dichotomous key and morphological descriptions for all the taxa, as well as ethnobotanical, phenological, and ecological data. 
40035479|Heliophila (ca. 73 spp.), the ditypic Cycloptychis and Thlaspeocarpa, and the monotypic Schlechteria, Silicularia, Brachycarpaea, and Chamira are endemic to the Cape region of South Africa, where they are the dominant genera of Brassicaceae. They may be regarded as the most diversified Brassicaceae lineage in every aspect of habit, leaf, flower, and fruit morphology. The characters used in the separation of these genera and their species, especially fruit type (silique vs. silicle), dehiscence (dehiscent vs. indehiscent), compression (latiseptate vs. angustiseptate), and cotyledonary type (spirolobal, diplecolobal, twice conduplicate), have been used extensively in the delimitation of tribes. The relationship and taxonomic limits among these genera are unclear and controversial. The present ITS study demonstrates the monophyly of tribe Heliophileae, with Chamira as sister clade. The other five smaller genera above are nested within two of the three main lineages of Heliophila, to which they should be reduced to synonymy. The current study reveals parallel evolution of fruit characters often used heavily in the traditional classification schemes of the family. However, the arrangement of species into three main clades largely corresponds with the distribution of morphological characters (e.g., habit, leaf shape, seed structure, inflorescence type, and presence/absence of basal appendages on the pedicels, petals, and staminal filaments) not adequately accounted for in previous studies. Estimation of divergence times of the main lineages of Heliophila is in agreement with recent estimations in other plant groups, all of which date the diversification against a background of aridification in the Pliocene and Pleistocene. Species of one main clade are perennial, microphyllous shrubs/subshrubs typically restricted to poor sandstone soils in the southwestern and western parts of the Cape Floristic Region of South Africa. Species of the other two clades are predominantly annuals that grow in more arid regions of Namibia and Namaqualand, as well as in the above sandstone areas of the Cape Region. The adaptive significance of various floral structures is discussed in terms of their possible role in the rapid diversification within Heliophila.
10.2307/2399846|We present the results of two exploratory parsimony analyses of DNA sequences from 475 and 499 species of seed plants, respectively, representing all major taxonomic groups. The data are exclusively from the chloroplast gene rbcL, which codes for the large subunit of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (RuBisCO or RuBPCase). We used two different state-transformation assumptions resulting in two sets of cladograms: (i) equal-weighting for the 499-taxon analysis; and (ii) a procedure that differentially weights transversions over transitions within characters and codon positions among characters for the 475-taxon analysis. The degree of congruence between these results and other molecular, as well as morphological, cladistic studies indicates that rbcL sequence variation contains historical evidence appropriate for phylogenetic analysis at this taxonomic level of sampling. Because the topologies presented are necessarily approximate and cannot be evaluated adequately for internal support, these results should be assessed from the perspective of their predictive value and used to direct future studies, both molecular and morphological. In both analyses, the three genera of Gnetales are placed together as the sister group of the flowering plants, and the anomalous aquatic Ceratophyllum (Ceratophyllaceae) is sister to all other flowering plants. Several major lineages identified correspond well with at least some recent taxonomic schemes for angiosperms, particularly those of Dahlgren and Thorne. The basalmost clades within the angiosperms are orders of the apparently polyphyletic subclass Magnoliidae sensu Cronquist. The most conspicuous feature of the topology is that the major division is not monocot versus dicot, but rather one correlated with general pollen type: uniaperturate versus triaperturate. The Dilleniidae and Hamamelidae are the only subclasses that are grossly polyphyletic; an examination of the latter is presented as an example of the use of these broad analyses to focus more restricted studies. A broadly circumscribed Rosidae is paraphyletic to Asteridae and Dilleniidae. Subclass Caryophyllidae is monophyletic and derived from within Rosidae in the 475-taxon analysis but is sister to a group composed of broadly delineated Asteridae and Rosidae in the 499-taxon study.
10.2307/2394840|Flower buds of Asclepias curassavica were cultured to determine the effects of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) and kinetin (6-furfurylaminopurine) on the secondary growth of the pedicels. Initiation and activity of the cambium were achieved on media containing both of these substances as well as on media containing 1 mg/l auxin and 10 mg/l autoclaved deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA). The highest cambial activity and secondary xylem production occurred in pedicels grown on the latter medium. This study suggests that the presence of IAA and kinetin together in the medium enhances the mobility of both, and that there is an interaction between auxin and kinetin in initiating vascular cambium and influencing its subsequent activity. Such an interaction may also take place in the pedicels of fruit of Asclepias curassavica undergoing secondary growth.
10.2307/2399878|To investigate the phylogenetic utility of entire, nuclear-encoded small-subunit (18S) ribosomal DNA sequences, we compared the rate of evolution and phylogenetic resolution of entire 18S sequences with those for the chloroplast gene rbcL using a suite of 59 angiosperms and 3 gymnosperms (Gnetum, Ephedra, and Zamia) as outgroups. For rbcL, 482 (33.6%) of the 1431 base positions were phylogenetically informative, whereas for 18S rDNA 341 (18.4%) of the 1853 positions were informative. Pairwise comparisons within the angiosperms show that rbcL is generally about three times more variable than 18S rDNA. However, because the 18S region is approximately 400 base pairs longer than rbcL, the ratio of the number of phylogenetically informative sites per molecule is only about 1.4 times greater for rbcL compared to 18S rDNA. Not only are sites more variable in rbcL than in 18S rDNA, but this variability is more evenly distributed over the length of rbcL. In contrast, 18S rDNA shows highly variable regions interspersed with regions of extreme conservation. Minimum-length Fitch trees were constructed for each matrix, and the results were compared to a tree derived from a previous global analysis of rbcL sequences based on 499 seed plants. Parsimony analyses showed that several clades are strongly supported by both data sets, such as Gnetales, monocots, paleoherbs, Santalales, and various clades within Rosidae s.l. and Asteridae s.l. Some clades (e.g., Santalales) have higher base substitution rates for 18S rDNA, permitting the assessment of inter- and intrafamilial relationships. This comparative study indicates that 18S rDNA sequences contain sufficient information to conduct phylogenetic studies at higher taxonomic levels (family and above) within angiosperms. rDNA sequences are best applied to such deep divergences, but the amount of variation differs significantly among taxonomic groups.
10.2307/2399982|Ten species of group Racemosa of genus Paspalum are treated in this work, including two new species, Paspalum rugulosum Morrone & Zuloaga and P. soukupii Carbono. Group Racemosa is defined as annual plants of medium to high altitudes that inhabit moist places and have the following characteristics: culms decumbent, rooting and branching at the lower nodes, blades flat, ovate-lanceolate, lanceolate to linear-lanceolate, inflorescences with several to many deciduous racemes, rachis of the racemes foliaceous, spikelets uniseriate or biseriate, with or without an upper glume and upper anthecium cartilaginous or crustaceous. Anatomically the species of group Racemosa are characterized as being Kranz, MS type, with peculiar distinctive Kranz cells in the mesophyll. Relationships of this group with other infrageneric taxa of Paspalum are discussed. A key to the species, as well as an anatomical description of the group and photomicrographs, morphological description of the species, and distribution maps are presented.
10.2307/2399541|In 1877 Francis Darwin expressed his belief that the primary role of nectaries in bracken is as waste glands, and that ants associated with bracken nectaries play no role in defending the plant because bracken is enemy free. This paper provides evidence that, in fact, bracken supports a large number of pathogens and herbivores. Bracken synthesizes a wide variety of secondary metabolites, which act as toxins and deterrents to these natural enemies. While ants may have been significant in selecting for specialist insect communities on bracken, it is doubtful whether they play a protective role and improve bracken fitness. Although Francis Darwin was wrong in assuming that bracken has no natural enemies, over 100 years later the question of whether the ant-bracken association is mutualistic continues to intrigue us.
10.2307/2399140|Leaf architectural and cuticular characters in the Phyllanthoideae (Euphorbiaceae) were analyzed using Similarity Graph Clustering. The resulting groups and their similarity relationships correspond remarkably well to classifications based on more traditional taxonomic characters. Exceptions generally appear to be either cases in which other evidence also suggests that previous classifications are invalid or in which total similarity could be expected to be a poor indicator of relationship. Obtaining such clear results in a group not known for having diagnostic leaf characteristics indicates the considerable potential foliar morphology has for classification of modern and fossil angiosperms.
10.2307/2666158|Some 14 species of long-proboscid flies (Diptera) in two families, Nemestrinidae and Tabanidae, with elongated mouth parts are known to pollinate species in several plant families, most importantly Geraniaceae, Iridaceae, and Orchidaeeac, across southern Africa. Long proboseid fly pollination appears to comprise three discrete guilds of flies in the genera Prosoeca, Moegistorhynchus, and Stenobasipteron (Nemestrinidae) and Philoliche (Tabanidae). Flies in the three guilds are on the wing at different times of the year and pollinate different suites of plant species, sometimes with different floral characteristics. The three pollinator guilds operate for the most part in different parts of the subcontinent. Where there is geographical overlap, the periods of activity differ. Plants pollinated by long-proboscid flies have flowers with an elongate, cylindrical floral tube, mostly 35-60 cm long, a perianth of specific colors and marking, a floral reward of nectar, and lack floral fragrance. Pollen is not eaten by these flies, and anthers and pollen are often cryptically colored. Flowers are usually zygomorphic and bilabiate, and the petal or tepal lobes have characteristically shaped nectar guides. With few exceptions, the flowers offer ample nectar of sugar concentration mainly in the 20-30% range. Several orchids and one Pelargonium using long-proboscid flies for pollination offer no nectar, and pollination is accomplished through floral mimicry and deception. In long-proboscid fly pollination systems, placement of pollen on the insect's body is highly specific, and there are at least six mutually exclusive sites of pollen deposition on an insect's body. When two or more long-proboscid-fly-pollinated plant species co-occur, each typically utilizes a different pollen deposition site. This suggests that pollen contamination is detrimental to reproductive success and that differential pollen deposition sites are important for plants pollinated by long-proboscid flies. Since these flies are the sole or main pollinators of at least 120 plant species and the inferred pollinators of at least 80 more species in southern Africa, they must be considered keystone species in the ecosystems where they occur.
42703725|For the majority of plant species of conservation concern, seed banking and traditional propagation methods are the most efficient ways of meeting the ex situ and recovery conservation goals of Global Strategy for Plant Conservation (GSPC) Target 8. However, there are estimated to be 5000 or more endangered species for which these methods will not be adequate conservation tools. These "exceptional" species are those with recalcitrant seeds or those that produce few or no seeds. In vitro methods can provide alternative procedures for propagating and preserving germplasm in the long term for these species. Research at the Center for Conservation and Research of Endangered Wildlife (CREW) with several U.S. endangered species has shown the potential of these methods. In vitro propagation can provide plants for reintroduction and research when traditional propagation methods are not adequate. Phytotissue banking can be used for long-term ex situ conservation when seed or embryo banking is not possible. In vitro methods are also needed for recovery when embryo banking of recalcitrant seeds is possible. The full implementation of in vitro methods is constrained by information, scientific, and economic challenges, but the need for its use in meeting the needs of exceptional species should provide impetus for overcoming these challenges and making these methods an integral part of an overall ex situ conservation strategy.
10.2307/2399262|To document breeding systems in the widespread neotropical terrestrial orchid, Sacoila lanceolata, pollination and seed development were studied in the field and in cultivated plants. In the southern Florida study area, plants of var. lanceolata were not pollinated and hummingbird pollinators were apparently absent. When plants from southern Florida were moved to a situation where hummingbirds were abundant in southern Ontario, hummingbird-pollination was observed on numerous occasions and the incidence of pollination was approximately 90%. Pollination experiments demonstrated a reliance on pollen vectors in plants of var. lanceolata from central Guyana, where a variety of hummingbird pollinators are available, but the plants of the same variety from southern Florida were found to be agamospermic. Examination of serial sections of ovaries in successive developmental stages indicated that agamospermy is by adventitious embryony, the embryos (one or more) being formed by proliferation of the inner integument. Adventitious embryony can be detected through association with polyembryonic seed, is characteristic of Florida populations of var. lanceolata, and occurs also in portions of the tropical range. Plants of S. lanceolata var. paludicola from southern Florida were found to self-pollinate. The pollinator-independent breeding systems in southern Florida populations of S. lanceolata var. lanceolata and var. paludicola and the apparent absence of races totally reliant upon pollen vectors are associated with pollinator-paucity.
10.2307/2399923|A total of 85 chromosome counts representing 45 species belonging to 29 genera in three subfamilies of Poaceae, viz., Arundinoideae, Chloridoideae, and Pooideae from Pakistan, are reported. The chromosome counts for six species, viz.: Leptothrium senegalense (n = 10); Piptatherum gracile (n = 12); Poa sinaica (n = 7); Sporobolus arabicus (n = 18); Sporobolus nervosus (n = 18); and Stipagrostis plumosa (n = 22), are new determinations. Chromosome counts for an additional 34 species are new for the flora of Pakistan. New cytotypes were detected in Aeluropus lagopoides (n = 20), Avena barbata (n = 21), Diplachne fusca (n = 20), and Ochthochloa compressa (n = 10).
10.2307/2399868|Temporal patterns of research on Mexican vascular plants were analyzed on the basis of counts or estimates of taxa (species and infraspecific) described from Mexico since the establishment of the Linnaean system (in 1753) up to 1988. Temporal tendencies were found that correlate with known historical events. The cumulative count yielded a total of 23,630 Mexican taxa described in the 235 years of existence of the binomial system. This number was used as a basis to estimate the number of taxa known to Mexico up to 1988 using two correction factors: (i) an estimate of the proportion of species that, even though they are present in Mexico, they were not described from that country, and (ii) an estimate of the degree of nomenclatural redundancy (synonymy). With this method we arrived at a total of 16,870 taxa. Moreover, the curve of the cumulative number of new taxa seems to be far from reaching the asymptote, and over recent years the rate is greater than 150 per year. Under the argument that approximately 20% of the total floristic richness of the country is yet unknown, we calculate that the number would rise to 20,244, close to Rzedowski's estimate of 22,800. Our estimate, and that of Rzedowski, suggests that the widely cited figure of 30,000 species should be taken with caution. Our conservative estimate and the lack of evidence of an asymptote in the rate of acumulation of taxa detected in this study underscore Mexico as one of the territories of greater floristic diversity on the planet.
10.2307/2399857|The Ericaceae, Epacridaceae, and Empetraceae are usually recognized as closely related families of woody plants that share a preference for acidic soils, anthers that invert in development, and the presence of endosperm haustoria, among other characteristics. The Empetraceae are recognized as distinctive because of their often unisexual and wind-pollinated flowers. Epacridaceae are distinguished from Ericaceae by anthers that open by slits rather than pores and a primarily Australian distribution. Phylogenetic relationships of these related families are investigated using nucleotide sequences of the plastid gene rbcL. Parsimony analyses indicate a monophyletic, broadly defined Ericaceae that includes Empetraceae and Epacridaceae.
10.2307/2399040|A polycarpous flower perhaps belonging to the Magnoliales, a tiliaceous flower, and a male, branched, sapindalean inflorescence are described from the Middle Eocene oil-shale at Messel near Darmstadt, Germany.
10.2307/2666185|The isolation of South America from Central America and Africa during the Tertiary Period left a strong imprint on the flora of the Neotropics. South American Eocene through Miocene fossil assemblages, both pollen and macrofossils, document a rich tropical flora on the continental margins, and represent some of the only data on pre-landbridge lowland taxa in South America. Lowland Miocene floras from Amazonia are remarkably similar in their high diversity to Amazonian floras today based on lists of dominant families. Recent geophysical data on the uplift of the northern Andes show a strong correlation between uplift and the development and diversification of montane forests in Colombia and Venezuela. The emergence of a continuous landbridge at 3 Ma between Central and South America is well documented and is demonstrated by the arrival of temperature elements in South American highlands and concurrent appearance of South American taxa in Central America. There is no evidence for displacement of lowland tropical plants in South America by northern immigrants, which appears to stand in contrast to the published record for mammals. The mix of taxa in extant Mexican tropical floras derived from tropical South America, tropical Central America, and from remnants of northern tropical Eocene floras is strong evidence for the impact that the landbridge through the Panamanian isthmus had on the neotropical flora. The early appearance of low-elevation savannas is inferred from an increase in grass pollen in the middle Pliocene of Panama; however, widespread savannas are not indicated by pollen data from the Central American region. Rather, beginning in the latest Miocene Epoch and continuing up to the Quaternary, a mix of tropical rainforest and mixed tropical woodlands is suggested for the lowlands, based on pollen evidence. Accumulating data on temperature changes during the late Tertiary and Quaternary Periods points to low-latitude temperature fluctuations of up to 6
10.2307/2395067|Salient features of the vegetative morphology of Clepsydropsis, Dineuron, Metadineuron, Diplolabis, Metaclepsydropsis, Zygopteris, Ankyropteris, Psalixochlaena, Tubicaulis, Anachoropteris, Apotropteris, Grammatopteris, Catenopteris, and Botryopteris are summarized. Trends in xylary evolution include examples of tracheidal zonation of solid protosteles (Diplolabis, Grammatopteris), increased parenchymatization of vitalized protosteles (Tubicaulis, Zygopteris), siphonostely with and without leaf gaps (Botryopteris, Anachoropteris, and Apotropteris), and secondary xylem (Zygopteris). Simple scalariform thickenings and multiseriate scalariform bordered pitting are primitive types. A distinction in foliar and cauline anatomy occurs in the earliest well known representatives of each of the coenopterid families. Branching is dichotomous (Etapteroideae), axillary (Ankryopteris species), lateral (Psalixachlaena), and effected by shoots on fronds (Anachoropteris, Botryopteris). Circinate vernation, pinnate and planated frond divisions, and laminate pinnules occur in each family including form genera Pecopteris, Sphenopteris, and Alloiopteris. Vegetative morphology supports recognition of coenopterids as true ferns.
10.2307/2399301|Studies in the genus Sloanea (Elaeocarpaceae) for the Flora of the Venezuelan Guayana have yielded changes in nomenclature and taxonomic concepts in addition to the following new taxa: Sloanea bolivarensis, S. cataniapensis, S. davidsei, S. longiaristata, S. merevariensis, S. parvifructa, S. sipapoana, S. steyermarkii subsp. autanae, S. steyermarkii subsp. jauaensis, S. subpsilocarpa, and S. wurdackii. Notes pertaining to the families Rapateaceae, Bombacaceae, and Theaceae are included.
10.2307/2395253|The following chromosome numbers are reported: Miersia chilensis 2n = 20, Gethyum atropurpureum 2n = 14 (Alliaceae); Aextoxicon punctatum 2n = 32 (Aextoxicaceae); Nymania capensis 2n = ca. 48 (Aitoniaceae); Ilex pedunculosa 2n = 120 (Aquifoliaceae); Oroxylon indicum 2n = 38, Millingtonia hortensis 2n = 30 (Bignoniaceae); Canella alba 2n = 28 (Canellaceae); Cneorum tricoccum 2n = 36 (Cneoraceae); Eucryphia lucida 2n = 30 (Eucryphiaceae), Greyia sutherlandii 2n = 32-34, n = ca. 17 (Greyiaceae); Koeberlinia spinosa 2n = ca. 88 (Koeberliniaceae); Erythrina burttii 2n = ca. 168 (Leguminosae); Rhynchocalyx lawsonioides 2n = 20 (Lythraceae); Montinia carylophyllacea n = 34, 2n = 68 (Montiniaceae); Olinia emarginata 2n = ca. 40(<->42), O. radiata n = ca. 30 (<->28) (Oliniaceae); Oftia africana 2n = 38, n = ca. 19 (Scrophulariaceae).
10.2307/2992095|The genus Hymenocardia has been placed either in Euphorbiaceae subfamily Phyllanthoideae or in its own family and then associated with the Urticales, particularly the Ulmaceae. However, the pollen exine wall of Hymenocardia lacks the microchanneled tectum, granular interstitium, and thin foot-layer of the Urticales. Hymenocardia instead has many palynological features found in the Phyllanthoideae and should be retained in the Euphorbiaceae in that subfamily. Didymocistus, which has scalelike foliar trichomes and exine sculpturing and ultrastructure similar to Hymenocardia, should be transferred from the Phyllanthoideae-Aporuseae to a position near Hymenocardia.
10.2307/2399209|Meliosma hartshornii A. Gentry, from Costa Rica; M. corymbosa A. Gentry and M. nanarum A. Gentry, from Nicaragua; M. peytonii A. Gentry and M. vasquezii A. Gentry from Peru; and M. solomonii A. Gentry from Bolivia are described.
10.2307/2399345|Lacandonia schismatica comprises a new family, genus, and species. Its most conspicuous character is the central position of the androecium, surrounded by the apocarpous gynoecium. This arrangement has not been recorded before for angiosperms. The androecium consists of three (sometimes four) bilocular anthers with introrse dehiscence. The gynoecium is apocarpic. Each carpel contains a single ovule that is sessile, basal, anatropous and bitegmic; the inner integument forms the micropyle. The position of the style on the ovary changes during development. The endosperm is of the nuclear type. The embryo of the mature seed is poorly developed. The fruit is indehiscent.
10.2307/2399936|Lacandonia schismatica has only one known population in a small patch of tropical rain forest. Using electrophoretic techniques, we assessed its genetic variation in eight loci; no variation was found. We discuss this result and its implications for the conservation prospects of this threatened species.
40035655|The Western Indian Ocean genus Wielandia Baill. (Phyllanthaceae, Phyllanthoideae, Wielandieae) is revised, recognizing 13 species, including the new species W. unifex Petra Hoffm. & McPherson. As a result of recent molecular phylogenetic work and the discovery of the enigmatic W. unifex, all species of Blotia Leandri and Petalodiscus Baill. are subsumed under Wielandia. The following new combinations result: W. bemarensis (Leandri) Petra Hoffm. & McPherson, W. fadenii (Radcl.- Sm.) Petra Hoffm. & McPherson, W. laureola (Baill.) Petra Hoffm. & McPherson, W. leandriana (Petra Hoffm. & McPherson) Petra Hoffm. & McPherson, W. mimosoides (Baill.) Petra Hoffm. & McPherson, W. oblongifolia (Baill.) Petra Hoffm. & McPherson, W. platyrachis (Baill.) Petra Hoffm. & McPherson, and W. tanalorum (Leandri) Petra Hoffm. & McPherson. In addition, W. bojeriana (Baill.) Petra Hoffm. & McPherson, W. danguyana (Leandri) Petra Hoffm. & McPherson, and W. ranavalonae (Leandri) Petra Hoffm. & McPherson are transferred from Savia Willd., a genus now restricted to the Neotropics. Three species, Petalodiscus pulchellus (Baill.) Pax, Savia andringitrana Leandri, and S. revoluta Scott-Elliot, and four varieties, Blotia oblongifolia (Baill.) Leandri var. louvelii Leandri, Savia andringitrana Leandri var. micrantha Leandri, S. bojeriana Baill. var. perrieri Leandri, and S. platyrachis (Baill.) Baill. var. microphylla Leandri, are subsumed under other species. Characters of flower, fruit and seed, leaf venation and anatomy, as well as pollen morphology are discussed and illustrated. A key to the 13 species of Wielandia is presented. Wielandia fadenii, previously known only from Kenya, is for the first time reported from Madagascar and the Comoro Islands. Seeds of W. danguyana, W. fadenii, and W. ranavalonae are described and illustrated for the first time, showing a wide range of embryo morphology. Distribution maps are provided for the species not previously treated as Blotia or Wielandia s. str., and IUCN Red List categories are suggested for all taxa.
40732239|Section Brachycalyx Sweet comprises nearly 30 species in Rhododendron L. subg. Tsutsusi (Sweet) Pojark. (Ericaceae) and is mainly distributed from China to Japan as well as eastern Asia. A taxonomic revision of section Brachycalyx is proposed and eight species with one subspecies are recognized. Rhododendron dilatatimi Miq. var. decandrum Makino is newly recognized at the new rank of subspecies as R. dilatatimi subsp. decandrum (Makino) X. F. Jin & B. Y. Ding. Lectotypes are designated for R. dilatatum var. glaucum Hatus., R. farrerae Tate ex Sweet var. leucotrichum Franch., R. mariesii Hemsl. & E. H. Wilson, R. reticulatum D. Don ex G. Don, and R. wadanum Makino.
41238123|En la presente contribucin se revisan por primera vez 31 especies de Axonopus P. Beauv. (Poaceae) para Argentina, el sur de Brasil, Bolivia, Chile continental, Paraguay y Uruguay. Se proveen de descripciones detalladas, una clave para la identificacin de los taxones, ilustraciones, distribuciones y afinidades morfolgicas de las especies. Se cita por primera vez A. caulescens (Mez) Henrard para Bolivia, y se incluyen los nombres A. eminens (Nees) G. A. Black y A. kleinii L. B. Sm. & Wassh. en la sinonimia de A. siccus (Nees) Kuhlm. y A. uninodis (Hack.) G. A. Black, respectivamente. Se lectotipifican a Panicum hagenbeckianum Kuntze y a Paspalum ulei Hack. The present treatment includes the first revision of 31 species of Axonopus P. Beauv. (Poaceae) in Argentina, southern Brazil, Bolivia, continental Chile, Paraguay, and Uruguay. A key to the species is provided, together with detailed descriptions, illustrations, distribution ranges, and a discussion of the morphological relationships of the species. Axonopus caulescens (Mez) Henrard is first reported for Bolivia, and the names A. eminens (Nees) G. A. Black and A. kleinii L. B. Sm. & Wassh. are synonymized with A. siccus (Nees) Kuhlm. and A. uninodis (Hack.) G. A. Black, respectively. The names Panicum hagenbeckianum Kuntze and Paspalum ulei Hack, are lectotypified.
10.2307/2399286|Even from its time of formal recognition by Robert Brown in 1814, the Rhizophoraceae has been known as a family with both terrestrial and mangal representatives so that the tendency to regard it as the "mangrove family" is inappropriate, even though one of its major subdivisions, the tribe Rhizophoreae, is made up exclusively of mangroves. This association of terrestrial and mangrove species adds a piquancy to the study of the systematics of the group because it allows the diagnostic usefulness of "adaptive" characters to be assessed. The progressive enlargement of our knowledge of the family is reviewed, including the status of Anisophyllea and related genera, now regarded as constituting a separate family Anisophylleaceae. Brief tribal and generic diagnoses are provided, with generalized illustration of geographical distribution. Some portraiture of the more common genera is attempted.
10.2307/2666146|Field observations, floral dissections, and pollen load analyses of insects captured on 20 species of Ixia (Iridaceae), representing examples of the four major floral types in the genus, indicate that this southeru African genus of 52 species is cross pollinated by a wide variety of insects. The pollination ecology of Ixia species can be divided into several distinct systems exploiting insects of four insect orders (Coleoptera, Diptera, Hymenoptera, and Lepidoptera). Ixia atrandra, I. curta, I. lutea, I. maculata, I. metelerkampiae, and I. versicolor have salver-shaped, nectarless flowers, in bright colors contrasting with dark "beetle marks" and are pollinated exclusively by hopliine scarab beetles. Four Ixia species with narrowly tubular flowers, spreading tepals, and ample nectar are pollinated by long-proboscid flies (Moegistorhynchus longirostris and Philoliche species). Three additional species with tubular flowers, and modest nectar volumes, appear to be pollinated by the pieriid butterfly, Colias electo (Ixia orientalis), or by a combination of hopliine beetles and tabanid flies with short probosces (I. aurea, I. esterhuyseniae, I. tenuifolia). The remaining species are largely pollinated by anthophorine bees or Apis mellifera, but bee pollination comprises three discrete systems. Species pollinated by Anthophora and Pachymelus species (I. capillaris, I. latifolia, I. odorata, I. rapunculoides, I. thomasiae) have cup-shaped flowers that secrete nectar. Salver-shaped flowers of I. flexuosa secrete no nectar, but are pollinated by pollen-collecting Apis mellifera. Buzz pollination by Amegilla fallax in I. scillaris is associated with vertical floral presentation, nectarless flowers, unusual in having a short, closed perianth tube, short, stubby filaments, and anthers dehiseing incompletely from the base. Outgroup comparison suggests that the ancestral pollination system in Ixia is the one in which flowers are cup-shaped, produce nectar, and are pollinated by large anthophorine bees. Exaggeration of the perianth into an elongate tube containing ample nectar, or the closure of the perianth tube and absence of nectar, or the development of basal anther dehiscense must be regarded as specialized adaptations related to their derived pollination strategies.
10.2307/2395068| Several groups of fern-like plants occur in the Middle and Upper Devonian and are probably evolved from the Trimerophytina of Banks. The branching systems of these plants are predominantly three-dimensional and are deceptively similar. All the plants are characterized by mesarch development of their primary xylem, but certain histological details permit their separation into at least three major groups--Progymnospermopsida, Cladoxylopsida, and Coenopteridopsida. The first group is somewhat better known anatomically than the others and is the least fern-like, probably evolving towards the gymnosperms. The second class is anatomically distinct from most other plant groups. The Devonian plants placed in Coenopteridopsida, with the exception of Rhacophyton, are mostly problematic. Utilizing data from these plants, several criteria are suggested as having value in the determination of the relationships of Devonian fern-like plants. In order of increasing value they are: cortical and epidermal histology, form of the primary xylem, presence (or absence) of secondary wood, and the structure of the protoxylem strands. The application of these criteria suggests that some, but not all, Devonian plants placed in Cladoxylopsida and Coenopteridopsida find their closest relationship with Carboniferous coenopterid ferns. No Devonian plant seems to be more closely related to modern ferns. 
10.2307/2399476|In the Myrtales a great variety of inflorescences are found. In some families such as Oliniaceae or Alzateaceae (formerly included into Lythraceae) the inflorescences are exclusively of the more primitive monotelic type. In others gradual transitions from the monotelic to the polytelic type can be observed. Within the Lythraceae the genera Lawsonia, Lagerstroemia, and Galpinia and-if included as subfamilies-the Punicoideae and Sonneratioideae still represent the monotelic type, whereas in the majority of the genera polytelic inflorescences are found. These often show a botrytic ramification, although the basic type of ramification is a thyrse. Among the great diversity of forms the gradual specialization of a short shoot-long shoot system can be observed, especially in the genus Ginorea. The same can be seen within the Combretaceae, which are polytelic throughout. As in most Myrtales families, phylloscopic accessory buds or branches are frequently occurring and sometimes form a determinating factor for the shape of a flowering plant. In Onagraceae polytelic structure of inflorescences is also manifested throughout the family and florescences as botrya or spikes are known. On this basis an impressive diversity exists, especially in the variations of the proportions between the terminal main florescence and the extension of the enrichment zone, the number and size of paracladia, the length of the internodes, and the possibility of a reversion of the inflorescence apex to vegetative growth, commonly called proliferation. The latter often occurs in the inflorescences of Myrtaceae in which the "central type" and perhaps the phylogenetically primitive form is a monotelic thyrsoid or a panicle. Even in proliferating or in truncate synflorescences the monotelic character is evident by the fact that all paracladia, including those with more than one pair of flower-bearing branches, are provided with a terminal flower. The effloration of the proliferating inflorescence can be delayed for such a long time that the proliferating shoot may even form branches above the flower-bearing zone. Thus inflorescences of this shape sometimes were regarded as "intercalary inflorescences." In some cases (some species of Eugenia) the transition to the polytelic type seems to be complete. In the majority of the Penaeaceae the inflorescences forming thyrsoids or stachyoids follow the monotelic type. Some facultatively or constantly truncate synflorescences form a transition to taxa with polytelic synflorescences. In Psiloxylaceae the flower-bearing systems are brachyblasts reduced to their botrytic florescence and inserted on older axes. Variety of inflorescences in Melastomataceae corresponds to the size of the family but shows less diversity than Myrtaceae. The inflorescences are monotelic. Cases of complete transitions to polytelic structures were not found. Even truncation seems to be rare and only a single case is reported for Medinilla magnifica. On the other hand, proliferation is not rare.
10.2307/2395065|The structure of living and fossil marattiaceous ferns is compared organographically Stelar structure exhibits a basic pattern in all genera in spite of modifications correlated with size and symmetry. Fronds exhibit gross morphological and anatomical differences but can likewise be interpreted as specializations associated with size and form, and genera can be related to one another in an evolutionary sequence. Living genera with dorsiventral stems and once pinnate or palmate fronds are considered derived from fossil forms with radially symmetrical stems and large, highly branched fronds. Primitive fronds had small pinnules which became modified into large laminar units in the living genera. Evidence from fossil and living genera is cited in support of these conclusions. The problem of sporangial aggregation is discussed in light of transformations in pinnule morphology. The linear sorus in the Pennsylvanian age Eoangiopteris is considered to have been produced on pinnatifid areas of Psaronius-type fronds. Other regions of the frond, or perhaps different fronds or plants, bore radially symmetrical synangia identified as Scolecopteris iowensis. The significance of this interpretation is the possible insight provided relative to the evolution of large laminar units and concomitant sporangial aggregation and distribution. Senftenbergia is rejected as a marattiaceous fructification.
10.2307/2666225|The circumscription of Polyscias, the second largest genus in Araliaceae (130 species), has been broadened extensively in recent decades, but this circumscription has often been applied inconsistently, and no global treatment of the genus exists. To examine evolutionary relationships among the species of Polyscias, as well as the placement of this genus within Araliaceae, phylogenetic analyses were performed on a data set of 84 ITS sequences (from nuclear ribosomal DNA), including sequences from five of the formal sections of Polyscias and a representative sample of taxa from throughout Araliaceae and allied families. Results suggest that Polyscias is highly paraphyletic: members of nine other genera (Gastonia, Cuphocarpus, Arthrophyllum, Reynoldsia, Tetraplasandra, Munroidendron, Meryta, Pseudopanax, and Schefflera p.p.) are found nested within a broad "Polyscias sensu lato" clade. Despite a lack of support for the current definition of the genus, the phylogenetic relationships suggested by ITS data are remarkably consistent with geographic distributions. Three clades are clearly centered in the western Indian Ocean basin, and five others in the Pacific. These data further suggest that Polyscias sensu lato may have arisen in tropical Australasia, whence they may have migrated both east to the Pacific and west to the Indian Ocean, probably via long-distance dispersal after the breakup of Condwanaland. Expanded studies, however, are required to address these biogeographic issues and to develop a revised generic-level taxonomy for Polyscias and its allies.
10.2307/2399204|The existence of consistent variation patterns in polyad characteristics, seedling morphology, chromosome numbers, and several reproductive features within the American species of Calliandra Benth. has revealed the presence of two well defined taxonomic units, the first one including the species of ser. Laetevirentes, and the second the remaining neotropical species. The lack of intermediate forms between the two units suggests that Calliandra, as originally conceived by Bentham, is polyphyletic. Therefore, the creation of the genus Zapoteca, consisting of ca. 25 taxa distributed from southwestern United States and northern Mexico to northern Argentina, is proposed to include the species of ser. Laetevirentes. New combinations are presented for C. caracasana, C. formosa, C. lambertiana, C. media, C. mollis, C. portoricensis, and C. tetragona.
10.2307/2395109|This paper is a monographic treatment of the Heppiaceae in continental North America north of Mexico and treats 13 species and 3 varieties. The family occurs mainly in arid areas and is very abundant in parts of the southwestern United States. Culture experiments on the phycobionts and whole lichens are described. Only one lichen substance is reported from the family. This unknown substance occurs in the epithecium and gives a red-violet reaction with KOH and nitric acid. Two genera are recognized-Heppia, with one species (H. lutosa), and Peltula (including Heterina). The genus Heppia is separated from Peltula on the basis of the number of spores per ascus, the gelatinous sheath on the ascus, and the phycobiont. New combinations made are Peltula bolanderi (Ach.) Wetm., P. clavata (Kremp.) Wetm., P. euploca (Ach.) Wetm., P. michoacanensis (B. de Lesd.) Wetm., P. obscurans var. deserticola (Zahlbr.) Wetm., P. obscurans var. hassei (Zahlbr.) Wetm., P. omphaliza (Nyl. in Eckf.) Wetm., P. placodizans (Zahlbr.) Wetm., P. polyspora (Tuck.) Wetm., P. tortuosa (Nees) Wetm., and P. zahlbruckneri (Hasse) Wetm. Peltula cylindrica from Georgia is described as new. True P. tortuosa is reported from the United States for the first time. Keys, photographs, and maps given for the taxa included along with descriptions and citations of specimens seen.
10.2307/2395085|Patterns of hybridization were studied among Pinus taeda, P. echinata and the P. rigida-serotina complex. Efforts were made to determine the relationships of these taxa to help clarify the taxonomic status of members of the P. rigida-serotina complex. Hybridization between Pinus taeda and the P. rigida-serotina complex was common, and genetic exchange occurred in both directions. Hybridization between P. echinata and the P. rigida-serotina complex was more restricted, as was hybridization between P. taeda and P. echinata. All three of these entities (P. taeda, P. echinata, and the P. rigida-serotina complex) were found to maintain their separate integrities in sympatric populations, in spite of the hybridization. The aforementioned species distinctions were contrasted with the cohesiveness of the types within the Pinus rigida-serotina complex, to explain further the decision by Smouse and Saylor (1973) to denote the components of the complex as subspecies: P. rigida subsp. rigida and P. rigida subsp. serotina.
10.2307/2399761|Homosporous pteridophytes differ from seed plants most strikingly in their potential ability to produce completely homozygous offspring from a single haploid spore. The Lycopodiaceae share this characteristic with the ferns, but differ from them in the absence of apogamy and in the relatively high frequency of allohomoploid nothospeciation in certain genera. Determining chromosome numbers in this family is often difficult, and discrepancies are found in published accounts. Evidence in support of a base number of 11 is presented. Allohomoploid nothospeciation is described involving four species of Diphasiastrum. A table giving the published chromosome numbers in Lycopodium sens. lat. is included.
10.2307/2399901|Seed plant phylogeny is evaluated using a data set of 46 terminals (taxa) and 103 morphological and anatomical characters. Cladistic analyses using the criterion of parsimony were performed on the complete data set as well as on subsets of the data, e.g., excluding fossils and/or combining various complex taxa into single terminals. The results support the placement of the cycads as the sister group of a monophyletic group that includes several fossil "seed ferns" as well as extant Ginkgo, conifers, gnetopsids, and angiosperms. When fossils were included, Bennettitales (cycadeoids) were part of an "anthophyte" clade that included gnetopsids and angiosperms. Pentoxylon was a sister taxon to the core anthophyte clade, in some, but not all, of the most parsimonious trees. Caytonia was not found to be closely associated with the anthophyte clade, but instead was often associated as a sister taxon of the glossopterids, and these two taxa were consistently outside of the Ginkgo-conifer-anthophyte clade. In all most parsimonious trees for all analyses, Ephedra was to the outside of a clade that included all angiosperm taxa, Gnetum, and Welwitschia, thus rendering the traditional gnetopsid clade paraphyletic. New information is provided on the morphology of Caytonia and some previous interpretations of homology of the caytonian "cupule" are rejected. The effects of sampling, compartmentalization, and polymorphism are explored in these data, showing how different results may be obtained when polymorphic or "summary" terminals are used. The need for more work on gnetopsids and fossil taxa is suggested.
10.2307/2398833| Bees are most abundant and diverse in certain warm temperate, xeric regions of the world, especially the Mediterranean basin, the Californian region, and coniguous desertic areas. Other warm temperate xeric areas, like central Chile or the western part of southern Africa, have less rich faunas. Arid tropical regions, as well as tropical savannas, have poor bee faunas. For example, the southern margin of the Sahara and northern Australia are not rich in bees, in spite of the nearness of the former to the Mediterranean basin with past nondesert connections to the Mediterranean and the contiguity of the latter with the large warm temperate Australian faunal area. Equatorial savannas like those of east Africa are rather poor in bees. Warm temperate, mesic areas, such as those of eastern North America, Europe, or the southern Brazilian to Argentina region of South America, also have rich faunas, although less so than do the Mediterranean basin and southwestern United States. Perhaps because of its small area, the climatically equivalent region in South Africa (largely in Natal) has a fauna that is best described as depauperate tropical, with certain temperate elements, but without great richness. The moist tropics vary considerably in abundance and diversity of bees. In the Americas, they are almost or quite as rich as are the warm temperate mesic areas, but in Africa the fauna is far poorer, although richer than that of the Oriental region. There is a single Paleotropical bee fauna, richest in Africa and progessively smaller as one goes eastward across southern Asia to New Guinea, the Solomon Islands, and northeastern Australia. The poverty of the Oriental faunal region is shown by the number of genera and subgenera--89 compared to 175 in sub-Saharan Africa and 315 in the Neotropics (including temperate areas). Thus unlike many groups which abound in the tropics, bees attain their greatest abundance in warm temperate areas. It is especially in such areas, principally xeric ones, that certain presumably archaic groups of bees have survived, and it is likely that various groups originated in such areas. 
10.2307/2399591|For many Americans the term "frontier" evokes images of cowboys and Indians, but for historians the "frontier hypothesis" is an explanation of the movement and evolution of people and institutions over time from settled urban areas into unexplored regions of remote wilderness. The hypothesis is predictive and may be applied to botanical explorations, the development of floristics models, and the evolution of systematic institutions. The earliest naturalists were lone generalists; they were followed by institutionally sponsored collectors in organized expeditionary groups. These naturalists typically presented their discoveries to urban-situated "professionals," who published the results. With the settlement of the frontier came local naturalists who published their own discoveries. Published floras evolved over time as each region became settled, with more details being included as the native plants became better known. Initially the first floras were expansive and general. These were followed by concise, descriptive local manuals, which evolved into multivolumed illustrated regional floras with a monographic format. The frontier hypothesis predicts that there should be a westward movement of institutional power caused by increased conservatism in the established eastern institutions coupled with a movement of talented people closer to the frontier. The hypothesis also states that when the frontier ends, there should be a rapid maturation of all institutions along with a reduction in their numbers, more specialization in their missions, a concentration of wealth and power to a few, and a greater uniformity of ideas expressed by all. The key to the future of systematic botany is to fight the tendency to suppress new ideas. With the end of the botanical frontier in the continental United States, the systematic community must decide how it will consolidate its institutions, what its missions will be, and how it will attempt to remain creative.
10.2307/3298637|The chromosome numbers of 672 species out of 740 taxa of the Apocynaceae in the subfamilies Asclepiadoideae, Periplocoideae, and Secamonoideae were either determined or extracted from the literature. The chromosome numbers of 299 taxa are published here for the first time, and a further 139 new counts confirm or complete previously published chromosome numbers. The basic chromosome number x = 11 is found to be predominant, occurring in ca. 96% of the taxa investigated. Deviations from x = 11 are absent in Periplocoideae and Secamonoideae, but some variation is present in Asclepiadoideae. A reduction of the karyotype to x = 10 is known only in the advanced tribe Asclepiadeae, where it is important in the Old World subtribe Astephaninae (Microloma), as well as in the New World subtribes Metastelminae (Funastrum, Orthosia, Philibertia, and Grisebachiella) and Oxypetalinae (Araujia and Tweedia). An increase (x = 12, 13, 14) was found only rarely and sporadically in the subfamily Asclepiadoideae. About 6% of the species (7% of the taxa) investigated are found to be polyploid. The majority of such taxa are tetraploid with 2n = 44; only a few are hexaploid or higher. The data on chromosome number and size presented in this paper are interpreted in relation to the systematic position and geographical distribution of the taxa investigated. On the average karyotype size diminishes from rather large chromosomes in the Periplocoideae to the smallest karyotype length in the presumed most advanced tribe of the Asclepidoideae, the Asclepiadeae. Reduction in the basic chromosome number is regarded as only a rather recent step in genome evolution within Asclepiadeae, which has been taken place in parallel in the Old and New Worlds. Finally, comparision with data available for the Apocynaceae s. sir. (Apocynoideae and Rauvolfioideae) is presented.
42703719|How much progress has North America made toward the Global Strategy for Plant Conservation (GSPC) Target 8 of at least 75% of threatened plant species in accessible ex situ collections by 2020? To answer this, the North American Collections Assessment was carried out in 2010. More than 200 botanical and conservation institutions in the United States, Canada, and Mexico contributed taxa lists to the Botanic Gardens Conservation International's (BGCI) online PlantSearch database for this assessment. By cross-referencing collection information with globally threatened species lists from the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN), NatureServe, and Mexico's Red List, we found that approximately 35% of North America's nearly 5000 most threatened taxa are currently in ex situ collections. This marks considerable progress toward the GSPC Target 8, but there is clearly much more to do. Future priorities include collaboratively and strategically increasing threatened species representation in collections and assessing genetic diversity among collections by comparing accession-level data.
10.2307/2399925|Chromosome numbers of 82 taxa, belonging to 48 genera in ten tribes of the family Compositae, are reported from Pakistan. The chromosome numbers of 13 taxa are reported for the first time, including one new generic count (for Grantia) and a new base number (x = 10) in Sonchus. The new counts are as follows: n = 6 for Launaea tomentella; n = 7 for Pulicaria gnaphalodes; n = 8 for Cephalorrhynchus picridiformis; n = 9 for Artemisia salsolioides, Conyza stricta var. pinnatifida, Grantia aucheri, Heteropappus altaicus var. canescens, Launaea oligocephala, and Phagnalon pycnophyllon; n = 10 for Blumea bovei and Sonchus lacnocephalus; and n = 14 for Scorzonera koelpinioides and Scorzonera tortuosissima. The chromosomal counts for 31 other taxa are new for the flora of Pakistan.
40035054|The six species of Fockea Endl. (Apocynaceae, Asclepiadoideae, Fockeeae) occur in Africa south of the equator from southern Kenya to South Africa. A phylogeny for all six species of Fockea is inferred from data obtained from two chloroplast markers (the trnL-F region and the psbA-trnH intergenic spacer), one nuclear marker (ITS1 region), and morphology. Fockea is found to be monophyletic and sister to the bitypic Cibirhiza Bruyns. Morphologically, Fockea is characterized by the deeply tubular outer corona that is filled by the erect, inflated sterile appendages of the anthers. Of the six species, the widely distributed but exclusively tropical Fockea multiflora K. Schum. is sister to the other five members of Fockea, and, among these five, the widely distributed and mainly tropical F. angustifolia K. Schum. is sister to the remaining four, which are endemic to southern Africa. It is shown that Fockea most probably originated in South Tropical Africa. A complete taxonomic account is provided for the six species of Fockea, and their known distribution is mapped. Lectotypes are designated for Fockea capensis Endl., F. monroi S. Moore, F. schinzii N. E. Br., F. sessiliflora Schltr., and F. sinuata (E. Mey.) Druce. Neotypes are designated for Brachystelma macrorrhizum E. Mey., Fockea angustifolia, and F. comaru (E. Mey.) N. E. Br. An isotype has been located for F. multiflora.
10.2307/3298641|Pollination strategies adopted by the largely sub-Saharan African Gladiolus (approximately 260 species), one of the largest genera of the monocot family Iridaceae, are unusually diverse. The primary or sole pollinators include long-tongued apid and anthophorine bees (Apidae), short-tongued halictid and andrenid bees (Halictidae, Andrenidae), sometimes in combination with hopliine beetles (Scarabaeidae), long-proboscid flies (Nemestrinidae, Tabanidae), large butterflies (Satyridae), moths (mostly Noctuidae and Sphingidae), and sunbirds (Passerinae). Floral form correlates closely with pollination strategy, allowing us to infer the pollination ecology of almost all 165 species in southern Africa, although we have observations of animal visitors capable of accomplishing pollen transfer in only half this number. Pollination by apid bees foraging for nectar and passively transferring pollen brushed onto their bodies during feeding occurs in all seven sections of the genus in southern Africa and is also the most common strategy in five of these sections. Other pollinators include female bees actively foraging for pollen, or long-proboscid flies, sunbirds, moths, the satyrid butterfly, Aeropetes, all foraging for nectar, and in one species hopliine beetles that use the flowers as sites for assembly and copulation. Shifts in floral form associated with changes in pollination appear complex in the large flowers of Gladiolus species, but may in fact involve relatively simple developmental modifications, involving changes in perianth pigmentation, and often the type of marking on the tepals, presence or absence of scent, length of the perianth tube, and occasionally a shift from zygomorphy to actinomorphy. Associated with these changes is a correlated adjustment in nectar characteristics, including volume, sugar concentration, and sometimes sugar chemistry. With an inferred minimum of 32 shifts in pollination system in the 165 species in southern Africa, Gladiolus appears to have an unusually labile floral morphology, which may account for its extensive adaptive radiation.
10.2307/2395225| Eight taxa comprising six Brazilian species of Cyperaceae originally described in six different genera are redescribed in detail from the type collections and amply illustrated. Incorrect data and interpretations by the original authors are corrected. Syntrinema brasiliense Radlk. & Pfeiffer is accepted as an independent genus and species. The original description of the inflorescence units was based on material which is not of this genus. The genus has pseudanthia, but these are of a type not found in the Mapanieae (the only tribe of Cyperaceae up to now known to have undoubted pseudanthia). The genus is placed in the newly described tribe, Syntrinemeae. Besides bisexual pseudanthia, the pseudospikelets also contain male pseudanthia lacking pistils and possibly neutral ones also. Instead of laminar glumellas as in the Mapanieae, the glumellas are bristles. Chamaegyne pygmaea Sss. is shown to be a new species of Eleocharis series Tenuissimae, E. chamaegyne L. T. Eiten. The basal laminas that form the tiny tufts are not vegetative leaves but glumes and associated scales of the basal spikelets. Helonema estrellense Sss. is shown to be an aquatic phase of Eleocharis minima Kunth. Topotype material collected and cultivated submersed in an aquarium retained the flaccid, filamentous Helonema vegetative form and remained sterile. When cultivated in moist soil and allowed to grow in the air, ramets of the same topotype clone formed small tufts of typical Eleocharis minima with abundant ripe achenes. Bisboeckelera paporiensis Sss. is shown to be Diplacrum longifolium because the glume-like scales which enclose the pistils are free as in Diplacrum; the pistil is not enclosed in a utricle as in Bisboeckelera. Micropapyrus viviparoides Sss. is accepted as an independent genus and species, and is put into the newly described tribe, Micropapyreae, because its pseudanthia are different from both the Mapanieae and from Syntrinema. Its glumellas are bristles. The New World Websteria submersa (C. Wright) Britton is considered to be conspecific with the Old World Scirpus confervoides Poiret under the combination Websteria confervoides (Poiret) Hooper, and the varieties W. submersa var. negrensis Sss. and W. submersa var. luetzelburgii Sss. are not recognized. 
10.2307/3298530|The invasion of habitats by non-native organisms is considered, behind habitat destruction, the second largest threat to biodiversity worldwide. Consequently, control of invasive organisms is now an integral part of ecosystem stewardship. Effective control may require explicit characterization of the invasion at the family, species, and/or population levels. Tamarix is considered one of the worst plant invasions in the United States. A synopsis of molecular systematic advances at the family and species levels is presented, and the impact on the control of Tamarix is discussed. Also, a preliminary population-level analysis of T. ramosissima is performed using chloroplast DNA sequence data. This analysis investigates origins of invasive haplotypes and tests for the presence of cultivated haplotypes in the invasion. Advances in understanding invasions through molecular systematic and population-level studies will prove to be powerful tools in many control scenarios.
10.2307/2399327|Data are presented for the flavonoids of 24 species and seven sections of Ludwigia, all of which previously had been grouped in sect. Myrtocarpus. A total of eight flavonoids, three glycoflavones, and five flavonol glycosides based on quercetin was found in these species. Seven compounds, all but one acylated glycoflavone, are present in species of the revised sect. Myrtocarpus. The monotypic sections Tectiflora and Humboldtia have only flavonols, and the monotypic sections Amazonia and Heterophylla have only glycoflavones. Sections Pterocaulon and Cinerascentes have both flavonols and glycoflavones. Morphologically, sect. Myrtocarpus has the most generalized features within Ludwigia, which suggests that the presence of both glycoflavones and flavonols is a primitive feature for the genus as a whole. The lack of one or the other of these groups of flavonoids in four of the monotypic sections reported suggests that these sections are advanced in this feature, as does a general reduction of structural types and a reduction in the number of glycosidic substitutions in them.
10.2307/2399499|Fuchsia sect. Quelusia consists of nine closely related species, eight from southeastern Brazil and one from southern Chile and Argentina. This treatment recognizes F. alpestris and F. glazioviana as separate from F. regia and describes two new species from southern Brazil, F. brevilobis and F. hatschbachii. The section is defined by its shrubby-lianoid habit, opposite-whorled leaves, and distinctive floral pattern associated with hummingbird pollination. It is one of only two entirely polyploid sections in the genus. Unique characters of the section include the large, violet, convolute petals, strongly exserted stamens, and partially connate sepals that are longer than the floral tubes. All nine species occupy cool forest habitats that are remnants of the widespread Tertiary temperate forests of the Southern Hemisphere. With the Old World sect. Skinnera as the sister group of all the American species of Fuchsia, sect. Quelusia represents an early offshoot of the ancestral South American fuchsias, distinct from the tropical Andean and Central American sections in its polyploidy and derived, 3-porate pollen. The nearest relative and sister species of sect. Quelusia is F. lycioides, a specialized xerophyte and the sole member of sect. Kierschlegeria, which occurs in central Chile just north of the range of F. magellanica. The Andean and Brazilian populations of sect. Quelusia probably became isolated in the late Tertiary, when the austral temperate forests were broken up by increasing aridity to the east of the Andes, as these were strongly uplifted. While F. magellanica has not differentiated substantially throughout its range in the southern Andes, sect. Quelusia has radiated extensively in the subtropical mountains of southern Brazil, where five of the eight species are restricted to high, isolated mountain peaks. Fuchsia regia, on the other hand, is widespread at lower altitudes throughout the planalto and coastal mountains of southeastern Brazil; it is differentiated into three mostly allopatric but intergrading series of populations which are treated here as subspecies. Two of these subspecies are newly described, F. regia subsp. reitzii and F. regia subsp. serrae. Fuchsia regia is the only species now found to occur sympatrically with other members of the section, and it forms natural hybrids with at least five different species. The only naturally occurring octoploid populations in the genus occur in F. regia and appear to be recently derived.
10.2307/2398848|Retziaceae is a taxonomically isolated monotypic family of the Cape Region of South Africa. It has been related in the past to Convolvulaceae, Solanaceae, and most recently to Loganiaceae (Gentianiflorae), especially Buddlejeae. The iridoid compounds of Retziaceae, identified here, are distinctive and suggest that the family is unrelated to Gentianiflorae, but is probably allied to Lamiiflorae, including Verbenaceae, Scrophulariaceae, and the endemic Cape family Stilbaceae. There is a remarkable similarity between the iridoids of Stilbe ericoides and Retziaceae. A detailed review of morphology, anatomy, biology, and other characteristics of Retziaceae is presented. The suggestion of a relationship between Retziaceae and Stilbaceae appears to find considerable support from morphological as well as chemical considerations.
41238115|We recognize three species of Megalastrum Holttum (Dryopteridaceae) in Africa, the Comoros, Madagascar, Mauritius, and La Runion. A key to distinguish the three species is provided as well as description, complete synonymy, discussion, specimens examined, and illustration of each species. Two names are excluded from the genus.
10.2307/2399743|Parsimony analysis of the Relhania group of genera (Asteraceae-Gnaphalieae-Relhaniinae) yields a revised hypothesis of their phylogeny. The genera Leysera L. and Oedera L. are demonstrated to have their closest relatives within Relhania L'Her., which is shown to be paraphyletic as hitherto circumscribed. A revised generic classification is proposed. Relhania and Leysera are redefined more narrowly. Rhynchopsidium DC. and the monotypic Nestlera Sprengel are reestablished. Oedera is amended to include some former Relhania species. The new genus Comborhiza Anderb. & Bremer, with 2 species, is described, and 14 new combinations in Oedera and Comborhiza are made. Because parsimony analysis produces better phylogenetic hypotheses than limited selections of alleged synapomorphies, and because the latter approach hitherto has been more common in generic classification, it is argued that, with improved phylogenetic hypotheses derived from parsimony analysis, generic reclassifications will become necessary also in other groups.
3298612|The flowers of Aristolochia grandiflora are sapromyiophilous trap blossoms that deceive their visitors with optical and olfactory promise of hidden protein-rich substrate. The most effective pollinators are large Diptera, mostly Calliphoridae, which become trapped in the protogynous flowers on the first day of anthesis. Although the flowers are protogynous and subsequently release pollen, a variety of floral changes occur that discourage further insect visitation after pollination and allow the pollinators to escape on the second day of anthesis. On the first day of anthesis the flowers' strong carrion odor and color gradients draw pollinators toward the receptive gynostemium deep within the flower. Constricting floral tubes with trichomes oriented toward the gynostemium aid in capturing and holding the insects. On the next day, the flowers change to male phase and pollen is deposited on the pollinator. Flower structure and function then change to release the pollen-dusted pollinator. To aid in pollinator release, the floral odor disappears, color cues change, hairs relax, and the constricting areas of the tube are opened. Pollination appears to be a two-day process for any given flower with floral senescence by the third day. Floral visitors do oviposit in the flowers, but we suggest that this is not relevant to pollination. Comparisons are made with other Aristolochiaceae.
10.2307/2399785|Sharing data is a common practice among researchers in all fields. In most, however, sharing is limited to data passed among a few researchers known to each other. In this paper, issues raised by larger scale, multiple use of data are discussed. The two major issues that arise are ownership of data and access to data generated by others. Ownership is both a legal and a behavioral issue, as yet unresolved. Even without clear consensus on ownership, however, means for promoting multiple use of data that accommodate researchers' concerns can be found. Access issues include which data should be retained, the costs associated with retention and maintenance, and how access to others' data is managed. The Utah Resource for Genetic and Epidemiologic Research (RGE) has developed from a committee of data contributors and data users into a program for management of multiple-use data. Examination of its history and operations gives some insight into how issues of ownership can be managed. From that example, five general components of a multiple-use data management system are generated. Finally, throughout the paper an argument is made for institutional consideration of data management issues at the policy level prior to development of formal data sharing mechanisms.
10.2307/2395251|The North American creosote bush (Larrea tridentata) has undergone a simple cytogeographic differentiation, with the ancestral diploid population in the Chihuahuan Desert, and with tetraploid and hexaploid derivatives in the Sonoran and Mohave Deserts, respectively. The chromosomal races have annectant but largely allopatric distributions, which coincide remarkably well with the boundaries of their respective desert provinces. However, during the glacials of the Pleistocene, the lowlands of these provinces were extensively invaded by evergreen woodlands dominated by various species of Juniperus, Pinus, and Quercus; and the generality of the phenomenon during the Wisconsin glacial has been abundantly documented by some of the most detailed macrofossil evidence of relatively xerophytic plants ever obtained. The
40390050|Fossils of 134 taxa attributed to the Rubiaceae are described or mentioned in 115 publications dating from 1850 and from deposits as old as the Cretaceous and Paleocene. Close scrutiny of these records indicates, however, that the oldest and most likely (accepted) representatives of the family are four genera, Emmenopterys Oliv. from the Middle Eocene of Oregon and Washington, U.S.A., Faramea Aubl. from the Late Eocene of Panama, and Guettarda L. (cf. as Guettardidites; = fossil taxon) and Canthium Lam. (as Rubipollis oblatus) from the Late Eocene of Australia, and a probable fifth genus, the alternate-leaved Paleorubiaceophyllum eocenicum from the Middle Eocene of Tennessee/Kentucky, U.S.A. The record represents subfamilies (Rubioideae, Ixoroideae, Cinchonoideae) from three widely separated geographic regions, implying an earlier origin in the Late Cretaceous or Paleocene. From the Oligocene, there are six accepted genera, Coprosma J. R. Forst. & G. Forst., Coprosma-Opercularia, Faramea Aubl., Macrosphyra Hook. f. (as Triporotetradites hoekeni), Mitragyna Korth. Retitricolporites annulatus), and Pinckneya Michx. from Africa (Cameroon), Australia and New Zealand, U.S.A. (Oregon), Puerto Rico. The period of greatest diversification and radiation was in the Miocene, with 20 accepted genera reported from North America, Central America, South America, Southeast Pacific-Asia, Africa, and Europe. Stages in the evolution of three characters are further suggested by the fossil record. The relatively uncommon occurrence of alternate leaves among modern taxa is typical of advanced genera (e.g., Didymochlamys Hook, f., Sabicea Aubl., Theligonum L.), but this feature may have already developed by the Middle Eocene (Paleorubiaceophyllum). Polyploidy is suggested in the Middle Eocene P. eocenicum var. lawrensis by epidermal cells 32 rn in diameter or nearly twice the size of the other varieties. Pollen polymorphism, possibly coordinated with or as a prelude to heterostyly, is represented by the diporate pollen of Faramea in the Late Eocene, and triporate and tetraporate forms in the Miocene and Pliocene. Currently, the principal needs are: (1) to clarify pending Paleocene records of Cinchonidium (Cinchona L.), North Dakota, U.S.A.; Galium L., Greenland; and Psilatricolpites coprosmoides (Coprosma, Chile); and (2) to examine the several large Cretaceous megafossil floras now under study (e.g., Anfiteatro de Tic, Argentina; Crato, Brazil; Turonian-age floras, New Jersey and Sweden) for specimens with features that suggest a rubiaceous complex or with an aggregation of features suggesting presence of the family.
40035726|The corpus of historical data from lake sediments relating to the climate, vegetation, and human land use of the lowland Central American tropical forest between ca. 20,000 BP and the time of European contact is reviewed. Pollen, phytolith, and charcoal records identify the distribution and composition of tropical vegetation and fire patterns during the late Pleistocene, when they were significantly altered from today's, and earliest Holocene, when plant communities reassembled and interglacial representatives began to coalesce on the landscape. The significance of the environmental perturbations that occurred during the transition from the Pleistocene to the Holocene for human occupation of the lowland tropical forest and the geography and chronology of agricultural origins is discussed. Fire was employed by hunters and gatherers and farmers alike during the past 11,000 years as a primary tool of forest modification. The profound effects of an ancient pre-Columbian development of plant food production and, subsequently, slash and burn agriculture between ca. 10,000 BP and 4000 BP can be seen on lowland forests from Mexico to the Amazon Basin. /// Se revisa la recopilacin de datos histricos de sedimentos lacustres que conciernen el clima, la vegetacin y la utilizacin humana del suelo de los bosques tropicales de tierras bajas de Amrica Central entre ca. 20.000 A.P. y el memento de contacto europeo. Registros de polen, fitolitos y carbn identifican la distribucin y composicin de la vegetacin y los patrones de fuego durante el Pleistoceno tardo, cuando fueron marcadamente alterados en relacin al presente y al inicio del Holoceno, cuando las comunidades de plantas se reasociaron y los representantes interglaciales comenzaron a unirse en el paisaje. Se discute el significado que las perturbaciones ambientales durante la transicin del Pleistocene al Holoceno tuvieron en la ocupacin humana del bosque tropical de tierras bajas, y la geografa y cronologe de los orgenes agrcolas. El fuego fue empleado por cazadores y recolectores y granjeros por igual durante los ltimos 11.000 aos como una herramienta primaria de la modificacin del bosque. Los efectos profundos de un antiguo desarrollo pre-colombino de la produccin de plantas alimenticias y, posteriormente, de la agricultura de tala y quema entre ea. 10.000 AP y 4000 AP pueden verse en los bosques de tierras bajas desde Mxico hasta la cuenca amaznica.
10.2307/2398893|Storage patterns in geophytes are integrated into one general scheme. Two patterns are recognized: geophytes in which flowers and leaves appear simultaneously (synanthous) and geophytes in which flowers and leaves appear in different seasons (hysteranthous). Within each pattern two variants can be recognized, those with annual and those with perennial storage organs. The annual developmental cycle of storage organs, of leaves, and of flowers and seeds characteristic of each type is related to ecological conditions and possible selection pressure. Large perennial storage organs are expected and found in plants of arid unpredictable areas. Hysteranthous leaves are expected to be more frequent in arid unpredictable climates.
40390055|In the present study, a molecular phylogeny of the Rondeletia L. complex (Rubiaceae, Rondeletieae) was constructed with the following main objectives: (1) to evaluate the sections of Rondeletia proposed by Fernndez Zequeira; (2) to test if Stevensia Poit. belongs to the Rondeletieae s. str.; (3) to check if ITS data from Rondeletieae support previous phylogenetic results from trnL-F data regarding circumscription of Rondeletieae; and (4) to verify if Hodgkinsonia F. Muell. belongs to Guettardeae or elsewhere. Two analyses were performed, one with ITS sequences from 46 taxa in the Rondeletieae-Guettardeae complex, and the other with combined ITS, rps16, and trnL-F sequences of 21 taxa. Representatives of nine of the 10 sections of Rondeletia recognized by Fernndez Zequeira were included in the ITS analysis. Five of her sections could be tested for monophyly. Support was only found for Rondeletia sect. Leoninae M. Fernndez Zeq., while representatives from section Chamaebuxifoliae M. Fernndez Zeq., section Hypoleucae Standl., and section Nipenses M. Fernndez Zeq. together form a well-supported clade that could be distinguished also based on morphology. The latter clade is sister to Stevensia, which is thus placed within Rondeletia s. str. In addition, ITS sequence data confimi the separation of Rovaeanthus Borhidi from Rogiera Planch. Support is low for inclusion of Blepharidium Standl., Mazaea Krug & Urb., Phyllomelia Griseb., Rachicallis DC, part of Rogiera, and Suberanthus Borhidi & M. Fernndez Zeq. in Rondeletieae. Rachicallis, Mazaea, and Phyllomelia form a clade with strong support. The tribe Rondeletieae s. str. was found to be monophyletic in ail trees, although with low support; however, a redelimitation of the tribe is proposed hre based on this study and previous phylogenetic analyses. The monophyly for the tribe Guettardeae is weakly supported, with the inclusion of Arachnothryx Planch. (including Cuatrecasasiodendron Steyerm.), Gonzalagunia Ruiz & Pav., Hodgkinsonia, and Timonius DC. Although it was recently the subject of a molecular phylogenetic study, the tribe Guettardeae is still in need of a wide-ranging survey in order to confimi its monophyly and delimit its taxonomic boundaries. Because Cuatrecasasiodendron was found within the Arachnothryx clade, th two genera are hre synonymized as Arachnothryx, and in turn positioned within the tribe Guettardeae. In addition, based on herbarium and field studies, the two species described under Cuatrecasasiodendron (C. spectabile Steyerm. and C. colombianum Standl. & Steyerm.) are treated as synonyms to the new combination Arachnothryx spectabilis (Steyerm.) Rova, Delprete & B. Bremer, which is proposed hre.
10.2307/2398823| Two new species of Connaraceae from Peru--Connarus bracteoso-villosus Forero and Connarus elsae Forero--are described and illustrated. 
10.2307/2666161|Dioecious species of Poa L. are mainly American with a total of 41 taxa in South America, 11 in North America, 2 in New Zealand, and 1 species in the Peri-Antarctic Islands. South American species, considered within Poa sect. Dioicopoa, are found mostly in Argentina but occur elsewhere in Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Paraguay, and Uruguay. The present treatment considers the phenetic variation of dioecious species of Poa in South America. Thirty-seven taxa (34 species and three varieties) were examined, using numerical techniques. Multivariate analyses revealed a phenetic pattern among species based on linear relationships. Relationships of independent species as well as species complexes were established. As a consequence, new synonymy within most of these complexes, and a new variety, Poa rigidifolia var. ibari, are proposed herein. Bivariate analyses showed other non-linear patterns of variation. These results, together with univariate analyses, were used to select diagnostic characters. Sexual dimorphism was the major source of species variation, and ranges for pistillate and staminate specimens were also calculated. An identification key for all taxa is included.
10.2307/2399068|Non-dioecious taxa are the floral majority, both in island floras and in those of the mainlands. This is true at all latitudes. Temperate zone islands have very low percentages of dioecious species. The percentages are somewhat higher in subtropical islands. Relatively high percentages of dioecism are found only in moist tropical islands or in floras that have had a moist tropical influence on their composition. Low islands in the tropics and rather arid islands in the sub-tropics and tropics have only small numbers of dioecious species in their floras. A multiple regression analysis shows that latitude and maximum height of islands together account for 82% of the variation in percentage of dioecism in our samples. Although autochthonous development of dioecism in an hermaphrodite immigrant cannot be ruled out yet, the percentage of dioecism in an island flora appears to be related to the percentage in a probable source flora in a comparable climatic zone. This equivalence could result from parallel evolution but probably depends more upon the long-distance dispersal, establishment, and radiation of taxa, including dioecious ones. This may be facilitated for the dioecious taxa by "leakage" in the dioecious breeding system, by dispersal of multiple-seed units, by longevity and vegetative propagation of perennial plants, and by an ability to utilize wind or unspecialized pollinators. In tropical regions, bird-dispersal of seeds particularly may have been involved in the stocking of forests on islands.
10.2307/2399864|Based on the study of dried specimens and living material, a taxonomic revision of Cynanchum in mainland Africa is presented. Cynanchum here comprises 31 species (about half the number found in Madagascar), 6 of them new. One new combination is proposed and two species are neotypified. An artificial key to all taxa is presented; all species are fully described, and taxa not previously illustrated are provided with illustrations. Names for African Cynanchum placed into synonymy under other genera are listed with their current placement.
10.2307/2399228|Chusquea pohlii, C. latifolia, and C. serpens are described from Central and South America. Observations on bud morphology and branch development in Chusquea are included. Bud morphology provides a new set of vegetative characters invaluable in separating species of Chusquea. The bud complement in Chusquea consists of one dominant central bud subtended by 2-numerous, smaller subsidiary buds. The number and arrangement of the buds are variable and seem to be species-specific. The bud complement of each of the new species is illustrated and described. Infravaginal branching, found in several Chusquea species, including those described here, is defined and contrasted with extravaginal branching, typical of the majority of species in the genus.
10.2307/2398915|The pollen of Heliconia and most of its zingiberaceous relatives is destroyed by the standard acetolysis preparation. The fragility of the grains is the result of the weak exine development and sporopollenin deposition. There is a corresponding enhancement of intine growth. Transmission electron microscope studies were conducted on the pollen ontogeny from the microspore mother cell stage to the mature microspore in order to determine the nature of sporoderm development and differentiation. Ontogeny of the Heliconia sporoderm is similar to the basic pattern of angiosperm pollen development through the tetrad stage. The primexine template is established while the callose sheath still envelopes the tetrad microspores. Probacula arise from the plasmalemma of each microspore but only on the distal hemisphere in Heliconia, and then white lines develop between the plasmalemma and the probacula bases. Limited amounts of protosporopollenin from the microspore protoplast are deposited on and around the white lines. Dissolution of the callose brings tapetal lipid globules into contact with the developing exine, and there is some evidence that tapetal membrane fragments become attached to the primexine template. For the most part, however, sporopollenin deposition is minimal during the free spore stage in Heliconia. The consequence is that the exine consists of probacula which mature into spinules and white lines which are coated with thin deposits of sporopollenin to form stratified lamellae. As in other pollen, the intine of Heliconia is initiated during the free spore period following microspore enlargement and the formation of a large central vacuole. Microfibrils of cellulose develop between the plasmalemma and mature exine. The outermost fibrils are compacted and the radially oriented vesicles which appear in the intine region apparently are active in dissolving channels through to the base of the exine. Additional fibrils are eventually deposited to the interior of the intine to seal off the channels. Channel formation in Heliconia proceeds rapidly and is restricted to the distal hemisphere, while development of the proximal face is somewhat retarded and the mature intine is solid and stratified. The functional significance is not known, though the channels could serve as reservoirs for gametophytic proteins involved in germination and incompatibility.
10.2307/2398781|Stem transections of 64 arborescent and fruticose species of columnar cacti were studied to evaluate present systematic treatments of Mexican taxa. Species examined included not only most Mexican taxa, primarily of tribe Pachycereeae, but also related and unrelated taxa from the West Indies and Central and South America. A review of stem biochemical literature on Mexican columnar cacti showed that triterpenes and alkaloids are mutually exclusive, except in Lophocereus. In taxa with abundant stem triterpenes all species of Stenocereus have silica bodies in the skin, whereas species of Escontria, Myrtillocactus, and Polaskia lack silica bodies. In species which have alkaloids, crystals are generally lacking, but in species closely related to alkaloid-bearing taxa the skin contains abundant calcium oxalate crystals in an unusual pattern. When these and other data on vegetative and reproductive morphology of Pachycereeae are used, two subtribes, Pachycereinae and Stenocereinae, can be clearly defined. Pachycereinae includes taxa that lack funicular pigment cells at anthesis but have either abundant alkaloids or calcium oxalate crystals in the skin, whereas Stenocereinae includes taxa that have abundant triterpenes and funicular pigment cells at anthesis, many which also have silica bodies. Five new combinations are proposed for Mexican species that were assigned to Heliabravoa, and Machaerocereus and Rathbunia, which are submerged into Polaskia and Stenocereus, respectively. Based on a proposed phylogeny of Pachycereeae, evolutionary trends of vegetative and reproductive features are analyzed. The probable center of early radiation of Pachycereeae is southern Mexico, and geographical isolation has apparently encouraged allopatric speciation of numerous phylads. The assemblage of columnar cacti in the Sonoran Desert is composed of highly specialized species of at least seven distinct phylads, and species are closely related to southern forms and not to sympatric species.
10.2307/2399323|Lomenia borbonica Pourret (1788) is an earlier name for the common Cape species formerly called Watsonia pyramidata, and the new combination in Watsonia is made here. Significant and unusual variation in the stamen and style orientation, either declinate or arcuate, characterizes southern and northern races which otherwise seem indistinguishable. The white-flowered W. ardernei is considered an albino sport of the northern race and is reduced to synonymy. Other synonyms of W. borbonica are discussed and the complete nomenclature of the species is presented.
10.2307/2395152|Cytological evidence of introgression in the classical sense of Anderson (1949) and Stebbins (1950) has been presented for the sibling species Drosophila metzii and Drosophila pellewae in a population of the Isthmus of Darien, Panama. Salivary chromosome karyotypes of hybrids between the two species show multiple translocations involving the four large autosomes. A strain of D. metzii collected from a mixed population of the two species near El Real, Darien, Panama, displays both heterozygous and homozygous translocation figures and regions of asynapsis in salivary chromosomes of third instar larvae. A heterozygous translocation figure is seen in some salivary gland cells of larvae of the Darien strain of D. pellewae. Observations of variations in length of chromosomes in different individuals of the Darien D. metzii strain suggest restructuring arising presumably from crossing over in progenitors heterozygous for multiple translocations.
10.2307/2399183|Geissorhiza is a large genus of small, corm bearing perennials endemic in the Cape Province of South Africa and is restricted to the winter rainfall area of the south and west coasts and immediate interior. The genus is defined by its asymmetric corms with hard, often woody tunics, herbaceous bracts, and long style with short recurved branches. It is separated by style morphology from the closely related Hesperantha, in which the style is included in the perianth tube and the style branches are long and spreading and in addition, the anthers of Hesperantha are introrse at anthesis. Eightyone species are recognized in this study, 29 described here for the first time. This represents an increase of some 25 over the 52 species of true Geissorhiza admitted by Foster (1941) in his revision of the genus and the eight species placed by Lewis (1941) in Engysiphon, a genus here reduced to synonymy. A novel subgeneric classification is proposed in which two subgenera, Geissorhiza (34 spp.) and Weihea (47 spp.) are recognized, each including several sections. Geissorhiza is seen as a late Tertiary genus that probably differentiated in upland southeastern Africa when much of southern Africa including the Cape Region was still heavily forested. The continuing deterioration of the climate in the Pliocene and Pleistocene that culminated in the establishment of a Mediterranean climate in the southwestern Cape probably gave the impetus to the extensive radiation in the mountains and western coastal belt in this area, where most species, including all of the more specialized taxa, occur. Primitive taxa are concentrated along the relatively well-watered southern Cape coast, where little speciation has occurred and the primitive taxa appear to have differentiated slowly by a process of phyletic evolution. The geography of Geissorhiza is analyzed in detail and several important centers of endemism, corresponding closely with Weimarck's phytogeographical subdivisions are identified. The major trends in the evolution of Geissorhiza include: the development of imbricate cornm tunics from the basic concentric type; the reduction or extreme elongation of the perianth tube; the development of floral zygomorphy; and the elaboration of the leaf lamina, which may become several ribbed and grooved (section Geissorhiza), or may have raised and winged ciliae margins and a winged midrib (section Ciliata) or thickened margins and midrib (especially sections Angustifolia and Ixiopsis). Cytological studies have brought the number of species in which the chromosome number is known to 41, over half the genus. Basic chromosome number is x = 13, and while most species are diploid, polyploidy has been recorded in a few species including the triploid vegetative apomict, G. bolusii. The conservation status of Geissorhiza is reviewed and several seriously threatened species are identified including almost all those endemic to the coastal plain between Cape Town and Piketberg, an intensively farmed area rich in species.
10.2307/2399467|The Neotropical Region has a greater species richness of anuran amphibians than any other region in the world. Approximately 44% of the total number of species of anurans of the world (3,533) occur in the American tropics, and many new species are discovered every year. Patterns of species diversity were determined by analyzing data from 48 sites-32 in the lowland tropics (11 Middle American, 21 South American), nine in montane cloud forests (four Middle American, five South American), and seven in supra-treeline regions of the Andes. Taxa also were noted as to their reproductive mode (site of egg deposition, site of larval development, and associated parental care, if any). As expected, for the entire anuran fauna, there are gradients from lower diversity in dry regions to higher diversity in wet regions, and from lower diversity at high elevations to higher diversity at low elevations. The greatest species diversity is in the equatorial region of the upper Amazon Basin. However, different patterns emerge when taxonomic groups (families, subfamilies, and large genera) are examined independently. Two factors contribute significantly to the different patterns observed: (1) the historical biogeography of different taxa, especially in relation to the separation of Central America from South America during most of the Cenozoic, and (2) reproductive modes of the taxa. Seventeen reproductive modes can be identified among anurans at the 48 sites. The generalized reproductive mode (eggs and tadpoles in lentic water) is characteristic of all lowland sites but is rare or nonexistent in montane regions where there are few ponds. Some reproductive modes involve terrestrial eggs and/or larvae that are dependent for their survival on high moisture content of the air; anurans having these modes are most diverse in regions having high humidity. Other modes necessitate the presence of high-gradient streams or aerial aquatic habitats (bromeliads) for the development of eggs and tadpoles. Sites having the highest species diversity also have the greatest diversity of reproductive modes; these sites are in lowland rainforest near the base of the Andes and in the Atlantic forest of southeastern Brazil at the edge of the Brazilian Highlands. Thus, although total species diversity in anurans is dependent on rainfall, patterns of diversity of component groups results partly from their geographic histories and partly from the consequences of the nature of their reproductive modes.
10.2307/2394712|Osmotic pressure of sahuaro cortex tissue fluids changed significantly during the fall and winter of 1966-67 through the range of the sahuaro giant cactus (Cereus giganteus). At the northern end of the geographic distribution, the osmotic concentration decreased significantly from 320 mOsm in September to 185 mOsm in January. At the southern geographic limit, southern Sonora, the osmotic concentration increased significantly from 190 mOsm in September to 350 mOsm in February. In southern Arizona the osmotic concentration also increased significantly from 190 mOsm to 320 mOsm over the same period. In southern Arizona, osmotic pressure of cortex fluids decreased with increasing elevation. A significant difference in the osmotic pressure of the fluids on the south side (higher) and north side (lower) of sahuaros in all populations with increasing osmotic concentration was found. This difference did not exist when the sahuaros were in an advanced state of hydration. Indications of genetically fixed hardiness factors exist within the sahuaro populations; however, more thorough examination was beyond the sensitivity of monitoring the osmotic pressure. Changes in osmotic pressure of sahuaro cortex tissue fluids were related to effective precipitation and influenced by environmental temperatures. Within the ecological range of the sahuaro, conditions involving close interaction of low temperature and high precipitation become limiting to the distribution of this species.
10.2307/2394910|A manual of the mosses of the Interior Highlands of North America that include diagnostic keys to the families, genera, and species.
10.2307/2395200|Until recently American vertebrate paleontologists, particularly students of fossil mammals, have not generally accepted the concept of a former continuous land area around the north end of the Atlantic, connecting western Europe with North America. G. G. Simpson developed biological arguments based on fossil mammals supporting the existence of a corridor (Simpson, 1953 and references cited there) topologically connecting western Europe with North America in the early Eocene, but Simpson was influenced by the stabilistic geologic rationale of the times when he located the position of the corridor in Asia because of supposed permanence of the Atlantic oceanic barrier during all of Tertiary time. He did not take into account the epicontinental Turgai Straits sea barrier in Asia that lay athwart his corridor in the early Tertiary. The plate tectonic geophysical synthesis of the history of the North Atlantic and Arctic Oceans is in accord with the mammalian timing evidence that a former Euramerican landmass as well as a biota was severed about 49 m.y. ago and that Holarctic land dispersal since that time has been via Asia alone, becoming possible again with Europe in the mid-Tertiary. Earlier, starting about 70 m.y. ago, a continental collision whose site is now within northeastern Siberia created land continuity between what were then Asia and North America, and by the Oligocene the Turgai Straits had finally dried, giving the Holarctic corridor essentially its present configuration. Shallow epicontinental waters have on several occasions crossed Beringia, as at present. Thus the land surface of Holarctica has been rearranged substantially since 70 m.y. ago, North America as a land surface having shifted its allegiance from Europe to Asia. Recently published geological and geophysical information also suggests that, in addition to early Eocene land continuity in the Greenland-Barents Shelf area, a subaerial dispersal route crossing the volcanic Wyville Thompson Ridge from southeastern Greenland to the Faeroes and then to Great Britain and Ireland may also have been possible for a time in the early Tertiary. This latter route is the long familiar but hypothetical Thulean Bridge, now given a new lease on life by geophysical studies of "hot spots."
10.2307/2398869|The genera Browallia, Cestrum, Hunzikeria, Leptoglossis, Nicotiana, Nierembergia, Petunia, Reyesia, and Salpiglossis, all members of the mainly Neotropical tribe Cestreae of the Solanaceae, are reviewed and generic lines are discussed. Hunzikeria, Leptoglossis, Reyesia, and Salpiglossis are given extensive attention, and a new species of Hunzikeria is described. Bouchetia is placed into synonymy under Salpiglossis. An evolutionary path from primitive ancestors to modern, advanced members of the group is postulated.
10.2307/2399850|Morphological data have been used previously to construct phylogenies of the eight families of the Zingiberales, one of the most widely accepted monophyletic groups of flowering plants. To provide additional support for phylogenetic relationships within the order, and placement of the order among monocots, we present a parsimony analysis of DNA sequences from the chloroplast-encoded gene, rbcL, for 21 species of Zingiberales and proposed relatives. Five analyses with equal, and differential weights were performed. All analyses resulted in the same most parsimonious tree for taxa within the Zingiberales and the immediate outgroup. The closest sister group to the Zingiberales based on these data is a clade containing Commelinaceae/Haemodoraceae/Pontederiaceae. The tree topology within the order based on rbcL sequence data is different from previous morphological analyses. The order can be divided into two sister groups, one containing the Costaceae and Marantaceae, and the other, the remaining six families. All recognized families are monophyletic with the exception of the Musaceae, which is paraphyletic with the Cannaceae. With trees one and two steps longer than the most parsimonious trees, phylogenetic resolution is rapidly lost, suggesting that the phylogenetic utility of rbcL sequence data for the Zingiberales is limited to interordinal and intrafamilial relationships.
10.2307/2398889| Original chromosome counts are presented for 95 species in 78 genera of Leguminosae. Of these, 50 are first reports for genera, and 71 are first reports for species. The evolutionary or systematic significance of much of the data has been discussed in a separate paper (Goldblatt, 1981), and this article serves mainly for full documentation of the counts. New information, not previously dealt with, concerns Myroxylon (PapilionoideaeSophoreae). The genus was previously reported as n = 14, but material I have studied clearly has 2n = 26, which is compatible with the number of n = 13 in the related genus Myrospermum. 
10.2307/2395302|Genetic variability in natural populations is very great. To a large degree, the types of variation found reflect the methods used. Thus we may recognize, segregating in natural populations, (1) point mutations (oligogenes) which have visible or physiological effects, (2) lethal and semilethal genes, (3) chromosome aberrations, and (4) soluble protein variability. This paper adduces cases which suggest that evolutionary change (adaptation or speciation or both) can occur without significant participation by any of the four classes of variation listed above. Thus, some cases of newly-formed species are known in which the species pair is chromosomally homosequential. Other cases show very little soluble protein (allozyme) difference (similarity coefficients of 0.95 or higher). These species appear to be much more newly formed than the classical "sibling" species of the obscura or willistoni groups of Drosophila. Nor does their biochemical similarity mean that such species differ by only a few genes. Rather, the genetic differences which characterize species when they are first formed may be numerous and largely of a regulatory nature. New recombinationally-synthesized blocks of epistatically interacting polygenes may also characterize newly-formed species. A theory that the amount of soluble protein change is primarily a function of time since the separation of two lineages is presented. This is apparently supported by allozyme data on eight species of Drosophila inhabiting Hawaiian islands of successively younger times of origin.
10.2307/2399513|The genus Lapeirousia, a member of the predominantly African subfamily Ixioideae of Iridaceae, is one of five genera of tribe Watsonieae and is the only one that is widespread in southern and tropical Africa. In this revision of the tropical members of the genus, 16 species are recognized, 14 assigned to the largely tropical sect. Paniculata (subg. Paniculata) and two to the largely temperate southern African sect. Sophronia (subg. Lapeirousia). One new species, L. angolensis, is described and L. teretifolia is raised from subspecies to species rank. The center for tropical African Lapeirousia is northern Namibia, but species occur across south tropical Africa to Mozambique and north to Ethiopia, Sudan, and Nigeria. Lapeirousia is one of few genera well represented in both tropical Africa and the winter-rainfall region of temperate southern Africa, and it is unique in its wide distribution in drier parts of Africa rather than the well-watered eastern highland areas of the continent. Variation among the species is largely floral, and flowers range from completely actinomorphic to medianly zygomorphic and from short-tubed to extremely long-tubed. An unusual degree of chromosomal variation occurs in sect. Paniculata with numbers ranging from n = 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, to 3 and karyotypes from strongly bimodal to relatively uniform. Chromosome cytology correlates to some degree with patterns of morphological variation and provides independent support for the phylogeny of the tropical species.
40035747|Phylogenetic relationships were reconstructed among 59 of 77 genera of subfamily Apocynoideae and exemplars of Periplocoideae, Secamonoideae, and Asclepiadoideae (collectively the APSA clade) using sequences from four regions of the chloroplast genome (trnL intron and trnL-trnF spacer, rpl16 intron, rps16 intron, matK and 3' half of trnK intron) and 16 morphological characters. Apocynoideae are resolved as paraphyletic. The five tribes recognized within this subfamily in the classification of Endress and Bruyns are all paraphyletic or polyphyletic. Seven major clades of Apocynoideae are identified. The first three include genera classified predominantly in tribes Wrightieae and Malouetieae sensu Endress and Bruyns and form a paraphyletic grade to a crown clade. The crown clade includes four clades of Apocynoideae genera classified in tribes Apocyneae, Mesechiteae, and Echiteae together with Periplocoideae, Secamonoideae, and Asclepiadoideae; the latter three constitute the traditional Asclepiadaceae. Asclepiadaceae are resolved as polyphyletic, although the node that precludes a paraphyletic Asclepiadaceae does not have bootstrap support. The clade of Secamonoideae-Asclepiadoideae is well supported as sister to a clade of three African Apocynoideae genera (Baissea A. DC., Motandra A. DC., and Oncinotis Benth.). There is a strong correlation between geographic distribution and phylogeny among crown clade Apocynoideae. A New World clade is composed of American genera plus the predominantly Australasian Parsonsia R. Br. and Artia Guillaumin. An Asian clade is composed of Asian, Malesian, and Australasian genera plus the north temperate Apocynum L. Trachelospermum Lem. is polyphyletic with American and Asian species nested in the New World and Asian clades, respectively. The implications of this phylogeny for the evolution of pollen aggregation and mass transfer, the traits that were used to separate Asclepiadaceae from Apocynaceae s. str., are discussed.
10.2307/2666184|Discovery of fossil remains of Tertiary high-latitude forest vegetation during 19th century polar exploration was recognized as critical to an understanding of long-term global climatic evolution and origins of modern mid-latitude northern temperate vegetation. An extensive record of early Tertiary plants is preserved within rocks of the Eureka Sound Group exposed in the Canadian Arctic Archipelago, and intensive collecting from this Group over the past 15 years has provided a basis for paleofloristic and paleoenvironmental interpretations. Fossil locality data and preliminary floral lists are included for all principal collection sites on Ellesmere and Axel Heiberg islands from the four constituent units of the Group, the Expedition, Strand Bay, Iceberg Bay, and Buchanan Lake formations, ranging in age from early Paleocene through middle Eocene and representing paleolatitudes of 75-80
10.2307/2399520|Pollination and floral biology of seven species of Bauhinia were analyzed between 1982 and 1983 in different Venezuelan plant communities. Bauhinia species are grouped in two sections: Pauletia, which includes trees, and Tylotaea, which includes lianas. The species of sect. Pauletia included in this study (B. aculeata, B. multinervia, B. pauletia, B. ungulata) have comparatively large, white flowers, while the species of sect. Tylotaea (B. glabra, B. guianensis, B. rutilans) exhibit different colors of flowers and variations in form and color of the upper petal. Nectar analyses were made for six Bauhinia species for sugar and amino acid composition. The species of sect. Tylotaea produce less nectar with a higher sugar concentration than those of sect. Pauletia. Hexose is dominant in species of sect. Pauletia except in Bauhinia aculeata, where sucrose is dominant. The species of sect. Tylotaea have comparatively small diurnal flowers and are visited by a great variety of bees, wasps, butterflies, and hummingbirds; those of sect. Pauletia are mainly nocturnal and bat-pollinated, but Bauhinia aculeata showed different behavior and could be intermediate between the two sections. The flower morphology, floral biology, pollinator species, nectar composition, and secretion tend to be associated with the life form of the two sections of Bauhinia.
10.2307/2395110|The populations comprising the foxtail-bristlecone pine complex (Pinus sect. Parrya Mayr. subsect. Balfourianae Engelm.) are shown to be separable into three allopatric forms each with easily observed distinguishing characters. To recognize, as is done at present, only two species (Pinus aristata Engelm. and Pinus balfouriana Grev. & Balf.) is clearly unsatisfactory, and a third species, Pinus longaeva, is described to represent the population hitherto considered to be Pinus aristata Engelm. but lying to the west of the Colorado-Green River system in Utah, Nevada, and California. Pinus aristata, sensu stricto, is thus confined to Colorado, New Mexico, and Arizona.
10.2307/2395207|Recent collections from wet forest areas of Panama include several species of Myristicaceae new to science or to the North American continent. The two new species described below are of special interest as having the largest fruits in their respective genera.
40035724|When the Panamanian land bridge was emplaced about 2.7 Ma, it triggered the Great American Biotic Interchange (GABI), a major mingling of land mammal faunas between North and South America. Four families of northern immigrants (Procyonidae, Felidae, Tayassuidae, and Camelidae) diversified at moderate rates, while four others, Canidae, Mustelidae, Cervidae, and especially Muridae, evolved explosively. As a consequence, half of living South American genera are descendants of northern immigrants. The other major consequence of the interchange was the conquest of tropical North America by immigrants from Amazonia, an episode that justifies the term Neotropical Realm. /// Cuando el corredor terrestre panameo se ubic hace cerca de 2.7 Ma, desencaden el Gran Intercambio Bitico Americano (GABI), una mezcla importante de las faunas de mamferos terrestres entre Amrica del Norte y del Sur. Cuatro familias de inmigrantes del norte (Procyonidae, Felidae, Tayassuidae, and Camelidae) se diversificaron a un ritmo moderado, mientras que otras cuatro, Canidae, Mustelidae, Cervidae y especialmente Muridae, evolucionaron en forma explosiva. Por consiguiente, la mitad de gneros suramericanos actuales son descendientes de inmigrantes del norte. La otra principal consecuencia del intercambio fue la conquista de Norteamrica tropical por inmigrantes amaznicos, un episodio que justifica el trmino de Reino Neotropical.
10.2307/2398988|Most comparisons of the temperate floras of eastern North America and eastern Asia have addressed the systematic or floristic level. Data on vegetation pattern and structure, when present, have been broadly descriptive, with little detail on gradient relations or intercommunity pattern. Great Smoky Mountains National Park, the largest eastern temperate preserve of floristic diversity in the United States, lies near the center of development of the North American deciduous forest. The flora of this park was used to model the gradient distributions and ecological characteristics of species with east Asian near-relatives. The disjunct taxa (162 species or 13 percent of the flora) were a highly nonrandom assortment of the native flora (total = 1,211 species) as a whole: they were more likely to be primitive in phylogenetic standing, perennial, and woody. They were also non-randomly distributed among habitats, being more likely to be found on exclusively terrestrial, forested, and mesic sites. Taxa belonging to genera absent from eastern Asia (232 species or 19 percent of the flora) were an equally interesting non-random sample of the native flora: they were more likely to be herbaceous and advanced in phylogenetic standing. Absent taxa, however, essentially represented a random sample of the flora as a whole in terms of degree of habitat openness and substrate type. When gradient distributions were corrected for overall species richness distributions, absent taxa showed their peak importance on xeric sites. Taxa in wide-ranging north temperate genera (817 species or 67 percent of the flora) generally constituted a random sample of the flora as a whole; they showed peak importance at higher elevations. These data are used to make inferences about the distribution of species richness in the Smokies landscape. Evidence that the eastern Asian temperate deciduous forests were the most diverse temperate forests on earth is also reviewed. Alternative hypotheses concerning the nature of this heightened diversity are discussed.
41238134|La falta de un tratamiento taxonmico y de claves de determinacin en el gnero Moussonia Regel (Gesneriaceae) ha propiciado que algunas especies sean confundidas entre s o que se les haya considerado como variedades o sinnimos. Adems, varios caracteres morfolgicos y anatmicos no han sido evaluados para ayudar a distinguir especies en Moussonia. En este trabajo nos enfocamos principalmente en varias caractersticas anatmicas del envs de la hoja y del mesflo, as como de la epidermis de la superficie adaxial del tubo de la corola. Estos caracteres resultaron tener valor taxonmico para delimitar cuatro especies incluidas en Moussonia: M. ampia L. E. Skog, M. deppeana (Schltdl. & Cham.) Hanst., M. elegans Decne. y la nueva combinacin M. jaliscana (S. Watson) D. L. Denham ex Ramrez-Roa, transferida de Isoloma jaliscanum S. Watson. En este estudio observamos caractersticas anatmicas de las hoja tales como domos estomatales generalmente con uno o dos estomas en la cresta, tamao relativo y densidad aparente de los estomas, clulas epidrmicas que rodean la base de tricomas, tipo de tricomas en el envs de la hoja, anatoma del mesfilo, y variaciones de las paredes anticlinales y periclinales de las clulas de la superficie adaxial de la corola. Discutimos brevemente algunas posibles interpretaciones de esta anatoma con relacin al ambiente. Presentamos un breve tratamiento taxonmico de las especies revisadas en este trabajo para un mejor entendimiento de la problemtica subyacente. Considerando caractersticas anatmicas y morfolgicas proponemos una nueva definicin de M. elegans, junto con los cambios nomenclatures correspondientes. Incluimos una nueva combinacin: M. jaliscana y una clave de determinacin usando caracteres anatmicos y morfolgicos. The lack of a taxonomic treatment and keys for the genus Moussonia Regel (Gesneriaceae) has led some species to be confused with each other or to be considered as varieties or synonyms. Additionally, several morphological and anatomical characters have not been evaluated for their usefulness in discriminating Moussonia species. In this work we focus principally on the study of several morphological and general anatomical features of the abaxial surface of the leaf and of the mesophyll as well as the adaxial surface of the corolla tube. We found that these features have taxonomical value to delimit four species included in Moussonia: M. ampia L. E. Skog, M. deppeana (Schltdl. & Cham.) Hanst., M. elegans Decne., and the new combination M. jaliscana (S. Watson) D. L. Denham ex Ramrez-Roa, as transferred from Isoloma jaliscanum S. Watson. Anatomical features of the leaf such as stomatal domes generally with one or two stomata on the top, relative stomata size, epidermal cells surrounding trichome bases, trichome types, apparent density of stomata and trichomes on the leaf lower surface, blade mesophyll, and variation of epidermal cells on the adaxial surface of the corolla were observed. We briefly discuss some possible interpretations of this anatomy with respect to the environment. A brief taxonomic treatment of the species considered in this work is included for a better understanding of the underlying problem. Considering these anatomical and morphological features, we propose a new definition of M. elegans, together with the corresponding nomenclatural changes. We propose M. jaliscana as a new combination and include an identification key using anatomical and morphological features.
10.2307/2399054|Coastal populations of Acacia retinodes Schldl. var. uncifolia J. M. Black are protogynous and highly self-incompatible. Flowers are nectarless but insects appear to be attracted to the inflorescences both by the yellow floral color and distinctive fragrance. Neutral red tests suggest that the scent originates from the stigma and epidermal cells of the anthers. Floral foragers represented three insect orders but interpretations of field observations and pollen load analysis of insects indicate that solitary bees in the Colletidae and Halictidae are the major pollen vectors. The method for removal of pollen from the anthers is via thoracic vibration. Because female phase flowers offer no pollen, foraging by bees on such flowers is interpreted as a trend towards partial pollination by deceit.
40035731|We studied the Araceae of the Cabo Corrientes region on the Pacific Coast of Colombia and compared its aroid flora with those of La Selva (Costa Rica), Barro Colorado Island (Panama), Bajo Calima (Colombia), Ro Palenque (Ecuador), and Iquitos (Peru). We found 114 native species in 14 genera at Cabo Corrientes; the largest genera were Anthurium (38 species), and Philodendron (36), which together accounted for 65% of the species. Seventy-four percent of the species were exclusively epiphytic or hemiepiphytic. Most of the epiphytic species belonged to the genera Anthurium, Philodendron, Rhodospatha, Syngonium, Monstera, and Stenospermation, the latter three containing exclusively epiphytic or hemiepiphytic species. The flora of Araceae of Cabo Corrientes was most similar to that of La Selva, Barro Colorado Island, and Bajo Calima; similarity with Ro Palenque was low. Our findings support Lellinger's view that the Choc biogeographic region extends to the Nicaragua-Costa Rica border and is divided into a northern and a southern flora. /// Estudiamos la flora de Araceae de la regin de Cabo Corrientes en la Costa Pacfica de Colombia y la comparamos con la flora de arceas de La Selva (Costa Rica), La Isla de Barro Colorado (Panam), Bajo Calima (Colombia), Ro Palanque (Ecuador) e Iquitos (Peru). En Cabo Corrientes encontramos 114 especies nativas distribuidas en 14 gneros; los gneros ms grandes fueron Anthurium (38 especies) y Philodendron (36) los cuales comprendieron 65% del total de especies. Setenta y cuatro por ciento de las especies fueron exclusivamente epfitas o hemiepfitas. La mayora de especies epfitas pertenecieron a los gneros Anthurium, Philodendron, Rhodospatha, Syngonium, Monstera, y Stenospermation, siendo los ltimos tres gneros exclusivamente epfitos o hemiepfitos. La flora de Araceae de Cabo Corrientes fue ms similar con la de La Selva, La Isla de Barro Colorado y Bajo Calima; la similaridad con Ro Palenque fue baja. Nuestros resultados coinciden con los de Lellinger que sealan que la regin del Choc biogeografico se extiende hasta la frontera de Costa Rica con Nicaragua y est dividida en una flora nortea y una flora surea.
10.2307/2399402|Because of their arborescent habit and unique flowers and fruits, Lecythidaceae present specialized collection problems. Instructions for the preparation of more informative collections of Lecythidaceae for use in taxonomy are provided.
10.2307/2395235|The seeds of more than half of the approximately 210 species of Onagraceae tribe Epilobieae were examined with the scanning electron microscope. The six species of Boisduvalia have irregularly angular-fusiform seeds with convex, flat, irregularly polygonal surface cells in two species and an irregularly striated reticulum formed by the unevenly joining walls of the surface cells in the four others. They are similar to one another and sharply distinct from those of Epilobium, although the relationship between the genera is undoubtedly close. The seeds of Epilobium fall in seven groups: (1) large, obovoid seeds with a more or less prominent micropylar constriction, in three small sections of generalized xerophytes and in one species, E. rigidum, of sect. Epilobium; (2) smaller papillose seeds in over half of the other species; (3) foveolate seeds, independently evolved in many species; (4) obovoid-patelliform seeds in four Australasian species; (5) irregularly reticulate seeds in one subsection of Epilobium sect. Chamaenerion; (6) ridged seeds in a phylogenetically coherent group of North American origin; (7) finely papillose, distinctive seeds in sect. Crossostigma. More or less prominent chalazal beaks have evolved in some species. From xerophytic ancestors, Epilobium has evolved a highly successful group of mesophytes in sect. Epilobium that have achieved worldwide distribution. This trend seems to have been accompanied by an increase in seed number and a concomitant decrease in seed size.
10.2307/2399493| The flora of forest, scrub, and grass communities was studied in Rucamanque, located near the city of Temuco, Cautn Chile, in the central valley of south central Chile. Forty-six vegetation samples were made, and plants were collected intensively outside the sample areas. A catalog was written for 203 plants species, which were analyzed for systematics, phytogeographics, life forms, the biological spectrum that they compose, the frequency and relative importance of each in the different vegetational communities, and their uses in industry, crafts, and medicine. 
10.2307/2399552|The tropical and southern African Lapeirousia, comprising 35 species, divides into two subgenera on the basis of leaf type. Leaf anatomy of eight species of Lapeirousia and selected species of the other five genera of Watsonieae was examined and compared with that of the putatively primitive Pillansia. Lapeirousia subg. Lapeirousia has corrugate leaves that lack a distinct midvein and are anatomically specialized in having predominantly or exclusively alternate vascular bundles and square, truncate costal ridges in which the epidermal cells are abruptly enlarged and often heavily thickened in the outer periclinal walls. This derived leaf structure correlates with the specialized woody corm tunics of the subgenus. Subgenus Paniculata has plane leaves with a distinct midvein, vascular bundles usually opposite, and rounded costal ridges with epidermal cells gradually diminishing in size and usually without a heavily thickened outer periclinal wall, the basic type for the tribe. Species of subg. Paniculata also have hard corm tunics composed of densely compacted fibers, the basic type for the clade including Lapeirousia. Several morphological characters within both subgenera of Lapeirousia were used in the construction of a cladogram indicating the major lineages in the genus. This forms the basis for our infrageneric classification that recognizes two subgenera, each with two sections.
10.2307/3298522|The genus Cortaderia Stapf comprises approximately 24 species occurring in South America, New Zealand, and New Guinea. Cortaderia is placed in the subfamily Danthonioideae. Several species in the genus are known to be gyno-dioecious, a feature unusual for the subfamily. The genus has been divided into four sections, two of which are monotypic.This study utilizes nrDNA sequence data from the ITS region and the grass-specific insert in the chloroplast rpoC2 gene to elucidate the relationships of 15 species of the genus, including the anomalous Cortaderia archboldii (Hitchc.) Connor & Edgar. Results suggest that the genus is not monophyletic, and there are two clades that correspond to continental areas. The South American species of Cortaderia (including Lamprothyrsus Pilg.) form one clade, while the Australasian species form a second clade. Within Cortaderia s. str., section Bifida is polyphyletic, while section Cortaderia is monophyletic and sister to Lamprothyrsus. Cortaderia archboldii shows no immediate affinity with either of these two clades, but data indicate a possible relationship with Danthonia DC.
10.2307/2399305|Twenty-five taxa of Dichanthelium are recognized for Florida, with synonymy and typification compiled. Keys to species and varieties and an index to names is provided. The new combinations D. ensifolium var. breve, D. ensifolium var. unciphyllum, and D. portoricense are proposed.
10.2307/2399967|This paper concerns the role of systematics in efforts to conserve biological diversity. Biodiversity is seen both as an interdisciplinary science (involving ecology and population biology as well as systematics), and as a socio-political activity (because of the strongly anthropocentric focus of the Convention on Biological Diversity). Systematics has a number of key roles to play, especially with respect to maximizing our limited and fragmentary knowledge of biology through the predictive power of natural classification, and in helping to set priorities for conservation when, as is inevitably the case, resources are limited. After examining ways in which systematists must support the growing needs of society to know more about the Earth's biota, it is concluded that, because of their unique insights into the subject, systematists have an equally strong responsibility to take an active lead in many of the issues relating to the study, use, and conservation of biological diversity.
10.2307/2399648|In his 62 years of actively collecting plants (1925-1987), Julian Steyermark described 2,392 taxa, including 1 family, 38 genera, and 1,864 species. He named plants from 26 countries and from 16 states in the U.S.A. Types of taxa that he named are listed alphabetically by family, with author, literature citation, collector, collection number, date of collection, locality, elevation, and depository. Comments are supplied, where pertinent, on never-published names, illegitimate names, and some current nomenclature (which are not referenced in the bibliography). Appendices include eponymy, collectors index, and family index. The bibliography includes 395 references. Statistical summaries are provided.
10.2307/2399237|Steyermarkochloa unifolia Davidse & Ellis, gen. et sp. nov. and Steyermarkochloeae Davidse & Ellis, trib. nov. are described. This species occurs in seasonally inundated white-sand soils in the Territorio Federal Amazonas, Venezuela, and Comisaria Guainia, Colombia. It has dimorphic culms and leaves. Only a single developed leaf is produced per vegetative culm. The morphology of this leaf is unique in the Poaceae in its cylindrical, solid sheath with flattened blade and absence of a ligule. Plants are polygamo-monoecious but most spikelets are unisexual. All spikelets are 3-flowered with the terminal floret always rudimentary. Male and bisexual spikelets usually have two fully developed florets, the lower usually male in bisexual spikelets, and are borne basally in the inflorescence. Female spikelets have the lower floret sterile and the second fertile. Lodicules are absent and the stamens and stigmas are terminally exserted. Anatomical studies indicate that the plant is arundinoid in all epidermal characteristics except the absence of microhairs and in most diagnostic characteristics of the blade anatomy. Steyermarkochloa is unusual in possessing vascular bundles inserted at different levels in the blade. The blades, sheaths, and roots have an extensive system of lacunae, a feature typical of aquatic plants. Although anatomical features clearly point to an arundinoid affinity, the many anomalous morphological features indicate an isolated position within the subfamily that is best recognized at the tribal level.
10.2307/2398870| Recent collections of Bignoniaceae from Amazonian Peru and Brazil include six undescribed species--Adenocalymma prancei A. Gentry, Arrabidaea revillae A. Gentry, Distictella reticulata A. Gentry, Jacaranda bullata A. Gentry, Memora racemosa A. Gentry, and Tabebuia incana A. Gentry. A new combination for another species of Amazonian Bignoniaceae--Manaosella cordifolia (DC.) A. Gentry--is also proposed. 
10.2307/2394617|The following new taxa are described-Amaryllidaceae: Crinum brevilobatum G. McCue; Loganiaceae: Desfontainea costaricensis Woodson; Apocynaceae: Aspidosperma limae Woodson, Woytkowskia spermatochorda Woodson, Tabernaemontana brachyantha Woodson, Peltastes ampliflorus Woodson, P. peruvianus Woodson, P. tubiflorus Woodson, Mandevilla sandemanii Woodson, Prestonia caudata Woodson; Asclepiadaceae: Matelea rivularis Woodson.
10.2307/2399879|Sequences of the large subunit (LSU) of ribosomal DNA from Arabidopsis thaliana, Brassica napus, Sinapsis alba, Oryza sativa, Fragaria x ananassa, Lycopersicon esculentum, and Citrus limon were analyzed for nucleotide composition, presence of "cryptic" sequence simplicity, and evidence of molecular coevolution among the 12 expansion segments. The median value for GC content across the seven plants for the LSU was 56%, but the distribution of GC was nonrandom. Expansion segments were decidedly more GC rich (65% on average) than were the conserved core regions (52% on average). Only Oryza sativa had significant cryptic sequence simplicity, which was found to be greatest in expansion segments D8 and D12. Sequence similarity between expansion segments also was strongest in rice as determined by visual inspection of dot plots. The complex nature of sequence variation in the LSU of rDNA complicates the use of this molecule as a molecular systematic marker.
42703728|Hawai'i has a unique natural history, ideal for studying the mechanisms of evolution. With over 90% endemism in its native flora of 1300 species, over half are threatened with extinction. This immense challenge requires working collaboratively, effectively, and efficiently. Despite extensive conservation activity, we do not have a unified strategy, and leaders in Hawaiian conservation are discussing the creation of a Hawai'i Strategy for Plant Conservation (HSPC) based on the Global Strategy for Plant Conservation (GSPC) targets. Here we analyze the effectiveness of the conservation work taking place in Hawai'i through the lens of the GSPC Targets 1 to 3 that include: (1) the establishment of an online flora of all known plants; (2) the assessment of the conservation status of all known plant species; and (3) the development and sharing of research and methodology related to on-the-ground conservation.
10.2307/2399858|Nucleotide sequences of the chloroplast gene rbcL were analyzed to examine relationships among the large, distinctive family Asteraceae and eight putatively closely related families. Phylogenetic analysis of a total of 24 sequences of rbcL identified a lineage consisting of two families, the Goodeniaceae and Calyceraceae, as the sister group to the Asteraceae. In addition, a strongly supported major monophyletic clade consisting of Asteraceae, Goodeniaceae, Calyceraceae, Corokia (Cornaceae sensu Cronquist), Menyanthaceae, Lobeliaceae, and Campanulaceae was found. These results clearly distance from the Asteraceae certain groups previously considered closely related; moreover, the results support alternative hypotheses of affinity that were based upon floral and inflorescence morphology, biogeography, pollen morphology, chemistry, and pollen-presentation mechanisms.
10.2307/2666189|The history and rediscovery of Takhtajania perrieri (Capuron) Baranova & J.-F. Leroy, the only extant representative of the primitive family Winteraceae in the Africa/Madagascar region, is recounted.
3298648|The effect of natural catastrophic events, such as volcanic eruptions and earthquakes, on the genetic structure of species has been infrequently studied. The 1999 Chi-Chi Earthquake of Taiwan resulted in population extinction of Lithocarpus konishii (Fagaceae), an endangered species, and provides a case study for assessing impacts of natural catastrophes on genetic diversity. Genetic diversity of the atpB-rbcL intergenic spacer of cpDNA and the intron 2 of NADH dehydrogenase subunit 7 gene of mtDNA in L. konishii was determined before and after the earthquake. Loss of rare polymorphisms due to extinction of an entire population at the earthquake epicenter contributed to the reduction of genetic diversity within species in both cpDNA and mtDNA. Star-like phylogenies and significantly negative Tajima's D statistics suggest a history of recent expansion of the species, which, however, is not confirmed by a nested clade analysis. Phylogeographical inferences were made before and after the earthquake; differences in the phylogeographic analysis suggest that long-range dispersal inferences may be misidentified due to loss of haplotypes and clades in geographical regions of population extinction. Tests of genetic and ecological exchangeability indicate that Lithocarpus populations should be recognized as different conservation units that should be managed separately.
10.2307/2395227|Gomorega keule (Mol.) I. M. Johnston of the monotypic Chilean family Gomortegaceae (Magnoliales sensu lato) has a diploid number of 2n = 42. This number, indicating the palaeohexaploid nature of the family, suggests affinities wiht those magnoliaceous families with similar high basic chromosome numbers, in particular Atherospermataceae, Siparunaceae, and Monimiaceae belonging to the lauralian alliance. Morphological features such as endospermous seeds, valvate anthers, as well as wood anatomy and pollen, accord with this conclusion.
10.2307/3298543|Growth and seedling morphology of 144 species representing 30 genera of Campanulaceae s. str. were studied. Two types of seedlings were found: Group A, with an elongated epicotyl and elongated internodes, and Group B, with a shortened (not visible) epicotyl and usually shortened internodes. These two types appear to be correlated with other vegetative characters. Thus, plants from Group A have an opposite leaf arrangement (at least early in ontogenesis), rhythmic seasonal growth with a long dormant period, and sympodial branching. Plants from Group B have a spiral leaf arrangement, continuous growth (at least in the non-flowering period), and sympodial and monopodial branching. Taxa in Group A are distributed mostly in Asia, whereas representatives in Group B occur almost worldwide. The two groups do not coincide with current taxonomic classifications but correspond remarkably well with the distribution of other characters such as pollen-grain morphology and correlate with groups based on molecular analysis; therefore, these two groups may reflect two lineages. Growth and seedling morphology are of taxonomic significance in Campanulaceae and can be used for treatments in conjunction with other characters. Taxonomic changes, which are supported by molecular data, are proposed.
40035673|The paleoecology of plants as a modern discipline, distinct from traditional floristics or biostratigraphy, has undergone an enormous expansion in the past 20 years. In addition to baseline studies characterizing extinct plants and plant assemblages in terms of their growth habits, environmental preferences, and patterns of association, paleoecology has converged on neoecology and represents a means to extend our basic understanding of the world and to contribute to the theoretical framework of ecology, writ large. Reconstruction of whole plants, including studies of physiology and developmental biology, and analyses of biomechanics have become mainstays of autecological studies. Assemblage studies now are informed by sophisticated taphonomic models that have helped guide sampling strategies and helped with the interpretation of statistical data. Linkages of assemblage patterns in space and time with sedimentology, geochemical proxies for atmospheric composition and climate, paleosol analyses, and increasingly refined geochronological and sequence stratigraphic data have permitted paleoecologists to examine rates and extents of vegetational response to environmental change and to time intervals of quiescent climatic conditions. Studies of plant-animal interaction, explicit consideration of phylogenetic information in assessing assemblage time-space dynamics, and examination of ecological structure in terms of developing metabolic scaling theory are all having direct impact on paleoecological as well as neoecological studies. The growth of paleoecology shows no sign of diminishment--closer linkages with neoecology are needed.
10.2307/2399742|Leaves of Cistanthe are typically characterized by broad, more or less clasping leaf bases, winged petioles, festooned brochidodromous venation, apically diminished primary veins, sinuous veins, "ribbonlike" veins, and predominantly brachyparacytic and similar stomata. This particular combination of characteristics does not occur in any other taxa in Portulacaceae, although most of the traits occur in individual species of Rumicastrum. Leaf morphology is similar in all sections of Cistanthe except for the monotypic sect. Strophiolum, which lacks sinuous veins and ribbonlike veins. Individual species may, however, possess distinctive foliar traits or combinations of traits. Overall, the leaf morphological evidence corroborates the hypothesis of monophyly of Cistanthe, but does not substantially clarify the phylogenetic position of this genus, nor relationships therein. Leaf characters may have utility for additional phylogenetic study.
3298518|Bibio longirostris, a small (ca. 5 mm long) nectar-feeding fly (proboscis ca. 1 mm long) was found to be the only visitor to the small, zygomorphic flowers (8-10 mm long) of Melasphaerula ramosa, a species endemic to the southern African winter-rainfall zone. Each captured fly carried the pollen of M. ramosa exclusively, with grains deposited on the dorsal part of the thorax. Observations showed that these insects contacted both dehisced anthers and stigmatic surfaces of style branches while evidently foraging on nectar secreted from septal nectaries into the base of the floral tube. Experimental hand pollinations showed that M. ramosa is self-compatible, and some flowers undergo mechanical self-pollination (autogamy) in the absence of insect visitors. Pollination of this genus of Iridaceae by bibionids represents a new syndrome within the broad category of fly pollination and expands the range of pollination mechanisms reported in this family. As there is comparatively little scientific literature confirming bibionid pollination throughout the world, we compare the floral biology of M. ramosa with available litrerature on pollination by other microdipterans in the Araceae, Hydrophyllaceae, Saxifragaceae, Orchidaceae, and Sterculiaceae.
10.2307/2399031|Lesqueria elocata (Lesq.) Crane & Dilcher, an early angiosperm fruiting axis, is described from the mid-Cretaceous (Upper Albian-Middle Cenomanian) Dakota Formation of central Kansas and the Woodbine Formation of northeastern Texas. The species is based on three-dimensional molds preserved in sandstone. The fruits (multifollicles) comprise 175-250 follicles borne helically, in a tight, more or less spherical or ovoid head. The receptacle below the gynoecium is cylindrical, elongated, and bears numerous, helically arranged, persistent laminar flaps. The bases of these flaps are diamondshaped at their attachment to the receptacle, but it is not known whether they are stamens or perianth parts. The follicles are short stalked, with two terminal prolongations, and dehisced along a single adaxial suture. The follicles contained 10-20 seeds arranged in two longitudinal rows. The former assignment of L. elocata to Williamsonia (Bennettitales) is rejected and Lesqueria is shown to be most similar to Recent magnoliid angiosperms. Lesqueria is one of a diverse group of extinct mid-Cretaceous magnoliid flowering plants.
10.2307/2399290|Pollen morphologic data from light, scanning, and transmission electron microscopy were used in a phenetic analysis to assess variation within and among the four tribes traditionally included in Rhizophoraceae: Anisophylleeae, Gynotrocheae, Macarisieae, and Rhizophoreae. Principal components analysis revealed that pollen of Anisophylleeae is phenetically divergent from that of Gynotrocheae, Macarisieae, and Rhizophoreae, and therefore we recognize this taxon at the family level, Anisophylleaceae. In contrast Rhizophoraceae sensu stricto forms a phenetic continuum, with pollen of Macarisieae intermediate between Gynotrocheae and Rhizophoreae. Endoapertures of Anisophylleaceae pollen, when present, are circular and poorly defined, whereas all species of Rhizophoraceae possess endoapertures with some degree of fusion. Pollen of both families has a generalized angiosperm morphology, thereby providing no palynological basis for assessing relationships to Myrtales or other groups.
10.2307/2399258|An embryological study of Anisophylleaceae, which comprise Anisophyllea, Combretocarpus, Poga, and Polygonanthus, and which have traditionally most often been referred as a tribe or subfamily to Rhizophoraceae, is presented as a contribution to the clarification of the systematic position of the family and the evolutionary interrelationships of its constituent genera. The gametic chromosome number of Combretocarpus is reported as n = 8, that of the other three genera as n = 7. Embryologically Anisophylleaceae are diversified and show differences from genus to genus, but they are clearly distinct from Rhizophoraceae in having their combination of consistent character states, including persistent nucellar tissue at least until early stages of seed development, thin two cell-layered inner integument (Poga and Polygonanthus), and exalbuminous seeds. In contrast to Rhizophoraceae, Anisophylleaceae agree almost completely with Myrtales in their embryological features of the order. Embryological evidence therefore supports the recognition of Anisophylleaceae as a distinct family and, with support from other lines of evidence, suggests a Myrtalean affinity for the family. Proposed assignments of Anisophylleaceae to Rosales or to Cornales are not supported. An analysis of similarities in character states in the four genera suggests that the ancestral Anisophylleaceae diverged into two main branches: one leading to Anisophyllea and Combretocarpus, and the other leading to Poga and Polygonanthus. Combretocarpus, with which Anisophyllea shares a few synapomorphies, is most specialized within the family in having many apomorphies. In contrast, Poga and Polygonanthus share many plesiomorphies, most of which are also common to Anisophyllea.
10.2307/2666226|A comprehensive systematic investigation was conducted on the extant Juglandaceae based on 25 species representing a broad sample of generic and infrageneric diversity. A total of 206 phylogenetically informative characters derived from morphological, chemical, chromosomal, and sequence-based studies formed the basis for comparative studies. Phylogenetic analysis was used to infer relationships and examine patterns of convergence in key biochemical and morphological traits associated with dispersal biology. Separate and combined parsimony analyses of three previously unpublished data sets (ITS, chloroplast DNA, morphology/chemistry) supported two major clades, Juglandoideae and Engelhardioideae, in agreement with a recent subfamilial classification. Within Engelhardioideae, the genus Engelhardia was found to be paraphyletic, as E. roxburghiana of the monotypic section Psilocarpeae was resolved as sister taxon to a New World subclade composed of Oreomunnea + Alfaroa. Within Juglandoideae, two tribes are recognized: Platycaryeae and Juglandeae. The monotypic genus Platycarya formed the sister group to Juglandeae, which was resolved fully (Carya-(Juglans-(Cyclocarya + Pterocarya))). Two new subtribes, Juglandinae and Caryinae, are described based on the cladistic pattern. Unique morphological apomorphies were detected for all genera, including the previously little-studied Cyclocarya, which was also determined to possess a novel base chromosome number for the family (N = 28). The nested position of Annamocarya sinensis within Old World Carya, combined with its lack of unique apomorphies suggested sectional recognition within Carya might be more appropriate for this taxon. Phylogenetic context was used to interpret patterns of morphological and chemical variation associated with the evolution of seed dispersal and the tropical versus temperate habitat. Although the syndrome of wind dispersal appears to be ancestral within the family, four novel origins of wing tissue are represented by Engelhardia/Oreomunnea, Platycarya, Pterocarya, and Cyclocarya. The convergence on animal dispersal has been achieved through three different developmental pathways in the production of a husk in Alfaroa, Carya, and Juglans. In general, wind-dispersed seeds have epigeal germination and those that are animal-dispersed are hypogeous, but Oreomunnea and Cyclocarya are exceptions in their respective clades by having wind-dispersed seeds with hypogeal germination. The seed-energy reserves are also revealing. With the exception of Oreommunea, wind-dispersed seeds have relatively high concentrations of the unsaturated linolenic (C) and linoleic (B) fatty acids (CB pattern), whereas all animal-dispersed fruits (viz., Alfaroa, Carya, and Juglans), and Oreomunnea, have relatively high concentrations of the unsaturated oleic (A) and linoleic (B) fatty acids (BA or AB pattern). Tropical genera, whether wind- or animal-dispersed (viz., Oreomunnea, Alfaroa, Annamocarya), have relatively high concentrations of the saturated palmitic fatty acid. Conversely, wind- and animal-dispersed fruits of temperate genera (viz., Carya, Juglans, Cyclocarya, Pterocarya, and Platycarya) have relatively low percentages of palmitic acid. The explanation here is based on the fact that seed fats must be fluid at the temperature of the living plant, thus selecting for saturated fats in warm tropical climates and unsaturated lipids in cool temperate climates.
10.2307/2399865|A cladistic analysis of southern African subgenus Lapeirousia, one of two subgenera of the exclusively African genus Lapeirousia, yielded four equally parsimonious trees, one of which is identical with the strict consensus tree. Characters used in the analysis included growth form, corm morphology, a range of floral characters, and capsule and seed features, not before known to vary significantly in this genus. The analysis suggested some surprising evolutionary changes. Notable among these is an apparent reversal of perianth tube length from extremely long to short, a shift corresponding to a change from pollination by long-tongued flies and sphinx moths to pollination by bees and noctuid moths. Another unusual change is a shift in floral organization from zygomorphy to actinomorphy correlated with an acaulescent growth form. The reconstructed phylogeny is used here to assess character evolution and patterns of speciation by comparison of species in terminal clades in the cladograms. The resulting comparisons suggest that speciation in the subgenus is either allopatric or the result of microgeographic differentiation and ecological diversification stimulated by edaphic diversity. Despite the variety of floral forms and pollination syndromes in the subgenus there is no evidence of sympatric or pollinator-driven speciation. Prepollination reproductive isolation appears to be achieved by shifts in pollination syndromes between sphinx moths, two guilds of long-tongued flies, and bees. The remarkable floral divergence that has resulted appears to be a consequence of selection for repeated entry into preexisting pollination guilds. The most important of these pollination guilds are two long-tongued fly guilds in which either Prosoeca (Nemestrinidae) or Moegistorhynchus (Nemestrinidae) and Philoliche (Tabanidae) are pollinators. These two guilds are also likely to have been important in promoting speciation in other genera and families in the southern African flora.
10.2307/2399039|Late Triassic and mid-Cretaceous appear to have been times of evolutionary innovations of seed plant pollen. Between these times dispersed pollen indicates relatively little change, although megafossil studies record the appearance of several new plant groups in the late Jurassic. This incongruity suggests that knowledge of pollination arrangements of Mesozoic seed plants is far from complete; some plants have been described with stigmatic surfaces, and investigation of their morphological intermediate position needs much fuller attention. The search for Mesozoic ancestors of angiosperms is particularly difficult because of the lack of a satisfactory definition of an angiosperm in Cretaceous time. It is suggested that all Mesozoic seed plants should be placed in a Mesosperm Group of fossils and that no living angiosperm taxon should be used for fossil plant remains before the Cenozoic unless at least two separately preserved plant organs in the same beds can be shown to be associated in supporting that taxon. All Mesozoic seed plant taxa should be based solely on evidence from fossils.
10.2307/2395310|A chromosome number of n = 12 is reported for Retzia capensis, and the pollen is described based on SEM and TEM studies. It is tentatively concluded that the recognition of the monotypic family Retziaceae is warranted. The family's closest affinity is with the Loganiaceae.
3298552| Wood samples of 111 Vaccinieae specimens (Vaccinioideae, Ericaceae s.l.) representing 98 species and 26 genera are investigated with light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy. The wood structure of Vaccinieae delivers taxonomically important characters that can be used to define some subclades within the tribe. The wood of the large polyphyletic genus Vaccinium strongly resembles non-vaccinioid members of the family, which are characterized by bordered vessel-ray pits and relatively narrow (2- to 4-seriate) and low multiseriate rays (often less than 1000 m) with exclusively or mainly procumbent body ray cells. The East Malesian clade, Meso-American/Caribbean clade, and the Andean clade show a combination of wood anatomical features that is lacking in other representatives of the family. These features include scalariform vessel-ray pits with strongly reduced borders, a high portion of upright body ray cells, wide (4- to 14-seriate) and high multiseriate rays (often more than 3000 m), and prismatic crystals in chambered ray cells (although absent in Symphysia racemosa). The presence of secretory ducts in the primary xylem and in the pith tissue may represent a synapomorphy for the Andean clade. Furthermore, the presence of undivided axial parenchyma cells, usually ranging from 500 to 900 m, seems to be unique in the subfamily. 
10.2307/2395132|A new species of Cucurbita from South America is described. This species, Cucurbita ecuadorensis, is the first wild species of Cucurbita described from northwestern South America. Cucurbita ecuadorensis has been excavated from pre-ceramic, pre-maize levels in Coastal Peru. It appears to be more closely related to the South American C. maxima and C. andreana than to other species in the genus.
10.2307/2399010|Because of their specialized nature and infrequency of flowering, bamboos are seldom collected. An illustrated guide is presented, showing which parts-especially vegetative-should be collected for a proper herbarium specimen. Instructions are also given on the preparation of preserved material in liquid and on the composition of the notes and label to accompany the collection.
10.2307/2399176|Pollen of small-flowered neotropical Loranthaceae (8 genera; ca. 135 species) was examined in the light, scanning, and transmission electron microscopes. Pollen is typically medium-sized and oblate. Pollen amb is more variable than equatorial shape, ranging from trilobate deeply concave to circular. Both isopolar and heteropolar pollen grains occur within the complex, the latter restricted to species of Phthirusa and Struthanthus in which the apertures differ at each of the polar faces. Simple apertures arranged in a diploaperturate configuration predominate. Such apertures range from diploporate to diplobrevidemicolpate to diplosyn- and diploparasyndemicolpate types. Compound apertures are rare, restricted to Oryctanthus and particular species of Cladocolea and Struthanthus. The (3-)4-5 colpate apertures of Ixocactus are unique in the family. Sculpturing is basically uniform with sculpturing elements ranging from perforations to shallow ridges and/or striato-rugulae. Ultrastructurally, the basic ektexine structure is composed of a thin, perforate tectum, granular/columellate interstitium, and a thick continuous foot layer usually twice as thick as the tectum plus interstitium. Pollen data suggest two basic groupings of small-flowered genera: Group I, composed of Dendropemon, Phthirusa pro parte, and Oryctanthus; and Group II, containing Phthirusa pro parte, Cladocolea, Struthanthus, Maracanthus, and Oryctina. Among Group I genera, Dendropemon is closely linked to Phthirusa through the species P. pyrifolia and P. platyclada. Oryctanthus is a highly derived genus with only remote ties to other Group I taxa. Among Group II genera, pollen data indicate a close relationship between Cladocolea and the Mexican species of Struthanthus. Pollen characters of Ixocactus indicate no relationship with any small-flowered neotropical genus. Rather its pollen features are closer to those of the Eremolepidaceae and the African species of Viscum.
10.2307/2399810|The only species in Campanulaceae known to have pollen with pantoporate apertures are five species of Campanula: C. americana, C. californica, C. exigua, C. griffinii, and C. sharsmithiae. All other species examined of this large genus (ca. 300 species) have 3-4(-7) pores, spaced equidistant on the equator of the grain. The pantoporate species, especially the widely distributed annual or biennial herb C. americana, are further distinguished by elongate or well-developed columellae. The larger columellae of this species may be correlated with their lower density. Except for the similarities in pollen, C. americana does not appear closely related to the three slender annuals, C. exigua, C. griffinii, and C. sharsmithiae, each of which has a restricted distribution in California. Campanula americana also is not closely related to the pantoporate perennial, C. californica, or to the fourth California annual, C. angustiflora, which has 4-6-zonoporate pollen with a tectum and exine structure almost identical to C. sharsmithiae. The pantoporate grains of C. californica, with pores that are not always uniform in size or distribution, and the zonoporate grains of C. angustiflora, with unevenly distributed pores and elongate columellae, may represent transition stages between the two pollen types. In this study and previous ones, all species of Campanulaceae with well-developed or elongate columellae have been shown to have a high number (more than five) of apertures. Whether more apertures make the pollen wall more vulnerable to collapse and whether selective pressures have resulted in a more rigid wall by means of elongate columellae are debatable. The highly distinctive pollen-collecting hairs found in the Campanuloideae are illustrated and discussed.
41238111|Emmotum Desv. ex Ham. is a Neotropical, primarily Amazonian and Guayanan genus (Icacinaceae) of 13 tree or shrub species, including a new species here described from Amazonas, Brazil, E. amazonicum Duno & Carnevali. A cladistic analysis of the 18 taxa of Icacinaceae including 13 of Emmotum was carried out using 41 morphological characters. The single most parsimonious tree shows Emmotum as a monophyletic group, strongly supported by nine synapomorphies, with Poraqueiba Aubl. as the sister group. In addition, two main groups are identified within Emmotum. These two groups laxly correspond with the 1872 classification of Engler: Emmotum sect. Brevistyla Engl. and Emmotum sect. Longistyla Engl. (= section Emmotum). The genus Pogopetalum Benth., synonymous within Emmotum, is lectotypified by P. orbiculatum Benth. (= E. orbiculatum (Benth.) Miers). We present a revision of Emmotum with information about nomenclature, distribution, ecology, local names, and uses.
10.2307/2992006|Field observations, floral dissections, and pollen load analyses of insects indicate that pollination by hopliine beetles (Scarabaeidae: Rutelinae: Hopliini) has evolved convergently in many genera of herbaceous perennials in southern Africa. Beetle-pollinated flowers are identified by a suite of characters including a salver- to shallow bowl-shaped perianth and pigmentation emphasizing bright colors (red, orange, cream). Stereotyped "beetle marks" of either pale or dark color are frequently present at the bases of tepals or petals. These flowers are typically odorless and rarely offer nectar. Beetles, however, consume anthers and pollen, which are often a contrasting color from the perianth. Taxa that are pollinated by hopliine beetles include species in genera of the Hyacinthaceae (Daubenya, Ornithogalum), Iridaceae (Aristea, Homeria, Ixia, Moraea, Romulea, Sparaxis, Tritonia), and Hypoxidaceae (Spiloxene) in the monocots and Asteraceae (Arctotis, Ursinia), Campanulaceae (Prismatocarpus, Wahlenbergia), and Droseraceae (Drosera) among the dicots. Hopliine pollinators include both male and female beetles in the genera Anisonyx, Anisochelus, Heterochelis, Khoina, Lepisia, Lepithrix, Pachycnema, and Peritrichia. These beetles visit flowers to consume pollen and possibly nectar, to compete for mates, and to copulate. Pollen is usually deposited on or between hairs on the exoskeleton. The suite of characters associated with beetle pollination in these herbaceous geophytes is closer to that described in the herbaceous perennials of the eastern Mediterranean Basin and the woody flora of eastern Australia than it is to the classic series of features associated with magnoliid angiosperms.
10.2307/2399377|Erythrina L. comprises about 112 species distributed throughout the tropics and subtropics. Most species are trees or shrubs, and most are diploids with n = 21. All are adapted to bird pollination, some by passerine birds and others by hummingbirds. Erythrina is subdivided into five subgenera and 27 sections. Research concentrated on sect. Erythrina, with 36 species centered in Mexico and Central America; selected species in other sections were also studied. Experimental interspecific hybridizations and self-compatibility trials were conducted using cultivated trees at several botanical gardens in Hawaii. Comparative morphological analyses were made of the hybrids and their parents. Studies of population structure and natural hybridization were carried out in natural populations of hummingbird-pollinated sect. Erythrina. Erythrina species are self-compatible, but some inbreeding depression is associated with selfing. Within sect. Erythrina, interspecific hybrids are obtained just as readily as are progeny from within-species outcrosses. The hybrids are vigorous, fertile, and by several measures exhibit interspecific heterosis. At greater taxonomic distances between the parental species (between sections and subgenera), crossability, viability, and fertility of the hybrid progeny are generally lower than in intrasectional hybridizations. Some hybrids were obtained between species of different subgenera indigenous to different continents. There are probably no absolute internal barriers to hybridization among all the diploid species of Erythrina. The genus may be characterized taxogenetically as a homogamic complex. Interspecific hybrids are intermediate between their parental species in morphological traits, including macroscopic features of the inflorescence and flower and microscopic features of the leaf epidermis. The inheritance of particular features of the male parent in the progeny allows for confirmation of hybridity. Species of sect. Erythrina are generally allopatric, but field studies of natural populations in southern Mexico revealed several localities where two species do occur sympatrically and where natural hybrids are found. Traplining hummingbirds, the pollinators of sect. Erythrina, are implicated as the agents of interspecific hybridization among sympatric species. The results of experimental hybridization, together with studies of comparative morphology and distribution patterns, suggest that some species of Erythrina are stabilized hybrid derivatives.
10.2307/2399489|Two new Maxillaria species from the Venezuelan Guayana, M. foldatsiana and M. santanae, are described and illustrated. One highly variable species, M. auyantepuiensis, is discussed, and a new subspecific taxon is proposed. Maxillaria tenuis is noted as a new record for the Venezuelan flora.
40390045|Rubiaceae is one of the five largest families of flowering plants with over 13,000 species. We hve seen a tremendous increase in our understanding of the phylogeny of the family through studies on molecular data during the 15-year period from 1991 to 2005; some new relationships are completely unexpected and diffrent from traditional classification. At the end of 2005, ca. 50 phylogenetic reconstructions from the family had been published based on more than 4400 squences. Most studies are based on ITS and rbcL squences, but 13 diffrent markers hve been used. Most squences available in GenBank (as of 2005) are from rpsl6 y trn(T) L-F, rbcL, and ITS. We can now see a framework of the family phylogeny with support for three subfamilies and over 43 tribes; subfamily Cinchonoideae (Chiococceae, Cinchoneae, Guettardeae, Hamelieae, Hillieae, Hymenodictyeae, Isertieae, Naucleeae, Rondeletieae), subfamily Ixoroideae (Alberteae, Bertiereae, Coffeeae, Condamineeae, Cremasporeae, Gardenieae, Ixoreae, Mussaendeae, Octotropideae, Pavetteae, Posoquerieae, Retiniphylleae, Sabiceeae, Sipaneeae, Vanguerieae), and subfamily Rubioideae (Anthospermeae, Argostemmateae, Coussareeae, Craterispermeae, Danaideae, Gaertnereae, Knoxieae, Lasiantheae, Morindeae, Ophiorrhizeae, Paederieae, Psychotrieae, Putorieae, Rubieae, Schradereae, Spermacoceae, Theligoneae, Urophylleae), and tribe Coptosapelteae, which is placed outside the three subfamilies. Two of thse tribes, Gardenieae and Morindeae, are paraphyletic/polyphyletic. Only about half of the tribes hve been th focus of spcifie investigations. However, we hve seen increased interest in using Rubiaceae phylogenies for studies of ecology, volution, and biogeography, e. g., and also for morphological and anatomical investigations. Evolution of fruit traits, flower types, and myrmecophytism has been investigated, and biogeographic patterns for spcifie taxa in Africa, the Caribbean, and the Pacific hve been studied. In addition, distribution of pollen types, chemical substances, and wood characteristics hve been compared with molecular phylogenies.
10.2307/2398890|The species currently known as Argyrolobium involucratum, and previously known only from the type collection made by Carl Thunberg in the 1770s, has been rediscovered on the Roggeveld escarpment, Cape Province, South Africa. Until now the distribution of the species has been unknown because this information was not given in Thunberg's (1800) protologue of Psoralea involucratum, the basionym. The species has many attributes unusual in Argyrolobium, but characteristic of the related Crotarioid genus Melolobium, and we suggest that this species may correctly belong in the latter genus.
10.2307/2399774|A preliminary cladistic analysis suggests that the Labiatae are polyphyletic as presently circumscribed. The gynobasic-styled Labiatae emerge as a clade, nested within a larger group characterized by suprareticulate pollen and a fruit composed of nutlets. The latter includes the bulk of the Labiatae plus the verbenaceous genera Garrettia and Holmskioldia; its closest relatives are in tribe Viticeae (Verbenaceae). In contrast, Teucrium and five other genera of Ajugeae (Labiatae) belong to a large clade characterized by pollen with branched to granular columellae, most members of which are currently assigned to tribes Clerodendreae and Caryopterideae (Verbenaceae). Another group traditionally placed in the Labiatae, tribe Prostanthereae, appears to be most closely related to subfamily Chloanthoideae (Verbenaceae). The hypothesis that the gynobasic-styled Labiatae evolved in southern China or Indomalaysia (Wu & Li, 1982) is supported by this analysis. An Australian origin is hypothesized here for the cosmopolitan genus Teucrium based on the distributions of its closest relatives.
10.2307/2666211|Contrary to recurring perceptions that the flora of North America north of Mexico has been fully explored and cataloged, the rate of ongoing discoveries has remained remarkably constant for much of the last century and shows no evidence of tapering off. This is particularly evident in western and southeastern North America, where dramatic new species and occasional monotypic genera are still coming to light, even along highways and near major cities. Furthermore, the same level of ongoing discovery also characterizes other aspects of floristic information, including the distribution of rare species and the occurrence of invasive pest plants. The majority of ongoing discoveries are dependent on individuals and organizations operating outside of academia, with declining opportunities for formal training in floristics or access to scientific expertise when complex situations are encountered. This situation is connected to the perception of floristics as rote data compilation, when it is in fact better understood in the context of a massive attempt to model biodiversity, resulting in an intricate suite of nested hypotheses that are constantly being tested and modified. The incompleteness of our floristic knowledge takes on critical significance in an era when decisions are being made that will irrevocably determine the fate of our national floristic heritage. The cost of this ignorance can cut multiple ways, increasing the risk of misplaced mitigation efforts as well as avoidable loss of irreplaceable biodiversity. Although the magnitude of the task is daunting, significant advances are achievable in a collaborative framework, which would yield a vastly improved floristic knowledge base for informed decision-making.
10.2307/2395256|Based on cytology, morphology and field studies, a reevaluation of Oenothera sect. Kneiffia, the eastern North American day-flowering oenotheras or sundrops, is presented, with five species recognized. Subsect. Peniophyllum contains a single annual species, O. linifolia, of the southeastern United States, which is a self-compatible diploid (n = 7). Subsect. Eukneiffia contains one annual self-compatible diploid (n = 7), O. spachiana, largely of the southern Mississippi Valley, and three perennials, O. perennis, O. fruticosa, and O. pilosella. Oenothera perennis is a self-compatible diploid (n = 7), complex heterozygote, forming a ring of 14 chromosomes at meiotic metaphase I and having about 50% pollen sterility. It is distributed from Newfoundland to Manitoba and south to North Carolina and Missouri. The two other perennials, each with two subspecies, are self-incompatible polyploids that seem to lack chromosomal translocations but form numerous rings of chromosomes at meiotic metaphase I owing to their autopolyploidy. Oenothera pilosella subsp. pilosella, a taxon largely of the midwestern United States, is known only as an octoploid (n = 28). Oenothera pilosella subsp. sessilis, also octoploid, is treated as a second subspecies. It is very rare at present and is found in remnant prairies of the lower Mississippi River Valley. It differs from subsp. pilosella in being nonrhizomatous; it has narrower, ascending leaves, more ellipsoid, nearly sessile capsules, and strigose pubescence throughout. The widespread polymorphic O. fruticosa consists of a more southern and lower elevation subspecies, subsp. fruticosa, which is tetraploid (n = 14) and hexaploid (n = 21), and a more northern and higher elevation subspecies, subsp. glauca (O. tetragona Roth), which as far as known is entirely tetraploid.
10.2307/2398852|Chromosome numbers are reported for the four species of Cyanella that occur in South Africa. Seven collections of C. hyacinthoides had n = 12, five had n = 24, and one had n = 14. Two collections of C. alba had n = 12. One collection of C. orchidiformis had n = 12. Four collections of C. lutea had n = 12, two had n = 24, an unusual color variant had n = 8. Three other genera of the family are recorded as having n = 10, n = 11, 12, and n = 12, respectively. It is likely that x = 12 for the family and that other numbers represent examples of aneuploid increase or reduction from this base number.
10.2307/2395274|Analysis of certain fossils that have been used as evidence for a pre-Cretaceous origin and diversification of the angiosperms indicates that these fossils are non-angiospermous. A review of the sequential development of morphological features exhibited by Early Cretaceous pollen and leaves indicates that the initial radiation of the angiosperms was occurring at that time. The monocotyledons and dicotyledons diverged early before either class attained a moderate degree of diversity. Subclass Magnoliidae has retained the morphological grade exhibited by the earliest dicotyledonous pollen and leaves. The next youngest grade of Early Cretaceous pollen is found in putatively primitive members of Hamamelididae and Ranunculidae. Stratigraphic series of Early Cretaceous foliage indicate a transition from the morphological grade of Magnoliales to leaf morphology characteristic of Rosidae. Late Cretaceous wood assemblages are characterized by a preponderance of anatomical features that have been previously postulated as primitive and typically lack features thought to be advanced.
10.2307/2399274|The neotropical genus Mezilaurus (Lauraceae), which consists of 18 species and is best represented in the drainage area of the Amazon, is revised. Clinostemon, a genus of two species recently separated from Licaria and reinstated on its own, is included here in Mezilaurus. Eight species, Mezilaurus caatingae van der Werff, M. duckei van der Werff, M. glaucophylla van der Werff, M. micrantha van der Werff, M. opaca Kubitzki & van der Werff, M. palcazuensis van der Werff, M. pyriflora van der Werff, and M. quadrilocellata van der Werff are described as new. One new name, M. thoroflora van der Werff, and a new combination, M. mahuba (Sampaio) van der Werff, are published.
10.2307/2399164|The core families of Myrtales (69 species investigated) contain S-type sieve-element plastids. In these, the presence of several medium-sized spherular starch grains is probably a common trend in the order. Among those families usually closely associated or more or less distantly related, the great majority also have S-type plastids, some with the same characteristics. However, Rhizophoraceae, in contrast to the close allies and Connaraceae, Gunneraceae, and Rhabdodendraceae of the distantly related families, have developed P-type plastids. That subtype PV-plastids, which exclude all starch, are found in all tribes of Rhizophoraceae except Anisophylleae supports family recognition of the latter.
10.2307/2398863|Chromosome numbers and meiotic behavior are reported in 101 collections of grasses representing 42 genera and 85 species. First chromosome reports are given for the following 21 species: Agrostis turrialbae, n = 14; Andropogon hypogynous, n = 30; Axonopus pruinosus, n = 30; Aristida riparia, n = 11; A. Setifolia, n = 11; A. torta, n = 11; A. venesuelae, n = 22; Chusquea scabra, n = 20; Festuca chiriquensis, n = 14; Gymnopogon spicatus, n = 10; Muhlenbergia lehmanniana, n = 10 + 2B; Olyra lateralis, n = 18; Panicum guianense, n = 20; P. macranthum, n = 27; P. olyroides, n = 18; P. pyrularium, n = 18; Paspalum gardnerianum, n = ca. 20; Pereilema brasilianum, n = 20; Stipa hans-meyeri, n = 11; Swallenochloa longiligulata, n = 20; Swallenochloa weberbaueri, n = 20. Counts differing from previously reported numbers are given for the following 5 species: Axonopus fissifolius, n = 30; Pappophorum pappiferum, n = 50; Paspalum carinatum, n = 10; P. minus, n = 25; Pennisetum setosum, n = 18.
10.2307/2399589|I divide botanical nomenclature into three partly overlapping periods: the schismatic period (1840-1930), the dark ages (1915-1950), and the IAPT renaissance (1950-date). The schisms began with the 1843 British Association for the Advancement of Science approval of zoological rules and became manifest with the 1867 Paris Congress approval of Alphonse de Candolle's botanical "laws." Reunification efforts, such as those by Dall (1877.12), failed. The contemporary rise of "Darwinism" added to the divisiveness. By the late 1800s, various botanical centers had or were evolving modified or different Codes from the Candollean, not to mention fully formed Codes from "outsiders" like Saint-Lager (1880.03?, 1881.04) and Kuntze (1891.10). The 1905 Vienna Congress eliminated all but the Brittonian (American) schism, which continued until the 1930 Cambridge Congress compromises. A nomenclatural "dark age" descended when the 1915 London Congress was cancelled because of a subsequent engagement, World War I. The next congress (Ithaca, 1926) declared itself incompetent due to insufficient international representation. The 1930 Cambridge Congress revised the 1912 Brussels Code but, largely because of the death of Briquet in 1931, its Code appeared only a few months before the 1935 Amsterdam Congress that amended it. Again a World War struck and no official Amsterdam Code was ever produced. The 1950 Stockholm Congress saw the establishment of the International Association for Plant Taxonomy, its journal, Taxon, in which all Code amendment proposals now appear, and its serial publication, Regnum Vegetabile, in which all subsequent Codes appear at the remorseless six-year pace of the congresses.
10.2307/2399158|The Myrtales are one of the least controversial orders as regards circumscription and characterization. The core families are Onagraceae, Trapaceae, Lythraceae, Oliniaceae, Combretaceae, Alzateaceae, Rhynchocalycaceae, Penaeaceae, Crypteroniaceae, Melastomataceae, Memecylaceae, Psiloxylaceae, Heteropyxidaceae, and Myrtaceae. Psiloxylaceae-Heteropyxidaceae-Myrtaceae and Onagraceae form two somewhat peripheral groups within the order. Alzateaceae and Rhynchocalycaceae are newly recognized at the familial level. Punicaceae and Sonneratiaceae are included in Lythraceae. Crypteroniaceae and Memecylaceae could be included in Melastomataceae and Psiloxylaceae and Heteropyxidaceae in Myrtaceae. Lecythidaceae, Haloragaceae, Rhizophoraceae, and Thymelaeaceae are excluded from Myrtales. Arguments pro and con for this are given. The distribution of a number of attributes in the aforementioned families are discussed, and some distributions are illustrated diagrammatically. These attributes involve wood anatomy, foliar sclereids, phyllotaxy, stipular structures, merous conditions of perianth, inferior versus superior ovary placement, floral tube, pleiomery and developmental succession of stamens, anther connectives, pollen pseudocolpi, embryology, seed coat structure, chromosome numbers, chemistry, etc. Other families that have been associated with Myrtales are also considered. The Myrtales show affinities to Rosales, and fewer ones to Gentianales, Cornales, and possibly Theales.
10.2307/2394813|With the publication of the Flora Zambesiaca, progress in the orthodox taxonomic treatment of species from Rhodesia and neighbouring territories of South Central Africa has reached the stage where a number of problem species have been brought to light which should provide suitable material for more advanced methods of taxonomic research. A number of such species are listed with short notes on each for the benefit of future investigators in this field.
10.2307/2399947|Panicum subg. Panicum sect. Panicum is revised. Thirty-one American species are treated in this work, in which exomorphological and anatomical characters are considered. Section Panicum is defined mainly as an annual or perennial species of open and dry places, with membranous-ciliate ligules, leaves oblong-lanceolate to filiform, inflorescences lax and diffuse, with spikelets solitary on pedicels that are usually long; spikelets ovoid to long ellipsoid, glabrous, and the lower glume (1/3-)1/2-3/4(-4/5) the length of the spikelet, upper glume and lower lemma subequal, lower palea as long as the upper anthecium to reduced or absent, lower flower absent, upper anthecium indurate, and a basic chromosome number of x = 9. Two anatomical patterns were found in the transverse section of the leaves. Possible relationships of Panicum with other sections of the typical subgenus, as well with other genera of the Paniceae, are discussed. A key to the species as well as an anatomical description of the section and photomicrographs of ten species, morphological descriptions of the species, illustrations, and distribution maps are presented.
10.2307/3298638|The circumscription of the subtribe Astephaninae has a complex and convoluted history due in part to a scarcity of readily observed distinctive morphological characters. In this study the subtribe Astephaninae, as hitherto defined by morphological characters, is reexamined using sequences of the trnT-L and trnL-F spacer, as well as the trnL intron for 12 of its 15 genera. Eustegia is found to occupy an isolated basal position in the tribe Asclepiadeae, and Schizostephanus is transferred to the Metastelminae. The remaining 10 genera fall into two only distantly related clades of 3 and 7 genera, respectively. The Astephaninae s. str. comprise only 3 South African genera, Astephanus s. str., Microloma, and Oncinema. The other 7 genera form a well-supported clade, the subtribe Tylophorinae. Both groups comprise only Old World genera. All New World taxa studied, even those that have never been formally excluded from Astephanus, are found in a distinct, well-supported New World Metastelminae clade. Based on the results presented here one of the key characters of the asclepiads-the corona-has been lost independently at least twice: once in the south African Astephaninae, and once in the New World Metastelminae. This once again underscores the extreme lability of this morphologically complex organ, as well as the difficulties in assessing homology in the asclepiads. A corollary classification of the Asclepiadeae is provided as an Appendix.
10.2307/2399826|As a precursor to the treatment of Inga for the Flora Mesoamericana, this summary of the genus is presented, including the nomenclature, taxonomy, and variation of all the species, as well as the possible influence of humans in altering patterns of distribution and variation. Seven names are lectotypified: Inga alba, I. densiflora, I. multijuga, I. oerstediana, I. paterno, I. ruiziana, and I. vera. Representative specimens are cited for all species, including areas outside of Mesoamerica. Thirteen species are described as new: Inga bella, I. cabrerae, I. calcicola, I. cuspidata, I. chiapensis, I. dasycarpa, I. davidsei, I. dwyeri, I. ismaelis, I. lacustris, I. pseudoinvolucrata, I. sinacae, and I. tenella. A nomenclatural change was made for Inga cocleensis var. megantha to I. cocleensis subsp. megantha.
10.2307/2399098|Limited but strategic knowledge of chromosome numbers in the small, mostly Andean tribe Liabeae includes records of 12 of the 16 genera: Cacosmia (x = 7); Chionopappus (n = ca. 9); Ferreyranthus, Oligactis, and Liabum (x = 18); Sinclairia (x = 16); Paranephelius (x = 9, 14); Pseudonoseris (n = 12?); Erato (x = 9); Philoglossa (n = 18); Chrysactinium (x = 12); Munnozia (n = 10, 11, x = 12). The tribal base number is apparently x = 9 supporting a long, separate history from the diploid elements of Vernonieae (x = 10) in the Eastern Hemisphere. Apparent aneuploid series of the type seen in Munnozia are regarded as reductions from the highest number. No correlation is seen between chromosome number and habit in the tribe. All cytologically known elements of the tribe with extensive distribution beyond the ancestral Ecuadorian-Peruvian area are polyploid. Differences in chromosome number combined with geography provide almost complete generic isolation in the tribe, and no evidence is noted of hybridization between extant genera.
10.2307/2399946|The primarily neotropical fern genus Phanerophlebia is revised taxonomically to include eight species, with a key and descriptions provided. Classification of the genus within the Dryopteridaceae is reviewed, as are the morphology, stelar anatomy, and cytology of the species. The justification for reduction of Phanerophlebia remotispora to a variety of P. nobilis is discussed. The recently named diploid species, P. gastonyi, is contrasted with its tetraploid derivative, P. juglandifolia, and hybridization and polyploidy within the genus are summarized.
10.2307/2395226|The following chromosome numbers were found in previously uncounted genera of Quillajeae; n = 17 in Lindleya and Kageneckia, and n = 15 in Vauquelinia. An earlier count of n = 27 in Lyonothamnus is confirmed, but Quillaja, previously reported as n = 17 is shown to have n = 14 in both species currently recognized. This variety of chromosome numbers supports the widely held contention that the tribe is unnatural. Lindleya is regarded here as a member of the Maloideae, where x = 17 is basic, and Vauquelinia is suggested as best placed in this subfamily. The genus Exochorda, known to have n = 8, appears to accord with Prunoideae (x = 8), particularly with Oemleria, while Lyonothamnus seems best left in Spiraeoideae (x = 9). The peculiarities of the remaining genera, Kageneckia and Quillaja, suggest that they be placed in a separate subfamily.
40035485| Sequences of the plastid maturase (matK) and nuclear chalcone synthase (Chs) were analyzed separately and in combination to assess phylogenetic relationships of Solms-laubachia Muschl. (all nine known species and two undescribed ones) to the genera Baimashania Al-Shehbaz, Parrya R. Br., Desideria Pamp., Leiospora (C. A. Mey.) Dvok, Christolea Cambess., and Phaeonychium O. E. Schulz (Brassicaceae). Baimashania is clustered with Aubrieta deltoidea (L.) DC. and Arabis blepharophylla Hook. & Arn. Solms-laubachia, Desideria, Leiospora, Christolea, and Phaeonychium are more closely related to Matthiola R. Br. than to Parrya, and they form a well-supported clade. Within this clade, Leiospora is sister to a subclade containing the sister groups Christolea and Solms-laubachia s.l. The Solms-laubachia s.l. group contains Solms-laubachia, Desideria, and a species of Phaeonychium. Neither Solms-laubachia nor Desideria is monophyletic, whereas Phaeonychium jafrii Al-Shehbaz is embedded within the group. Therefore, our results suggest that Solms-laubachia be expanded to include Desideria and P. jafrii. Nevertheless, more species of Desideria, Parrya, and Phaeonychium are needed to further test our findings. 
10.2307/2399890|The present knowledge of karyological characters, including basic numbers, ploidy levels, chromosome structures, karyotypes, interphase nuclear types, and DNA contents, and the broad range of variation for most of these characters within Rubiaceae (excluding Rubieae) are summarized. These data are related to the presently existing systematic concepts of the family. The use of karyological characters is exemplified in some taxonomically critical groups: Subfamily Antirheoideae sensu Robbrecht appears heterogeneous with regard to basic numbers and chromosome structure; it contains chromosomally homogeneous tribes (e.g., Vanguerieae or Guettardeae), but also groups with internal variation (such as the tribe Knoxieae or the genus Chiococca). Available chromosome data of the tribe Cinchoneae sensu Robbrecht seem to be in accordance with its morphologically and molecular-based subdivision in three tribes: viz. Cinchoneae s. str., Calycophylleae, and Coptosapelteae. The tribe Chiococceae sensu Bremer consists of at least two distinct entities characterized by their chromosome morphology and basic numbers: the former tribe Condamineeae, and the genera Chiococca and Exostema. A possible subdivision of Rondeletia is indicated by three different basic numbers (x = 9, x = 10, x = 11) occurring in the genus, while chromosome data give no hints regarding the position of Wendlandia and Sipanea in the tribe Rondeletieae. The tribe Isertieae comprises genera with basic numbers of x = 9, x = 10, and x = 11. Thus the tribal position of Acranthera (x = 10), Heinsia (x = 11), and Mycetia (x = 11) cannot be decided on the basis of chromosome numbers alone. Sabicea has taxa with either x = 9 or x = 11; morphological studies are required to check the generic delimitations. The close relationship of Pauridiantha and Urophyllum is supported by karyomorphology and basic number. A possible origin of the Spermacoce out of the tribe Hedyotideae is discussed.
40389945|The genus Macrocarpaea (Griseb.) Gilg (Gentianaceae, Helieae) is among the largest woody genera of tropical gentians, with most of its species occurring in the wet mountainous forests of the Andes. Phylogenetic and dispersal-vicariance analyses (DIVA) of 57 of the 105 currently recognized species in the genus, using two data sets from nuclear DNA (ITS and 5S-NTS sequences) and morphology, show a single origin of the Andean species from an ancestral distribution that includes southeastern Brazil. Within the Andes, species divide into two major clades: (1) northern species from the Cordilleras of northern Ecuador, Colombia, and Venezuela; and (2) southern species of the Andean Amotape-Huancabamba Zone in Ecuador and Peru, as well as the Andes of central and southern Peru and Bolivia. The Amotape-Huancabamba Zone is supported as the ancestral area for Macrocarpaea within the Andes. There are repeated speciation patterns within the Andes, and three Mesoamerican species derive from the northern clade, as is the single sampled species from the Guayana Shield. The position of the subclade of the three Caribbean species is less certain, but it currently nests among Andean species. An Atlantic coastal Brazilian clade is placed as sister group to all other Macrocarpaea, providing further support for an ancestral refuge in southeastern Brazil for the Helieae. The biogeographic analysis showed that local speciation is more common than long-distance dispersal, and allopatric speciation is more common than sympatric speciation. Using detailed, georeferenced herbarium collection data, patterns in environmental characteristics between clades and sister species were analyzed with Spatial Evolutionary and Ecological Vicariance Analysis (SEEVA), utilizing geographic information system (GIS) and statistical methods. Sister clades and taxa were evaluated for statistical significance in variables such as annual rainfall and temperature, elevation, temperature and rainfall seasonality, geological bedrock age, and soil type to evaluate ecological vicariance between sister groups. The results indicate that there' are no general patterns for each variable, but that there are many significant divergences in ecological niches between both larger sister groups and sister species, and ecological niche conservation was also observed when subsequent nodes in the phylogeny were compared.
10.2307/2399400|A single species of the lisianthoid genus Macrocarpaea had been known from Panama. Recent explorations of previously inaccessible cloud forest peaks in western, central, and eastern Panama have turned up additional species previously known only from Costa Rica and Colombia. Three species are now recorded from Panama: M. browallioides, M. macrophylla, and M. subcaudata. Evidence is provided to merge the Costa Rican M. valerii into M. macrophylla.
25488204|Recent studies of Solanum L. (Solanaceae) phylogeny using both plastid and nuclear DNA sequences have shown that a distinct clade comprising the members of Solanum sect. Geminata (G. Don) Walp. (woody, non-spiny solanums with simple or branched trichomes and usually leaf-opposed inflorescences) also includes a small Caribbean group of species known as section Diamonon (Raf.) A. Child, whose relationships have previously been obscure: S. acropterum Griseb., S. conocarpum Dunal, S. havanense Jacq., and S. troyanum Urb. Work on a monograph of section Holophylla (G. Don) Walp. (s.l.) has also revealed that several species previously excluded from section Geminata on morphological grounds belong to the more broadly circumscribed group recognized as the Geminata clade. In addition, since the publication of the monograph of Solanum sect. Geminata, seven new species of these rare, forest understory shrubs have been described (S. chalmersii S. Knapp, S. humboldtianum Granados-Tochoy & S. Knapp, S. monanthemon S. Knapp, S. naucinum S. Knapp, S. pseudodaphnopsis L. A. Mentz & Stehmann, S. sagittantherum Granados-Tochoy & C. I. Orozco, and S. sumacaspi S. Knapp). An additional new species from Ecuador, S. elvasioides S. Knapp, is described here. I review the status and circumscription of section Geminata in the New World and its relation to the Geminata clade, and provide descriptions for all the species of the Caribbean S. havanense species group and all species previously excluded from section Geminata. Lectotypes are selected for S. acropterum, S. hookerianum A. Spreng., S. myrtifolium Lodd., S. havanense Vell., S. troyanum, S. argentinum Bitter & Lillo, and S. evonymoides Sendtn., and a neotype is selected for S. havanense.
10.2307/2399700|Ticodendron incognitum is named as a new genus and species, and the taxonomic position of this tree is discussed.
10.2307/2398821|Adelobotrys, a neotropical genus comprising ca. 25 described species, is largely restricted to the Amazon basin and adjacent regions of South America. The Mexican and Central American species represent geographical fringe elements of the genus and show no close similarities to one another. Adelobotrys panamensis and A. jefensis are described as new and presented in the context of a regional revision with a key, descriptions, brief discussions, illustrations and citation of representative specimens.
10.2307/2395156|Higher plants can be placed into two separate groups according to their pathways of photosynthetic CO
42703724|The aim of this paper is to identify factors that might assist implementation of Target 1 for the Global Strategy for Plant Conservation (GSPC) for 2020: "an online flora of all known plants." This is done by considering progress in large regional floras to date and production of The Plant List online, in conjunction with lessons learned from the first 10 years of GSPC implementation. If the online flora is to support GSPC implementation, then it has to be able to support conservation and sustainable-use projects at national and local levels in addition to linking to information concerning global plant diversity. This will require strong partnerships and collaborations across the botanical community. Measurement of progress will help identify gaps and direct efforts, and indicators for measuring progress are suggested.
10.2307/2398993|Analysis of floral structure in all onagraceous genera-with Lopezia and Ludwigia studied most intensively-indicates that the earliest onagrads were isomerous and diplostemonous and had more than four appendages in each whorl. Deeply cleft placentas bore more or less 2-seriate ovules as in Hauya and some fuchsias. The ovary was superior within a floral cup that probably varied in prominence from species to species. The nectary was at the junction of cup and gynoecium as in some modern Lythraceae. These old onagrads gave rise to two lines. One line, surviving today as Ludwigia, specialized early for wet conditions and higher ovule number. The ovary became inferior with the (minimal?) floral cup disappearing pari passu and the nectaries migrating to the ovary's summit; there was no floral tube beyond the ovary and no link with a particular pollinator. A double-barreled vascular supply evolved along with Ludwigia's massive placentas. In the main onagraceous line the inferior ovary evolved independently and without a dual supply. Eventually coevolution with longtongued pollinators changed the floral cup to an epigynous tube with nectariferous tissue on the tube side of the tube-gynoecium junction. The tube was then lost in certain derivatives of the main onagraceous line: Gayophytum, Gongylocarpus, Lopezia, Epilobium sect. Chamaenerion, and some circaeas. Some features of onagraceous flowers merit our attention because they may illuminate problems of floral evolution in families unrelated to the Onagraceae. One such feature is the commissural stigma of Clarkia and Epilobium. Gayophytum's gynoecial vasculature is another.
10.2307/2398845|Seeds of species of Erythrina are seldom damaged by insects because toxic amino acids and alkaloids are present in the cotyledon. No seed beetles (Bruchidae) are known to attack seeds of Erythrina in the New World. The African bruchid, Specularius impressithorax (Pic), has been recorded in 7 species of Erythrina (including 2 species introduced into South Africa from the Neotropics) in Africa and India. Distribution of S. impressithorax and its host species are listed.
10.2307/2399840|Forty-three chromosome counts of Compositae are reported from Ecuador and Venezuela. A first generic count is reported for Stuckertiella Beauverd (n = 11-12), and first counts also are reported for 15 species in Ageratina Spach, Chromolaena DC., Coespeletia Cuatrec., Erigeron L., Espeletia Mutis, Gynoxys Cass., Hinterhubera Sch. Bip., Oritrophium (HBK) Cuatrec., Pentacalia Cass., Ruilopezia Cuatrec., Senecio L., Tanacetum L., and Vasquezia Phil. Additional counts also are provided for 23 populations of previously counted taxa, two of which are new numbers. The taxonomic implications of certain of these counts are discussed.
10.2307/2394752|In spite of the more general distribution of many bryophytes, dramatic disjunctions exist, many of them similar to those shown by vascular plants. Various explanations have been offered to explain these disjunctions including continental drift, long-distance dispersal, and the fragmentation of a once more continuous distribution. No single hypothesis is sufficient to accommodate all species within any disjunctive pattern. The most serious difficulty is the inadequacy of exploration of considerable areas of the globe. Various bryophyte disjunctions are mapped in 51 distribution maps, and details of sexual patterns and dispersal mechanisms are assessed.
10.2307/2394971|Certain aspects of cellular organization of Compsopogon coeruleus have been studied by light and electron microscopy. Chloroplasts arise from proplastids or by constrictions (equal or unequal) of mature plastids. A lamellar reorganization is evident during plastid division. The chloroplasts are not parietal sheets as previously thought from light-microscopic observations but, instead, are closely associated discs. Furthermore, the discs are not connected but appear to be so because of their close association with cytoplasmic and vacuolar membranes. Floridean starch has been observed to be associated with cytoplasmic membranes and the nucleus but is seldom in close association with the chloroplasts. There are no `true' pits between cells, but a continuation of adjacent protoplasts occurs when the cells are undergoing rapid karyokinesis without completion of cytokinesis. Organelles which are similar to those reported in other algae and angiosperms are briefly described.
10.2307/2399191|Augustus Fendler, a German-American interested in speculative physics, meteorology, and botany, was the first person to collect plants in the area around Santa Fe, New Mexico, in 1846. His life can be partly documented through his correspondence with George Engelmann and Asa Gray, both of whom esteemed Fendler's friendship and expertise as a plant collector. Many of Fendler's letters to Engelmann were written in German; the originals at the Missouri Botanical Garden have been translated into English by the second author and were used extensively to create the following biography.
3298571|Based on field observation, examination of over 350 sheets of exsiccatae, and investigation of all the relevant types, a taxonomic revision of the Paeonia anomala complex is presented. Typifications are clarified for P. anomala, P. intermedia, P. hybrida, P. sinjiangensis, P. altaica, and P. veitchii. The identity of three well-known taxa, P. anomala, P. hybrida, and P. intermedia, is also clarified. Two species, P. anomala and P. intermedia, are recognized, with the circumscription of P. anomala emended to include P. veitchii as its subspecies. Paeonia anomala includes two subspecies: subspecies anomala and subspecies veitchii with the former distributed in Central Asia, Siberia, and the northeastern European part of Russia, while the latter occurs in China southeast of the Gobi Desert. Paeonia intermedia is distributed in Central Asia, but with an isolated locality in Georgia. Paeonia sinjiangensis is treated as a synonym of P. anomala, and P. hybrida Pallas is treated as a synonym of P. tenuifolia L. The lectotypes of Paeonia laciniata, Paeonia beresowskii, and Paeonia intermedia are designated here in the present paper.
10.2307/2399163|An examination of the leaf histology of a wide array of families thought at one time to be included in the Myrtales has led to a restricted circumscription of the order as follows: Lythraceae, Rhynchocalycaceae, Trapaceae, Oliniaceae, Combretaceae, Alzateaceae, Penaeaceae, Melastomataceae, Crypteroniaceae, Psiloxylaceae, Myrtaceae, and Onagraceae. Data used in testing this concept were obtained from lamina transsections cut to include the midrib. Observations on midrib shape, venation configuration, shape and extent of extraxylary fibers, sclereids, dermal and mesophyll features were most discriminating when examining taxa with the most elaborate and/or generalized anatomy. While leaf histological trends of specialization are not independently producible from this data, correlation with information from leaf architecture should eventually make this possible. Seldom recorded features which have proven useful in this systematic context include length/width ratios of palisade cells and the shape of the boundary between the mesophyll and the midrib ground tissue. The sharpness of tissue differentiation also appears often to be a family characteristic.
10.2307/2394856|Chromosome numbers for 13 species in four genera of neotropical Gentianaceae are reported for the first time. The chromosome numbers suggest a relationship between Symbolanthus, Macrocarpaea, and Chelonanthus and support the separation of Lisianthius and Chelonanthus.
10.2307/2399125|A new species, three new sections, and one new subsection of Oenothera are described and a new combination in O. flava is made here so that the names will be available. Oenothera coryi (sect. Megapterium), which ranges from north-central Texas to the southern part of the panhandle, is described. The combination O. flava subsp. taraxacoides (sect. Lavauxia) is made for large-flowered, modally outcrossing populations of O. flava from three disjunct areas: 1) Mogollon Plateau, Arizona to Catron Co., New Mexico; 2) Sacramento Mountains and Sierra Blanca in southeastern New Mexico; and 3) Sierra Madre Occidental from Chihuahua to Durango, Mexico. As part of a genus-wide reevaluation of the infrageneric classification, three new sections, sect. Ravenia, sect. Eremia, and sect. Contortae, are proposed for species formerly included in subg. Pachylophus, which is no longer recognized, and subsect. Australis is described for the two white-flowered South American species of sect. Lavauxia.
10.2307/2394841|Chromatographic profiles of flavonoid extracts of P. purpureum and P. gattingeri are quite distinct, P. purpureum showing 12 species-specific compounds, and P. gattingeri showing 6 specific compounds. Chromatographic profiles of all putative hybrids except one exhibit compounds specific to each parental species. Three types of chromosomal abnormalities exist in putative hybrids which are not present in either parental species, but completely normal meiosis is reported in several hybrids.
3298622| Current knowledge about the diversity and biogeography of aroid taxa from central Brazil is here presented and discussed. For practical reasons, the study area was limited to the Cerrado phytogeographic province. In all, 18 genera and 64 species of Araceae were found naturally occurring in the studied area. The genera found were: Philodendron (23 species), Anthurium (11), Xanthosoma (7), Dracontium (3), Monstera (3), Caladium (2), Dieffenbachia (2), Spathicarpa (2), Taccarum (2), as well as Asterostigma, Gearum, Heteropsis, Pistia, Rhodospatha, Scaphispatha, Spathiphyllum, Urospatha, and Zomicarpa (1 species each). The Jaccard similarity index between aroid flora of the Cerrado province and the two main contiguous forested provinces (Mata Atlntica and Amazonia) was calculated for both genera and species. The values obtained show a closer similarity in species composition between the Cerrado and Amazonia (0.127) than between the Cerrado and Mata Atlntica (0.088). However, the generic similarity with Mata Atlntica (0.591) is higher than with Amazonia (0.414). Approximately 32% of the aroid species of central Brazil can be considered endemic to the Cerrado province; the only genus known to be endemic to the Cerrado is Gearum. 
10.2307/2991993|The age of discovery, description, and classification of biodiversity is entering a new phase. In responding to the conservation imperative, we can now supplement the essential work of systematics with spatially explicit information on species and assemblages of species. This is possible because of recent conceptual, technical, and organizational progress in generating synoptic views of the earth's surface and a great deal of its biological content, at multiple scales of thematic as well as geographic resolution. The development of extensive spatial data on species distributions and vegetation types provides us with a framework for: (a) assessing what we know and where we know it at meso-scales, and (b) stratifying the biological universe so that higher-resolution surveys can be more efficiently implemented, covering, for example, geographic adequacy of specimen collections, population abundance, reproductive success, and genetic dynamics. The land areas involved are very large, and the questions, such as resolution, scale, classification, and accuracy, are complex. In this paper, we provide examples from the United States Gap Analysis Program on the advantages and limitations of mapping the occurrence of terrestrial vertebrate species and dominant land-cover types over large areas as joint ventures and in multi-organizational partnerships, and how these cooperative efforts can be designed to implement results from data development and analyses as on-the-ground actions. Clearly, new frameworks for thinking about biogeographic information as well as organizational cooperation are needed if we are to have any hope of documenting the full range of species occurrences and ecological processes in ways meaningful to their management. The Gap Analysis experience provides one model for achieving these new frameworks.
10.2307/3298580|The present review summarizes results from the past decade on the systematics, population genetics, and evolutionary biology of the mustard family, Brassicaceae (Cruciferae). The research of various authors is discussed and presented in the context of ongoing and accumulating studies. The review is useful in view of the immensely increasing work on Arabidopsis thaliana, the model species of plant molecular biology, and on important crop plants such as species of Brassica. Traditional and molecular-based phytogenies are critically discussed, new generic alignments are proposed, and groups in need of molecular studies are identified. Unfortunately, knowledge obtained from molecular genetics and development of A. thaliana is only very slowly creeping into the systematics of Brassicaceae. Future directions of research should move beyond assessing generic relationships or limits, and should also address character development and evolution, the molecular basis of various homoplastic characters, the nature of the genome, and many other new challenges that are emerging from detailed molecular studies of A. thaliana.
10.2307/2395267|Coherent patterns of morphology of apparent value in determining taxonomic and phylogenetic relationships are present in dicotyledonous leaves. Features of greatest value in assessing these affinities include leaf organization; marginal features, including morphology of the tooth; major vein configuration; characters of the intercostal venation; and gland placement. Of these, recognition of tooth morphology appears to be an overlooked tool of major systematic importance. Variation in these features is most coherent when analyzed in terms of the Takhtajan and Cronquist systems of dicot classification. Essential to our procedure was a recognition of the "basic" leaf features of each taxon. These were regarded as the most generalized type from which all of the more specialized types in a taxon could have been derived and they were derived from an analysis of the comparative morphology of modern leaves with limited input from the fossil record. The resulting scheme indicates strong correlation of leaf features with six of the seven Takhtajan subclasses, in addition to paralleling and clarifying both systems at the ordinal and familial levels. Conspicuous exceptions are the breakdown of the Asteridae into a possible rosid and a possible dilleniid group, reassignment of the Celastrales and Myrtales to the Dilleniidae, and of the Juglandales to the Rosidae. Affinities of numerous problem taxa, such as the Didymelaceae and Medusagynaceae, are resolved, as are some of the points of disagreement between the Takhtajan and Cronquist arrangements. This analysis also provides the first systematic summary of dicot leaf architectural features and the outlines of a regular systematic method for leaf determination.
10.2307/2992033|The "Tanaka-Kaiyong Line" is a line separating two floristic subkingdoms of East Asia, the Sino-Japanese to the east and the Sino-Himalayan to the west. It lies in the provinces of Sichuan and Yunnan in China. It is comprised of the "Tanaka Line of Citrus Distribution" in Yunnan province and the "Kaiyong Line of Orchid Distribution" in Sichuan province, which nearly connect at the border of NW Yunnan and SW Sichuan. After a survey of the distribution patterns of some genera, we are sure that it exists. The Tanaka-Kaiyong Line is significant not only for the subdivision of the East Asia Kingdom and the floristic regionalization of China, but also for the separation of some critical species and the study of vicariance. Moreover, three important floristic regions, the Hengduan Mountain region, Central China region, and Dian-Qian-Gui region, which are noted for species abundance, endemism, and high speciation, are situated near this Line. Compared with Sino-Himalayan genera, the Sino-Japanese are more completely separated by the Tanaka-Kaiyong Line, possibly due to their different florogenetic backgrounds and different times of origin. Additionally, it seems that the centers of biodiversity (or abundance centers) of Chinese endemic genera on each side of the Tanaka-Kaiyong Line are different. The centers on the west side of the Line are mainly neoendemic, but those on the east are mainly paleoendemic. This difference may be caused by geological-geomorphological patterns and the large-scale climatic conditions in China. The formation of Hengduan Mountain and Yunnan Plateau, which was induced by the uplifting of the Himalayas, greatly affected the floristic nature of western East Asia and, therefore, the floristic distributions that led us to define the Tanaka-Kaiyong Line have probably arisen since that time.
10.2307/2399924|Chromosome numbers are reported for 60 taxa belonging to 35 genera of Fabaceae; 44 of these are native to Pakistan, while the rest are cultivated. Chromosome numbers of seven taxa viz.: Argyrolobium stenophyllum (n = 13); Astragalus bicuspis (n = 8); Astragalus ptilocephalus (n = 8); Chesneya parviflora (n = 8); Indigofera caerulea var. caerulea (n = 8); Sophora mollis subsp. griffithii Ali (n = 9); and Taverniera glabra (n = 8), are reported for the first time. Counts for 35 additional taxa are the first reports for plants native to Pakistan.
10.2307/2395084|Pinus rigida and P. serotina, two closely related taxa which inhabit the eastern United States have been described historically as varieties and subspecies of P. rigida and as separate species. These taxa are allopatric except for a narrow contact zone coincident with the Delmarva Peninsula and southeastern New Jersey. In this contact zone intermediate specimens have been encountered, and these have been interpreted both as belonging to clinally intermediate populations of a single continuum and as natural hybirds between two sympatric taxa. The present study was undertaken to provide additional information about the relationship of P. rigida and P. serotina and the composition of populations in the contact zone. A number of populations were sampled from the natural ranges of the two taxa and from the transition zone. Bud and seed characteristics, along with cone length, were found to be quite similar in the two taxa. Other features, such as needle length, peduncle length, cone diameter, and serotiny differed. All of these characters varied clinally within each taxon, and these clinal patterns converged toward the transition zone. The natural populations of this zone were shown to possess characteristics of a single taxon that were morphologically intermediate between nearby populations of the two taxa. They were interpreted as being intermediate populations of a singe geographically variable complex. Evidence was detected of a local steepening of the morphological gradation through the transition zone, and this evidence was interpreted as supporting a system of secondary intergradation, rather than primary radiation. The authors follow Clause (193) in denoting the taxa as subspecies: P. rigida subsp. rigida and P. rigida subsp. serotina, because they fail to maintain their separate morpholical and reproductive integrities in the contact zone, where they coalesce into a single entity.
10.2307/2399071|Spatial and temporal variation in floral sexuality of diclinous plant populations influence the mating system and reproductive success of individuals. Observations of the phenology of the sex condition in andromonoecious Aralia hispida and dioecious Aralia nudicaulis indicate non-random patterns of gender expression. In A. hispida, cycles of male and female function resulting from developmentally synchronized protandry within ramets restrict opportunities for self- and geitonogamous pollination as well as intensify competition among stammate flowers for ovules. A ramet's male reproductive success is negatively correlated with the degree of flowering synchrony between the ramet and the population. In species with developmental synchronization of dichogamy, the evolution of large clone size will disrupt synchrony of sexual function among ramets leading to increased inbreeding. This could provide unisexual mutants with an outbreeding advantage and favor the evolution of dioecism. Genet size in Aralia nudicaulis is very large, precluding investigation of their frequency and distribution. In forest habitats flowering staminate ramets occur at higher densities than pistillate ramets, particularly in shaded locations. This pattern is due to differences between ramets of the sexual morphs in the frequency of flowering, possibly as a result of differential reproductive costs. Previously published data on the flowering phenology of staminate and pistillate ramets are re-interpreted in light of information showing differences in the microdistribution of flowering ramets of the sexes. Large genet size in A. nudicaulis can result in the spatial isolation of flowering ramets of the sexes. However, no spatial effects on the fecundity of ramets were apparent in a one hectare forest plot. The percentage fruit set in A. nudicaulis was substantially higher than in four co-occurring self-incompatible, entomophilous, clonal herbaceous species. This pattern of fruit set is in accord with data collected from several other plant communities and may result from the absence of functionally staminate flowers in pistillate plants of dioecious species and their importance to total fitness in hermaphrodite plants.
10.2307/2399542|The selective establishment of Pityrogramma calomelanos (L.) Link on alternate layers of volcanic ash is described in this paper. The plants grow in layers of fine sand where the texture of the pyroclastic material and its moisture-holding capacity favors spore deposition and development of the plants.
10.2307/2399319|Five new species of Loranthaceae (Cladocolea primaria, Psittacanthus angustifolius, P. minor, P. pinicola, and Struthanthus subtilis) and seven new species of Viscaceae (Dendrophthora davidsei, D. talamancana, Phoradendron fasciculatum, P. molinae, P. nitens, P. tardispicum, and P. zelayanum) are described from Mesoamerica. The new combination Psittacanthus rhynchanthus (Bentham) Kuijt (including the var. wurdackii (Rizzini) Kuijt) is proposed for what has usually been called P. calyculatus (DC.) G. Don in Mesoamerica. The latter name is now restricted to a different species endemic to Mexico.
10.2307/2399451|The present-day northern Rocky Mountain vegetation is the product of a long history of geologic and climatic events that have interacted with the species populations composing the regional flora. General concepts relating to the organization, classification, and dynamic nature of vegetation are reviewed. Distributional and structural features of the vegetation cover between the Colorado Rockies and the Southern Canadian Rockies are discussed. Alpine, upper timberline, subalpine, montane, lower timberline, and grassland/steppe zones are treated. Climatic, physiographic, edaphic, and geologic factors operate interactively as complex local and regional gradients in patterning Rocky Mountain vegetation. It is likely that members of the modern Rocky Mountain flora are not in equilibrium with present-day environments but are shifting and adjusting to geographic dislocations associated with post-Pleistocene climatic alterations. Fire suppression, agriculture, domestic grazing, construction activities, timber harvesting, strip mining, species introductions, and air, soil, and water quality are having major impacts on Rocky Mountain vegetation. Present plant communities feature altered structures and compositions that may represent new ecosystem equilibria which could be irreversible under present-day climates.
10.2307/2399099|Chromosomes of individuals from two Argentine populations of Hydromystria laevigata (Willd.) A. T. Hunz. were analyzed for numbers, meiotic behavior, and karyotype. It has n = 14 and 2n = 28. Both populations have regular meiosis and show no significant statistical differences between them. The karyotype is similar in both populations: asymmetrical and bimodal; it is formed by: 4 m pairs + 6 sm pairs + 4 st pairs. No satellites were found.
10.2307/2992010|Solanaceae, tribe Cestreae, is represented in Venezuela by the two genera Cestrum (31 species) and Sessea (1 species). This treatment distinguishes the genera and their species by dichotomous keys. All species are provided with descriptions, illustrations, distribution maps, and notes on their appearances, phenology, and geographical ranges. A list of specimens seen that were made in Venezuela is also provided.
10.2307/2992094|The pollen structure of members of Euphorbiaceae subfamilies Oldfieldioideae and Phyllanthoideae was studied using scanning and transmission electron microscopy in order to assess taxonomic relationships. We identified 10 palynological characters that appear to have systematic significance. We also identified 37 characters of vegetative morphology and anatomy, mostly based on data obtained by Hayden, and five characters of reproductive morphology, based on data in the literature. Cladistic analysis of the Oldfieldioideae along with selected genera in the Phyllanthoideae, using various putative relatives of the Euphorbiaceae as outgroups, provided great insight into the phylogeny of the Oldfieldioideae. Synapomorphies of this subfamily are all palynological: brevicolporate to pororate or porate apertures, echinate sculpturing, and exine with the interstitium consisting of columellae discontinuous from the foot-layer (where present). With the exception of Croizatia, the basal member of the subfamily, all Oldfieldioideae also share the synapomorphies of four or more pollen apertures and no petals; two homoplastic synapomorphies, an exinous foot-layer that is irregular to absent and a caruncle on the seeds, also characterize these genera. A clade consisting of Paradrypetes and Podocalyx is supported by the synapomorphies of an extremely reduced pollen exine interstitium and sclerified crystalliferous axial xylem parenchyma, whereas the remaining Oldfieldioideae share the synapomorphies of a "microperforate/baculate" tectum consisting of numerous closely appressed rod-shaped elements, some of which are continuous with the columellae and/or echinae; uniformly simple perforation plates; and alternate intervascular pitting. These Oldfieldioideae represent two clades, taxonomically recognized as the tribes Picrodendreae and Caletieae. The Picrodendreae are diagnosed by the synapomorphy of alternate, circular vessel-ray pitting, and except for Tetracoccus, the basal member of the clade, also share four additional synapomorphies, all foliar: compound or unifoliolate leaves, well-developed bundle sheath extensions, fimbriate marginal ultimate venation, and well-developed areoles. Within the Picrodendreae, synapomorphies distinguish a South American clade and an African/Madagascan/Indian clade, but do not resolve the position of Oldfieldia within the Picrodendreae. The Caletieae share the synapomorphy of stomatal subsidiary cells that have a crenulate (rather than straight) wall nearest the stomatal pore. Within the tribe, the African genus Hyaenanche is the basal member, with the remaining genera, all of which are Australasian, being united by the synapomorphy of chambered foliar epidermal cells. The Australasian genera comprise two major clades, but the relationships among these clades and Petalostigma are ambiguous. In addition to clarifying relationships within the Oldfieldioideae, these results (1) support the transfer of Croizatia and Paradrypetes from the Phyllanthoideae to the Oldfieldioideae, (2) support inclusion of Scagea, despite its single ovule/locule, in the Oldfieldioideae, (3) demonstrate that Androstachys and Stachyandra are bona fide members of the Oldfieldioideae rather than belonging in their own family, and (4) indicate that Neoroepera, as currently circumscribed, is diphyletic. We propose a revised classification of the subfamily in which all suprageneric taxa are monophyletic according to this phylogeny.
10.2307/3298562|Over the past 400 years plant immigrants have arrived in the United States in huge numbers, the results of accidental and deliberate introduction by humans. Very few immigrations, however, result in naturalizations; the environmental hazards for immigrants in a new range are usually acute and chronic. We traced the history of introduction among the naturalized taxa within a group of U.S. regions and states that span much of the environmental amplitude of the United States. Despite differences among these regions in physical environments and the length of their histories of plant immigration, the proportion of their naturalized floras that likely arrived through deliberate introductions is greater than 50 percent. Many of the first species to become naturalized in the northeastern United States were introduced as food seasonings or putative sources of medicine. Erstwhile ornamentals are prominent components of all the naturalized floras, especially in Florida. Some species introduced as sources of forage or fiber also became naturalized. Before 1900 many now naturalized species were introduced repeatedly and widely into the United States as seed contaminants through an extensive international commerce in crop seeds. The mode of entry is unknown for approximately 30 percent. The likelihood that the majority of species now naturalized in the United States has a history of deliberate introduction and post-immigration cultivation provides a plausible explanation for their persistence in a new range.
10.2307/2395307|Selective pressures seen through patterns of mortality in plant populations seem to occur mostly in two fashions: (a) between germination and establishment for sexually reproducing species, and (b) at any moment, independently of age, during the adult life of vegetatively reproducing species. Studies on the mortality processes in three Ranunculus species in Welsh coastal grasslands showed that they are nonsynchronous for the three sympatric, closely related species. Studies on the distribution of biomass in vegetative and sexual structures showed a clear relation between rates of mortality and rates of individual growth, mortality being negligible at times of low individual growth. Comparisons of crude reproductive effort alone defined the vegetatively reproducing species (R. repens) as a "K-selected" species, while the exclusively or mostly sexually reproducing R. bulbosus and R. acris were shown to be "r-selected" species. However, when biomass expenditure on propagule production, whether by sexual or vegetative means is compared, all three species appeared to invest almost identical proportions of their biomass in structures aimed at maintaining population numbers at equilibrium. The possible significance of these patterns of energy expenditure in the three butter-cups is discussed briefly.
10.2307/2399604|Cyrtocarpa has previously been known only from Baja California and western Mexico; here we report two species of the genus from South America. Cyrtocarpa velutinifolia (Cowan) Mitchell & Daly, presented here as a new combination, was originally published as a Bursera and later transferred to Tapirira (Anacardiaceae). The Anacardiaceae and Burseraceae show frequent morphological convergence in the drier tropics; moreover, in several genera they display strong similarities in staminate flower structure. Cyrtocarpa velutinifolia occurs in savannas and granitic outcrops in Colombia, Venezuela, Brazil, and Guyana. Cyrtocarpa caatingae Mitchell & Daly, a new species represented by four collections from the dry thorn-scrub vegetation of Bahia, Brazil, resembles the Mexican C. procera Kunth and appears to be most closely related to it.
3298553|A taxonomic revision of the genus Dracontium L. (Araceae) is presented predominantly from morphological, anatomical, and phytogeographic data. Dracontium is treated as comprising 23 species, including 10 new species: D. amazonense G. Zhu & Croat, D. angustispathum G. Zhu & Croat, D. asperispathum G. Zhu & Croat, D. bogneri G. Zhu & Croat, D. grandispathum G. Zhu & Croat, D. grayumianum G. Zhu & Croat, D. guianense G. Zhu & Croat, D. peruvianum G. Zhu & Croat, D. plowmanii G. Zhu & Croat, and D. prancei G. Zhu & Croat. Five names are newly lectotypified herein: Amorphophallus nivosus Lem., A. papillosus hort. ex Rafarin, Dracontium elatum Masters, D. pittieri Engl., and D. soconuscum Matuda. The following species are newly synonymized: D. carderi Hook, f., D. costaricense Engl., D. dressleri Croat, D. lineare G. S. Bunting & Tillett, D. loretense K. Krause, D. ornatum K. Krause, D. trianae Engl., and Echidnium regelianum Engl. All taxa are described and illustrated.
10.2307/2666180|The implementation of explicit phylogenetic techniques to the study of relationships among angiosperms has led to the recognition of a major monophyletic group, the eudicot clade, characterized by the production of tricolpate or tricolpate-derived pollen grains. Eudicots comprise nearly 75% of extant angiosperm species (subclasses Hamamelididae, Caryophyllidae. Dilleniidae, Rosidae, and Asteridae, as well as the order Ranunculales in the Magnoliidae sensu Cronquist). Recent phylogenetic analyses, based on both morphological data and molecular sequences, have begun to clarify higher-level phylogenetic relationships within the eudicot clade. The basalmost branch within the eudicots separates a small ranunculid clade, which includes the Ranunculales and Papaverales. The main group within the eudicots, here referred to as the main cudicot clade, is formed by a basal grade of species-poor lineages, mostly of "lower" Hamamelididae, and a large monophyletic group, here referred to as core eudicots, which includes ca. 97% of eudicot species diversity. Within the core eudicots, three distinct groups can be recognized. (1) The caryophyllid clade (ca. 6% of eudicot species diversity) includes the Caryophyllidae as traditionally defined and a few additional taxa previously thought to be of dilleniid and rosid affinity. (2) The rosid clade (ca. 39% of total eudicot species diversity) is composed mostly of taxa previously included in Dilleniidae and Rosidae, and includes a well-supported clade that we term here the core rosids (ca. 24% of total eudicot species diversity). Among the taxa in the core rosid clade are the Fabaceae, Rosaceae, Linales, and Cunoniaceae, as well as some families of Violales, and the "higher" Hamamelididae. (3) The asterid clade (ca. 50% of eudicot species diversity) consists of two large clades composed mostly of taxa previously assigned to Asteridae, and additional members of Rosidae and Dilleniidae. One of these large asterid clades is dominated by the Asterales s.l. (ca. 17% of total eudicot species diversity), while the other corresponds to a broadly defined Lamiidae (ca. 26% of total eudicot species diversity). Paleobotanical data first document the presence of early cudicots ca. 125 million years before the present (Barremian-Aptian boundary, Lower Cretaceous), prior to the major diversification and ecological radiation of angiosperms. Well-preserved floral remains and other fossils provide a minimum age for the origin of eudicot lineages. Sediments of Albian age contain floral remains of Platanaceae and probable Buxaceae, both of which fall within the species-poor lineages at the base of the main eudicot clade. In slightly younger sediments, the taxonomic diversity of eudicots increases considerably. Basal taxa in the core eudicots are represented by Hamamelidaceae and by several flowers of broad saxifragalean affinity in Turonian-Campanian strata. Among taxa within the rosid clade, the Capparales and Myrtales are documented from the Turonian and Santonian-Campanian, respectively. The core rosids are represented by several flowers with affinities to Juglandales, Myricales, and Fagales in the Santonian-Campanian. Flowers with possible affinities to Hydrangeaceae, from the Coniacian-Santonian, represent the basalmost group within the asterid clade, and flowers of broad ericalean affinity (including Actinidiaceae), from the Turonian-Campanian, document the presence of several groups within the ericalean clade. The Asteridae s.l. are not securely represented in the Upper Cretaceous, and, to our knowledge, there is no reliable Cretaceous record for any member of the Lamiidae s.l. Although nearly all of the main eudicot clades are represented by at least one of their included lineages in the Upper Cretaceous, the earliest well-documented records of the Fabaceae, Asteraceae, Lamiales s.l., and Gentianales, which together comprise ca. 45% of total eudicot species diversity, are found in uppermost Cretaceous (Maastrichtian) or Tertiary sediments. The three subfamilies of Fabaceae are well documented by flowers and fruits in the Eocene, although the presence of pollen grains assigned to Caesalpinioideae from Maastrichtian strata suggests that the family extends back into the uppermost Cretaceous. The Asteraceae, Lamiales s.l., and Gentianales are known from the Paleogene based mostly on vegetative remains. The uneven distribution of species diversity among the major clades of eudicots, and the fact that the most species-rich groups are known only from relatively young fossils, suggests that a significant portion of eudicot diversity is the result of relatively recent radiations that occurred during the second half of angiosperm evolutionary history. The evolutionary basis for the explosive diversification of specific eudicot clades-in terms of exceptionally high speciation rates, low extinction rates, or both-remains uncertain.
10.2307/2399607|Following morphological and taxonomic studies for a revision of Solanum sect. Lepidotum, 10 new taxa are described, not all of them in sect. Lepidotum: Solanum caldense (Brazil), S. carautae (Brazil); S. davidsei (Venezuela); S. hatschbachii (Brazil), S. lepidotum var. lepidiochlamys (Colombia), S. lepidotum var. trianae (Colombia), S. oliveirae (Brazil), S. pereirae (Brazil), S. sooretamum (Brazil), and S. steyermarkii (Guatemala).
10.2307/2992102|Phenetic analysis of the New World Jatropha L. species generally supports the 1979 classification of the genus by Dehgan and Webster. The distinctness of subgenera Curcas (Adans.) Pax and Jatropha, the intermediate position of section Polymorphae Pax between sections of both subgenera, and the close relationship of sections Mozinna (Ortega) Pax and Loureira (Cav.) Muell. ex Pax are indicated. Phylogenetic analysis provided evidence of monophyly for subgenus Jatropha, sections Jatropha and Mozinna, and probable paraphyly in subgenus Curcas and several sections and subsections. The cladistic analyses described herein produced multiple parsimonious topologies. The circumscriptions of the subgenera and some sections and subsections are significantly clarified. The status of heretofore dubiously placed or recently described species is also elucidated. Although geographical data were not included in the phylogenetic analyses, a distinct correlation between evolutionary trends in morphological features, postulated infrageneric delimitations, and geography of the genus became evident. Evidence is presented to support the antiquity of the genus and its present distribution, which resulted from a Gondwanaland breakup and subsequent overland dispersal across the African and American continents. Adaptive gradual mosaic evolution as a series of successive speciational steps, primarily involving morphological features, in concert with migration to areas of increasing aridity and cold appears to be the norm for the genus.
10.2307/2395312|Seven species of Passifloraceae, Dilkea acuminata, Tetrastylis lobata, Passiflora tiliaefolia, P. costaricensis, P. capsularis, P. edulis, and P. arborea are for the first time reported for Panama. Dilkea and Tetrastylis represent new generic reports. Passiflora williamsii is reduced to a variety, as P. platyloba Killip var. williamsii (Killip) A. Gentry, and recent collections of P. pittieri suggest that sect. Cirrhipes and Dolichostema may not be distinct.
10.2307/2399119|The assumptions (1) that the Hamamelidae attained their zenith in the Cretaceous and, (2) that abiotic dispersal dominated in Cretaceous angiosperms, suggest that dispersal mode could be used as a character in evaluating families questionably associated with the Hamamelidae. A review of modern dispersal characters indicates that most "lower" Hamamelids are abiotically dispersed, but that several putatively derived families (e.g., Fagaceae, Moraceae) predominantly possess biotic dispersal. In many cases the dispersal mechanisms of a family are the same in the fossil record and the present day. However, in the Juglandaceae and Fagaceae the fossil record indicates a switch in dominance from abiotic to biotic dispersal around the Cretaceous-Tertiary border. Circumstantial fossil and modern evidence suggests a similar transition in the Moraceae/Cecropiaceae/Urticaceae and possibly the Ulmaceae. Thus, modern dispersal mode may not reflect the primitive dispersal mode in a lineage. Fossil dispersal evidence supports assignment of the Juglandaceae and Fagaceae to the Hamamelidae. Circumstantial evidence suggests abiotic dispersal is plesiomorphic in the Urticaceae and in the Moraceae/Cecropiaceae/Urticaceae complex: further evidence is required. Several results are note-worthy evolutionarily: (1) dispersal modes are malleable and can change within lineages; (2) this emphasizes the importance of mosaicism in angiosperm evolution; (3) the fossil and modern records suggest that families dominated by biotic dispersal are more diverse than families dominated by abiotic dispersal; (4) the Cretaceous-Tertiary boundary marks a time of major change in dispersal mode in the angiosperms; (5) the primitive fruit morphology of the Urticales appears to be the achene; and (6) derivation of fleshy structures from extra-ovarial tissues plays an important role in the dispersal of many species of the Moraceae, Cecropiaceae, and Urticaceae.
10.2307/2399913|Hillia Jacq. is a genus of 24 usually epiphytic species that are distinguished by their convolute corolla aestivation and comose seeds. Based on corolla characters, five subgenera are recognized here: subgenus Hillia (six species), subgenus Andinae C. M. Taylor (one species), subgenus Tetrandrae C. M. Taylor (five species), subgenus Illustres C. M. Taylor (seven species), and subgenus Ravnia (Oersted) C. M. Taylor (five species). Keys to all species of the genus are provided, and those of the first four subgenera are described and illustrated.
10.2307/2399870|Published suprageneric classifications of Lauraceae and the characters used in these classifications are briefly reviewed. It is concluded that androecial characters such as number of stamens and number of anther cells are often variable even within genera and that these characters should not be used in a classification of Lauraceae. As a first step toward an improved classification, Lauraceae are divided into two subfamilies, one consisting of Cassytha, the other including all other genera. The latter group is divided into three tribes, the Laureae, Perseeae, and Cryptocaryeae, based on characters of wood and bark anatomy and inflorescence structure.
10.2307/2399918|Rodulfo Amando Philippi (1808-1904) was a leading figure in Chilean natural history, including botany. His son Federico Philippi (1838-1910) was a botanist during the same period and worked closely with him. We present an orientation to their works and the information available about them. Both Philippis collected widely in Chile; their principal field trips are summarized. The Philippis' material, including types, is deposited primarily at SGO, but numerous specimens were distributed to other herbaria. The identification of type material is frequently complicated by sparse label data and many duplicates; lectotypes remain to be selected for many names. Although both Philippis published widely in a variety of journals and languages, their descriptions of Chilean plants were published principally in Chilean journals.
10.2307/2395315|Cissus allenii Croat and Cissus neei Croat are described as new. Cissus allenii differs from C. microcarpa Vahl, to which it may be most closely related, in being puberulent whereas C. microcarpa has a combination of crisped-villous and appressed T-shaped pubescence. Cissus neei is distinguished from other unifoliolate species in Panama by its thick glabrous leaves, greenish flowers, and glabrous inflorescence. It is perhaps most closely related to Cissus brevipes Morton & Standley, but that species differs in having thinner, conspicuously toothed leaves. The following new distributional reports are made: Cissus brevipes in Panama, C. ulmifolia (Baker) Planchon in Ecuador and Panama, C. martiniana Woodson & Seibert in Mexico, C. biformifolia Standley in Colombia, and C. pseudosicyoides Croat in Ecuador.
10.2307/2399203|A survey of the prickliness of Solanum in Australia is made and the distribution of the most prickly species is mapped. A survey of the diets of vertebrate herbivores in Australia is presented. It is concluded that the development of prickles is not a response to the physical environment but to browsing by marsupials belonging primarily to the group known as wallabies.
10.2307/2666193|Material of the rare monotypic genus Takhtajania has been examined for anatomy of the young vegetative shoot. Leaf cuticles are smooth, stomata mostly brachyparacytic and free of alveolar deposits common to other Winteraceae. Mesophyll structure is weakly differentiated. Petiole bases are vascularized by three independent traces, each of which may form pairs at the nodal level. Splitting of lateral traces leads to a more or less 5-trace V-pattern at higher levels of the petiole. Young stems are pseudosiphonostelic and have little sclerenchyma. Within the family, Takhtajania appears among the least specialized genera, with Drimys and Tasmannia coming closest histologically. Among other ranalian families, Canellaceae appear to be nearest this level of specialization, mostly on the basis of similarities in stelar and nodal structure.
10.2307/2399620|Two recent revelations, that the number of species is much greater than previously thought, and that they are disappearing at a frightening rate, should impel systematists to question the implicit objectives of their discipline. It is impossible, using traditional methods, to describe and classify most species in the lesser-known groups. It is suggested that systematists and other organism-ecological biologists must collectively establish criteria for research priorities so that the "real work" of biology in the next few decades can be achieved. Research on many fronts is essential if we are to maintain a significant fraction of the planet's biodiversity.
10.2307/2398982|Numerous allied trees, shrubs, and herbs inhabit the discontinuous mixed deciduous hardwood and conifer-hardwood forests of Holarctica. Their close ancestors occupied middle and high latitudes into the Middle Miocene (15-16 m.y.a.). As the forests retreated southward and were disrupted by spreading colder and drier climates following Antarctic glaciation (13 m.y.a.), numerous paired or allied species (or sections, series) originated and have survived in the disjunct segregate forests across Holarctica. In addition, all major climatic-topographic provinces served as centers of evolution from which taxa have not ranged widely. It is this latter pattern to which oaks conform most closely. Only species of allied subsects. Prinoideae and Diversipiloseae had an Holarctic occurrence, occupying lands above latitude 60
10.2307/2399380|In the preparation of various families for the Flora of the Venezuelan Guayana, many new taxa have been detected. These include specimens collected from recently completed expeditions and earlier herbarium material. The following new taxa are described: Portulaca insignis, P. pygmaea (Portulacaceae); Maytenus huberi, M. insculpta, M. longistipitata, M. neblinae, M. pustulata, Zinowiewia aymardii (Celastraceae); Matayba affinis, M. longipes subsp. yutajensis, M. oligandra var. occidentalis, M. yutajensis, Talisia amaruayana, T. caudata, T. glandulifera, T. heterodoxa, T. pentantha, T. sancarlosiana, Toulicia anomala (Sapindaceae); Gouania wurdackii, Rhamnus longipes, R. sipapoensis (Rhamnaceae); Pochota ewelii, P. fuscolepidota, P. gracilis subsp. bolivarensis, P. liesneri, P. mawarinumae, P. redmondii, P. tepuiensis (Bombacaceae); Schefflera simplex, S. yutajensis (Araliaceae); Symbolanthus huachamacariensis, S. yaviensis (Gentianaceae); Remijia sessilis, Simira ignicola (Rubiaceae). In addition, comments are supplied, where pertinent, on the affinities of various taxa in the several families treated.
40035763|Organisms with complex life histories and unusual modes of genome inheritance can present challenges for phylogenetic reconstruction and accurate assessment of biological diversity. This is particularly true for freshwater bivalves in the family Unionidae because: (1) they have complex life cycles that include a parasitic larva and obligate fish host; (2) they possess both a male and female mitochondrial genome that is transmitted through doubly uniparental inheritance (DUI); and (3) they are found in riverine habitats with complex hydrogeological histories. Examination of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequences, conglutinate morphology, and host fish compatibility of the western fanshell Cyprogenia aberti (Conrad, 1850) revealed significant character variation across its range. Although variation was correlated among the different data sets and supports discrete groups, these groups did not always correspond to geographically isolated populations. Two discrete mtDNA clades exist sympatrically within most C. aberti populations, and these same clades are also diagnosed by at least one morphological character, egg color. The surprisingly high genetic distance (14.61%-20.19%) between the members of these sympatric clades suggests heritance infidelity of the two different mitochondrial genomes. This hypothesis was tested and falsified. More general patterns in geography were observed in host fish compatibility. Populations of C. aberti from the major river systems differed in their ability to utilize fish species as hosts. These differences in reproductive traits, which are presumably genetically based, suggest that these populations are not ecologically exchangeable with one another and represent biological diversity not previously recognized within Cyprogenia Agassiz, 1852.
10.2307/2666215|Phylogenetic analyses were conducted for 73 genera of "lower" eudicots (Ranunculidae and "lower" Hamamelididae), magnoliid outgroups, and appropriate representatives for higher taxa within the "higher" eudicot clade (e.g., Rosidae, Dillenidae, Asteridae) based on sequences of three genes: the two chloroplast genes atpB and rbcL and nuclear ribosomal 18S DNA. Based on the partition homogeneity test, the three data sets were relatively congruent (P  0.13). The data were analyzed using heuristic parsimony searches and bootstrap analyses in three ways: individually, the two chloroplast sequences combined, and all three sequences combined. Both ingroup and outgroup sampling were varied to test the stability of the tree topology. The trees resulting from a combination of the chloroplast data and all three data sets had the best resolution and the strongest branch support. The following higher taxonomic groups were recognized with high bootstrap values (> 90%): Eudicots (including Nelumbo), Ranunculidae (including Euptelea), Papaverales, "core" ranunculids, a clade consisting of "lower" hamamelids and "core" eudicots, "core" eudicots (including caryophyllids, asterids, and rosids), Dilleniaceae, caryophyllids (including Simmondsia), and asterids. All ranuneulid families, including Circaeasteraceae s.l. (including Kingdonia) and Lardizabalaceae s.l. (including Sargentodoxa), formed well-supported monophyletic groups. Other well-supported eudicot clades were Platanus/Proteaceae, Buxaceae/Didymeles, Trochodendraceae/Tetracentraceae, and a group with poor internal resolution that included genera in Hamamelidaceae, various rosids, and Paeonia. Morphology (especially floral features) and other characteristics are described in some detail for well-supported clades determined by the molecular data.
10.2307/2394820|Three new species of Asclepiadaceae are described: Cynanchum infimicola, Gonolobus inaequalis and G. lewisii.
10.2307/2399568| Two genera, Chlorocardium and Paraia, are described, illustrated, and discussed. Chlorocardium includes two species previously placed in Ocotea and is known from Guyana and Surinam (C. rodiei), and Ecuador (C. venenosum). Paraia includes one species, P. bracteata, from the States of Par and Amazonas, Brazil. Problems with generic placement of several other species are discussed. The usefulness of two-celled vs. four-celled stamens as a character to define genera is discussed, and examples of polyphyletic genera based solely on the two-celled condition are given. 
10.2307/2399318|The two Panamanian species of Attalea (Palmae) are described and illustrated, A. iguadummat for the first time.
10.2307/2399497|In the Neotropics, the Melastomataceae and Memecylaceae comprise over 3,000 species in 106 genera. Pollination observations have been reported for 126 species in 35 genera of Melastomataceae and for four species in one genus of Memecylaceae. Genetic self-incompatibility has been found in 22 Melastomataceae species, self-compatibility in 25 species. A single Memecylaceae species tested is self-compatible. Agamospermy is known in 19 New World and some Old World species of Melastomataceae. The incidence of polyploidy in Melastomataceae seems high, but only about 8% of the species have been counted. Most Melastomataceae and Memecylaceae are hermaphroditic; dioecism is known in a few species in one genus of Melastomataceae. The principal mode of promoting outcrossing in both families is spatial separation of pollen and stigma (herkogamy), achieved by the pollen being enclosed in poricidal anthers, which have to be manipulated to release pollen. New World Memecylaceae are pollinated in the same way and by some of the same bee species as most Melastomataceae. All bee species known to visit Melastomataceae and Memecylaceae are listed; they comprise a wide spectrum of the neotropical bee fauna. It is not yet clear whether the stamen dimorphism and the conspicuous connective appendages present in many Melastomataceae have a function in the pollination mechanism beyond that of enhancing the visual attractiveness of the flowers and making the stamens easier to grasp. In most Melastomataceae, flowers offer only pollen; however, some 60 species in 8 genera offer nectar as a reward for pollinators (probably, some species in at least one additional genus do, too). The nectariferous species are pollinated by birds, bats, rodents, and bees. The nectar is rich in sucrose and, as a rule, its production is correlated with floral morphological changes relating to the fact that, except for bees, nectar consumers do not vibrate the stamens to collect pollen actively. I suggest that the capacity for developing nectaries is basic in Melastomataceae but suppressed in most modern members. The staminal glands of Memecylaceae produce minute quantities of a secretion containing lipids which, however, is not collected by the pollinators; the glands may in some way enhance stamen attractiveness. In seed dispersal systems, major diversifications occurred, with 40% of the neotropical Melastomataceae having capsular fruits and wind-dispersed seeds and 60% having soft, juicy berries taken mainly by birds, but also by marsupials, monkeys, bats, other mammals, turtles, and other reptiles. All Memecylaceae have berries, and their seeds are dispersed by birds, monkeys, and fish. I conclude that the east and west Gondwanian lineages of Melastomataceae and Memecylaceae, in parallel, coevolved with the earliest bees in the lower mid-Cretaceous. This may have been the time when the ancestors of these families switched from nectar-reward flowers to pollen-reward flowers. In the further extensive radiation of both families, special adaptations to pollinators were of limited importance; diversification in seed dispersal systems, vegetative characters, and edaphic adaptations were more important.
40982864|Tropical forests occurring on white-sand soils have a unique structure and are famous for their endemism. Yet, no comprehensive floristic study has ever been undertaken in white-sand forests in the western Amazon. Here, we present the results of floristic inventories from 16 plots in seven sites from the Peruvian Amazon to investigate diversity, species composition, and endemism in white-sand forests. We compare our results to a large data set from terra firme forests from more fertile soils in the same region. We found that white-sand forest plots have extremely low average species diversity (41.5 species per 0.1-ha plot) and that white-sand plots have significantly different species composition from terra firme plots. We classify 114 species as endemic to white sand, with another 21 species that can be considered facultative specialists or cryptic endemics. These endemics and specialists are extremely dominant, accounting for more than 83% of the total number of stems surveyed in white-sand forest plots. We place our results in the context of the role of environmental heterogeneity influencing patterns of species diversity and the conservation of Amazonian forests.
10.2307/2399723|Alophia veracruzana is a new species of this American genus of Iridaceae subfamily Iridoideae. Closely related to the widespread A. drummondii, it differs in its pale to dark lilac-blue perianth with white to yellow markings, secund flower, and more or less erect inner tepals with lightly raised marginal areas bordering a smooth median zone. The generic characters of Alophia lie exclusively in its stamens and style, and the genus is defined by pandurate, nearly latrorse anthers, and deeply, but incompletely divided style branches with slender, ascending-recurved, terminally stigmatic style arms. The relationships of Alophia within tribe Tigridieae are uncertain, and its suggested affinities with Tigridia (Tigridiinae) seem unlikely. Despite a similar and derived karyotype with n = 14, and comparable forked style branches, the pollen grains of Alophia are not bisulcate as they are in all other Tigridiinae.
10.2307/2399271|Qualitative and quantitative studies of karyotypes of over 250 individual plants of the variable species Urginea indica (Roxb.) Kunth were carried out. The plants were sampled from 23 collection sites representing seven distinguishable phenotypes. Root tips were used for mitotic preparations. Ten karyotypes were recognized, four of which represented the first phenotype while the remaining six represented each of the other phenotypes. The species is aggressive in its exploitation of various ecological niches. Small, homogeneous, genetically distinct populations have evolved a response to the demands of each ecological niche and a device to isolate the individual gene pools.
10.2307/2399603|Five new species of Swartzia (Leguminosae: Swartzieae) recently collected within or at the periphery of the Venezuelan Guayana are described and discussed in terms of relationships and morphology: S. alato-sericea Barneby, S. aymardii Barneby, S. oedipus Barneby, S. palustris Barneby, and S. triptera Barneby. Figures of S. oedipus and S. triptera are presented. These descriptions are a prelude to an account of Swartzia by R. S. Cowan that will appear in J. A. Steyermark's Flora of the Venezuelan Guayana, currently in preparation at the Missouri Botanical Garden.
10.2307/2399544|Cytological and isozyme data for four Polystichum species and four hybrids between them from the Sierra Talamanca of Costa Rica document hybridity and reveal a reticulate pattern of evolutionary relationships. Tetraploid P. talamancanum is hybridizing with tetraploid P. orbiculatum and with two diploid species, P. speciosissimum and P. concinnum, which also hybridize with each other. Cytological and isozyme data confirm that P. concinnum is one of two diploid progenitors of the allopolyploid P. talamancanum. Polystichum talamancanum and P. orbiculatum, also an allopolyploid, share an unidentified diploid progenitor. Homoeologous pairing demonstrated earlier in north temperate Polystichum hybrids was documented for these montane tropical hybrids. The demonstrated pattern of reticulation is similar to such patterns in ferns of north temperate regions.
10.2307/2399956|Eccremocarpus is a genus of three species that grow in the uplands of Andean South America. The plants are vines with showy flowers. Morphology divides the genus into two groups that are also geographically separated: section Eccremocarpus and section Calampelis. This paper reviews the work left by the late Alwyn H. Gentry and that of others and reduces the number of species from former concepts to three. A key to the species and a map of their distribution are provided.
10.2307/2399379|Seed ferns (pteridosperms) make up a heterogeneous group of broadleaf gymnosperms. Our attempts to reconstruct these extinct plants here summarize research over many years on the best-known seed ferns. We have named each reconstructed plant after its best-preserved ovulate fructifications, because these are the most reliable parts for identification of seed plants. We envisage Early Carboniferous (about 352 million years ago) Stamnostoma huttonense as a large tree, foresting elevated terraces and other well-drained areas of coastal plains. Swampy lagoon margins of the same coast probably were wooded with lycopods and small shrubby seed ferns such as Lyrasperma scotica. Of comparable age, but on well-drained ashy soils flanking inland volcanoes, was the early successional Calathospermum fimbriatum. Unlike these other plants, which were probably pollinated and dispersed by wind and water, arthropods may have played a role in the reproduction of C. fimbriatum. Earliest Late Carboniferous (about 320 million years old) Lagenostoma lomaxii is reconstructed as a bushy understory shrub in swamps of arborescent lycopods. Latest Late Carboniferous (about 296 million years old) Pachytesta illinoensis was a tree probably growing on elevated and nutrient-rich areas in and around permanently waterlogged swamps of marattiaceous tree ferns. Pachytesta illinoensis had large prepollen probably dispersed by insects. Its fleshy ovules may have been dispersed by large amphibians, reptiles, or fish. Another seed fern of these latest Carboniferous swamps, Callospermarion pusillum, is reconstructed as an early successional scrambling vine. Its pollen probably was dispersed by wind, and its numerous small seeds scattered widely by wind and water. In contrast to these Euramerican plants of tropical and subtropical climates, Late Permian (about 245 to 253 million years old) Dictyopteridium sporiferum was a dominant tree of cool temperate swamp woodlands of intermontane valleys in the southern hemisphere. Large air chambers in its roots enabled it to grow in waterlogged soils. Woodlands of southern hemisphere mid-continental lowlands during Late Triassic time (225 to 230 million years ago) included abundant trees of Umkomasia granulata, and a shrubby understory including Peltaspermum thomasii. Middle Jurassic (175 to 183 million years old) Caytonia nathorstii is reconstructed as a tree of lowland mixed conifer-broadleaf forest in a subtropical, seasonally wet paleoclimate. Its ovules were enclosed in berrylike cupules, which may have been pollinated and dispersed by small animals. From these examples, it is apparent that seed ferns were exceptionally diverse broadleaf plants which occupied a variety of niches now occupied by angiosperms.
41238133|Se presenta un estudio taxonmico de las especies del gnero Glandularia J. F. Gmel. que habitan en Argentina, el rea de mayor diversidad del gnero en Sudamrica. En Argentina el gnero comprende 33 especies y cuatro variedades, siendo 12 taxones exclusivos de la regin en estudio. Estos taxa se encuentran distribuidos desde la provincia de Jujuy al norte hasta la provincia de Santa Cruz en el sur. Se delimitan las especies en estudio y se esclarecen los problemas nomenclaturales y de tipificacin. Se neotipifica: Verbena platensis Spreng. Se lectotipifican: V. aristigera S. Moore, V. aurantiaca Speg., V. calliantha Briq., V. chamaedryfolia Juss. f. foliosa Chodat, V. flava Gillies & Hook, ex Hook., V. hassleriana Briq., V. incisa Hook., V. megapotamica Spreng., V. melindres Gillies, V. melindroides Cham., V. mendocina Phil., V. phlogiflora Cham., V. phlogiflora var. mucilenta Schauer, V. sangunea Larraaga, V. scordioides Cham., V. selloi Spreng., V. stellarioides Cham., V. stellarioides var. sessilis Cham., V. sulphurea D. Don var. pedunculata Gay, V. tenera Spreng., V. teucrioides Gillies & Hook, ex Hook, y V. tweedieana Niven ex Hook. var. arraniana Niven en Maund & Hensl. ex Maund. Se realiza una nueva combinacin a nivel subespecfico: G. aurantiaca (Speg.) Botta var. glabra (Hicken) P. Peralta, y tres a nivel especfico: G. andalgalensis (Moldenke) P. Peralta, G. andina (Griseb.) P. Peralta y G. tweedieana (Niven ex Hook.) P. Peralta. Se incluye una clave para identificar las especies y variedades, que aqu se describen e ilustran. A taxonomic study of the species of the genus Glandularia J. F. Gmel. is presented for Argentina, with 33 species and four varieties, of which 12 taxa are exclusive to the region of study, representing the area of greatest diversity in southern South America. These taxa are distributed from the province of Jujuy in the north to the province of Santa Cruz in the south. The inclusive species are delimited in this study and nomenclatural problems and typifications are clarified. The following plant names are neotypified: Verbena pfatensis Spreng. Lectotypifications are provided for V. aristigera S. Moore, V. aurantiaca Speg., V. calliantha Briq., V. chamaedryfolia Juss. f. foliosa Chodat, V. flava Gillies & Hook, ex Hook., V. hassleriana Briq., V. incisa Hook., V. megapotamica Spreng., V. melindres Gillies, V. melindroides Cham., V. mendocina Phil., V. phlogiflora Cham., V. phlogiflora var. mucilenta Schauer, V. sangunea Larraaga, V. scordioides Cham., V. selloi Spreng., V. stellarioides Cham., V. stellarioides var. sessilis Cham., V. sulphurea D. Don var. pedunculata Gay, V. tenera Spreng., V. teucrioides Gillies & Hook, ex Hook., V. tweedieana Niven ex Hook. var. arraniana Niven in Maund & Hensl. ex Maund. One new combination at subspecific level is made: G. aurantiaca (Speg.) Botta var. glabra (Hicken) P. Peralta, and three at specific level: G. andalgalensis (Moldenke) P. Peralta, G. andina (Griseb.) P. Peralta, and G. tweedieana (Niven ex Hook.) P. Peralta. Included is a key to identify the species and varieties in Argentine Glandularia, which are described and illustrated.
10.2307/2399543|The percent spore germination, prothallial gross morphology, and the structure of sex organs on gametophytes of Alsophila hybrids were compared with those of Alsophila species. The mean percent spore germination was lower in the hybrids than in species; however, germination rates as high as 43% were observed among the hybrids. Prothallial gross morphology was more variable in hybrids than in species. Many gametophytes of the hybrids, however, grew into normal, cordate prothallia that later became hermaphroditic. Detailed studies revealed no difference between the structure of sex organs of hybrids and those of species. Sperm and egg appeared to mature at about the same time indicating that species and hybrids have the potential for self-fertilization.
10.2307/2395338| Five new species of South American Bignoniaceae are described--Anemopaegma granvillei A. Gentry, Arrabidaea ornithophila A. Gentry, Cuspidaria octoptera A. Gentry, Memora cristicalyx A. Gentry, and Tabebuia catarinensis A. Gentry--and two new combinations--Lundia virginalis var. nitidula (DC.) A. Gentry and Memora imperatoris-maximilianii (Wawra) A. Gentry--are made. 
10.2307/2399273|The new combination of Oenothera elata Kunth subsp. hookeri (Torrey & A. Gray) W. Dietrich & W. L. Wagner is made for plants of moist coastal or slightly inland sandy and bluff sites from Marin County south to San Diego County, California, previously known as O. hookeri subsp. hookeri and subsp. montereyensis. Also, O. elata subsp. texensis subsp. nov. is described from Brazos County, Texas. It appears to be a rare relictual entity most closely related to O. elata subsp. hirsutissima which occurs disjunctly some 680 km to the west of subsp. texensis.
10.2307/2666198|During fruit set the vascular skeleton of the Takhtajania gynoecium did not alter fundamentally, but there is a transfer of role in ovule nutrition from the median carpel bundles to meridian-lateral and partly lateral ones, in accordance with a pattern previously recognized in Annonaceae and Magnoliaceae. Lack of sclerification (only some phloem fibers) of secondary tissues and weak lengthening of stipe demonstrate the paedomorphic character of this genus among the Winteraceae. This trait is correlated with wider morphogenetic potentialities: syncarpy and likely dehiscence.
10.2307/3298633|Morphological diversity and phylogenetic relationships in the Periplocoideae are analyzed. Most of the species of this subfamily inhabit tropical or subtropical forests and savannas as woody climbers, woody shrubs, epiphytes, or herbaceous geophytes. The flower is complex and has evolved into many forms, always incorporating a corolline corona, interstaminal corona-like nectaries, and stamens fused with the style-head into a gynostegium. Pollen is borne in tetrads, less often as pollinia, which are shed onto spathulate translators that are secreted in grooves around the periphery of the style-head. Phylogenetic relationships among the Periplocoideae genera are analyzed cladistically using morphological characters, mainly of the flower. This analysis reveals one larger clade and two smaller clades. Eleven new generic synonyms, six new specific synonyms, and fifteen new species combinations are required within the subfamily. A key to the genera of the Periplocoideae is included.
10.2307/2395127|Studies of the life cycle, anatomy, morphology, cytology, ecology, distribution patterns and an analysis of the probable evolutionary relationships of taxa in the Polypodium pectinatum-plumala complex, compose the basis of a systematic study of this complex. Field studies in Florida, Jamaica, and Costa Rica, plus use of greenhouse grown plants sent from South America, have aided in the understanding of the biological interrelationships of the taxa. Specimens, including types, from 20 major American and European herbaria have been utilized in this study, which has led to the recognition of 35 taxa, including five new species, three new varieties and six new combinations. Keys, descriptions, typification, synonomy and specimen citations are included for each taxon.
10.2307/2992034|A brief review is offered of major chromosome number variations in the Senecioneae based on recent delimitations of the tribe. An additional 78 chromosome reports are provided, including 19 new reports for species, with confirmed or expanded base numbers for the genera Gynoxys (x = 40), Lasiocephalus (x = 20), Pentacalia (x = 20, ca. 50), and Jessea (x = ca. 50). The base number for the tribe is x = 10, which is found in various multiples. The Blennospermatinae are one of the most distinct groups with a base of x = 9, considered an aneuploid reduction from x = 10. A new subtribe, Abrotanellinae, is established for the southern South American and southwest Pacific genus Abrotanella, which also has x = 9 and has often been placed in the Blennospermatinae. Numbers based on x = 30 and aneuploid reductions are found in the Tussilagininae, in many Australian Senecio, and in the Macaronesian Pericallis of the Senecioninae. The origin of such numbers is discussed. An anomalous North American group of Senecio (Packera) has variable numbers mostly near n = 23. Most Western Hemisphere Senecioninae have numbers of n = 20 or multiples thereof, with higher numbers in many Andean groups. Numbers of n = 10 or lower are mostly restricted to the Eastern Hemisphere, and groups like Emilia have recently dispersed from that area. Occurrences of n = 5 in Emilia, n = 10 in some American and Australian Senecio, and n = 14-16 in some tussilaginoids are considered as reductions.
10.2307/2399097|The mode of initiation and subsequent growth of the inner (i.i.) and outer (o.i.) integuments were examined and compared in 40 species, representing all seven tribes and all 17 genera of Onagraceae. The i.i. is of dermal origin and two-layered throughout the family. Four different types of developmental mode of the o.i. are characterized: 1) o.i. of subdermal origin-Lopezia (Lopezieae), Fuchsia (Fuchsieae), and Circaea (Circaeeae); 2) o.i. of both dermal and subdermal origin, with derivatives of the subdermal cells dividing more actively than those of the dermal cells-Oenothera and Stenosiphon (Onagreae); 3) o.i. of both dermal and subdermal origin, with derivatives of the subdermal cells dividing less actively than those of the dermal cells-Hauya (Hauyeae) and Calylophus and Gaura (Onagreae); 4) o.i. of dermal origin-Ludwigia (Jussiaeeae); Boisduvalia and Epilobium (Epilobieae); and Camissonia, Clarkia, Gayophytum, Gongylocarpus, Heterogaura, and Xylonagra (Onagreae). Except for the unexpected close similarity of Hauya (Hauyeae) to Calylophus and Gaura (Onagreae), among which is shared an apparently derived state of this character rather suggesting a common ancestry, the patterns of relationships suggested on the basis of the developmental mode of the o.i. closely accord with those derived from other lines of evidence. The results from Onagraceae confirm that the histogenetic characters of integuments are valuable indicators of relationship at a generic level.
10.2307/2399740|Recent collections of Caraipa from Amazonian Peru raise the number of species known from that country from three to eight. Caraipa jaramilloi and C. utilis are new to science, the latter currently the most important construction timber in Iquitos.
10.2307/2399564|In previous papers we have reported the N-terminal 40 amino acids of the small subunit of rubisco for samples from four families of gymnosperms, nine families of monocotyledons, and 26 families of dicotyledons. We expanded this list to 122 families of dicots and derived a phylogenetic tree for all 335 species. The main computing program used was HENNIG86, with which a reliable result can be assured with only 17 taxa or less, so a major part of this paper is concerned with the strategy adopted to divide the 335 species and then to build the parts into an overall tree that is as accurate and objective as possible. Comparison with other taxonomy suggests that, at the level of placing genera into families, our methods give results that are at least 90% accurate. At higher taxonomic levels accuracy may decrease, and the result should be regarded not as a firm conclusion but as a working hypothesis for subsequent testing using the longer sequences from nucleic acids. Topics discussed include heterogeneity within species, the nature of the N-terminus of rubisco-SSU, and evidence that natural selection is powerful in determining amino acid sequence. The rate of evolution has been shown to vary between major taxa, and data suggest that angiosperms originated in the Jurassic.
10.2307/3298593| El gnero Paspalum L. presenta alrededor de 330 especies y una amplia distribuciin geogrfica, principalmente en las regiones tropicales y subtropicales de Amrica. Debido a la marcada variabilidad morfolgica entre sus especies, diversos autores intentaron dividir al gnero en subgneros, secciones o grupos informales de especies. En el presente trabajo se realiz un anlisis cladstico del gnero Paspalum utilizando caracteres anatmicos foliares y exomorfolgicos con la finalidad de poner a prueba su origen monofiltico y establecer relaciones filogenticas entre las especies ms representativas. Asimismo se analiz el grado de homoplasia de los caracteres con el objeto de estimar su valor diagnstico y calidad informativa en la caracterizacin de los distintos grupos. Para el anlisis cladstico se consideraron 47 especies pertenecientes a 27 grupos establecidos segn Chase con algunas modificaciones propuestas por Cialdella et al. y Morrone et al. Se identificaron 36 caracteres exomorfolgicos y anatmicos foliares. La matriz de datos fue analizada bajo el criterio de parsimonia con pesos iguales y con pesado implcito de caracteres utilizando los programas Nona y Pee-Wee respectivamente. Sobre la base de los caracteres utilizados en este anlisis no pudo establecerse un origen comn para el gnero confirmndose que el mismo representa una asociacin parafiltica de especies, estrechamente relacionadas con Axonopus P. Beauv. y Thrasya Kunth, gneros tambin pertenecientes a la tribu Paniceae. /// Paspalum L. has approximately 330 species and a large geographical distribution, mainly in tropical and subtropical regions of America. Due to the morphological variability among the species, different authors have proposed dividing the genus into subgenera, sections, or informal groups. A cladistic analysis of Paspalum was conducted using anatomical foliar and exomorphological characters to test its monophyly and its phylogenetic relationships among representative species. The degree of character homoplasy was analyzed in order to estimate the diagnostic value of anatomical characters among groups. For the cladistic analysis, 47 species of 27 groups established by Chase, with modification established by Cialdella et al. and Morrone et al., and 36 exomorphological and anatomical foliar characters were considered. The data matrix was analyzed with Nona and Pee-Wee, parsimony programs using equal weights and implied weighting. The present phylogenetic analysis confirms that Paspalum is a paraphyletic group and shows close relationships with Axonopus and Thrasya in Paniceae. 
40035740|Subtribe Arctotidinae comprises an estimated 80-90 species classified in five genera. Taxonomic relationships within the subtribe are poorly understood and the taxonomy of Arctotis is notably confused. Cypselar morphology provides a suite of taxonomic characters important at the genus and species levels in Arctotidinae. To help resolve taxonomic relationships in the subtribe, a scanning electron microscopic survey of the cypselae of 40 species from four genera (Arctotheca, Arctotis, Cymbonotus, and Haplocarpha) was undertaken. Thirteen informal species groups are distinguished based on cypselar morphology. The results indicate that a reappraisal of the generic concepts of Arctotis, Cymbonotus, and Haplocarpha is warranted. A close affinity is implicated between Arctotis sect. Austro-orientales and Cymbonotus. Arctotis species are assigned to nine species groups. Lewin's infrageneric classification of Arctotis is partially supported. Haplocarpha comprises three disparate species groups. Arctotheca forms a morphologically coherent group based on cypselar morphology herein. A diagnostic key to these informal groups based on cypselar morphology is presented.
10.2307/2399341|Argostemma is a large paleotropical genus of the tribe Argostemmateae. From Borneo 28 species are recognized. All are herbs growing in rainforests. Six species, A. apiculatum, A. burttii, A. geesinkii, A. gaharuense, A. brookei, and A. calcicolum, are new. There is one new name, A. chaii. Argostemma is the larger genus of the tribe; the other genus is Neurocalyx. The sister group to the Argostemmateae is the mainly Central American tribe Hamelieae. These two tribes form a monophyletic group within the subfamily Rubioideae. About two-thirds of the Argostemma species are endemic to Borneo. The species belong to at least three different monophyletic groups, each having its sister group outside Borneo. Nomenclature, descriptions, illustrations, maps, and a key for all species are provided.
10.2307/2398818| The following taxa of Ericaceae are newly described from Panama: Cavendishia aberrans Luteyn, C. arizonensis Luteyn, C. chiriquiensis var. bullata Luteyn, C. fortunensis Luteyn, Didonica panamensis Luteyn & Wilbur, Disterigma hammelii Wilbur & Luteyn, Lateropora tubulifera Wilbur & Luteyn, Macleania megabracteata Wilbur & Luteyn and Themistoclesia revoluta Wilbur & Luteyn. Cavendishia quereme (H.B.K.) Bentham & Hooker is reported for the first time from Panama, being previously known only from Costa Rica and Colombia. Vaccinium dissimile Blake is now known from Coln Province and the range of Vaccinium jefense Luteyn & Wilbur is extended to include Cocl Province. Keys to the Central American representatives of the genera Disterigma, Lateropora, and Themistoclesia are provided. 
10.2307/2395271|The field of palynology is reviewed in terms of its contributions to angiosperm systematics and phylogeny. Principal pollen characters which are phylogenetically useful at higher taxonomic levels (including aperture type, pollen wall architecture, pollen-unit, polarity, symmetry, shape, and grain size), and their evolutionary trends are examined. Many palynological characters and concepts are subjected to re-examination, particularly in an evolutionary-phylogenetic context. An attempt is made to show how pollen characters correlate with various higher categories of the Takhtajan and Cronquist systems of angiosperm classification and to outline certain phylogenetic tends observed in the pollen of different groups of angiosperms. With some exceptions, pollen morphology is consistent with the levels of relative advancement and the relationships postulated in the Takhtajan and Cronquist systems. Angiosperm pollen grains are clearly divisible into two fundamentally different types (each with its own derivatives): heteropolar, bilateral, boat-shaped monosulcate pollen versus isopolar, radiosymmetric, globose tricolpate pollen. "Gymnospermous" monosulcate pollen and derivative types (ulcerate, disulculate, etc) characterize both the putatively primitive dicotyledonous subclass Magnoliidae and the monocotyledons. The six non-magnoliid dicotyledonous subclasses, on the other hand, are characterized by tricolpate pollen and derivative types (tricolporate, triporate, rugate etc.). Relatively primitive tricolpate pollen is retained by many Ranunculidae, Caryophyllidae, and "lower' Hamamelididae. The Dilleniidae (except Dilleniaceae) and Rosidae are somewhat more advanced in having basically compound-aperturate tricolporate pollen. The subclass Asteridae, which retains indications of a rosid ancestry, exhibits the greatest array of specialized pollen types. The most important palynological contradiction of the Takhtajan and Cronquist systems is the fact that the highly specialized, basically triporate pollen of the "higher" Hamamelididae (Amentiferae) can be more directly related to triangular tricolporate pollen of the Rosidae than to the tricolpate pollen of the "lower" Hamamelididae. Briefer sections of the paper deal with pollen technique and the major reference works of systematic palynology.
10.2307/2398940|A synopisis of Moraea, a genus of African Iridaceae is presented. This summarizes, in systematic sequence, the subgenera, sections and species from revision published over a period from 1973-1977, covering the genus over its entire range. The synopisis includes all taxonomic changes made in the later revisions and places the four species of Moraea transferred here from Homeria in 1980. Six new species, M.linderi, M. flexuosa, M. vallisavium, M. Longiaristata. M. atropunctata, and M. calcicola and one new subspecies, M. villosa subsp. elandsmontana are described; M. robusta is raised from subspecies status in M. galpinii.
10.2307/2395270|A classification of sieve-element plastids by their major accumulation of ergastic products (protem or starch) into P-type and S-type, based on the ultrastructural research of some 500 species, provides systematists with a new micromorphological character to be used for a reconsideration of the outline of some of the higher taxa in the Takhtajan system of Magnoliophyta. Plastid types are listed for families and orders of Liliopsida and the first four subclasses of Magnoliopsida. Of these, Magnoliidae and Caryophyllidae are discussed in greater detail. It is demonstrated that sieve-element plastids can contribute relevant data to the rearrangement of at least some of the taxa in question. In addition some remarks are made on possible phylogenetic trends among the different plastid types.
10.2307/2399820|Asplenium sect. Hymenasplenium is one of the best defined groups of Asplenium, being characterized by creeping rhizomes, dorsiventrally symmetrical steles, swollen petiole bases, unique rachis-costae structure, and chromosome base numbers of x = 38 or 39. In the Neotropics, the section has ten species and three hybrids. The species are A. delitescens, A. hoffmannii, A. laetum, A. obtusifolium, A. ortegae, A. purpurascens, A. repandulum, A. riparium, A. triquetrum, and A. volubile. The hybrids are A. x papyraceum (of unknown parentage), A. delitescens x A. laetum, and A. x incisoserratum (= A. hoffmannii x A. laetum). All the aforementioned species and hybrids are endemic to the Neotropics. Central America and the Andes harbor the most species and endemics. A cladistic analysis was not done because the neotropical species of the section apparently do not form a monophyletic group separate from the paleotropical ones.
10.2307/2398850|Two previously unidentified palynomorphs are common in Upper Tertiary deposits in the southern Gulf-Caribbean region. One is now identified as pollen of Mortoniodendron (Tiliaceae; Upper Miocene of Veracruz, Mexico, Middle Miocene of Panama, Pleistocene of Panama). The other represents spores of Sphaeropteris/Trichipteris (Cyatheaceae; Upper Miocene of Veracruz, Mexico). Neither have previously been reported in the fossil record.
10.2307/2399823|Three subgenera are currently recognized in the genus Monnina, which consists of approximately 175 species. This paper treats the systematics of Monnina subg. Pterocarya in northwestern South America. The subgenus is a naturally coherent taxon characterized by dry, samaroid fruits. It consists of ca. 25 species, 11 of which occur in the area concerned.
40389941|Over the last eight years, we have developed several paleoenvironmental records from a broad geographic region spanning the Altiplano in Bolivia (18S-22S) and continuing south along the western Andean flank to ca. 26S. These records include: cosmogenic nuclide concentrations in surface deposits, dated nitrate paleosoils, lake levels, groundwater levels from wetland deposits, and plant macrofossils from urine-encrusted rodent middens. Arid environments are often uniquely sensitive to climate perturbations, and there is evidence of significant changes in precipitation on the western flank of the central Andes and the adjacent Altiplano. In contrast, the Atacama Desert of northern Chile is hyperarid over many millions of years. This uniquely prolonged arid climate requires the isolation of the Atacama from the Amazon Basin, a situation that has existed for more than 10 million years and that resulted from the uplift of the Andes and/or formation of the Altiplano plateau. New evidence from multiple terrestrial cosmogenic nuclides, however, suggests that overall aridity is occasionally punctuated by rare rainfall events that likely originate from the Pacific. East of the hyperarid zone, climate history from multiple proxies reveals alternating wet and dry intervals where changes in precipitation originating from the Atlantic may exceed 50%. An analysis of Pleistocene climate records across the region allows reconstruction of the spatial and temporal components of climate change. These Pleistocene wet events span the modern transition between two modes of interannual precipitation variability, and regional climate history for the Central Andean Pluvial Event (CAPE; ca. 18-8 ka) points toward similar drivers of modern interannual and past millennial-scale climate variability. The north-northeast mode of climate variability is linked to El Nino-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) variability, and the southeast mode is linked to aridity in the Chaco region of Argentina.
10.2307/2398849|Leaves of eight species of Calophyllum growing in Panama were sectioned and characterized anatomically. A number of characters seemed useful in clarifying the taxonomy and evolution of the genus. Apparently useful characters at the species level include midrib shape, primary vein "V" angle, presence or absence of transcurrent ducts, and presence or absence of a hypodermis. The species C. nubicola D'Arcy & Keating is described. Taxonomic relationships among the Panamanian species have been clarified. Old World species introduced into Panama can be distinguished anatomically, but they are not separable statistically as a group from New World species examined.
10.2307/2398802|Whereas in the Eastern Hemisphere, all nectar-feeding bats are members of the suborder Megachiroptera, in the tropical and subtropical portions of the Western Hemisphere (in the absence of megachiropterans) certain members of one family (Phyllostomidae) of the generally insectivorous suborder Microchiroptera have become adapted to nectar feeding. These adaptations involve such diverse areas as skulls, teeth, tongues, throat muscles, and stomach linings. Considerable diversity in these characters may be seen within the New World nectar feeders, dependent in part on whether insects or pollen are the prime protein source. The distributions of all currently recognized recent species (35 in 16 genera) are mapped. Patterns are diverse but with a majority of the genera and many species being widespread on the tropical American mainland. Origin in either South or Middle America and ecological restriction will explain the distributions of some, but for many, causes are still obscure. Of the two currently recognized subfamilies of New World nectar-feeding bats the Brachyphyllinae are endemic to the West Indies and have obviously been there for a long time whereas the Glossophaginae probably originated in South America and have reached the West Indies much more recently.
10.2307/2398822| Preliminary results of a recent expedition to Volcn Bar in Chiriqu Province have yielded two new species which are described here: Verbesina baruensis Hammel & D'Arcy (Compositae) and Sicyos chiriquensis Hammel & D'Arcy (Cucurbitaceae). 
10.2307/2395029|Pollination in Viola results both from sternotribic and nototribic pollinator responses, the frequencies of which vary according to the plant species. Syndromes of floral characters determine these frequencies, and each is adaptive to a group of pollinators, of variable taxonomic heterogeneity, characterised by particular morphology and behavior. Some syndromes elicit equal frequencies of sterno- and nototribic responses, while others elicit chiefly, or exclusively, one type, and coevolution with a single msect genus may be in progress. One effect of the differing syndromes is the partitioning of pollinator resources among simultaneously flowering species. An evolutionary sequence for the floral syndromes is proposed which, in broad agreement with systematic conclusions, considers yellow-flowered, sternotribic Chamaemelanium violets as the most ancient and blue-flowered sterno- or nototribic violets of the sections Rostellatae and Plagiostigma as the most recently evolved. Species of the section Melanium (the pansies), in which cleistogamy is almost absent, appear to be an early offshoot leading to multicolored, nototribic flowers. The "generalist" syndromes were probably vital to the success of the genus in (a) invading the northern and southern temperate zones and (b) adapting to widespread habitat disturbance by man. The basic structure of the violet flower is adaptive to a temperate pollinator complex to be found over very large geographic areas. Floral variations demonstrate adaptive radiation to many ecological conditions.
10.2307/2394970|A year-round study of the giant benthic kelp, Pelagophycus giganteus, was conducted by scuba diving. Several lines of evidence, including laboratory studies, point to a seasonal temperature-regulated sexual life-cycle for this essentially annual species. Juvenile sporophytes grow faster and have a higher mortality rate than adult, reproductive plants. Most members of he population develop at 70-100 ft depth which receives 5-10% of the surface blue-green illumination, but adult plants at the population's outer periphery (125 ft deep) receive less than 1% of the surface blue-green illumination. Juvenile transplants of the close relative, P. porra, do not develop in the natural habitat of P. giganteus.
10.2307/2992046|Two anatomical features of the pome in Rosaceae subfam. Maloideae are investigated: sclereid type and epidermal structure. The large and irregular groups of sclereids in Pyrus are different from those in Sorbus subgenera Aria, Chamaemespilus, and Cormus, and similar to those in Cydonia. In addition, multilayered epidermis, hitherto unreported from Pyrus, is documented in Pyrus sect. Pashia. Consequently, both the monophyly of Pyrus and its current sectional classification are supported.
10.2307/2399398|Historically, Eremanthus s. lat. has comprised an amalgam of seven genera that exhibit the combined traits of syncephaly (secondary aggregation of heads into a glomerule), pluriseriate involucres, and achenes with a persistent pappus. Syncephaly is characteristic of the Lychnophorinae, which is considered by modern authors to be an artificial assemblage. In the present treatment Eremanthus includes Vanillosmopsis, but excludes Albertinia, Chresta, Glaziovianthus, Prestelia, Pycnocephalum, Paralychnophora (formerly Sphaerophora), and Stachyanthus (now Argyrovernonia). Eremanthus thus comprises 18 species of syncephalous trees and shrubs that are largely restricted to cerrado of the arid Central Plateau of Brazil. Additionally, six new combinations (required by the transfer of Vanillosmopsis taxa) are presented.
10.2307/2666194|Floral structure of Takhtajania perrieri, the sole species of Winteraceae in Africa/Madagascar, was studied and compared with that in other Winteraceae. Floral organs are in more or less regular whorls, starting dimerous in the outer perianth region and changing to tetramerous and pentamerous in the inner perianth region and androecium. The innermost androecium whorl is often incomplete. The outer tepal pair is congenitally united, and pairs two and three are postgenitally united in their overlapping area in bud. At the transition from the female to the male phase of anthesis the club-shaped stamen filaments are inflated by cell enlargement, accompanied by starch consumption. The dimerous nature of the unilocular gynoecium is confirmed. The normal linear placentae of the two carpels are oblique to almost horizontal, and therefore the gynoecium does not conform to a usual paracarpous gynoecium with parietal placentation. The ovules are larger than those in other Winteraceae. However, the total evidence of floral features clearly shows the position of Takhtajania in the Winteraceae. Within the family it fits best in the Pseudowintera/Zygogynum-clade, which is sister to the Tasmannia/Drimys clade.
10.2307/2399855|A parsimony analysis of 156 representative sequences of the Asteridae sensu lato and 28 outgroup sequences was conducted using a two-tiered approach. First, an analysis of the entire group, including 105 sequences, examined relationships among major lineages within the Asteridae s.l.; subsequently, several clades within the larger group were examined individually in greater detail by including more sequences for the group in question. The search strategy was designed to discover multiple islands of equal parsimony using the heuristic search routine in PAUP. In the broad search and in each more detailed search of subclades, multiple islands were found that imply substantially different relationships. The results suggest a monophyletic Asteridae s.l., comprising the Ericales, Primulales, Ebenales and relatives of the Dilleniidae sensu Cronquist; Cornales, Apiales, and Hydrangeaceae of the Rosidae sensu Cronquist; and the conventionally circumscribed Asteridae. Within the Asteridae s.l., 11 groups were congruent between islands and are designated as follows: (1) Cornales, (2) ericalean clade, (3) Garrya clade, (4) Ilex clade, (5) Apiales, (6) Dipsacales, (7) Asterales s.l., (8) Gentianales, (9) Solanales, (10) Boraginales, and (11) Lamiales s.l. The only grouping between the level of these 11 clades and the whole Asteridae s.l. that is congruent between islands is the clade consisting of the Gentianales, Solanales, Boraginales, and Lamiales s.l., i.e., the Lamiidae of Takhtajan.
10.2307/2399063|Volcan Mombacho is a moderate sized (1,345 m elev.), quiescent volcano with one of two cloud forests in southwestern Nicaragua. Of 457 species listed, 80 are pteridophytes and 87 are orchids. The species richness of these groups may be accounted for by their high fecundity and dispersibility. This study has revealed only one endemic species. Since Mombacho is the apparent northern range limit of several orchid species, it is suggested that the flora of the cloud forest has most of its affinities with Costa Rica. The lack of several wide ranging species on Mombacho which are known only as far south as northern Nicaragua further supports this contention. As with most of tropical America, the cloud forests of Mombacho are threatened by exploitation of their natural resources.
10.2307/2399838|Reports of 68 new chromosome counts attributed to 53 species from 25 genera of Eupatorieae of the Asteraceae, based mostly on determinations of mitotic materials, include first counts for 2 genera (Acanthostyles and Lepidesmia) and 14 species and new reports for 8 species. B chromosomes are reported for 4 genera and 12 species. Karyotype analyses made on 20 species of Eupatorieae and one species of Heliantheae showed that total karyotypic lengths of the taxa with n = 16-19 of helianthoid and eupatorioid taxa are comparable to those of some eupatorioid taxa with n = 10. This is contrary to the previous hypothesis that the higher chromosome numbers n = 16-19 were derived from n = 10 by polyploidization followed by dysploid loss. Cytological data supplement and are consistent with the following conclusions predicted from molecular phylogenetical and biochemical data: (1) The ultimate base number of Eupatorieae is 17, and the lower numbers are derived by successive dysploid reductions; (2) A reduction in chromosomal and total karyotypic length accompanied by evolutionary advancement has been revealed for some genera and species within this tribe; (3) A high base number of x = 17 in Eupatorieae is considered to be derived directly from one of the members of Heliantheae with n = 17 to 19.
10.2307/2399252|The following notes are based on a study of herbarium specimens of neotropical Lauraceae and are the first results of a long-term project on the American representatives of that family. Unless otherwise stated, all specimens studied are deposited in the herbarium of the Missouri Botanical Garden (MO). When necessary, flowers were softened by boiling for about half an hour. Softening with detergent required much more time (usually about two hours) and this method was discontinued. Lauraceous flowers are trimerous and consist of two (usually equal) whorls of three tepals and four whorls of three stamens, which are numbered from outside to inside with Roman numerals; the anthers of whorl IV, the innermost ones, are reduced to staminodia or lacking.
3298569| A taxonomic treatment of Trisetum, Peyritschia, and Sphenopholis for Mexico and Central America is given. In Mexico and Central America four species of Peyritschia, two species of Sphenopholis, and 17 species of Trisetum s. str. are recognized. Peyritschia deyeuxioides and P. pringlei range from Mexico to Ecuador, P. koelerioides is found in southern Mexico to Guatemala, and P. humilis is endemic to Mexico. Sphenopholis obtusata ranges from Canada to the U.S.A. and Mexico, whereas S. interrupta is found in the southwestern U.S.A. and Baja California. Mexico. Mexico has the largest number of Trisetum species at 15, and nine of these are endemic. Five species of Trisetum are found in Guatemala, three in Costa Rica and Panama, and a single species is found in Honduras and the Dominican Republic. A new subgenus Deschampsioidea (Louis-Marie) Finot in Trisetum is proposed. Four new species of Trisetum from Mexico are described and illustrated: T. durangense Finot & P. M. Peterson, T. martha-gonzaleziae P. M. Peterson & Finot, and T. spellenbergii Soreng, Finot & P. M. Peterson (all in subg. Deschampsioidea); and T. ligulatum Finot & Zuloaga (in subg. Trisetum, sect. Trisetaera). Keys for the genera, subgenera, sections, and species of Trisetum, Peyritschia, and Sphenopholis that occur in Mexico and Central America are given. The names Trisetum gracile E. Fourn. and Trisetum subsect. Deschampsioidea Louis-Marie are lectotypified. /// Se presenta un tratamiento taxonmico de los gneros Trisetum, Peyritschia y Sphenopholis para Mxico y Amrica Central. Cuatro especies de Peyritschia, dos especies de Sphenopholis y 17 especies de Trisetum s. str. fueron reconocidas en Mxico y Centroamrica. Peyritschia deyeuxioides y P. pringlei habitan desde Mxico a Ecuador, P. koelerioides se encuentra desde el sur de Mxico hasta Guatemala y P. humilis es endmica de Mxico. Sphenopholis obtusata se encuentra en Canad, EE. UU. y Mxico, mientras S. interrupta habita el sudoeste de EE. UU. y Baja California, Mxico. Mxico posee el mayor nmero de especies de Trisetum, 15 especies, nueve de ellas endmicas. Cinco especies de Trisetum se encuentran en Guatemala, tres en Costa Rica y Panam y slo una en Honduras y Repblica Dominicana. Se propone un nuevo subgnero Deschampsioidea (Louis-Marie) Finot en Trisetum. Cuatro nuevas especies de Trisetum de Mxico son descritas e ilustradas: T. durangense Finot & P. M. Peterson, T. martha-gonzaleziae P. M. Peterson & Finot y T. spellenbergii Soreng, Finot & P. M. Peterson (todas en subg. Deschampsioidea); y T. ligulatum Finot & Zuloaga (en subg. Trisetum, sect. Trisetaera). Se presentan claves para los gneros, subgneros, secciones y especies de Trisetum, Peyritschia y Sphenopholis presentes en Mxico y Amrica Central. Los nombres Trisetum gracile E. Fourn. y Trisetum subsect. Deschampsioidea Louis-Marie fueron lectotipificados. 
10.2307/2399790|Calandrinia sect. Calandrinia, C. sect. Monocosmia, and some species of C. sect. Acaules share identical leaf blade and petiolar morphology, fimbrial veins, predominantly brachytetracytic and staurocytic stomata surrounded by a cycle of subsidiary-like cells, and unicellular ribbed trichomes or papillar trichomes. Other species of C. sect. Acaules have irregularly brochidodromous venation without a fimbrial vein, predominantly brachyparacytic stomata, and/or no trichomes; venation and stomatal morphology in these species is similar to that found in Montiopsis. Leaves of Montiopsis lack petioles, have glandular or eglandular, uniseriate- and/or multiseriate-multicellular trichomes (although some examined specimens of M. subg. Dianthoideae appear to be glabrous), and generally have brachyparacytic stomata (although some examined specimens of subgenus Dianthoideae have a small proportion of brachytetracytic/staurocytic stomata with an outer cycle of cells). Leaves of M. subg. Montiopsis also have barbellate trichomes apparently composed of elongate hair cells, and have predominantly brachyparacytic or anomocytic stomata. Phylogenetic analysis of foliar characters of Portulacaceae: (1) supports a close relationship between C. sects. Calandrinia and Monocosmia and species of C. sect. Acaules; (2) indicates that C. sect. Acaules may be paraphyletic with respect to the preceding taxa; (3) provides weak evidence contradicted by nonfoliar evidence that Claytonia and Montia may be nested within Calandrinia; (4) provides weak evidence linking Montiopsis with Calandrinia; and (5) indicates that foliar characters may not be more homoplasious than nonfoliar. Phylogenetically analyzed systematic accounts of foliar morphology, such as that presented here, may provide a basis for advancing theories on the relationship between leaf form, function, and ontogeny.
10.2307/2399992|Six hundred and thirty-four organic extracts, including 36 previously untested genera of the Euphorbiaceae, were examined in a phorbol dibutyrate receptor binding assay. Phorbol bioactivity was newly detected in the genera Anthostema, Blachia, Borneodendron, Dichostemma, Spirostachys, Tapoides, Trigonostemon, and Wetria.
40035738|En el presente trabajo se realiza una revisin sistemtica del subgnero Harpostachys de Paspalum. Diversos autores han relacionado a las especies del grupo informal Decumbentes de Paspalum con el gnero Thrasya sobre la base de caracteres morfolgicos, tales como la presencia de inflorescencias terminales y axilares en la ltima vaina foliar, racimos solitarios, presencia de gluma inferior y presencia de flor inferior estaminada. A travs de un anlisis filogentico usando caracteres morfolgicos y anatmicos, Denham y Zuloaga concluyen que las especies del grupo Decumbentes y las especies del gnero Thrasya constituyen un grupo monofiltico; stos resultados son congruentes con estudios previos de filogenia molecular en la subfamilia Panicoideae. En el presente estudio 22 especies de Thrasya son transferidas al gnero Paspalum; se proponen 6 nombres nuevos para especies y 15 combinaciones nuevas: Paspalum achlysophilum (Soderstr.) S. Denham, Paspalum auricomum (A. G. Burm.) S. Denham, Paspalum campylostachyum (Hack.) S. Denham, Paspalum carajasense S. Denham, Paspalum crucense (Killeen) S. Denham, Paspalum cultratum (Trin.) S. Denham, Paspalum calliferum S. Denham, Paspalum foliiforme S. Denham, Paspalum glaziovii (A. G. Burm.) S. Denham, Paspalum graniticum (A. G. Burm.) S. Denham, Paspalum huberi S. Denham, Paspalum mosquitiense (Davidse & A. G. Burm.) S. Denham, Paspalum oreophilum (A. G. Burm.) S. Denham, Paspalum orinocense S. Denham, Paspalum parvulum (A. G. Burm.) S. Denham, Paspalum procerum S. Denham, Paspalum schumannii (Pilg.) S. Denham, Paspalum seminudum (A. G. Burm.) S. Denham, Paspalum setosum (Swallen) S. Denham, Paspalum thrasyoides (Trin.) S. Denham y Paspalum trinitense (Mez) S. Denham. Se establece el subgnero Harpostachys de Paspalum para incluir a las especies previamente tratadas en el grupo informal Decumbentes y en el gnero Thrasya. Paspalum subgnero Harpostachys incluye 39 especies que se distribuyen en los trpicos y subtrpicos de Amrica, desde Estados Unidos de Amrica hasta Argentina y Uruguay. Se incluye una clave para los subgneros de "Paspalum". Se definen los caracteres morfolgicos y anatmicos del subgnero Harpostachys, se determina la distribucin geogrfica de las especies y se incluye una clave para su identificacin. Se ofrecen descripciones, sinnimos actualizados, ilustraciones, fotografas y mapas de distribucin de las especies aceptadas en el subgnero. Se transfieren a la sinonimia cinco taxas: Paspalum culiacanum Vasey [= Paspalum adoperiens (E. Fourn.) Chase], Paspalum langei (E. Fourn.) Nash, Paspalum palmeri Chase [= Paspalum botterii (E. Fourn.) Chase], Thrasya reticulata Swallen [= Paspalum cinerascens (Dll) A. G. Burm. & C. N. Bastos] y Thrasya petrosa (Trin.) Chase var. ciliata A. G. Burm. [= Paspalum foliiforme S. Denham]. Finalmente, se ampla la distribucin geogrfica de P. cinerascens, P. subfalcatum, P. inconstans, P. calliferum, P. huberi, P. glaziovii y P. thrasyoides. /// A systematic revision of Paspalum subg. Harpostachys is presented. Different authors have related species of the informal Decumbentes species group of Paspalum to genus Thrasya, on the basis of these morphological characters: the presence of terminal and axillary inflorescences in the upper foliar sheaths, solitary racemes, the presence of lower glumes, and a staminate lower flower. Through a recent phylogenetic analysis using morphological and anatomical characters, Denham and Zuloaga concluded that the species of the Decumbentes group and the species of genus Thrasya constitute a monophyletic group; this result is in agreement with previous molecular phylogenetic studies in the sub-family Panicoideae. In this study, the 22 species of Thrasya are transferred to Paspalum; six new species names and 15 new combinations are proposed: Paspalum achlysophilum (Soderstr.) S. Denham, Paspalum auricomum (A. G. Burm.) S. Denham, Paspalum campylostachyum (Hack.) S. Denham, Paspalum carajasense S. Denham, Paspalum crucense (Killeen) S. Denham, Paspalum cultratum (Trin.) S. Denham, Paspalum calliferum S. Denham, Paspalum foliiforme S. Denham, Paspalum glaziovii (A. G. Burm.) S. Denham, Paspalum graniticum (A. G. Burm.) S. Denham, Paspalum huberi S. Denham, Paspalum mosquitiense (Davidse & A. G. Burm.) S. Denham, Paspalum oreophilum (A. G. Burm.) S. Denham, Paspalum orinocense S. Denham, Paspalum parvulum (A. G. Burm.) S. Denham, Paspalum procerum S. Denham, Paspalum schumannii (Pilg.) S. Denham, Paspalum seminudum (A. G. Burm.) S. Denham, Paspalum setosum (Swallen) S. Denham, Paspalum thrasyoides (Trin.) S. Denham, and Paspalum trinitense (Mez) S. Denham. Paspalum subg. Harpostachys is established to include the species previously treated in the informal Decumbentes group and in Thrasya. Paspalum subg. Harpostachys comprises 39 species that are found in the American tropics and subtropics, from the United States to Argentina and Uruguay. A key to the subgenera of Paspalum is given. The morphological and anatomical characters of subgenus Harpostachys are defined, the geographic distribution of the species is determined, and a key to differentiate the species is included. Descriptions, updated synonymy, figures, photographs, and distribution maps are provided here. Five taxa are newly synonymized: Paspalum culiacanum Vasey [= Paspalum adoperiens (E. Fourn.) Chase], Paspalum langei (E. Fourn.) Nash, Paspalum palmeri Chase [= Paspalum botterii (E. Fourn.) Chase], Thrasya reticulata Swallen [= Paspalum cinerascens (Dll) A. G. Burm. & C. N. Bastos], and Thrasya petrosa (Trin.) Chase var. ciliata A. G. Burm. [= Paspalum foliiforme S. Denham]. Finally, the geographical distribution of P. cinerascens, P. subfalcatum, P. inconstans, P. calliferum, P. huberi, P. glaziovii, and P. thrasyoides is extended.
10.2307/2666224|Asterids, comprising about one-third of all angiosperm species, include almost all species that produce iridoids and that have sympetalous corollas, and most species that have unitegmic-tenuinucellate ovules. To elucidate their phylogeny, we used separate and combined data sets of sequences from 18S rDNA, rbcL, ndhF, and atpB, with a maximum of 7168 base pairs for 158 genera, for phylogenetic analysis. The analyses resolved the major lineages of asterids s.l., confirming the feasibility of analyses of large data sets in phylogenetic systematies. Most of the taxa fall within one of four major clades. Cornales, comprising Cornaceae, Nyssaceae, Hydrangeaceae. Loasaceae, and Hydrostachyaceae, are sister to the remaining genera. Ericales consist of taxa traditionally included in Ericalcs. Primulales, Ebenales, and Theales, as well as Polemoniaceae and Balsaminaceae. They are sister to euasterids I and euasterids II. The euasterids I include Lamiales, Boraginaceae, Solanales, and Gentianales. The relationship of Boraginaceae as sister to Lamiales, even though weakly supported, is reported for the first time. The euasterids II comprise Asterales, Apiales, Dipsacales, Escallonia, Eremosyne, and Berzelia, and Aquifoliales. Dipsacales, including Sambucus and Viburnum, are monophyletic and sister to Apiales. The data set of 158 taxa sequenced for four genes gives us insight into both the evolution of the asterids and the molecular evolution of the four genes. Some striking differences in rates and patterns of molecular evolution appear both within and among the genes; for example, ndhF consists of two very different regions with the second region apparently evolving under reduced selection pressure. The four genes differ in their base composition, transition-transversion bias, and in their most common substitutions.
10.2307/2399789|Cladistic analysis of Portulacaceae supports a revised taxonomy of Calandrinia sensu lato. Calandrinia, as here circumscribed, comprises ca. 14 western American species in three sections: Calandrinia, Acaules, and Monocosmia. Previous taxonomies classified over 100 species in Calandrinia but recognized Monocosmia as a distinct genus. Calandrinia sects. Calandrinia and Monocosmia are probably cladistically nested in section Acaules and are not sister groups of either Rumicastrum or Montia, as proposed in a previous cladistic analysis. Montiopsis Kuntze, traditionally included in Calandrinia, comprises ca. 15 western South American species in two subgenera, Montiopsis and Dianthoideae. At present, cladistic analysis provides only weak evidence linking Calandrinia and Montiopsis to one another and poorly resolves their precise relationships to other Portulacaceae. This analysis supports a taxonomic distinction between the eastern American/African and western American members of Portulacaceae, but poorly resolves the relationship between the two groups. Cactaceae, Basellaceae, Didiereaceae, and perhaps Hectorellaceae, which were not included in the analysis, belong to the eastern American/African group. The present analysis provides a framework for additional studies of phylogeny of the portulacaceous alliance and of Centrospermae in general.
10.2307/2399329|Continued studies of various families of the flora of the Venezuelan Guayana have resulted in the following new taxa: Stegolepis albiflora, S. huberi, S. humilis (Rapateaceae); Panopsis cuaensis, P. parimensis, Roupala paruensis (Proteaceae); Guapira amacurensis, G. ayacuchae, G. bolivarensis, G. davidsei, G. glabriflora, G. marcano-bertii, G. sancarlosiana, G. sipapoana, Neea amaruayensis, N. bernardii, N. bracteosa, N. brevipedunculata, N. cedenensis, N. clarkii, N. davidsei, N. guaiquinimae, N. huachamacarae, N. ignicola, N. liesneri, N. mapourioides, N. marahuacae, N. parimensis, N. robusta, N. sebastianii, N. subglabrata, N. tepuiensis (Nyctaginaceae); Brunellia neblinensis (Brunelliaceae); Matayba ptariana subsp. guaiquinimae (Sapindaceae); Catostemma clarkii, C. ebracteolata, C. hirsutula, C. marahuacensis, C. pubistyla, C. sancarlosiana, Scleronema neblinensis (Bombacaceae); Bonnetia bolivarensis, B. euryanthera, B. guaiquinimae, B. ptariensis, B. tristyla subsp. nervosa, Laplacea fruticosa var. chimantae (Theaceae); Daphnopsis guaiquinimae, D. nevlingiana, Schoenobiblus amazonica (Thymeleaceae); Symplocos acananensis (Symplocaceae); Chomelia glabricalyx, Coccocypselum huberi, and Perama dichotoma var. monocephala (Rubiaceae), a total of 50 species, 3 subspecies, and 1 variety. Keys are provided for the Venezuelan Guayanan species of Proteaceae, Guapira, Neea, Catostemma, Symplocos, and newly described taxa of Bonnetia.
3298616|This analysis reports insect visitors, with pollen load data, for the major flowering species of a plant community at the Monahans Sandhills and nearby sites in the Transpecos region of western Texas, U.S.A., with concentration on four species of Onagraceae, tribe Onagreae. We characterize the pollinators of two species of Gaura (G. coccinea and G. villosa) and two species of Calylophus (C. berlandieri and C. hartwegii), as well as three major co-blooming non-onagrad species (Thelesperma megapotamicum (Asteraceae), Mentzelia strictissima (Loasaceae), and Argemone polyanthemos (Papaveraceae)). Partial data were collected on two additional species of Onagreae, Oenothera engelmanii and O. rhombipetala. Insect collections were made during repeated visits to the plant community, with sampling throughout the flowering season and a 24-hour period. Nearly 1300 insects were captured on the nine target plant taxa, with more than 100 insect species carrying pollen. The primary species of Onagraceae studied had diverse insect visitors, and different insects served as primary pollen carriers for different species. Gaura villosa showed the greatest diversity, with at least 32 insect species carrying pollen, the major carriers being the antlion Scotoleon, 2 species of noctuid moths, and 2 halictid bees in Sphecodogastra. By contrast, the pollen carriers of G. coccinea were noctuid and geometrid moths; of Calylophus berlandieri one of the same species of Sphecodogastra, several chrysomelid and buprestid beetles (Coleoptera), and several beeflies (Diptera); and of C. hartwegii a combination of the sphingid moth Hyles lineata, several noctuid moths, the honeybee Apis mellifera, and the same species of Sphecodogastra. The 3 co-blooming species also had a diversity of insect visitors, but there was essentially no overlap in major pollen carriers between the species of Onagraceae and the non-onagrads. This report of pollination by antlions is the first unambiguous such report for any member of the order Neuroptera. At least 5 species of antlions visit the flowers of Gaura villosa, and Scotoleon minusculus is the most important pollen-carrying species for this taxon. All visits by antlions occurred between 10:00 P.M. and 5:00 A.M., which may explain why this phenomenon has not been reported before.
10.2307/2398926|Chromosome numbers are reported for 38 of the 45 species of Ludwigia (Onagraceae) exclusive of sect. Myrtocarpus s. lat., based on a review of the literature and the study of 302 individuals from 283 naturally occurring populations from throughout the range of the genus. The basic chromosome number of the genus is x = 8, with no aneuploidy but extensive polyploidy. Among the 38 species of Ludwigia exclusive of sect. Myrtocarpus s. lat. that have been examined cytologically, there are 14 diploids (n = 8), 8 tetraploids (n = 16), 6 hexaploids (n = 24), 1 octoploid (n = 32), and 1 dodecaploid (n = 48), together with 4 species that include both tetraploids and hexaploids, 1 that includes both diploids and tetraploids, 1 that includes hexaploids and octoploids, and 1 that includes octoploids and decaploids. In the first two groups of species with intraspecific polyploidy, we believe that the tetraploids have given rise directly by the functioning of unreduced gametes to the populations with higher chromosome numbers. Multivalents have been observed in the genus only in single plants of tetraploid individuals of L. octovalvis and L. pilosa, and in L. uruguayensis (n = 24, 40, 48). There is no general correlation between breeding system and level of polyploidy in Ludwigia, as is manifest in several genera of annual Onagreae. Ludwigia seems less closely related to all other genera of Onagraceae than they are to one another. It originated at least 50 m.y. ago, probably in South America, where the family also is believed to have originated, but it reached the Northern Hemisphere also in the Eocene. The distinctive chromosome morphology of Ludwigia, in which the interphase nuclei are dotted with small chromocenters and the distal segments of the chromosomes are diffuse at mitotic mid-prophase, resembles that of Epilobieae, but seems clearly to have originated independently, like the other convergent morphological and physiological features in these two genera, from ancestors with more generalized chromosomes similar to those in Fuchsia, Circaea, and some species of Lopezia. Once the genome x = 8 had originated in the common ancestor of Ludwigia, polyploidy has been very frequent (at least two-thirds of the species are polyploid), and the genus has attained a very widespread distribution, particularly in the tropics and temperate North America, in the moist habitats where it occurs.
10.2307/2394614|This paper describes five specimens of Calamophyton found in the Middle Devonian of Belgium. Well preserved specimens have revealed the fact that both sterile and fertile appendages branch to form three-dimensional structures which are more complex than was formerly known for the genus. A new species, Calamophyton bicephalum, is established in which the sporangiophores bore twelve pendulous sporangia when all developed. Suzanne Leclercq, Universite de Liege, Laboratoire de Paleontologie Vegetale, 7, Place du Vingt-Aout, Liege, Belgium; Henry N. Andrews, Jr., Henry Shaw School of Botany, Washington University, St. Louis 30, Missouri.
10.2307/2395059|The importance of chromosome numbers in ferns is assessed. Some of the distinctive basic numbers (x = 29, 37, 39, 41 etc.) give unity to their respective genera. Evolutionary studies should be made in conjunction with geographical studies, and karyotype studies have been undertaken with the promise of advances from some new techniques. The synthesis of many different lines of evidence from many disciplines remains the best hope of achieving the goal of an evolutionary classification.
10.2307/2399994|Natural history collections have always contained a wealth of data: genetic and phylogenetic information stored as an inherent part of the samples of organisms themselves, and biogeographic, ecological, and biographical information stored in the labels that are affixed to them. Together, a preserved organism and its label are a scientific specimen that has great intrinsic value. Separately, the label is a piece of paper with meaningless inscriptions upon it, and the plant, spider, microbe, mushroom, or bird, though carefully preserved, is just so much dead organic matter. Natural history collections are the repository of the vouchers for the documentation of what we know about the diversity of living things-what species exist and where, what their habitat requirements are, what ecological associations they have with other species, what useful biochemical products they might generate, and who collected them and has studied them. Before the advent of computers, natural history collections were physical databases from which geographic or ecological analyses and reports could be extracted by human visitation and transcription, usually a laborious and time-consuming task. However, such analyses are invaluable for land-use planning, pharmacognosy, conservation biology, range management, forestry, agriculture, and a host of other applications, including scientific studies of the ecology and systematics of the species being examined. Computerization of label data makes such reports on distribution and ecology of species more readily available to potential users; they add value to the data. Interconnecting the databases brings robustness to the information that natural history collections can provide to policy-making bodies; appreciation of robust data will lead in turn to appreciation of the collections from which those data were taken. Interconnectivity requires that collections personnel abandon competition in favor of achieving a common goal: the discovery and description of the world's biota.
10.2307/2399124|Six new infrageneric taxa of Araceae, subfamily Colocasioideae, are described. Chlorospatha hammeliana is described from a restricted area of Panama, C. croatiana ssp. croatiana from Costa Rica and Panama, and Caladium lindenii (Andre) Madison var. sylvestre from Panama and Colombia. These represent the first reported indigenous occurrences of the genera Caladium and Chlorospatha outside of South America. In addition, Chlorospatha gentryi and C. croatiana ssp. enneaphylla are described from northwestern Colombia. Chlorospatha croatiana and C. gentryi are the fourth and fifth species of their genus known to have compound leaves; a key is provided to all five. A brief review of generic distinctions within the tribe Caladieae precedes the description of the second known peltate-leaved species of Xanthosoma, X. caladioides, from eastern Panama.
41238129|Advances in online resources and electronic publication provide the sciences with tools to revolutionize education and research (e.g., cataloging, data archiving and access, and identification). Older journals and monographs are being scanned and increasingly posted online quickly by book scanning projects, although even for new issues, there can be a "moving wall" or lag time (e.g., BioOne and JSTOR). Some scientific disciplines are providing the public with pre-print access to articles in digital libraries, while manuscript availability in other disciplines, such as nomenclatural botany, is often delayed until the time of print publication. Within botany, taxonomic treatments should be provided online at all stages of preparation and revision (in certain cases following initial editing). Now, many published floras can be browsed and searched online (e.g., Flora of North America, Jepson Manual, Flora of Australia). The Flora of China Project provides treatments at all stages, online, prior to printing of volumes. Because of this visibility, the Flora of China Web site regularly receives questions from the general public and helpful review comments from botanists worldwide. With pressing issues of cataloging biodiversity, conservation, and sustainable use of resources, botanists are challenged to prepare and revise online treatments, including interactive identification keys and images, for a worldwide audience of students and researchers.
10.2307/2399464|Trends in community composition and diversity of neotropical forests as measured by a series of samples of (1) plants  2.5 cm dbh in 0.1 ha, (2) plants over 10 cm dbh in 1-ha plots, and (3) complete local florulas are analyzed as a function of various environmental parameters. These trends are also compared with those found in similar data sets from other continents. Altogether the basic 0.1-ha data sets are reported for 87 sites in 25 countries on six continents and several islands. New data from ten 1-ha tree plots in upper Amazonia are also compared with each other and with similar data from the literature. Some noteworthy trends include: (1) Lowland neotropical plant species richness is generally far more tightly correlated with precipitation than with edaphic factors. (2) The nearly linear increase of lowland neotropical plant species richness with precipitation reaches an asymptote (community saturation?) at about 4,000 mm of annual rainfall. (3) Although the species represented in adjacent forest types on different substrates may change dramatically, diversity tends to change relatively little in upper Amazonia. (4) The species present at different sites are very different but the families represented and their diversities are highly predictable from environmental parameters. (5) On an altitudinal gradient in the tropical Andes there is a sharp, essentially linear decrease in diversity from about 1,500 m to near the upper limit of forest above 3,000 m. (6) There is no indication of a "mid-elevation bulge" in diversity, at least not in the sampled habit groups. (7) Even near timberline, montane tropical forests are as diverse as the most diverse temperate forests. (8) Moist subtropical forests are markedly less diverse than their inner-tropical equivalents, but dry subtropical forests in Mexico are apparently richer in species than inner-tropical dry forests. (9) Central African forests are about as species rich as neotropical forests with similar amounts of precipitation, but forests in tropical West Africa are relatively depauperate. (10) Tropical Australasian forests are no more diverse than equivalent neotropical forests; the world's highest tree species diversity is in upper Amazonia, not Southeast Asia. (11) Contrary to accepted opinion, equivalent forests on the three continents are similar in plant species richness and (with a very few notable exceptions) floristic composition but are markedly different in structure. The predictability of the floristic compositions and diversities of tropical forest plant communities seems strong, albeit circumstantial, evidence that these communities are at ecological and perhaps evolutionary equilibrium, despite indications that certain aspects of their diversity are generated and maintained stochastically.
10.2307/2399033|The significance of fossil pollen evidence for 139 families for understanding the evolutionary history of the angiosperms is discussed. Deficiencies in the fossil record and uncertainties in its interpretation are stressed. The transition from gymnospermous ancestors is as yet unknown. The earliest lower Cretaceous angiosperm pollen types, although few in number, indicate considerable taxonomic diversity. The succeeding progressive differentiation is clearly shown by the pollen as well as by the macrofossil record. The competitive replacement of ancient gymnosperms and ferns by angiosperms was largely completed in the Turonian. Strong differentiation takes place in the Maestrichtian and most higher taxonomic categories were present by the end of the Cretaceous. Differentiation at lower taxonomic levels continued in the Tertiary. Some taxa are discussed more in detail and are shown to have different timing and patterns of development. Dicotyledonous herbaceous types appear relatively late and, in the monocotyledons, the woody palms are a secondary development. In general, a positive correlation exists between advancement index and time of first appearance. Some evidence for evolution by gradual development, as well as by punctuated equilibria, is discussed.
10.2307/2399839|Chromosome counts are reported as follows: Aristida adscensionis 2n = 22, A. divaricata 2n = 22, A. glauca n = 22 and 2n = 44, A. laxa 2n = 44, A. schiedeana 2n = 22, 44, and A. ternipes 2n = 22. The reports of 2n = 22, 44 chromosome numbers for A. curvifolia and n = 11 and 2n = 22 for A. tehuacanensis are the first for these species.
10.2307/2399147|Three new species of Peruvian palms are described: Wettinia longipetala A. Gentry, Chamaedorea megaphylla A. Gentry, and Chamaedorea smithii A. Gentry. In addition, the genus Dictyocaryum is reported from Peru for the first time, and new combinations are proposed for Geonoma trigona (Ruiz & Pavon) A. Gentry, Chamaedorea poeppigiana (Mart.) A. Gentry, and Chamaedorea latisecta (H. Moore) A. Gentry.
10.2307/2399112|The leaf architecture and cuticular morphology of extant Fagaceae have been examined and compared to those of putatively fagaceous fossil forms. The various leaf types found among extant Fagaceae appear at different times in the fossil record. The most recent types to evolve are typical lobed oak forms (Oligocene-Miocene) whereas coarsely toothed oaks and regularly craspedodromous chestnut-like leaves are found as early as the Eocene. There are no leaf forms directly comparable to modern Fagaceae in pre-Eocene sediments but the presence of well defined vegetative and reproductive materials of two distinct modern subfamilies in the Eocene suggests that this family arose in or before the Paleocene. Leaf forms generally comparable to those of the Fagaceae do occur in the Paleocene. The characteristics of these early forms, especially those of the secondary venation and margin, suggest a common origin with the Betulaceae and reaffirm the close affinity of these two families. Nothofagus leaves are distinct from those of all other Fagaceae suggesting that this taxon should be considered a separate family as proposed by Kuprianova and Nixon on other grounds. Nothofagaceae also seem to be closely related to the Betulaceae and probably arose from the same fagalean stock. Suggestions that modern lobed oaks are atavistic expressions of primitive palmately lobed-compound forms, variously assigned to Debeya, Dewalquea, and Araliopsis, although possibly correct, are poorly supported by foliar data. Foliar features also fail to provide convincing support for the origin of the Fagaceae from Cretaceous platanoids.
10.2307/2666165|Literature on the vegetation of limestone and dolomite (cedar) glades in the Ozarks of Missouri and Arkansas and in the midwestern United States (Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Wisconsin) is reviewed. Dominant plants in these glades are C
10.2307/2399208|The wood anatomy of the lythraceous genera Capuronia (Madagascar), Galpinia (South Africa), Haitia (Hispaniola, Dominican Republic), Orias (= Lagerstroemia excelsa from China), and Pleurophora (South America) is described as an addendum to earlier studies on the wood anatomy of the family. Capuronia and Galpinia resemble each other and the genera Pehria and Ginoria very closely in their wood structure. The resemblance to the last two genera is contrasted by major differences in morphological features and may be due to parallel development. Haitia resembles Lafoensia and Tetrataxis in its wood anatomy, but also shows similarities with Ginoria p.p. The wood anatomy of Orias supports its modern treatment as Lagerstroemia excelsa, and shows much resemblance to that of Lagerstroemia subcostata. Pleurophora shows a striking wood anatomical similarity with Heimia, but taking into account characters from reproductive morphology, this similarity seems to be due to parallel evolution, despite the very different ecologies of the two taxa. Pleurophora may be more closely allied to Woodfordia, with which it also shares a number of wood anatomical characters. The likelihood of parallel development of chambered crystalliferous fibers and vascular tracheids in the evolution of the Lythraceae is discussed, and an earlier phylogenetic classification of the family based on wood anatomy is modified to a purely phenetic scheme, not necessarily indicating mutual affinities.
10.2307/2399672|Within members of the palm subfamily Coryphoideae are to be found a larger number of unspecialized character states than anywhere else within the Palmae; these include primitive leaf forms, flowers, and pollen. Of the three coryphoid tribes, Corypheae are the least specialized; Phoeniceae occupy an intermediate position; and Borasseae appear to be the most specialized. The pollen of Corypheae and Phoeniceae is largely of a generalized monosulcate form, with few differences in exine ornamentation. Such pollen is very similar to a generalized primitive, monocotyledonous type. Pollen of Borasseae, in contrast, shows specialization. Coryphoid pollen is compared with that of other subfamilies and with putative early monocotyledonous pollen from the early Cretaceous. Aspects of leaf morphology, such as the great variation in the position of the splits and the hastula, are discussed and possible trends of leaf evolution proposed. The position of the palms within the monocotyledons is considered.
10.2307/2395340| Eragrostis guatemalensis Witherspoon and E. intermedia Hitchc. var. appressa Witherspoon are described as new. The former is distinguished from other North American Eragrostis by having long pilose hairs on the lemmas and paleas. The latter is distinguished from other members of the E. intermedia group by its short lemmas and appressed primary branchlets and pedicels. In addition, four new combinations are made--E. intermedia var. oreophila (L. H. Harvey) Witherspoon, E. intermedia var. praetermissa (L. H. Harvey) Witherspoon, E. hirta Fourn. var. longiramea (Swallen) Witherspoon, E. trichocolea Hack. & Arech. var. floridana (Hitchc.) Witherspoon--and keys are provided to the varieties of E. intermedia, E. hirta, and E. trichocolea. 
10.2307/2399370|True hydrophily occurs in 18 submersed angiosperm genera. Of these, 17 are monocots, 12 are marine, and 5 contain annuals. Three genera include hermaphroditic species, 8 have monoecious species, and 13 have dioecious species. The prevalence of dicliny in hydrophiles has led to assumptions of outcrossing and high levels of genetic variability in these plants. Many water-pollinated species, however, may often fail to meet all conditions necessary for outcrossing. In hydrophiles, decreased seed output associated with dicliny increases the probability of dispersal by vegetative propagules. The predominant role of asexual reproduction and clonal growth in many hydrophile populations may restrict outcrossing despite the high potential for xenogamy in some species. This inference is substantiated by preliminary genetic analyses which indicate very low levels of variability and high homozygosity in hydrophile populations. A shift to asexual reproduction is offered as one explanation for the slow evolutionary rates associated with this biological group of species. Exceptions to these conclusions are noted in annual species, which must reproduce sexually to survive. Annual hydrophile genera have higher species diversity and possibly greater genetic variability within and between populations.
10.2307/2399030|Archaeanthus linnenbergeri Dilcher & Crane, gen. et sp. nov., a multifollicular angiosperm fruit, is described from the mid-Cretaceous (uppermost Albian-mid-Cenomanian) Dakota Formation of central Kansas. Clusters of follicles were borne terminally at the apex of a stout branch with helically arranged leaves. Each cluster comprised 100-130 helically arranged follicles on an elongated receptacle. The follicles were stalked with a short, rounded tip and dehisced along a single adaxial suture. Ovules were numerous and borne along either side of the suture; 10-18 seeds matured in each follicle. The receptacle below the gynoecium shows three groups of scars, an upper group of numerous small scars interpreted as those of stamens with six to nine larger scars immediately below, interpreted as those of inner perianth parts. The flower is delimited at the base by three large, narrowly elliptical scars interpreted as those of outer perianth parts. A prominent scar below the base of the flower is thought to mark the position of floral bud-scales. Archaeanthus is linked with perianth parts (Archaepetala beekeri Dilcher & Crane, gen. et sp. nov. and Archaepetala obscura Dilcher & Crane, sp. nov.), bud scales (Kalymmanthus walkeri Dilcher & Crane, gen. et sp. nov.), and leaves (Liriophyllum kansense Dilcher & Crane, sp. nov.) on the basis of association evidence and structural agreement in the presence of distinctive resin-bodies. Liriophyllum populoides Lesq. is shown to be a separate species. The reconstructed Archaeanthus plant is most closely related to Recent Magnoliidae and in some features comes close to the hypothetical angiosperm archetype predicted by magnoliid floral theory; it demonstrates that many of the characters interpreted as primitive from neontological evidence are also ancient. Archaeanthus does not predate other kinds of angiosperm reproductive structure in the fossil record but conclusively demonstrates the existence of magnoliid-like plants and flowers early in angiosperm evolution.
10.2307/2399238|Styloid crystals, presumed to be calcium oxalate, seem to be a fundamental characteristic of Iridaceae based on previous reports of their presence in several genera of both major subfamilies, and supplemented here by further records in 75 of the ca. 85 genera of the family. Styloids have now been reported in some 300 species of Iridaceae, of about 320 examined. These elongated crystals are lacking in a few scattered species but perhaps significantly from Sisyrinchium and some closely allied genera. Families and isolated genera possibly related to Iridaceae, including Geosiris and Isophysis, were also examined for crystal types. Styloids are present in Isophysis. Tecophilaeaceae and Campynemaceae have raphides and three species of Colchicaceae and several of Uvulariaceae have crystal sand. A few of the latter have raphides, sometimes with crystal sand. Crystals are absent in Geosiris. The difference in crystal types taken together with some significant differences in morphology suggest that Campynemaceae and Colchicaceae are not immediately allied either to Iridaceae or to one another. We suggest that Campynemaceae may be better placed close to Melanthiaceae or Burmanniaceae. Isophysis, with three stamens but a superior ovary, is probably best treated in its own subfamily of Iridaceae. Tecophilaeaceae are no longer believed to be closely related to Iridaceae and their placement in a different order is supported.
41238132|Cuticular characters are epidermal or stomatal characters and are often used in the taxonomy and classification of fossil or extant Lauraceae. However, there is no consensus on their usefulness, especially as to which characters take priority and at which taxonomic level. This study compared the cuticular characters of species within the Neotropical genera of the Ocotea Aubl. complex to the reported molecular phylogeny. Species of the following genera are included in this study: Aiouea Aubl., Aniba Aubl., Dicypellium Nees & Mart., Endlicheria Nees, Kubitzkia van der Werff, Licaria Aubl., Nectandra Rol. ex Rottb., Ocotea, Paraia Rohwer, H. G. Rieht. & van der Werff, Pleurothyrium Nees, Rhodostemonodaphne Rohwer & Kubitzki, Umbellularia (Nees) Nutt., and Urbanodendron Mez. Species groups based on cuticular characters, especially characters of the stomata, agreed well with the various clades in the molecular phylogeny, but did not agree with species grouped according to the traditional generic concepts. Stomata characters showed little or no variation within the clades found in the molecular phylogeny. Because the number of character states is limited, cuticular features by themselves cannot be used to define genera or clades or will not allow the identification of specimens.
10.2307/2399772|Nucleotide sequences of the chloroplast gene rbcL were obtained from Lonicera, Sambucus, Adoxa, and Cornus. Phylogenetic analyses of these sequences, along with previously sequenced Dipsacales and placeholders for other Asteridae and Rosidae, lead to the following conclusions: (1) the genera of Caprifoliaceae (in any traditional sense) do not form a monophyletic group; (2) Symphoricarpos and Lonicera (representing Caprifoliaceae sens. str.) are related and are united with Valerianaceae and Dipsacaceae; and (3) Adoxa and Sambucus are directly linked and are possibly related to Viburnum. Our analyses also cast doubt on the monophyly of Dipsacales and Asteridae. These findings are generally congruent with other molecular results and with hypotheses based on morphological data.
10.2307/2399494| Six new orchids from the Venezuelan Guayana are described and illustrated, including three species, Coryanthes cataniaponsis, Catasetum gomezii, and Catasetum parguazense, one natural hybrid, Catasetum  dunstervillei, and two new natural hybrids previously described as species, Catasetum  roseo-album (Hook.) Lindley and Catasetum  wendlingeri Foldats. These three hybrids involve four sympatric Catasetum species with overlapping flowering seasons that share Eulaema cingulata (Fabricius) as their main pollinator. 
10.2307/2399479|Three new species, Prunus fortunensis (Rosaceae), Symplocos panamensis (Symplocaceae) and Angostura kunorum (Rutaceae), as well as four new generic records for Panama are described.
10.2307/2399779|Complete nucleotide sequences of the rbcL gene were obtained for 25 species of Asteraceae representing 15 of the currently recognized tribes and three outgroup families. A total of 345 variable nucleotide positions was identified, 170 of which were phylogenetically informative. Phylogenetic analyses of the rbcL data generated eight equally parsimonious trees with a consistency index of 0.47. Three major monophyletic clades that correspond to the subfamilies Barnadesioideae, Cichorioideae, and Asteroideae were identified in the most parsimonious cladograms; however, support for these groups was not strong. Relationships among tribes were not supported strongly except for the close affinity of the Tageteae, Coreopsideae, Heliantheae, and Eupatorieae. These results are congruent with chloroplast DNA restriction site comparisons with respect to the subfamilial circumscription in the Asteraceae and the sister group relationship of the Heliantheae and Eupatorieae. In contrast, morphological cladograms indicated the paraphyly of the Cichorioideae and a closer relationship of the Eupatorieae to the Astereae. Parsimony analyses were also performed on data sets combining rbcL and cpDNA restriction site mutations and DNA and morphological characters. These phylogenies provide moderate to strong support for the monophyly of the Asteroideae and Cichorioideae and the sister-group relationship of the Eupatorieae and Heliantheae. Comparisons of trees generated from restriction site and sequence data also indicate that cpDNA restriction site data from the entire chloroplast genome are more useful for phylogenetic studies in the Asteraceae than sequences from the highly conserved rbcL gene. This is due to the sampling of more sequence variation in the restriction site comparisons and the higher incidence of homoplasy in the sequence data.
10.2307/2399882|The phytochrome gene family encodes photoreceptor proteins that serve many functions throughout the life of a plant. From studies of the angiosperm Arabidopsis, the family has been modeled as comprising five loci, PHYA-PHYE. However, in most nonangiosperms, one locus, or at most two, is present. Moreover, it is shown here that the Arabidopsis model does not completely represent some angiosperm groups. For example, additional PHY loci related to PHYA and PHYB of Arabidopsis have evolved independently several times in dicot angiosperms, and monocot angiosperms (as well as Piper) may lack orthologs of Arabidopsis PHYD and PHYE. Nonetheless, for studies of organismal evolution, the phytochrome gene family is a potential source of phylogenetic information because the loci occur as single copy sequences, and preliminary data suggest that the various loci are evolving independently. In the plant family Fabaceae, phytochrome data are shown to provide phylogenetic resolution to a taxonomically very difficult tribe of tropical woody genera that include Millettia, Lonchocarpus, and Derris. In addition to nucleotide substitutions, phylogenetically informative insertions and deletions helped to resolve relationships in this group of legumes. Also, the presence of a legume-specific locus related to PHYA should prove to be phylogenetically informative once its taxonomic distribution is better understood.
10.2307/2395001|On the basis of chromosome numbers from more than 1,000 individuals of Claytonia virginica L. (Portulacaceae) throughout its range, a complex evolution of major cytotypes is discussed in relation to distribution and morphology. Chromosomal diversity is thought to have evolved from a base of n = 6 by hyperaneuploidy to n = 7 and 8 with each race giving rise to widespread and dominant primary tetraploids (n = 12, 14, 16). These in turn, and largely by hypoaneuploidy, formed many secondary tetraploid races, the most significant of which are n = 11 and 15. Higher polyploids from 6x to 12x where x = 6, and 6x and 8x where x = 7 are also discussed. Infraspecific phylogeny is compared with data for two allied species, C. caroliniana Michx. and C. lanceolata Pursh, which show striking parallels with C. virginica in chromosomal evolution. By one morphological character, leaf width, the cytotypes separate into two groups, not along diploid vs. polypoid lines, but rather a narrow-leafed var. acutiflora DC. with n = 6, 7, 12, and 14 and a broad-leafed var. virginica with n = 8 and 16.
10.2307/2399264|In its native South Africa, Oxalis pes-caprae is represented by diploid and tetraploid races; the short-styled, sterile pentaploid race reported as a noxious weed elsewhere is apparently uncommon there. South African plants have trimorphic flowers, but the three morphs usually are not present in equal proportions in natural populations. The diploid and tetraploid races of the species have a well-developed incompatibility system associated with their floral trimorphism. Outside South Africa, the species is represented not only be a fairly sterile short-styled pentaploid, but sexual tetraploids are known as well. Although the latter may have resulted from independent introductions, low levels of sexuality in the pentaploids also could account for the origin of tetraploidy in situ as a consequence of the union of diploid gametes, and may account for the occasional spontaneous appearance of midstyled plants in populations of the short-styled pentaploid. Pentaploidy likely resulted from the union of an unreduced gamete of a tetraploid with a haploid gamete of a diploid and presumably developed in South Africa. Since weediness is characteristic of many populations of the native diploids and tetraploids in South Africa, pentaploidy per se cannot be implicated in the origin of weediness, nor is there evidence of any aggressive superiority of the short-styled morph in the sexual races in South Africa. Why the pentaploid is such a successful weed outside South Africa, but apparently less successful as a weed than the diploids and tetraploids within South Africa, is unknown.
25488219|A synoptic treatment of the Tachigali Aubl., including Sclerolobium Vogel, in northern South America (Colombia, Venezuela, Guyana, French Guiana, Suriname, Amazonian Brazil, Ecuador, and Peru) is presented and contains brief descriptions of, and a key to, the 54 species recognized in northern South America. Ten species, T. barnebyi van der Werff, T. bicornuta van der Werff, T. candelabrum van der Werff, T. cenepensis van der Werff, T. chrysaloides van der Werff, T. ferruginea van der Werff, T. fusca van der Werff, T. inconspicua van der Werff, T. loretensis van der Werff, and T. vaupesiana van der Werff, are newly described. Three overlooked names published by Tulasne (T. glauca, T. poeppigiana, and T. richardiana) have been taken up again. One new combination, T. melanocarpa (Ducke) van der Werff, is proposed. Lectotypes are designated for three species, T. alba Ducke, T. melanocarpa, and T. plumbea Ducke. The following species are placed in synonymy: Sclerolobium froesii Pires in T. bracteosa (Harms) Zarucchi & Pipoly; T. tessmannii Harms in T. formicarum Harms; T. myrmecophila (Ducke) Ducke in T. glauca; S. radlkoferi Rusby, S. uleanum Harms, and S. subbullatum Ducke in T. guianensis (Benth.) Zarucchi & Herend.; T. grandiflora Huber, T. ulei Harms, T. rusbyi Harms, and T. pulchra Dwyer in T. paniculata Aubl.; T. sulcata Benoist and T. bracteolata Dwyer in T. richardiana; and T. reticulosa (Dwyer) Zarucchi & Herend. in T. tinctoria (Benth.) Zarucchi & Herend.
10.2307/2399701|A second species of the predominantly South American genus Alonsoa has been found to occur in South Africa, having been incorrectly classified previously as Diascia unilabiata (Linn. f.) Benth. Its correct combination in Alonsoa already exists and is here resurrected, along with a full description and synonymy. Alonsoa unilabiata differs from South American species in having oil-secreting trichomes in shallow corolla sacs and from the other South African species in its annual habit, dilated filaments, and acuminate, bilobed stigma. Flowers of Alonsoa unilabiata are self-compatible, but are usually out-crossed by Rediviva (Melittidae) oil-collecting bees. Differences between Alonsoa and Diascia are discussed.
40732241|Koilodepas Hassk. (Euphorbiaceae) is a genus of nine accepted species ranging from India (K. calycinum Bedd.) to Southwest China, Indochina, Southeast Asia, West Malesia, and New Guinea (K. homaliifolium Airy Shaw). Two species are widespread on the southeastern Asian mainland and in western Malesia (K. bantamense Hassk. and K. longifolium Hook, f.), one species is present from China to Thailand (K. hainanense (Merr.) Croizat), three others (K. brevipes Merr., K. laevigatum Airy Shaw, K. pedinatimi Airy Shaw) are endemic to Borneo, and a new species is found on Sumatra only (K. cordisepalum Weizen & Muzzaz.). The name K. glanduligerum Pax & K. Hoffm. is lectotypified. Typical for the species is the presence of stellately bundled hairs; spicate inflorescences with a single pistillate flower per node basally and more apically tight, globose groups of small staminate flowers per node; and staminate flowers with a broad, short androphore with the typically shaped, sulcate filaments and divergent anthers (K. laevigatum excepted). The species are difficult to distinguish morphologically. Typical characters of the species are found in the leaf margin (serrulate vs. entire), the base of the leaf blade (convex vs. flat), the color of the dried leaves (green or brown), the type of stamens (threadlike filaments vs. sulcate ones), and especially in the calyx and stigmas of the pistillate flowers (sepals free vs. completely united, loose vs. tight around ovary, enlarging in fruit vs. not enlarging in fruit, and degree in which stigmas branch apically).
10.2307/2399161|I concur in the delimitation of the order Myrtales proposed by Dahlgren and Thorne (this symposium), except for the position of the Thymelaeaceae, which they exclude. The Thymelaeaceae are chemically discordant with the Myrtales, but they cannot reasonably be attached to any other order as now constituted. The ancestors of the Thymelaeaceae, at some level, were probably tanniferous as are the modern Myrtales. Thus an evolutionary approach does not require that the Thymelaeaceae be dissociated from the Myrtales because of the chemical differences. Instead we face the question of how best to provide for the admitted differences within the framework of the taxonomic system. I find it more useful to retain the Thymelaeaceae in the Myrtales as a somewhat aberrant group than to establish a satellite order composed of a single family.
40035765|Pollinators have long been implicated in plant speciation. Peter Raven's earlier work was instrumental in integrating foraging energetics of animals into our understanding of how shifts in major pollinators influence the evolutionary diversification of floral traits. More recently, efforts by Raven and others in the area of conservation have inspired pollination biologists to consider the implications of pollinator shifts and losses due to human activities. This paper uses the shift between hummingbird and hawkmoth pollination as a model for exploring impacts of pollinator shifts on plant populations. Recent studies have quantified the degree of reproductive isolation due to such pollinators in several genera. Data from Ipomopsis Michx. further allow us to consider whether recent changes in pollinator regimes have demographic consequences for plant populations. A majority of plant populations may currently suffer from pollen limitations on seed production, but few data exist on the demographic consequences of poor reproduction. In Ipomopsis, reduced seed production due to pollen limitation can impact the number of individuals surviving to reproduce in the next generation. Some populations of I. tenuituba (Rydb.) V. E. Grant are estimated to have finite rates of increase less than unity, which can be explained in part by current low levels of hawkmoth pollination. In the absence of an increase in hawkmoths, selection for wider corolla tubes and other floral traits could, in principle, attract enough hummingbird pollination to result in a growing population, but models show that such evolution by natural selection may leave the population vulnerable to local extinction. We need more studies of the quantitative demographic consequences of changes in pollinator regimes. Such studies should consider how evolutionary changes influence the risk of extinction.
10.2307/2666196|Pollen morphology and ultrastructure of Takhtajania perrieri (Capuron) Baranova & J.-F. Leroy, the Malagasy member of the Winteraceae, were studied and compared with pollen of other members of this primitive angiosperm family. Pollen is in permanent tetrahedral tetrads, which are the largest in the family. As in Drimys and Pseudowintera, the apertures are expanded into protuberant papillae, suggesting premature commencement of growth of the pollen tubes. Apertures are circular or slightly oval, and it is concluded that previous reports of colpate and trichotomocolpate (trichotomosulcate) apertures, based on the study of dried material from the type specimen, are incorrect. The exine is reticulate and tectate-columellate and most columellae have characteristic expanded bases where they join the foot layer. Beneath the foot layer is an endexine and an intine, which is two-layered in apertural areas, as in other Winteraceae. As in some other genera, the aperture is surrounded by an annulus, with an underlying thickened endexine consisting of tangentially aligned lamellae. The septal exine is highly reduced, and small gaps in the ectexine are plugged with endexine, suggesting that pollen mitosis is asynchronous within a tetrad, as in Pseudowintera and Drimys, but in contrast to Belliolum, Bubbia, Exospermum, Tasmannia, and Zygogynum, in which these gaps remain or are blocked by the deposition of intine after pollen mitosis. On the basis of its pollen morphology, Takhtajania seems most closely related to Drimys and Pseudowintera.
10.2307/2399869|Fan si Pan, situated in northern Vietnam near the border with China and reaching an altitude of 3143 m, is the highest mountain in Vietnam. The flora of this mountain and surrounding region is rich, containing a mixture of subtropical and temperate components. It also supports many relictual plant species that possibly represent remnant extensions of the old, subtropical flora of the southern Yunnan Province of China. The flora is diverse and characterized by the following: Aceraceae (Acer); Cupressaceae (Fokienia hodginsii (Dumm) Henry & Thomas); Ericaceae (Rhododendron, Vaccinium); Fagaceae (Castanea, Castanopsis, Fagus, Lithocarpus, Quercus); Juglandaceae (Carya, Engelhardia, Juglans, Platycarya); Lauraceae (Beilschmiedia, Machilus, Phoebe, Neolitsea); Magnoliaceae (Liriodendron, Magnolia, Manglietia, Michelia); and Pinaceae (Abies nukiangensis Cheng & L. K. Fu, Tsuga chinensis (Franch.) Pritz).
10.2307/2399269|Mitotic and meiotic studies were carried out on Urginea altissima with 2n = 22. At pachynema-diakinesis pollen mother cells had 9 (1.61%), 10 (93.9%), or 11 (5.0%) chromosome bodies. Pollen viability was 93.56%. Statistical analysis showed a strong correlation between the proportion of PMCs with (a) 9 bodies and those with anaphase bridges; (b) 10 bodies and those with normal anaphase movements, and pollen viability; and (c) 11 bodies and those with excluded chromosomes. The eleventh homologue was associated with the second largest homologue in the PMCs with 10 bodies. This association is specific and ensures the successful transmission of the eleventh homologue to the spores. Failure of these two homologues to associate always results in the breakdown of normal meiotic behavior. In mitosis, the eleventh pair behaved normally. Hence the correct diploid number is 20 + 2 homologous fragments.
10.2307/2992026|Despite a recent taxonomic treatment of Styrax from North America and the Caribbean, the taxonomy of this genus has remained poorly understood. In an effort to clarify the taxonomy of Styrax from western Texas through Mesoamerica, morphological characteristics of over 2500 specimens from 29 herbaria were examined. The previous treatment emphasized vegetative characters for circumscription, whereas the present revision includes heretofore poorly characterized features of the androecium. This revision comprises 19 species and 24 taxa in the area considered, nearly three times as many species as recognized previously. It includes six new species (S. gentryi, S. incarnatus, S. nicaraguensis, S. radians, S. steyermarkii, S. tuxtlensis), two new subspecies (S. platanifolius subsp. mollis, S. nicaraguensis subsp. ellipsoidalis), three new combinations (S. platanifolius subsp. stellatus, S. platanifolius subsp. texanus, S. platanifolius subsp. youngiae), and two new species names (S. austromexicanus, S. lanceolatus). Two names (S. glabrescens var. pilosus and S. jaliscanus) are lectotypified. Nearly 70% of the species recognized in the revision are narrow endemics. This work has provided the basis for a taxonomic revision of all neotropical Styrax that is currently under way.
40035725|The detailed nature of climatic change over the late Quaternary remains poorly understood for northern and central Mexico. A scarcity of records in the former and great complexity in the latter have hindered a thorough reconstruction of changing environments. Previously published research by Metcalfe et al. highlighted questions relating to conditions at the last glacial maximum (LGM), the nature of the transition from glacial to interglacial conditions, and change over the Holocene, including the role of phenomena such as El Nio-Southern Oscillation (ENSO). Here, data from the Sonoran Desert, the Chihuahuan Desert, and the Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt (TMVB) (and adjacent oceans) are reviewed. In the desert regions, the mid-Pleistocene may have been drier than the late Pleistocene, which was significantly cooler than present and saw more winter precipitation derived from midlatitude frontal systems. There was a significant expansion southward of woodland taxa, although many fossil vegetation assemblages apparently have no modern analogues. Extensive paleolakes existed in the modern desert. Conditions wetter than present persisted into the Holocene, but the modern summer rainfall regime may not have become established until after 9000 uncalibrated radiocarbon-dated years before present (
10.2307/2992041|According to previous authors, the South American genus Cucurbitella (Cucurbitaceae) includes six species, ostensibly separated by several diagnostic characters of dubious value. This study establishes the morphology of foliar primordia, the degree of stamen exsertion, and the shape and size of the petals and hypanthium as the only morphological characters with significant variation among specimens. These characters vary continuously and independently, and any internal partitions would be arbitrary. Thus, Cucurbitella consists of only one polymorphic species: C. asperata (Gillies ex Hook. & Arn.) Walp. The geographic distribution of foliar primordium characters suggests three ecological races, but due to intermediate specimens, these races do not merit formal scientific recognition, and a key to identify them is not included. Cucurbitella ecuadorensis Cogn. is removed from Cucurbitella because the holotype represents Posadaea sphaerocarpa Cogn.
10.2307/2394857|Megaspores and microspores of forty-six species and a presumed hybrid of heterophyllous Selaginellae from Mexico and Central America are described. Characters of the spores are correlated with three major groupings-the articulate group, the non-articulate group, and, within the latter, the group containing those species which curl into a ball when dried. A key based on spore and sporangial characters is included.
10.2307/2399859|Nucleotide data are a restricted character system complex enough to confound phylogenetic analyses yet simple enough to permit establishment of probability models for sequence change and corresponding character-state weighting schemes. We have previously developed a general method for weighting DNA data that is here elaborated for protein-coding sequences. Included in the present model are corrections for (i) multiple substitution events, (ii) transition/transversion bias, and (iii) differential proportions of changes occurring at first, second, and third codon positions. This model is shown to be generally consistent for all phylogenetically useful data. Greater understanding of the properties of equal versus differential character-state weighting comes from consideration of numbers of terminal taxa and lengths of tree segments. With insufficient sampling of taxa, differential weighting attempts to correct for undetected multiple substitution events. Both equal and differential weighting should give the same result if sufficient numbers of terminal taxa permit the detection of historically misleading character-state changes. Nevertheless, spurious attraction of tree segments remains a systematic problem that is not easily resolved either by equal weighting or by our differential weighting model, which acts globally rather than adjusting for different probabilities of character-state change among tree segments. Artifactual segment attraction is best understood in terms of asymmetries in  (which represents state changes per character during a particular segment interval). We relate the consistency index to numbers of terminal taxa and , illustrating its dependence upon numbers of potential tree segments. Prospects for phylogenetic reconstruction from protein-coding nucleotide data are discussed with reference to the robustness of equal weighting (given our own model) with adequate taxonomic sampling.
10.2307/2399449|The Eocene and Oligocene epochs were times of major evolutionary, biogeographic, and vegetational changes in terrestrial plants. From a floristic perspective three major trends characterize this period in the Rocky Mountain region: 1) development of more distinct phytogeographic provinces from a relatively homogeneous Paleocene holarctic flora, 2) the early diversification in Eocene upland areas of presently important temperate families, and 3) the first appearances of many extant angiosperm genera and disappearance of many typically Cretaceous and Paleocene forms. From a vegetational perspective there are two strong trends. Initially there was an early Eocene spread of broad-leaved, evergreen forest to high northern latitudes (60
40389935|Distictella Kuntze is a genus of 18 species in the tribe Bignonieae. The species are lianas or less frequently shrubs, and can be recognized by their terete branchlets without interpetiolar glandular fields; usually bifoliolate or less frequently unifoliolate or trifoliolate leaves, often with a trifid terminal tendril; terminal or less frequently lateral inflorescences; usually glandular, campanulate,  truncate calyces; tubular-infundibular or tubular-campanulate, strongly curved corollas that are white or less frequently purple, often with a yellow throat, pubescent externally and usually internally; ovaries and styles sericeous and poorly demarcated; woody capsules that are non-echinate, and often with both valves convex (slightly compressed) or one convex and one concave and the fruits curving; and bialate seeds (wings sometimes greatly reduced), brown to black, irregularly ridged, and glabrous. Relationships with similar genera are discussed, and a key to the species of Distictella, species descriptions, and species distribution maps are provided. The relationships of the species are also discussed, and a new species, D. lohmanniae A. Pool, and new variety, D. racemosa (Bureau & K. Schum.) Urb. var. translucida A. Pool, are proposed. Bignonia rusbyi Britton ex Rusby, Distictis angusti/olia K. Schum. ex Sprague, Distictella lutescens C. V. Freire & A. Samp., and Distictella negrensis C. V. Freire & A. Samp, are presented as new synonyms of Distictella racemosa var. racemosa. Distictella broadwayana Urb. is presented as a new synonym of Distictella racemosa var. translucida, and a lectotype is designated for Distictis racemosa Bureau & K. Schum.
10.2307/2394999|Two sections, 12 species, and one form from the neotropics are described as new to the Rubiaceae. These include Faramea sect. Integrisepta, F. sect. Uniflora, Chomelia chambersii, C. psilocarpa, Dukea trifoliata, Faramea persistisepta, F platycarpa, F. talamancarum, F. acutifolia, F. uniflora, Psychotria gatunensis, P. ostaurea, P. woytkowskii, Rondeletia dukei, R. hameliifolia, and Rudgea horquetensis. In addition, the range of Faramea trinervia is extended to include Panama.
10.2307/2399226|Fossil reproductive bracts of Berriochloa, Nassella, and Paleoeriocoma of the tribe Stipeae, Archaeoleersia of the tribe Oryzeae, and Panicum of the tribe Paniceae (Gramineae) were collected from late Oligocene-Miocene strata in central North America, examined, and compared with modern taxa. One objective of these studies was to elucidate the evolution and possible adaptive significance of bract features. Berriochloa, the oldest known grass, appears in late Oligocene-early Miocene strata, where it has an indurate, cylindrical anthoecium (lemma and palea collectively) and an elongated, pointed callus. From early Miocene forms of Berriochloa two mid-late Miocene lineages evolved, one retaining a cylindrical anthoecium and the other developing a prominently inflated anthoecium. Both lineages retained the elongated, pointed callus. Paleoeriocoma, Nassella, Archaeoleersia, and Panicum first appear in the late Miocene with anthoecia similar to those of living taxa. The indurate anthoecium of the fossil and related living grasses probably evolved primarily as an adaptation to mammals and insects that use grasses as food. Related living taxa show adaptive mechanisms similar to those of the fossils, although some features such as the strongly interlocking bracts and blunt callus of some species of Piptochaetium are a post Miocene development.
10.2307/2399548|The origins of a population of the hybrid fern Polystichum x potteri (P. acrostichoides x P. braunii) were explored through an examination of restriction fragment length polymorphisms in chloroplast DNA. We demonstrate that the hybrid individuals in this population each had one of the two possible parental chloroplast genomes. This result documented recurrent hybridization in the population, whereas isozymes and morphological data did not. As expected, the hybrids combined the length polymorphisms in ribosomal DNA detected in each parent. We suggest that inferences from chloroplast DNA data about evolution in lineages rich in hybrid species can be biased by inheritance of two chloroplast genomes in three or more different descendants of a paleopolyploid species.
40389932|Over 19 species and numerous infraspecific taxa have been described in the Syringa pubescens Turcz. complex (Oleaceae), and the taxonomy of this complex has been controversial. To provide a rational taxonomic revision of the complex, field observations were undertaken across China and 14 populations were sampled. The principal coordinate and principal components analyses and general statistical analysis evaluate the significance of characters for taxonomy. As a result, one species is recognized, with three subspecies: Syringa pubescens subsp. pubescens Turcz., subspecies microphylla (Diels) M. C. Chang & X. L. Chen, and subspecies patula (Palib.) M. C. Chang & X. L. Chen. Syringa meyeri C. K. Schneid, is treated as a new synonym of S. pubescens subsp. pubescens, and 5. julianae C. K. Schneid, and S. meyeri var. spontanea M. C. Chang as new synonyms of S. pubescens subsp. microphylla. Lectotypes for S. microphylla Diels, S. dielsiana C. K. Schneid., and S. venosa Nakai are designated here.
3298516| Two new endemic species of Solanum sect. Geminata are described from Peru: Solanum sumacaspi, from the high-elevation forests in the area around Cusco and Macchu Picchu in southern Peru, and S. naucinum, from montane forests around the Yanachaga-Chemilln National Park in the Department of Pasco. Solanum sumacaspi had been confused with the Bolivian S. daphnophyllum Bitter; its differences from that species are detailed and its species group membership within the section discussed. Solanum naucinum is a rare species, similar to a restricted set of other extremely rare taxa (the Solanum dolosum species group of Knapp) distributed from Colombia to Bolivia; its differences and key characters are discussed in relation to the Solanum dolosum species group of section Geminata. The species are illustrated and their conservation status discussed. 
10.2307/2399970|Pavetta subg. Baconia (Rubiaceae tribe Pavetteae) is a group of forest shrubs in tropical and subtropical Africa. It includes species of Pavetta with bearded corolla throats, corolla tubes usually shorter than corolla lobes, terete or subterete style tips, and fruits usually of colors other than black. Cameroon is a major center of diversity for subgenus Baconia, and the Cameroon species are revised here. Twenty-nine species are recognized, including eleven newly described; five previously recognized species are placed in synonymy. Seven series used earlier to subdivide subgenus Baconia have been abandoned owing to inconstancy of character states used to delimit most of them. Sixteen Cameroon species are presently unreported from elsewhere. Infraspecific taxa are recognized in seven of the twenty-nine species. Aspects of leaf morphology are useful taxonomically. An overview is provided of these, other aspects of morphology, habitat preferences, and reproductive strategies. Habitat preferences, distributions, and distinguishing features follow descriptions of each species.
10.2307/2992008|Asteraceae are the largest family of dicotyledonous plants and have long been known for their taxonomic complexity. The ubiquitous parallelisms in morphology within the family have made phylogenetic reconstruction and tribal circumscription an area of long debate. In this study we explored the utility of using two relatively short non-coding chloroplast DNA sequences, the trnL intron and trnL/trnF intergenic spacer, to resolve phylogenetic relationships among the tribes. The results of the phylogenetic analysis produced trees that are topologically congruent with prior phylogenetic hypotheses based on both morphological and molecular data sets. The Asteroideae are a monophyletic group, but the Cichorioideae are paraphyletic. The primary clades of the Cichorioideae are the Mutisieae-Cardueae, Liabeae-Vernonieae, and of the Asteroideae, the Inuleae-Plucheeae, Astereae-Anthemideae, Senecioneae-Gnaphalieae, and the helianthoid clade (Helenieae, Heliantheae s. str., and Eupatorieae). The Inuleae-Plucheeae clade is sister to the remainder of the Asteroideae, and the paraphyly of the Inuleae s.l. (Gnaphalieae, Inuleae s. str., and Plucheeae) is firmly supported by our analysis. Our study illustrates the utility of the trnL intron and trnL/F intergenic spacer for resolving relationships among tribes of the Asteraceae. Using approximately 874 bp, we were able to produce a phylogeny of comparable resolution to phylogenies based on well-known coding regions such as rbcL and ndhF. For phylogenetic inference at the family level the trnL intron and trnL/F spacer provide similar levels of resolution to longer coding sequences (e.g., rbcL, ndhF), while having the advantage of being much easier to amplify and sequence due to their short lengths and universal primers. The numerous insertions and deletions commonly found in this region are easily aligned and are phylogenetically informative, thus adding considerably to the information content per base pair sequenced.
10.2307/2399139|Leaf architecture and epidermal morphology of 259 species representing 51 genera in the Phyllanthoideae (Euphorbiaceae) vary in a taxonomically significant way. Most tribes are relatively homogeneous and well defined, with most exceptions being tribes containing herbaceous or highly xerophytic genera. Tribes that are generally considered to be closely related have similar leaves. Increase in venational organization correlates with specialization in floral morphology. Foliar morphology also indicates genera whose relationships warrant reconsideration, particularly Celianella, Croizatia, Didymocistus, Jablonskia, Neowawraea, and Uapaca. Theoid teeth and incipient or vestigial actinodromy support placement of Euphorbiaceae near the Violales in the Dilleniidae, rather than in the Rosidae.
10.2307/2399373|Two new species, C. montesii and C. delascioi, are described from Guarico, Venezuela. Both species have multiple, sessile, headlike inflorescences. Calyptrocarya delascioi is the first species in the genus with elongated rhizomes. Calyptrocarya montesii is the second species in the genus with three stigmas. A detailed discussion of inflorescence morphology is presented, demonstrating that compound male and female spikelets are borne in separate inflorescence units in all species of the genus.
40035660|South American taxa of Mentzelia L. (Loasaceae) are revised and morphologically and ecologically characterized on the basis of extensive field studies, cultivation of several taxa, and a revision of over 1000 herbarium specimens (over 550 collections). On the basis of this study, a total of 14 taxa in eight species and six subspecies are recognized: M. albescens (Gillies ex Arn.) Griseb., M. aspera L., M. bartonioides (C. Presl) Urb. & Gilg, M. heterosepala Weigend & E. Rodr., M. parvifolia Urb. & Gilg ex Kurtz, and M. scabra Kunth, plus the two new species M. sericea Weigend (northern Peru) and M. angurate Weigend (central Peru). The latter are segregated from M. scabra, which is redefined. Mentzelia scabra is subdivided into six subspecies: one represents the autonym (subsp. scabra, Colombia), four are new status and combinations (subsp. cordobensis (Urb. & Gilg ex Kurtz) Weigend [Argentina], subsp. grandiflora (Ruiz & Pav.) Weigend [coastal Peru], subsp. atacamensis (Urb. & Gilg) Weigend [northern Chile], subsp. chilensis (Gay) Weigend [Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Chile, Bolivia]), and one is a new subspecies (subsp. boliviana Weigend [Bolivia]). Lectotypes are designated for M. andina Urb. & Gilg, M. cordifolia Dombey ex Urb. & Gilg, M. fragilis Huber, M. grisebachii Urb. & Gilg, M. parvifolia, M. scabra subsp. atacamensis, M. scabra subsp. chilensis, M. soratensis Urb. & Gilg, and M. scabra subsp. cordobensis. The following taxa are newly synonymized: M. pinnatifida (Phil.) Urb. & Gilg (= M. bartonioides), M. jujuyensis Sleumer and M. parvifolia var. transient Sleumer (= M. parvifolia), M. cordifolia (= M. scabra subsp. grandiflora), and M. fendleriana Urb. & Gilg, M. ignea (Phil.) Urb. & Gilg, and M. soratensis (= M. scabra subsp. chilensis). Taxon delimitations in M. scabra and its allies have traditionally been based on stamen number, petiole length, petal length, leaf subdivision, seed morphology, and density of trichome cover on stem, all of which are of limited systematic usefulness. Taxa are redefined here primarily on the basis of trichome characters on the ovary, a rather conservative (within and between populations) and readily observed character complex, and additionally on the basis of growth habit, presence or absence of persistent bark, and, at an infraspecific level, fruit shape and petal length. Mentzelia parvifolia from southern Peru is reported here for the first time.
10.2307/2398812|The beginnings of plant and animal husbandry are lost in antiquity. It is not possible to determine from the available archaeological record when plant domestication was initiated. Changes in phenotype, however, known to be associated with cereal species under domestication, and preserved in the archaeological record indicate that growing crops was an established way of life some 10,000 years ago. There are four major domesticated cereal complexes. Three evolved in the Old World and one in the New World. Wheat, barley, rye and oats are Near Eastern cereals, and spread across Eurasia early during the history of agriculture. Rice is the principal cereal of South Asia, sorghum and pearl millet the major cereals of the African savanna, and maize is a domesticate of Mesoamerica. Why the shift from hunter-gatherer to settled agriculturist occurred during the culture history of man is not known. Food production may have been initiated when man was faced with a gradual reduction in productivity of effort required to maintain accepted standards of living, traditional group size, and social organization. Once initiated, population pressures in particular will tend to demand agriculture. Hunter-gatherers live in equilibrium with the environment and have little lasting effects on nature. Farming, by its very nature, destroys the natural environment. Habitats are permanently altered, and a return to hunting and food gathering becomes impossible. Survival of civilized man has become absolutely dependent on cereal agriculture. Overpopulation, depletion of resources, planetary pollution, and the social ills of cities are penalties we have to pay for the pleasures of an abundant and stable food supply.
10.2307/2399160|The suggested affinities of the New World tropical genus Alzatea have included eight families in five orders since its discovery in the eighteenth century. Until recently, knowledge of the genus has been superficial, primarily limited to macromorphological features. Now evidence assembled from recently published and current research in anatomy, embryology, morphology, palynology, and cladistics of Alzatea and closely related genera allows a more accurate assessment of its relationships. Presence of internal phloem and vestured pitting place the genus in the order Myrtales, while stem and nodal anatomy suggest no close affinities to any one family of the order. Embryologically, Alzatea is unique in Myrtales in having a bisporic Allium-type embryo sac, and shares only with the related genus Rhynchocalyx micropylar development by the inner integument. Pollen features are very generalized, relegating the genus to an ancestral position with respect to the pollen of close associates. Parietal placentation and transeptal vascular supply of the ovary and anatomically simple seed relate Alzatea to Rhynchocalyx (Rhynchocalycaceae) and genera of the Crypteroniaceae sensu stricto, Crypteronia, Axinandra, and Dactylocladus. Alzatea is most similar to Rhynchocalyx, sharing 27 of 43 selected attributes, followed by Crypteronia with which it shares 18 of 43 listed features. Differences between Alzatea and Rhynchocalyx are deemed sufficient to justify establishment of the family Alzateaceae. Plants of Alzatea with large, sessile leaves from Central America are recognized as A. verticillata subsp. amplifolia S. A. Graham, subsp. nov.
10.2307/3298631|Since Robert Brown split the Asclepiadaceae out of Jussieu's Apocynaceae nearly 200 years ago, these two groups have traditionally been maintained as two separate but closely related families, despite some dissention among specialists. Over the past 15 years, a wealth of new data, especially that generated by molecular and cladistic studies, supports earlier results based on morphology, that the traditional classification is artificial in various aspects and at several hierarchical levels. In many cases convergence and classifications based mainly on a single character have long led us astray, and in part, we have been reluctant to relinquish long-cherished ideas. However, the biggest changes are due to new concepts such as clades, monophyly, and paraphyly, which were not around in Brown's day, and which have fundamentally changed the way we perceive taxonomic relationships today. The collection of papers presented here are based on the papers and posters presented at the symposium "Evolution and Phylogenetics of the Apocynaceae s.l.," a part of the 16th International Botanical Congress held in 1999 in St. Louis, Missouri. They provide a representative cross section of the most recent findings, touching on all higher taxonomic levels, and based on a variety of different techniques, of this complex and fascinating group.
3298551| A taxonomic revision of Elaphoglossum in the Mascarene Islands (southwest Indian Ocean) is presented here based on a treatment written for the Flore des Mascareignes. Seventeen species are recognized for the islands of Mauritius and Runion. Of these species, seven are endemic. The non-endemic species also occur in Madagascar, Africa, or the Paleotropics in general. In addition, five natural interspecific hybrids (nothospecies) occur in the Mascarenes. Two lectotypes are designated for the name Acrostichum inversum and are referred pro parte to E. acrostichoides and E. angulatum. /// Une rvision taxinomique d'Elaphoglossum des les Mascareignes (sud-ouest de l'Ocan Indien) est prsente ici, fonde sur un traitement crit pour la Flore des Mascareignes. Dix-sept espces dont sept endmiques sont reconnues pour les les de Maurice et de La Runion. Les espces non-endmiques se trouvent galement  Madagascar, en Afrique, ou dans les Palotropiques en gnral. De plus, cinq hybrides interspcifiques naturels (notho-espce) sont prsents dans les Mascareignes. Deux lectotypes sont dsigns pour le nom Acrostichum inversum et sont attribus pro parte  E. acrostichoides and E. angulatum. 
10.2307/2399601|Three new species of Chusquea from the upper montane forests of the Cordillera de Talamanca in Costa Rica are described and illustrated. Chusquea tomentosa and C. subtilis belong to Chusquea sect. Longifoliae L. G. Clark and are closely related to C. foliosa L. G. Clark. The third species, C. talamancensis, is a member of Chusquea sect. Swallenochloa (McClure) L. G. Clark and shows similarities to both C. tonduzii Hackel and C. vulcanalis (Soderstrom & C. Calderon) L. G. Clark. Revised keys to the species of sect. Longifoliae and sect. Swallenochloa in Costa Rica are provided.
40035749|Phylogenetic relationships between derived subfamilies of Apocynaceae s.l. as well as within the subfamily Secamonoideae have been inferred using maximum parsimony and Bayesian analyses. Characters are provided by four chloroplast sequences: matK, trnT-L and trnL-F spacers, and trnL intron. Phylogenies from both analyses show a sister group relationship between a clade of derived Apocynoideae included in the subtribe Baisseinae (tribe Apocyneae) and another clade including representatives from the Secamonoideae and Asclepiadoideae. Within the Secamonoideae, two genera, Pervillaea Decne. and Secamonopsis Jum., are strongly supported as monophyletic, whereas the monophyly of the largest genus, Secamone R. Br., remains uncertain. Palynological and morphological characters are discussed for the Malagasy Secamone in relation to one of the most parsimonious molecular trees.
40035667|In recent years most systematics studies have focused on phylogenetic analyses of molecular data sets. The latest trend has been to add molecular dating to these phylogenies utilizing methods such as nonparametric rate smoothing (NPRS) and penalized likelihood (PL) and calibrating these analyses using (often only one or very few) fossils. The success of such approaches is dependent on several assumptions, including a local clocklike behavior of evolution, the accuracy of the phylogeny, the correct phylogenetic placement of fossils, and the consistency of particular fossils in extrapolating rates throughout a given phylogenetic tree. An example of such an analysis of the Nymphaeales is provided to illustrate inappropriate use of fossils in this context and faulty results based on inadequate and/or inappropriate analyses. Neither fossil identifications nor a particular method of molecular dating should be called into question based on the disparity of a single analysis. Indeed, fossil observations and molecular dating are often at odds due to failure of the data to meet minimum assumptions of a clocklike behavior and poor or inadequate sampling of extant taxa, molecular sequence data, and/or fossils. Rejection or acceptance of either the fossils or the molecular dates resulting from their use should be considered in light of direct analysis of the fossils and compared to other analyses using other fossils and/or other extant data sets. Rejection of fossils based on unexpected results is merely verificationism.
10.2307/2399287|Systematic and biological characteristics of Rhizophoraceae and Anisophylleaceae are detailed. Comparison of a wide variety of vegetative and reproductive characters reveals virtually no points of agreement between the two families. Characters such as the basically diplostemonous androecium are of such wide occurrence in choripetalous dicotyledons as to be phylogenetically insignificant. One apomorphy found in both families, divided or appendiculate petal margins, occurs in several unrelated families also and is judged to be a homoplasy. Cladistic analysis of Rhizophoraceae shows that, not surprisingly, information now in hand about most Macarisieae is inadequate to resolve the relationships of the genera and clades of this tribe. The remainder of the proposed phylogenetic tree is very robust and shows that, as traditionally circumscribed, tribe Gynotrocheae is paraphyletic. Carallia is evidently the inland genus most closely related to the mangroves. Bruguiera, although characterized by several remarkable autapomorphies, is the most primitive of the mangrove genera, and Rhizophora is the most derived.
10.2307/2395096|Cissus pseudosicyoides is described as new. The species ranges from Costa Rica to Colombia. Though it has been confused in the herbarium with C. sicyoides L., it is probably more closely related to C. biformifolia Standley with which it shares dimorphic leaves and appressed T-shaped trichomes. It is most easily distinguished from C. sicyoides by having minute puberulence on most parts with occasional T-shaped trichomes and by having pubescent pedicels. It is distinguished from C. biformifolia by being densely puberulent and by having smaller greenish flower buds and smaller fruits.
3298570|The revision of Metastelma (Apocynaceae-Asclepiadoideae) in southwestern North America and Central America (excluding the Caribbean) is based on field observations and study of herbarium specimens. Sixteen species are recognized (two of these split into two subspecific units, two into three subspecific units). Two new taxa, M. barbigerum var. veracruzense and M. schlechtendalii var. arenicola, are described. Two former species are reduced to subspecific rank (M. arizonicum subsp. chiapense and M. californicum subsp. lanceolatum) and two to varietal rank (M. barbigerum var. liesneriana and M. schlechtendalii var. trichophyllum). One taxon (M. turneri) is raised from varietal to species rank. Four new synonyms are recognized: Ditassa mexicana as synonym to M. californicum subsp. lanceolatum, M. infimicola as synonym to M. eliasianum, M. macropodum as synonym to M. palmeri, and M. multiflorum as synonym to M. schaffneri. The morphology of the North and Central American species of Metastelma, as well as habitats, distribution, and phenology, are described. In addition to the taxonomic descriptions, illustrations and distribution maps are presented for each species.
10.2307/2399220|Hybridization is an important part of the evolutionary history of flowering plants. If hybridization has occurred among the species of a taxon under cladistic analysis the results are varied but always present additional difficulties. Hybridization results in incongruent intersecting data that obscure the underlying hierarchy. Guidelines and methods are examined for their usefulness in identifying possible hybrids in a cladistic study. Seven genera are analyzed cladistically and the resulting cladograms examined for possible hybrids. These hypotheses of hybridization are then compared to other data, such as distribution and cytology, to see if the hypotheses of hybridization are supported or rejected. The more hybrids an analysis contains and the more complex the interactions, the more difficult it becomes to identify possible hybrids and their parents.
10.2307/2398928| Ludwigia sect. Myrtocarpus (Onagraceae), hitherto taken in an inclusive sense, is here divided into seven sections, all confined to or centering in South America. Four of these sections--Amazonia (L. densiflora), Heterophylla (L. inclinata), Humboldtia (L. sedoides), and Tectiflora (L. latifolia)--are monotypic and of uncertain relationship to one another and to the other portions of the genus, although it is possible that Tectiflora is related to one of the more generalized groups into which sect. Myrtocarpus is here divided. The remaining three sections, Myrtocarpus s. str., Michelia, and Pterocaulon, do seem to be interrelated to one another and to the ditypic African sect. Africana, but their similarity is based mainly upon their retention of generalized features. The least specialized section of the genus is sect. Myrtocarpus s. str., but the only section of this part of the genus in which genetic self-incompatibility is retained is sect. Michelia. 
10.2307/2992029|Eleusine (Poaceae) comprises four annual and five perennial species, which are primarily East African except for the vicariant E. tristachya, a widely distributed species in South and Central America. Taxonomic difficulties in the genus have been attributed to active speciation in the early stages. Eleusine includes an allotetraploid African and Indian cereal, E. coracana subsp. coracana, a taxon with an incompletely resolved origin. Chloroplast DNA restriction site variation is used here to elucidate the phylogenetic relationships among species of Eleusine, assess the affinity of E. multiflora to the genus, and provide additional input into the origin of polyploid E. coracana. Chloroplast DNA data confirm the monophyly of the annuals E. coracana, E. indica, and E. tristachya and support the inclusion of the annual E. multiflora in the genus as a separate entity. The perennial species appeared paraphyletic. Information from the chloroplast genome is in general agreement with previous molecular, biochemical, and cytogenetical studies on the genus. The present investigation provides additional support for the origin of the crop from the tetraploid E. coracana subsp. africana and substantiates the monophyly of the two subspecies of E. coracana and E. indica. Evidence presented points to the African origin of the vicariant E. tristachya and an earlier introduction to and further differentiation in South America.
10.2307/2399169|Three leaf flavonoids are reported from the Alzateaceae, a monotypic family of the New World tropics. Two are flavonol 3-O-glycosides: quercetin 3-O-glucoside and quercetin 3-O-diglucoside. The third is tentatively identified as 5,4'dihydroxy flavone. The presence of these flavonols is consistent with the position of Alzatea in the Myrtales. The profile differs from the common pattern of the order in absence of myricetin and is further distinguished by absence of C-glycoflavones and the presence of a flavone, supporting the segregation of Alzatea as a distinct family within the Myrtales. More specific relationships with taxa in the order cannot be suggested on this biochemical evidence because of the widespread occurrence of flavonols in the Myrtales.
42703715|The second conference of the Global Partnership for Plant Conservation (CPPC) was organized by the GPPC, in association with the Secretariat of the Convention on Biological Diversity (SCBD) and Botanic Gardens Conservation International (BGCI). This general meeting was hosted by the Missouri Botanical Garden and was held 57 July 2011, in St. Louis, Missouri.
40035498|We studied the floral biology of five North American members of Oenothera L. sect. Lavauxia (Spach) Endl. (Onagraceae L.) in field and common greenhouse settings. Oenothera sect. Lavauxia floral morphology ranges from small, cleistogamous flowers (O. flava subsp. flava (A. Nels.) Garrett in Garrett) to some of the longest-tubed flowers in North America (O. flava subsp. taraxacoides (Wooton & Standl.) W. L. Wagner). Our goal was to compare qualitative and quantitative aspects of floral advertisement and reward among taxa in section Lavauxia. All taxa are night-blooming and self-compatible, have yellow petals with ultraviolet reflectance, and produce floral scents dominated by nitrogenous compounds and monoterpenes. Methyl nicotinate is present in the fragrances of all taxa of section Lavauxia regardless of flower size or putative mating system. Because this floral volatile is largely absent from other Oenothera species, we hypothesize that it is a synapomorphy for section Lavauxia. The rare O. acutissima W. L. Wagner, which is endemic to the Uintah Mountains, is polymorphic for odors dominated by linalool- or ocimene-derived compounds. Field observations in its type locality in northeastern Utah, U.S.A., revealed frequent floral visitation by crepuscular hawkmoths during the first 1.5 hours after anthesis, a pattern common to O. flava subsp. taraxacoides and other large-flowered Oenothera throughout western North America. Quantitative aspects of floral advertisement (flower size, scent emission) and reward (nectar volume) are dramatically reduced in putatively autogamous taxa (O. flava subsp. flava, O. triloba Nutt.), whereas qualitative aspects (flower color, scent, and nectar chemistry) remain comparable. All taxa could be distinguished through ordination of characters related to flower size, herkogamy, and scent chemistry. Extreme nectar tube length variation across the range of O. flava renders this an excellent model system for measuring the costs and mechanisms of shifts between outcrossing and autogamy.
10.2307/2399201|Nine new species are described and one new combination is made in the family Leguminosae for the Flora de Nicaragua. One of the new species belongs to the subfamily Mimosoideae (Pithecellobium campylacanthus) and the others to the Papilionoideae, of which five belong to the tribe Millettieae (Lonchocarpus ferrugineus, L. monticolus, L. morenoi, L. pilosus, and L. verrucosus) and three to the Robineae (Coursetia apantensis, C. elliptica, and C. paucifoliolata). The single new combination is made in the genus Lonchocarpus (L. acuminatus) and represents a poorly understood but widespread species.
10.2307/2398924|Native Australasian Iridaceae are poorly known cytologically with only Libertia, x = 19, well studied. In other genera Patersonia is shown to have n = 11 (not 12 as previously reported), 21 and 31, Diplarrhena has n = 15-16, and Orthrosanthus laxus, a high polyploid, n = 75-80. The only non-African species of Dietes, D. robinsoniana, from Lord Howe Island, has n = 10 which agrees with x = 10 known for the African species. An artificial hybrid D. robinsoniana \times D. iridioides also has n = 10. Affinities of the Autralasian Iridaceae are discussed in relation to the cytology and morphology.
10.2307/2395198|Palynological data emphasize the presence of two distinctive provinces during the Late Cretaceous, one including eastern North America and Europe and a second including the major part of Asia and western North America. The distinction between these two provinces became increasingly blurred during the Paleogene. During the Eocene, the ram forests of both Europe and western North America shared numerous genera, both extinct and extant. The great majority of the latter and most of the closest extant relatives of the former now occur in the Indomalayan region. It is thus clear that much of the present Indomalayan flora represents a relict of a once widespread Northern Hemisphere tropical (s.l.) flora, one that has largely (but not entirely) been eliminated from the New World. Among the possible New World survivors of this boreotropical flora are some of the dry Caribbean genera, which could have been derived from lineages of the dry tropical vegetation of the Gulf Coast Eocene; only a handful of present Neotropical lowland rain forest genera appear to be boreotropical relicts.
10.2307/2399915|Pollen morphology was surveyed in 57 of the 60 genera of Lamioideae and Pogostemonoideae sensu Cantino et al. and two genera of uncertain subfamilial affinities: Anisomeles and Eurysolen. Pollen in all Pogostemonoideae, most Lamioideae, Anisomeles, and Eurysolen is tricolpate with suprareticulate sculpturing. Variants found in a few genera of Lamioideae include tetracolpate and hexapantocolpate pollen and psilate, granulate, and rugulate sculpturing. Most species in which pollen was examined in section have simple columellae, but seemingly branched columellae were observed in Gomphostemma, Chelonopsis, and one species of Stenogyne. With regard to the genera of uncertain affinities, the findings presented here support a relationship between Anisomeles and Pogostemon; the position of Eurysolen remains unclear. Within subfamily Lamioideae, pollen morphology supports the segregation of Lamiophlomis, Lagopsis, and Phlomidoschema from Phlomis, Marrubium, and Stachys, respectively. Hexapantocolpate pollen is hypothesized to be a synapomorphy of Sideritis section Empedoclea. Similarities in pollen sculpturing were noted between Brazoria, Macbridea, and Physostegia, and between Galeopsis and Synandra.
40035744|This issue of the "Annals of the Missouri Botanical Garden" is devoted to advances in the Apocynaceae s.l. and is based on the symposium, "Recent Progress in the Systematics of Apocynaceae," held at the XVII International Botanical Congress in Vienna in 2005. The collection of papers presented here spans the phylogenetic and geographic breadth of the family and includes at least one study focused on representatives from each of the five subfamilies: Rauvolfioideae, Apocynoideae, Periplocoideae, Secamonoideae, and Asclepiadoideae. The papers range from higher-level phylogenetic analyses to more narrowly defined case studies and include new results in phylogenetics, taxonomy, biogeography, pollination biology, and a pharmacophagous plant-butterfly interaction involving pyrrolizidine alkaloids, as well as a new hypothesis for the evolution of pollinia and loss of a compitum in some advanced taxa. An updated classification scheme of the Apocynaceae is presented, with one additional tribe recognized in Rauvolfioideae (the Aspidospermeae) and three in Apocynoideae (the Nerieae and Odontadenieae as well as the Baisseeae, which are elevated in rank here). In Asclepiadoideae, seven subtribes are recognized within Asclepiadeae (the Asclepiadinae, Cynanchinae, Tylophorinae, Metastelmatinae, Orthosiinae, Oxypetalinae, and Gonolobinae) and four within Ceropegieae (the Anisotominae, Leptadeniinae, Heterostemminae, and Stapeliinae). Taken together, the papers here present the most up-to-date overview of the family available at this time.
10.2307/2394878|The present paper deals with certain aspects of morphology and anatomy of the Saururaceae. Floral anatomy and embryology suggest a close relationship among the genera. In floral anatomy the genus Saururus is the least specialized and Anemopsis the most highly specialized. Structure and morphology of inflorescence and also flower suggest the manifestation of certain evolutionary trends, probably guided by reduction, cohesion and adnation. Origin of inferior ovary in the Saururaceae is discussed. Carpels and nature of placentation show certain primitive features. Origin and evolution from apocarpous condition to syncarpous condition of carpels are briefly discussed. Further details will be presented in a separate paper. M. V. S. Raju, Department of Biology, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada.
10.2307/2399247|Maize (Zea mays L. subsp. mays) and its wild relatives, the teosintes (Zea spp.) have been considered by many authors to be undergoing substantial reciprocal introgression. While there is evidence that some maize populations contain teosinte germplasm, the evidence for maize introgression into teosinte has been largely circumstantial. A re-consideration of the evidence for maize introgression into teosinte proved it wanting. Red sheath color, large grain size, triangular fruitcase shape, and the presence of internal chromosome knobs, all characters attributed to maize introgression into teosinte, appear rather to reflect the adaptation of particular teosinte populations to the exigencies of specific habitats. Apparently, the taxa of teosinte have remained relatively free of long-lasting maize contamination at least in respect to those characters that affect the survival of teosinte in the wild. Low-level introgression from maize to teosinte, although possible, remains undocumented.
10.2307/2399945|As revised here, Discocarpus is interpreted to consist of three neotropical species: D. essequeboensis Klotzsch, D. gentryi S. M. Hayden, which is described and named herein as new to science, and D. spruceanus Mull. Arg. One previously accepted name, D. brasiliensis Klotzsch ex Mull. Arg., is reduced to synonymy of D. essequeboensis. Lectotypes are proposed for the two species previously described. One species is newly excluded from Discocarpus, as are three others, following previous literature. Foliar anatomy is described with a focus on epidermal sclereids, which are shown to occur on both epidermides. Evidence presented supports close relationships with Lachnostylis Turcz, and Amanoa Aubl.; little was found to support previous hypotheses concerning a relationship with Chonocentrum Pierre ex Pax & K. Hoffm.
10.2307/2399062|Seeds of a range of species of Hesperantha were examined with light and scanning electron microscope (SEM) and compared with three species of the most closely related genus, Geissorhiza. A turbinate to globose shape with a persistent funicle and a testa of uncontorted epidermal cells with smooth surfaces is apparently the basic seed type. Modifications of the basic type include increasing compression and a triangular or more or less irregular shape, sometimes accompanied by wrinkling and crumpling of the epidermal cells, and the development of dual tails and wings. This is most marked within Hesperantha sect. Radiata (but not H. marlothii of the section), where these modifications are accompanied by reduction in seed size. Wing-like structures are also developed within sections Hesperantha (H. spicata and H. cedarmontana) and Concentrica (H. fibrosa) but in both of these groups without accompanying crumpling of the epidermal cells, which coincidentally have developed rough surfaces.
10.2307/2399952|Parsimony analyses were conducted for 223 species representing all major groups of angiosperms using entire 18S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) sequences. Although no search swapped to completion, the topologies recovered are highly concordant with those retrieved via broad analyses based on the chloroplast gene rbcL. The general congruence of 18S rDNA and rbcL topologies further clarifies the broad picture of angiosperm phylogeny. In all analyses, the first-branching angiosperms are Amborellaceae, Austrobaileyaceae, Illiciaceae, and Schisandraceae, all woody magnoliids. These taxa are always followed by the paleoherb family Nymphaeaceae. This same general order of early-branching taxa is preserved with several suites of outgroups. In most searches, the remaining early-branching taxa represent Piperales and other orders of subclass Magnoliidae (sensu Cronquist). With the exception of Acorus, the monocots are supported as monophyletic and typically have as their sister Ceratophyllum. In most analyses, taxa with uniaperturate pollen form a grade at the base of the angiosperms; a large eudicot clade is composed primarily of taxa having triaperturate pollen. Two large subclades are present within the eudicots, one consisting largely of Rosidae and a second corresponding closely to Asteridae sensu lato. Subclasses Dilleniidae and Hamamelidae are highly polyphyletic. These data sets of 18S rDNA sequences also permit an analysis of the patterns of molecular evolution of this gene. Problems deriving from both the prevalence of indels and uncertain alignment of 18S rDNA sequences have been overstated in previous studies. With the exception of a few well-defined regions, insertions and deletions are relatively uncommon in 18S rDNA; sequences are therefore easily aligned by eye across the angiosperms. Indeed, several indels in highly conserved regions appear to be phylogenetically informative. Initial analyses suggest that both stem and loop bases are important sources of phylogenetic information, although stem positions are prone to compensatory substitutions. Of the stem changes analyzed, only 27% destroy a base-pairing couplet; 73% maintain or restore base pairing.
42703723|Target 2 of the 2020 Global Strategy for Plant Conservation (GSPC) calls for a comprehensive list of the world's threatened plant species. The lack of such a list is one of the greatest impediments to protecting the full complement of the world's plant species, and work to achieve this has been slow. An efficient system for identifying those species that are at risk of extinction could help to achieve this goal in a timeframe sensitive to today's conservation needs. Two systems that efficiently use available data to assess conservation status were tested against a provisional International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN) Red List analysis to evaluate the native seed plant species of Puerto Rico. It was demonstrated that both systems efficiently identify species at risk, which is a step toward both the GSPC Target 2 and a more comprehensive IUCN Red List for plants. Both systems were effective at identifying plant species at risk, with the New York analysis identifying 98% and the Smithsonian analysis 85% of the plant species considered Threatened in the IUCN Red List. Both analyses to some extent overestimated those plants at risk, but the species identified are all range restricted and, thus, of some conservation interest.
10.2307/2395205|Vessel elements in Onagraceae correlate perfectly with groups of species; elements are long and wide in mesomorphic species, shortest and narrowest in the most xeromorphic species. Libriform fibers in the family are thin-walled, but many have gelatinous inner walls. The possibility that these represent not tension wood but a water-storage mechanism is examined. Libriform fibers are mostly septate or nucleate or both in the family; this indicates longevity and simulation of parenchyma in starch-storage function. These fibers may compensate for the paucity of axial parenchyma. Interxylary phloem ("included phloem") does not occur in Fuchsia, Hauya, and Ludwigia, the genera in the family most generalized in other respects, and is absent in most annuals studied. Selective pressure for formation of interxylary phloem in the three genera may be minimal because of slow rates of photosynthate translocation within wood and selective pressure for formation of interxylary phloem in annuals may be minimal for spatial reasons. Interxylary phloem may be related to massive flowering that draws rapidly on stored starch, chiefly in the shrubby perennials. The relationships of Onagraceae seem closest to Lythraceae, Sonneratiaceae, Punicaceae, Crypteroniaceae, and Combretaceae; also close are other myrtalean families: Melastomaceae, Myrtaceae, Penaeaceae, Oliniaceae. These affinities are clearly evident from wood features alone: vestured pits on vessels; ray cells upright to square; intraxylary phloem present adjacent to pith; libriform fibers septate or nucleate; prismatic crystals in fibers and rays. Onagraceae tend to show herbaceous characteristics in wood of herbaceous genera; woody genera such as Hauya show no indicators of herbaceous structure. The ancestral habit of Onagraceae was probably shrubby, and without interxylary phloem; interxylary phloem may have evolved more than once in the family.
42703709|The subtribe Orthosiinae (Apocynaceae, Asclepiadoideae, Asclepiadeae) is monophyletic and comprises four genera. Monsanima Liede & Meve is herein validly established, comprising one species, M. morrenioides (Goyder) Liede & Meve. This new genus is sister to a clade consisting of Jobinia E. Fourn., Orthosia Decne., and Scyphostelma Baill. A taxonomic key to these four genera is provided. For Jobinia, one species, J. peruviana Liede & Meve, is newly described, and 13 species previously treated principally under Cynanchum L. are transferred, so that the genus now comprises 25 species. Jobinia fontellana Liede & Meve is proposed as a new name, replacing O. hatschbachii Fontella & Goes. The following new combinations are made in Jobinia: J. canoi (Morillo) Liede & Meve, J. formosa (N. E. Br.) Liede & Meve, J. latipes (Decne.) Liede & Meve, J. mazzuchii (Speg.) Liede & Meve, J. samuelssonii (Malme) Liede & Meve, J. schizocorona (Liede & Meve) Liede & Meve, J. streptantha (Malme) Liede & Meve, J. tarmensis (Schltr.) Liede & Meve, J. tiarata (Malme) Liede & Meve, J. trifurcata (Griseb.) Liede & Meve, and J. umbellata (Rusby) Liede & Meve. In Orthosia, the new combination O. angustifolia (Turcz.) Liede & Meve is made. Orthosia thymifolia Schltr. is excluded from the genus and the new combination Ditassa thymifolia (Schltr.) Liede & Meve (Metastelmatinae) is proposed. The genus Scyphostelma is reinstated, and 26 species, most previously in Cynanchum, are transferred: S. beckii (Morillo) Liede & Meve, S. bifida (Liede & Meve) Liede & Meve, S. brachyphylla (K. Schum.) Liede & Meve, S. carmenaemiliae (Morillo) Liede & Meve, S. chimboracensis (Morillo) Liede & Meve, S. confusa (R. W. Holm) Liede & Meve, S. ecuadorensis (Schltr.) Liede & Meve, S. filisepala (Standl.) Liede & Meve, S. harlingii (Morillo) Liede & Meve, S. intricata (K. Schum.) Liede & Meve, S. isidrensis (Morillo) Liede & Meve, S. lechleri (Morillo) Liede & Meve, S. longecalicina (Morillo) Liede & Meve, S. luteynii (Morillo) Liede & Meve, S. microphylla (Kunth) Liede & Meve, S. nubicola (Morillo) Liede & Meve, S. pichinchensis (K. Schum.) Liede & Meve, S. ruizteranii (Morillo) Liede & Meve, S. serpyllifolia (Kunth) Liede & Meve, S. siderocalyx (Morillo) Liede & Meve, S. sodiroi (K. Schum.) Liede & Meve, S. tenella (L. f.) Liede & Meve, S. trianae (Schltr.) Liede & Meve, S. veleziae (Morillo) Liede & Meve, S. velutina (Morillo) Liede & Meve, and S. wurdackii (Morillo) Liede & Meve. Ten names are lectotypified: C. ecuadorense Schltr., J. formosa, J. tarmensis, J. tiarata, J. trifurcata, J. umbellata, S. brachyphylla, S. ecuadorensis, S. intricata, and S. pichinchensis. Three names are neotypified: J. chlorantha (K. Schum.) Malme, S. sodiroi, and S. trianae.
10.2307/2399668|The Araceae are exceptionally diverse by nearly all phenetic criteria. The two most widely accepted infrafamilial classification systems, those of Engler and Hutchinson, emphasize vegetative and floral morphology, respectively, and are thus rather dissimilar. A more balanced scheme, in which all available phenetic data are considered, is attempted here. Character state polarities are inferred, and synapomorphies utilized to circumscribe infrafamilial taxa. Among the character states considered primitive for Araceae are: a rhizomatous or caulescent growth habit; simple, cordate leaf blades; parallel venation; a simple, green spathe; bisexual, perigoniate flowers; trilocular ovaries with axile placentation; anatropous, crassinucellate ovules; elongate stamens with longitudinal anther dehiscence; a base chromosome number of x = 7 or 14; and monosulcate, reticulate, binucleate pollen grains lacking starch. These and other conclusions have been employed in a character analysis of araceous subtaxa accepted a priori as natural. Significant features of the classification derived from a cladogram reflecting this analysis include: the merger of Engler's subfamilies Pothoideae and Monsteroideae, and the dissolution of his Calloideae; a drastic internal rearrangement of the Colocasioideae; and the recharacterization of the Aroideae, involving the transfer of several tribes to the Philodendroideae and the assimilation of the subfamily Pistioideae (Pistia stratiotes L.) and the tribe Thomsonieae (formerly included in subfamily Lasioideae). The following suprageneric nomenclatural novelties are created: Cercestideae Grayum, trib. nov.; Protarinae (Engl.) Grayum, stat. nov.; Remusatiinae Grayum, subtrib. nov.; Jasarinae Grayum, subtrib. nov.; and Scaphispathinae Grayum, subtrib. nov.
10.2307/2666195|The flowers of Winteraceae have often been considered representative of the floral morphology of the earliest angiosperms. The diversity in number and arrangement of the (mostly) free floral organs gives an opportunity to critically examine floral developmental processes in this basal angiosperm family. Comparative outogeny and morphology of flowers of eight species from six genera of Winteraceae were examined using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and light microscopy. Results were compared with the floral morphology of Takhtajania perrieri (Capuron) Baranova & J-F. Leroy, the recently rediscovered species of Winteraceae from Madagascar. The analysis showed that the basic floral architecture in the family is one of varying numbers of decussate organs followed by whorls with four (or more) organs. Spiral and irregular patterns also occur, with irregularities in floral organ arrangement often the result of initiation of primordia on an asymmetrical floral meristem. The first organs initiated are a pair of sepals that are usually lateral relative to the subtending bract of the flower. Further growth of the calyx is via a ring of meristematic tissue encircling the floral meristem, producing a tubular calyptra bearing the sepals at its apex. The calyptra either encloses the bud until anthesis (Tasmannia and Drimys) or ruptures while the bud is still young (Zygogynum, Exospermum, Bubbia, Pseudowintera, and Takhtajania). Differences in the position of the sepals relative to the subtending bract and the position of the petals relative to the sepals create differences in floral architecture between taxa. These differences support Tasmannia and Drimys being considered separate taxa and Zygogynum and Exospermum being considered separate from Bubbia. The decussate and whorled floral architecture of Takhtajania perrieri reflects the basic pattern found throughout the family.
10.2307/2992027|The genus Kalimeris (Asteraceae: Astereae) comprises a monophyletic group, with the exclusion of section Cordifolium, characterized by laterally compressed achenes with short pappus bristles no longer than the length of the corolla tube. This genus of herbaceous perennials is native in East Asia and generally occurs in disturbed habitats. It has close relationships with Asian Aster and Heteropappus, as revealed by external as well as internal morphological comparisons and cytological studies. Its supposed relationship with the North American genus Boltonia is shown to be superficial. The species of Kalimeris are all closely related, and comprise a polyploid series ranging from diploid to 12-ploid with x = 9. Eight species and ten subspecies of Kalimeris are recognized in this treatment.
10.2307/2399795|Pinus evolved in middle latitudes of the Northern Hemisphere in the middle Mesozoic. By the late Cretaceous pines had spread east and west throughout Laurasia, attaining high diversity in eastern Asia, the eastern United States, and western Europe, but having little representation at high northern latitudes. Changing climates in the early Tertiary established warm and humid tropical/subtropical conditions in a broad zone to 70
10.2307/2399631|Studies on Thelypteris (Thelypteridaceae) for Flora Mesoamericana have revealed the following eight new species, which are herein described: Thelypteris aureola, T. barvae, T. chiriquiana, T. croatii, T. grayumii, T. longisora, T. redunca, and T. subscandens.
10.2307/2666170|Twenty species of Berberis are recognized in continental Chile, the Juan Fernndez Islands, and adjacent southern Argentina, comprising a considerable reduction in species number from the works of earlier authors. Hybridization between species is common. Each species is described, and all are distinguished with a dichotomous key. Maps are provided for all species and photographs for all continental species. Notes on phenology, habitat, distribution, and distinguishing characters are included. One new combination, B. chilensis var. brachybotria (Gay) Landrum, is made. The following taxa are lectotypified: B. brachyacantha Phil. ex Reiche, B. buxifolia var. antarctica C. K. Schneid., B. congestiflora Gay, B. crispa Gay, B. ferox Gay, B. brachybotria Gay, B. empetrifolia var. magellanica C. K. Schneid., B. florida Phil., B. horrida Gay, B. linearifolia Phil., B. montana var. chillanensis C. K. Schneid., B. mutabilis Phil., B. polymorpha Phil., B. variiflora C. K. Schneid., B. wawrana C. K. Schneid., and B. zahlbruckneriana C. K. Schneid.
10.2307/2395314|Reasons for the union of Chionanthus and Linociera are presented, and the following new combinations are made: Chionanthus guianensis (Aublet) Stearn, C. panamensis (Standley) Stearn, C. bakeri (Urban) Stearn, C. axilliflorus (Griseb.) Stearn, C. cubensis (P. Wilson) Stearn, C. bumelioides (Griseb.) Stearn, C. dictyophyllus (Urban) Stearn, C. urbanii (Knobl.) Stearn, C. dussii (Krug & Urban) Stearn, and C. holdridgii (Camp & Monachino) Stearn.
10.2307/2394997|When the Nostoc isolates entered into thalloid cavities of Anthoceros and Phaeoceros and produced the typical globose endophytic colonies and/or when the algal isolate grew upon the nitrogen-free substrate in intimate contact with the thalli, chlorosis in the experimental cultures was not present to the degree that it occurred in the control cultures. These observations suggest the ability of these blue-green algal isolates to fix atmospheric nitrogen and to provide an available source to the liverworts used in these experiments. Cytochemical and ultrastructural observations further suggest that the algal endophyte may also benefit from this relationship if the algae are able to catabolize carbohydrate components of the mucilaginous thalloid cavity.
10.2307/2399239|Study of the available collections from Baja California reveals that there are at least 13 species of Euphorbia (excluding Chamaesyce) there. Euphorbia chersonesa Huft, E. lagunensis Huft, and E. pumicicola Huft are described as new, E. ceroderma I. M. Johnston and E. cyathophora Murr. are reported from Baja California for the first time, and E. humayensis Brandegee, reported from Baja California when it was described, but omitted in the recent "Flora of Baja California," is reinstated. The taxonomy of subgenus Poinsettia is updated, and a key to all Baja California species of Euphorbia is provided.
10.2307/2992101|A scanning electron microscopy and light microscopy survey of pollen morphology in the Plukenetieae (Euphorbiaceae) was undertaken to help elucidate phylogenetic relationships within the tribe. Pollen is medium to large, spheroidal to suboblate, and tricolpate, inaperturate, or with poorly defined apertures. Subtribe Plukenetiinae is characterized by tricolpate pollen with uneven-margined colpi and a perforate to reticulate tectum. Pollen evidence supports a division between genera having an aborescent habit (Angostyles, Astrococcus, and Haematostemon) and those with a scandent habit (Plukenetia and Romanoa). The synonymy of the monotypic genera Vigia and Eleutherostigma with Plukenetia is also supported. Subtribe Tragiinae is exceptionally diverse in pollen morphology. Aperture condition ranges from tricolpate, the plesiomorphic and most common state, to weakly aperturate and inaperturate; islands, fragments, or strands of sexine are usually present on the apertural membrane, and aperture margins are uneven and often indistinct. Exine sculpture is punctate, foveolate, reticulate, rugulate, or baculate. The large genus Tragia includes seven distinct pollen types, with most sections (e.g., Bia, Ctenomeria, Leptobotrys, Tragia, and Zuckertia, and also subgenus Mauroya) characterized by a uniform and unique pollen morphology, supporting the sectional classification of Tragia. The other Tragiinae genera have pollen distinct from Tragia, with the exception of Tragiella, which closely resembles sections Tagira and Lassia. Pollen evidence supports Cnesmone and Megistostigma as sister taxa, and suggests a close relationship with Pachystylidium. Acidoton includes two different pollen types; the inaperturate type closely resembles pollen of Platygyna, suggesting that Acidoton may not be monophyletic and the tricolpate species perhaps represents a distinct genus. Pollen, together with floral morphological evidence, supports the hypothesis of section Zuckertia as a plesiomorphic member of Tragia, and suggests that Tragia is paraphyletic and that the smaller Tragiinae genera are derived from Tragia.
42703726|South Africa has the world's richest temperate flora, with 20,456 indigenous vascular plant taxa recorded. With the current estimate of the global flora at 379,881 taxa, 5% of the world's plant diversity is represented within South African borders. Between 2004 and 2008, South African botanists completed a comprehensive assessment of the status of the South African flora using the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN) Red List categories and criteria, version 3.1. South Africa is the first floristically megadiverse country to fully assess the status of its entire flora and to achieve Target 2 of the Global Strategy for Plant Conservation (GSPC): "[a]n assessment of the conservation status of all known plant species, as far as possible, to guide conservation action." Herein, we discuss the critical success factors that allowed an assessment of such a megadiverse flora within five years. Establishing a centralized team of ecologists to develop Red Lists, collaborating with a wide range of botanical experts, streamlining the assessment process via automation, and establishing a data management system that served local conservation needs were crucial to the success of the project. Utilizing the IUCN categories and criteria proved to be, and is suggested as, the most cost-effective measure for other megadiverse countries wanting to achieve Target 2. Quantitative assessments can be done with minimal data, and comprehensive assessments of all known taxa ensure conservation attention for a greater proportion of a flora. The example of South Africa demonstrates that conservation assessments can be done relatively cheaply in developing megadiverse countries (less than $30 per taxon for South Africa). As megadiverse countries have high numbers of endemic plant taxa, it is well worth the investment by IUCN and conservation donors to support continued and future assessment projects.
25488216|The pantropical and subpantropical genus Mimosa L. comprises more than 500 species, of which nearly 480 are reported for the American Continent. Mimosa is subdivided into five sections, four of which are represented in southern South America: Batocaulon DC., Habbasia DC., Calothamnos Barneby, and Mimosa. Previous taxonomic studies of the species from the austral region have found classification conflicts among (a) sections Batocaulon and Habbasia, (b) sections Calothamnos and Mimosa, and (c) series and subseries within section Mimosa. This paper reports a preliminary phylogenetic analysis of chloroplast nucleotide sequences of the trnL intron and the trnL-trnF intergenic spacer from 34 species of Mimosa and related genera. Key morphological characters were mapped onto the phylogenetic hypothesis and discussed. Sequence analysis indicates that the genus Mimosa is monophyletic; it is derived from Piptadenia viridiflora (Kunth) Benth. The four sections proposed by Barneby are not natural groups. The cladogram retrieved indicates that the representatives of Mimosa sect. Batocaulon are not clustered, the xerophylous representatives of this section are basal, and the remaining species are related to those species of section Habbasia, suggesting that section Batocaulon ser. Stipellares is more recently derived. The species of Mimosa sect. Calothamnos that were analyzed are nested in section Mimosa. The results seem to support retention of this section within section Mimosa as was noted previously by Bentham. The chloroplast sequence data suggest that the representatives from sections Calothamnos and Mimosa share a common ancestor with those from section Habbasia and section Batocaulon ser. Stipellares.
40982866|Verbena L. (Verbenaceae) comprende 44 especies, de distribucin predominantemente americana, con dos especies distribuidas en reas clido-templadas de ambos hemisferios: V. officinalis L. y V. supina L. Las especies sudamericanas son morfolgicamente diferentes de las norteamericanas por lo cual se las ubica en dos series: Verbena ser. Pachystachyae Schauer y serie Verbena respectivamente. En el presente tratamiento se describen los taxones de Verbena ser. Verbena; esta serie comprende 26 especies divididas en tres grupos informales: Verbena, Hastatae y Bracteosae. Se proporcionan descripciones detalladas de todos los taxones, claves para identificarlos, ilustraciones, una sinonimia actualizada con 56 nuevos sinnimos (vase Apndice 3), y se discuten relaciones entre taxones afines. Se introducen dos nuevas combinaciones: Verbena gracilescens (Cham.) Heiter var. swiftiana (Moldenke) N. O'Leary y V. simplex Lehm. var. orcuttiana (L. M. Perry) N. O'Leary; nueve lectotipificaciones: V. bracteata Lag. & Rodr., V. bracteosa Michx. var. brevibracteata A. Gray, V. carotina L., V. domingensis Urb., V. officinalis var. gracilescens Cham., V. hastata L., V. hirsuta M. Martens & Galeotti, V. riparia Raf. ex Small & A. Heller y V. urticifolia L. var. simplex Farw.; y seis neotipificaciones: V. ehrenbergiana Schauer, V. lasiostachys Link, V. roemeriana Scheele, V. simplex Lehm., V. spuria L. y V. xutha Lehm. Verbena L. (Verbenaceae) is represented by 44 species, mainly distributed in America, with two species distributed in temperate regions from both hemispheres: V. officinalis L. and V. supina L. South American species are morphologically different from North American species and are placed in two separate series: Verbena ser. Pachystachyae Schauer and series Verbena, respectively. In the present treatment, Verbena ser. Verbena taxa are described. This series includes 26 species, placed in three informal groups: Verbena, Hastatae, and Bracteosae. Detailed morphological descriptions are given for each taxon, as well as keys for their identification, illustrations, actualized synonymy with 56 new synonymized species (Appendix 3), and discussions of relationships between closely related taxa. Two new combinations are introduced: V. gracilescens (Cham.) Herter var. swiftiana (Moldenke) N. O'Leary and V. simplex Lehm. var. orcuttiana (L. M. Perry) N. O'Leary; nine species are lectotypified: V. bracteata Lag. & Rodr., V. bracteosa Michx. var. brevibracteata A. Gray, V. Carolina L., V. domingensis Urb., V. officinalis var. gracilescens Cham., V. hastata L., V. hirsuta M. Martens & Galeotti, V. riparia Raf. ex Small & A. Heller, and V. urticifolia L. var. simplex Farw.; and six species are neotypified: V. ehrenbergiana Schauer, V. lasiostachys Link, V. roemeriana Scheele, V. simplex Lehm., V. spuria L., and V. xutha Lehm.
40389955|The Paleotropical genus Gaertnera Lam. (nom. cons.) comprises 69 species, plus one presumed natural hybrid, of shrubs and small trees found from West Africa to Sulawesi in southeastern Asia, with 13 of them newly described here. Gaertnera is characterized in the Rubiaceae by its tubular stipules of various forms, secondarily superior ovaries, and drupaceous fruits. Molecular phylogenetic analyses support Gaertnera as monophyletic and sister to the Neotropical genus Pagamea Aubl., but do not support infrageneric classification of Gaertnera. The morphology of Gaertnera is notably variable; molecular analyses indicate that most diversification is within regions, and that much of it is autapomorphic or homoplasious. Gaertnera species of Africa, Madagascar, the Mascarene Islands, and Sri Lanka are hermaphroditic and usually demonstrably distylous, while those of Southeast Asia for which information is available are dioecious, sometimes cryptically so, and apparently derived within the genus. All species recognized here are regional endemics, and accordingly regional keys are included here. In Africa, 12 species and two subspecies are recognized in this present work; G. paniculata Benth. is the most widespread of these; G. aurea Malcomber, G. gabonensis Malcomber, and G. letouzeyi Malcomber are newly described here; and the new combination G. longivaginalis (Schweinf. ex Hiern) E. M. A. Petit var. bracteata (E. M. A. Petit) Malcomber is made based on G. bracteata E. M. A. Petit. In Sri Lanka, six species plus the presumed natural hybrid G. Xgardneri Thwaites are recognized; all of these have been previously described; G. vaginans (DC.) Merr. is the most commonly collected. In Southeast Asia, 14 species are recognized here; G. junghuhniana Miq. is the most commonly collected and widespread; G. alstonii Malcomber, G. aphanodioica Malcomber, G. belumutensis Malcomber, G. capitulata Malcomber, and G. kochummenii Malcomber are newly described here. Gaertnera has its center of diversity in Madagascar and the Mascarene Islands, with 36 species and two subspecies recognized in this present work; G. obovata Baker of Madagascar is the most widespread and common; G. ianthina Malcomber, G. lowryi Malcomber, G. monstruosa Malcomber, G. raphaelii Malcomber, and G. schatzii Malcomber are newly described here; and the new combination G. obovata var. sphaerocarpa (Baker) Malcomber is made based on G. sphaerocarpa Baker. Here, G. vaginans is treated as a morphologically well-defined species of Sri Lanka, and the remaining plants included in this species by some previous authors are treated here in 10 additional species, four of them newly described. The following names are newly lectotypified: G. crinita Drake, G. dinklagei K. Schum., G. fissistipula (K. Schum. & K. Krause) E. M. A. Petit, G. hispida Aug. DC, G. inflexa Baill., G. macrostipula Baker, G. oblanceolata King & Gamble, G. paniculata, G. phanerophlebia Baker, G. phyllostachya Baker, G. plagiocalyx K. Schum., G. sphaerocarpa Baker, and G. spicata K. Schum. Original figures illustrate 24 species here, and an Index to Numbered Collections compiles the identifications of most of the ca. 3500 specimens studied.
10.2307/2394713|Photographs of 132 Panamanian plant collections studied by B. C. Seemann and others for the "Flora of the Isthmus of Panama" are available from the Missouri Botanical Garden. Well over 100 of these collections are possible types.
10.2307/2394959|The arborescent or shrubby genus Dukea of the tribe Mussaendeae (Rubiaceae) is described as new. The five new species are from five provinces of Panama with the majority at elevations from 2,000 to 3,000 feet. One species from Colombia, D. chariantha (Standley) Dwyer is a new combination. The structure of the multiovulate ovary with its septum disposed medianally or, in one species, as a parietal ridge, is an important generic character.
10.2307/2399893|The baobabs (Bombacaceae: Adansonia) are tropical trees native to Africa, Australia, and Madagascar but dispersed widely by humans. The members of the genus are united by several derived characters that serve to distinguish them from other Bombacaceae, including a characteristic, indehiscent fruit with reniform seeds and a powdery pulp. The systematics of Adansonia is revised, with three sections and eight species being recognized. The support for each species is discussed in the context of the "Genealogical Species Concept." Several nomenclatural problems are resolved, and a new combination, A. gibbosa (A. Cunn.) Guymer ex D. Baum, is made. In addition, the ecology, ethnobotany, and conservation status of Adansonia is summarized, focusing especially on the poorly known Malagasy and Australian species.
10.2307/2399242|In this paper I present the results of a morphological comparison of the North American material of Symphytum with herbarium material of European hybrid populations for which cytological data are available. In addition to S. officinale cytotypes and rarely S. asperum, also the hybrid S. x uplandicum Nym. is present in North America. A key to all taxa, S. tuberosum L., S. asperum Lepech., S. x uplandicum Nym. (2n = 36 and 2n = 40), and the three cytotypes of S. officinale L. (2n = 24, 48, 40) is given.
10.2307/2395334|The glucosinolates (mustard oil glucosides), present in all crucifer species examined, seem to provide a major line of chemical defense against bacteria, fungi, insects, and mammals. Circumstantial evidence suggests that other classes of secondary compounds, each restricted to one or a few genera, represent a second line of chemical defense. Survival of wild crucifers depends partly on escape from adapted enemies in time and space. Discovery of crucifers by several enemy species is aided by behavioral responses to glucosinolates or their breakdown products. Allylglucosinolate (sinigrin) in the leaves of Thlaspi arvense releases allylthiocyanate instead of the more typical allylisothiocyanate, which is used as a host-finding attractant by several insect species. This change in secondary chemistry may reduce the rate of discovery of Thlaspi plants by crucifer-adapted enemies. The defensive ecology of crucifers seems to typify that of herbaceous plants generally: chemical resistance, in the form of small amounts of toxic compounds, combined with low apparency to enemies which are adapted to the chemical defenses. The importance of the Cruciferae and other families of herbaceous plants as sources of food-plants for man may result in large part from their relatively low concentrations of toxins. The mature foliage of trees, shrubs, and grasses, by contrast, remains poor food for man, just as for other plant enemies. An important component of the defensive ecology of crucifers and other unapparent plants seems to be chemical diversity in space and time. Closer simulation of this diversity in fields of agricultural crops may reduce the need for synthetic pesticides.
10.2307/2399569|A new genus of the Lauraceae, Gamanthera, is described from Costa Rica. It is distinguished from all other Lauraceae by its completely fused stamens, forming a synandrium, with only three, two, or one locellus, and by its monoecious nature.
40035756|Apocynaceae have a precise pollination mechanism. However, broad pollinator assemblages, including several insect orders, have often been recorded. We test how the corolla tube length and operative width required for effective release of the pollination mechanism could restrict the pollinator assemblage in putatively hawkmoth-pollinated Apocynaceae that differ in flower depth. If corolla tube length were effective in filtering pollinators, a broader pollen vector assemblage would be expected in short-flowered species. For this to occur, the operative width of the pollinating apparatus would be additionally expected not to be specific to any particular pollinator. Alternatively, if the pollination mechanism were to have any effect in the exclusion of pollinators, access to short flowers would be expected to be limited by proboscis width rather than length. Pollination of three species in the Apocynaceae was studied in seven populations through direct observations and palynological analysis of hawkmoths. Proboscis widths of hawkmoths carrying and not carrying pollen were compared with operative floral width as measured by proboscis analogues of different diameters that could successfully release the pollination mechanism. Species studied were exclusively hawkmoth pollinated. Pollen was always attached to pollinator proboscides, either near the base or on the apical half. The long-tongued hawkmoth species Manduca sexta (L.) was the major pollinator of Mandevilla longiflora (Desf.) Pichon and Mandevilla petraea (A. St.-Hil.) Pichon. Surprisingly, another long-tongued species, Manduca tucumana (Rothschild & Jordan), was the main pollinator of the short-flowered Mandevilla laxa (Ruiz & Pav.) Woodson. Here, the operative flower width was a decisive factor restricting the pollinator spectrum to hawkmoths with proboscides narrow enough to release the pollination apparatus. Short-tongued hawkmoths, which also have wider proboscides, cannot release the pollination mechanism. In M. petraea, the operative length, and not the operative width, restricts the pollinator assemblage. Thus, two different plant strategies were observed to restrict the pollinator spectrum: floral tube length and the operative width of the pollination mechanism.
40035741|En este trabajo se presenta una actualizacin del conocimiento de la diversidad de Poaceae en la provincia de Jujuy. Se analiza la riqueza a nivel de subfamilia, tribu, gnero, especie, subespecie y variedad. Se registraron 373 especies y 23 taxones infraespecficos, distribuidos en 91 gneros de Poaceae. Se analiza la distribucin geogrfica de los taxones por departamento, provincia fitogeogrfica y rango altitudinal. Asimismo, se discuten las afinidades florsticas con otras reas del pas y de pases limtrofes, y se mencionan taxones endmicos, los cuales sumaron un total de 10 especies y 2 variedades para la provincia. /// This study presents the current knowledge of diversity of the Poaceae family in the province of Jujuy, Argentina. Richness was analyzed at the following levels: subfamily, tribe, genus, species, subspecies, and variety. A total of 91 genera, 373 species, and 23 infraspecific taxa of Poaceae were found in the province. The geographic distribution of the taxa by department, phytogeographic province, and altitudinal range was analyzed. Affinities of the Poaceae of Jujuy with other regions of the country, and neighboring countries, are also discussed. In addition, a total of 10 species and 2 varieties were found to be endemic in the province.
10.2307/2394914|The presence of species of Gossypium, which as a whole are widespread throughout the Pacific Islands, is interpreted as the result of at least three independent introductions, widely separated in time. It is suggested that the earliest introduction brought the ancestral form of G. tomentosum Nutt. into the Hawaiian Islands where it is now endemic. The most likely means of introduction would appear to be by oceanic drift from the Middle American mainland. It may have been a relatively late addition to the Hawaiian flora. It is suggested that the wild forms of hirsutum, which are widely scattered through Southern Polynesia, were introduced much more recently (i.e., after the differentiation of ancestral amphiploid forms into their separate species). It is difficult to imagine that oceanic drift alone accounts for their peculiarly disjunct pattern of distribution (Caribbean-Central America-Southern Polynesia). The speculation is made that they may have been introduced by early 16th-17th century Spanish expeditions into the Southern Pacific, two of which are known to have carried seeds for planting, and one of which is known definitely to have planted cotton. It is pointed out, also, that the Polynesians' ignorance of the use of cotton as a textile does not necessarily imply an ignorance of its numerous other uses, which are widely known to other cultures both in the Old and New Worlds. The final introductions, by missionaries and early agriculturalists in the 19th century, brought cultivated forms of barbadense and hirsutum into Polynesia. The mongrelized relics of these introductions are the most commonly found cottons in Polynesia today. S. G. Stephens, Genetics Department, North Carolina State College, Raleigh, N. C.
10.2307/2666143|This paper describes the results of a floristic inventory at the Allpahuayo Reserve, near Iquitos in Amazonian Peru. Two long-term one-hectare plots were established using a pre-determined sampling grid, with each individual tree and liana over 10 cm diameter collected at least once, except for palms. The plots were re-censused after 5 years to quantify forest dynamics. Floristic analysis shows that the Allpahuayo forest is among the most diverse site yet inventoried, with 281 to 311 species per hectare, and at least 466 species and 61 families in the 1277-stem two-hectare sample, confirming that upper Amazonia is a world center of tree biodiversity. The ecologically most dominant and speciose family in the plots is Fabaceae sensu lato, with 231 stems and 89 species; no other family represents more than 7% of the species or 10% of the stems. In contrast to the exceptional floristic diversity, both the structure and the dynamics of the Allpahuayo forest are similar to those recorded from other old-growth neotropical forests. Many tree and liana canopy species were previously unknown to both the Iquitos area and to Amazonian Peru, which demonstrates the significance of Amazon ecological studies to systematic botany.
10.2307/3298657|Based on morphology, a cladistic analysis of the Neotropical family Quiinaceae (Malpighiales) was performed to generate a hypothesis of the phylogenetic relationships within the family. The monotypic Medusagynaceae and four species of Ochnaceae were used as outgroup. Using equal weights, the Quiinaceae find strong jackknife support and all genera, apart from Lacunaria, are monophyletic. Lacunaria receives support only after successive weighting. The aberrant species Lacunaria oppositifolia and Quiina pteridophylla are positioned within their respective genera, although separation of the former as monotypic cannot be discarded with certainty. Proposed close relationship of the two species is rejected. Froesia is the morphologically most distinguished genus and sister to all other taxa of the family. Touroulia amazonica, once suggested to be recognized at the generic level, forms a small but closely related clade with T. guianensis. Quiina is the most diverse and derived genus with highly unresolved relationships and numerous polymorphic characters. A reduction toward smaller inflorescences and flowers, fewer stamens, and fewer carpels can be hypothesized. Concerning the evolution of sex distribution, androdioecy was fixed early in a common ancestor of Lacunaria, Quiina, and Touroulia, and subsequently dioecy evolved in Lacunaria.
10.2307/2399259|Erythrina sect. Erythrina comprises 36 species of hummingbird-pollinated trees and shrubs, distributed principally in Mesoamerica. Avian floral visitors-including nectar thieves as well as pollinators-were observed at 17 populations of 13 species in southern Mexico and Costa Rica. Legitimate pollinators were all "high-reward traplining" hummingbirds with long bills and non-territorial foraging behavior, including in particular two species of Heliomaster. Nectar thieves included a variety of short-billed hummingbirds and passerine birds. Measurements of nectar volume, sugar concentration, and flowering behavior indicate that the caloric value of nectar in open flowers produced by one tree per day is insufficient to support a single hummingbird's energetic requirements; therefore, territorial defense by a hummingbird of a single tree is precluded. The traplining hummingbirds appear to be effective agents of pollen flow among conspecific trees in the typically low-density Erythrina populations. The pollination system of sect. Erythrina is a canopy-level analogue of the high-reward traplining systems involving hermit hummingbirds and understory plants such as Heliconia (Musaceae).
40389942|By combining distributions and phylogenies for large groups of birds, it is now possible to disentangle the relative roles of contemporary ecology and history in explaining the distribution of biodiversity on earth. In South America, avian lineages, which represent radiations during the warm parts of the Tertiary, are best represented in the tropical lowlands and Andean forelands. During the upper Tertiary, diversification was most intense in the tropical Andes region, with recruitment back into the tropical lowlands and into South America's open biomes. Within the tropical Andes, endemism (mean inverse range size) and mean branch length (number of phylogenetic nodes on lineages) increase from the foothills up to the tree line and then decline again in the barren highlands, suggesting that the tree-line zone plays a special role in the diversification process. The resulting endemism is locally aggregated, often with marked peaks in areas immediately adjacent to ancient population centers. Thus, the process of evolution of new species is linked with local factors that, over a shorter time perspective, were also favorable for people. If we want to maintain the process of diversification, it becomes essential to supplement the traditional approach of preserving biodiversity in wilderness areas with few people with efforts to support sustainable development in populated areas.
10.2307/2395206|Five species of the genus Opuntia were studied with respect to several characteristics; cuticular thickness, epidermal papillosity, stomatal size and frequency, hypodermal thickness, vessel member dimensions, and relative succulence. The five species comprise three growth forms: pencil chollas (O. leptocaulis, O. kleiniae), tree chollas (O. imbricata) and prickly pears (O. phaeacantha, O. lindheimeri). The three chollas are members of the subgenus Cylindropuntia, while the two prickly pears are members of the subgenus Opuntia. On the basis of the five species examined in the study, each of the three growth forms, pencil chollas, tree chollas, and prickly pears, is distinct with respect to the degree of papillosity of the epidermal cells, hypodermal thickness, and vessel width. In addition, the two subgenera are distinct with respect to cuticular thickness. Characteristics showing the least variability within a species are stomatal length and vessel member dimensions. Characteristics showing the most variability within a species are cuticular thickness, stomatal frequency, and stomatal index. Overall, no one species, growth form or subgenus is more variable than any other.
10.2307/2399278|I review the phylogenetic implications of eight duplications of nuclear genes encoding isozymes in Clarkia (Onagraceae). These include ADH, cytosolic PGI, and both plastid and cytosolic isozymes of PGM, 6PGD, and TPI. The PGI duplication has been studied intensively from biochemical and genetic standpoints. Recent results have identified two levels of regulation that operate in species with this duplication, one that reduces cytosolic PGI activity to the level characteristic of species without the duplication (dosage compensation), and the second that results in differential accumulation of the products of the duplicate genes. These factors appear to reduce the impact of the duplication on metabolic function. I also describe our recent cloning and sequencing of two genes encoding PGI obtained from a genomic DNA library of C. unguiculata, a species with the duplication. The two genes encode proteins of 548 and 543 amino acids, respectively, and their predicted amino acid sequences are 58% homologous. They show 65% homology to a previously published partial amino acid sequence of pig muscle PGI. Both genes lack introns. The two genes are the first nuclear genes sequenced in wild plants. They are being studied as part of a research program on gene evolution and the application of nuclear gene sequences for phylogenetic reconstruction in higher plants.
40035042|How many species one recognizes within a given taxon remains a difficult question, especially when morphology is relatively stable or when clinal variation is present, thus complicating diagnosis. I accept the general lineage concept of species, and my goal is to recognize historically distinct evolutionary lineages that are likely to remain distinct. Here I analyze this task with respect to patterns of species formation in two genera of plethodontid salamanders in California. Ensatina is a ring species complex surrounding the Central Valley of California. At present it is a single species with seven subspecies that are linked by apparent clinal variation in intergrade zones, but there are also some narrow hybrid zones where morphologically and ecologically differentiated forms interact. In contrast, Batrachoseps, which has much the same distribution, has about 20 species in California, most occurring in sympatry with Ensatina. Divergence in the two taxa is based on two fundamentally different phenomena, and yet there are some common themes. Adaptive divergence in coloration is the dominant theme in Ensatina, whereas differentiation is largely perceived at the molecular level in Batrachoseps. Yet both have evolved in the same region and have been affected by many of the same climatic and earth historical phenomena. Within the Ensatina complex, different adaptations related to predator avoidance have evolved. Coloration has diverged in different directions in coastal and inland populations, even though genetic interactions continue to take place. Where coastal populations meet other coastal populations, ecologically and morphologically similar populations merge genetically, even if well differentiated in molecular traits. In contrast, where the ring is crossed and where ecologically and morphologically differentiated populations meet, they hybridize narrowly or are sympatric and behave as if they are species. Within the ring-like distribution, clinal patterns of variation occur. The current polytypic taxonomy is retained, even though it is problematic, because alternatives are even less appropriate. In contrast, where genetically differentiated populations of Batrachoseps meet they typically do not merge. Instead, they replace one another spatially, in part because they are so similar ecologically. Apparently the periods of isolation were sufficiently long that even in the absence of adaptive divergence there has been divergence of isolating mechanisms. Analysis of patterns of genetic differentiation in allozymes and mtDNA in relation to the geological history of California is used to generate biogeographic scenarios to help explain the contrast between Batrachoseps and Ensatina.
10.2307/2395272|A broad review of chromosome numbers in the angiosperms is presented according to the phylogenetic system of Cronquist. Consideration of the results indicates that the original basic chromosome number for the class as a whole, and for all but one of its subclasses, is or may well be x = 7. For Caryophyllidae, x = 9 is indicated. Families and taxa of higher rank can be compared only if the original basic chromosome number for the group is known, and there are many families where this is not the case. Evolutionary changes in chromosome number and morphology, particularly in herbaceous plants, have tended to give the impression that these characteristics were of limited utility in classification, and have often led to numerical coincidences between unrelated groups. In addition, many inaccurate counts have been reported, and vouchers, if present, are occasionally misidentified, giving rise to misleading conclusions. Electronic data processing should be applied to the field as soon as possible for efficient information retrieval, especially since the number of chromosome counts reported is growing annually. Well edited regional treatments, or those dealing with a particular taxonomic group, are encouraged. An initial burst of polyploidy is suggested for the angiosperms by the survival of many polyploid lines, especially among Magnoliidae and Hamamelididae. Although many families and even orders are of polyploid origin, progressive evolution in the group seems to have proceeded largely at the diploid level, and much of the major differentiation evidently occurred even among plants with the original basic chromosome number, n = 7.
10.2307/2395343|Descriptions and discussions of relationships are provided for Guayania davidsei R. M. King & H. Robinson from the Amazonas region of Venezuela and Hebeclinium gentryi R. M. King & H. Robinson from the Choco region of Colombia.
40389936|A systematic revision of Gnidia, L. is presented based on an analysis of morphological data. The circumscription of the genus adopted here includes Lasiosiphon Fresen, and excludes Atemnosiphon Leandri and Dais L. Six new combinations are made for species previously recognized as Lasiosiphon: G. ambondrombensis (Boiteau) Z. S. Rogers, G. hibbertioides (S. Moore) Z. S. Rogers, G. humbertii (Leandri) Z. S. Rogers, G. linearis (Leandri) Z. S. Rogers, G. occidentalis (Leandri) Z. S. Rogers, and G. perrieri (Leandri) Z. S. Rogers. Two names, G. daphnifolia L. f. and G. linearis, are resurrected from synonymy with L madagascariensis (Lam.) Decne. and L decaryi Leandri, respectively, and now pertain to more broadly circumscribed species. One new species, G. neglecta Z. S. Rogers, is described. These changes result in the recognition of 14 species, all endemic, making Gnidia the largest genus of Malagasy Thymelaeaceae. Lectotypifications are provided for 15 names: Dais gnidioides Baker, G. danguyana Leandri, L. bojerianus Decne., L. decaryi, L. decaryi var. erectus Leandri, L. decaryi var. littoralis Leandri, L. decaryi var. tenerifolia Leandri, L. dumetorum Leandri, L. hildebrandtii Scott-Elliot, L. humbertii Leandri, L. madagascariensis var. angustifolius Leandri, L. madagascariensis var. mandrarensis Leandri, L. occidentalis Leandri, L. perrieri Leandri, and L. pubescens (Lam.) Decne. var. multifolius Leandri. Each species is illustrated, mapped, and assigned a preliminary IUCN conservation status. /// Le genre Gnidia L. est rvis sur la base d'une analyse de donnes morphologiques. Le genre est trait ici en incluant Lasiosiphon Fresen, mais en excluant Atemnosiphon Leandri et Dais L. Six nouvelles combinaisons sont effectues pour des espces dj reconnues comme Lasiosiphon: Gnidia ambondrombensis (Boiteau) Z. S. Rogers, G. hibbertioides (S. Moore) Z. S. Rogers, G. humbertii (Leandri) Z. S. Rogers, G. linearis (Leandri) Z. S. Rogers, G. occidentalis (Leandri) Z. S. Rogers, et G. perrieri (Leandri) Z. S. Rogers. Deux noms, G. daphnifolia L. f. et G. linearis, sont retirs de la synonymie sous L madagascariensis (Lam.) Decne. et L. decaryi Leandri, respectivement, et ils concernent dsormais deux espces plus largement circonscrites. Une espce nouvelle, G. neglecta Z. S. Rogers, est dcrite. De ces changements rsulte la reconnaissance de 14 espces, toutes endmiques, rendant Gnidia le plus grand genre de Thymelaeaceae  Madagascar. Des lectotypifications sont donns pour 15 noms: Dais gnidioides Baker, G. danguyana Leandri, L. bojerianus Decne., L. decaryi, L. decaryi var. erectus Leandri, L. decaryi var. littoralis Leandri, L. decaryi var. tenerifolia Leandri, L. dumetorum Leandri, L. hildebrandtii Scott-Elliot, L. humbertii Leandri, L. madagascariensis var. angustifolius Leandri, L. madagascariensis var. mandrarensis Leandri, L. occidentalis Leandri, L. perrieri Leandri, et L. pubescens (Lam.) Decne. var. multifolius Leandri. Chaque espce est illustre, cartographie et assigne  un statut de conservation provisoire de l'UICN.
10.2307/2399598|Ticodendron is predominantly dioecious. Both male and female inflorescences bear some cymules (or partial inflorescences) on their primary axes. Male partial inflorescences are borne verticillately in clusters of three, each being one- to three-flowered and subtended by a single bract. Staminate flowers have 8-10 or more stamens and lack a perianth. Female partial inflorescences are solitary. Each of them is always one-flowered, although it is subtended by three (one primary and two secondary) bracts, and it produces some scales in each axil of the secondary bracts. In pistillate flowers, concentric bundles are prevalent in the periphery of the pistil wall; the ovary is inferior, bicarpellate, and four-locular with one ovule in each locule; the placentation is axile; the ovules are apical, pendulous, hemitropous, unitegmic, and crassinucellate; the integument is 20-30 cells thick and vascularized by about 20 longitudinally parallel vascular bundles; and the mature seeds have a two-cell-layered endosperm and seed coats composed of thick-walled integumentary cell layers and vascular tissues. In reproductive morphology Ticodendron is distinct from any other family but is best placed in Fagales. On the basis of evidence from reproductive morphology and from other sources it is suggested that Ticodendron appears to have diverged early from a common ancestor with Betulaceae or Fagaceae.
10.2307/2399953|The tribal relationships of the Gesneriaceae are investigated using ndhF sequences. A full analysis of 70 taxa including 16 species from the Scrophulariaceae, Bignoniaceae, and Acanthaceae as outgroups, resulted in two most-parsimonious trees of 5610 steps each. In all trees the Gesneriaceae were a monophyletic group and Paulownia was the closest single-species outgroup for the analysis. Further analyses eliminated all but the members of the Gesneriaceae and Paulownia in order to better assess relationships within the family. The smaller analysis resulted in a single most-parsimonious tree of 4613 steps. The Klugieae are identified as the sister to the remainder of the family and could potentially be separated as a distinct subfamily. The subfamilies Cyrtandroideae (excluding Klugieae) and Gesnerioideae are monophyletic. The placement of Coronanthereae in Cyrtandroideae does not have support from this analysis, whereas its placement in Gesnerioideae is supported. Alternatively, Coronanthereae could be segregated as a separate subfamily but in order to avoid a paraphyletic Gesnerioideae would either include the Napeantheae and Beslerieae or elevate these two tribes to an additional subfamily. Within Gesnerioideae the genus Sinningia is removed from the tribe Gloxinieae into the Sinningieae, which also contains the recently combined species Sinningia brasiliensis (Lietzia), as well as Paliavana and Vanhouttea. The Episcieae, Gesnerieae, Napeantheae, and Beslerieae are identified as monophyletic groups, as are the remainder of the Gloxinieae with Sinningia sensu lato removed. Within Cyrtandroideae, several well-supported, monophyletic lineages within the large, heterogeneous tribe Didymocarpeae are identified, and with the current data the tribe Trichosporeae appears to be polyphyletic. The distribution of chromosome numbers, nodal anatomy, placental structure, and stem modification are examined based on these molecular trees.
10.2307/2399408|Among recent collections of Lauraceae and older collections received on loan from various herbaria, several undescribed species were found. Six of those, Aiouea inconspicua van der Werff, Licaria bracteata van der Werff, Phoebe glabra van der Werff, Pleurothyrium costanense van der Werff, P. grandiflorum van der Werff, and P. westphalii van der Werff, are described. Difficulties with the generic placements of these new species are discussed.
10.2307/3298542|Ninety-three taxa comprising thirty-two genera (plus four outgroups from Lobeliaceae) were used to estimate a phylogeny of the Campanulaceae based on ITS sequences of nuclear ribosomal DNA. From 2629 most parsimonious trees, a strict consensus tree with bootstrap values was constructed, in addition to a phylogram showing branch lengths. The topologies of these two trees are discussed in relation to the pollen and capsule morphology within the family, in addition to chromosome number and geographical distribution. The results show that there is a major dichotomy between the colpate/colporate pollen alliance (platycodonoid taxa) and the porate pollen alliance (wahlenbergioid and campanuloid taxa). Both these major alliances are monophyletic. Within the porate alliance there are two major clades, the wahlenbergioids and the campanuloids. The campanuloid clade is further subdivided into two major clades representing the Rapunculus and the Campanula s. str. groups of taxa, plus three smaller clades that are considered as "transitional" taxa. It is argued that the family originated in a fragmenting West Gondwanaland and that tectonic processes are responsible for the major dichotomy in the family. The colpate/colporate platycodonoids subsequently remained relatively relictual in Asia, whereas the porate taxa spread over much of the Northern and Southern Hemispheres. The campanuloid lineage spread over the Northern Hemisphere from a major evolutionary center in the Mediterranean region and is represented in North America only by the Rapunculus group. The wahlenbergioid lineage is widely dispersed across the southern continents and oceanic islands but has a major secondary center of diversification in southern Africa. The use of ITS provides insights for future investigations and a phylogenetic framework that can be tested with other data sets. Its limitations for phylogeny reconstruction are briefly discussed. More extensive taxon sampling and additional data sets are required to refine these results and for a new classification of the Campanulaceae to be proposed.
10.2307/3298541|Several taxonomic treatments of Styrax (Styracaceae) exist in regional floras of Asia, but the Asian species of the genus have not been comprehensively revised since 1907. To help rectify this, we conducted a taxonomic revision of the Asian species of Styrax series Cyrta with imbricate corolla aestivation. Our revision comprises 17 species with a combined distribution from Japan south to Sumatra and west to Nepal. The circumscriptions of the heretofore poorly defined species S. hookeri and S. serrulatus are clarified. Styrax agrestis var. curvirostratus is elevated to the species level, and lectotypes are selected for S. duclouxii, S. floribundus, S. hemsleyanus, S. hookeri, S. hookeri var. yunnanensis, S. hypoglaucus, S. japonicus, S. limprichtii, S. macranthus, S. obassia, S. perkinsiae, S. serrulatus var. latifolius, S. shiraianus, S. supaii, and S. wilsonii. Keys, descriptions, and distribution maps are provided for all species.
10.2307/2395130|The three insular taxa of Psidium are described, and a key to them is provided. The relationships of the endemic Psidium galapageium are discussed, and P. galapageium var. howellii is described as new.
10.2307/2399744|A demographic monitoring study was initiated in the sole known population of Tetramolopium arenarium, a taxon that was considered extinct until recently rediscovered on the Pohakuloa Training Area, Island of Hawaii, Hawaii. Spatial distribution, size structures, life history stage structure and reproductive output were determined for the population. This sole population is restricted to a 100 m by 300 m area along a mesic ridge system and is comprised of 134 individuals. Size class frequency distributions are bell-shaped with the population dominated by large individuals. In spite of large flower and seed production, interpretation of these distributions reveals that this species is either on the verge of extinction or that episodic establishment is necessary to ensure the long-term persistence of this rare taxon. In order to safeguard this species, we recommend that military operations and hunting activity be restricted and that the area be fenced to exclude feral animals.
3298649|Amaranthaceae and Chenopodiaceae together represent the most species-rich monophyletic group in the angiosperm order Caryophyllales. So far, phylogenetic relationships between Amaranthaceae and Chenopodiaceae have remained unclear. Previous morphological and molecular studies have indicated that most of the currently accepted infrafamilial taxa in Amaranthaceae do not reflect natural groups. With the aim to provide a robust phylogenetic framework for analyzing the evolution of pollen and other phenotypic characters within the family, we conducted maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian analyses using chloroplast matK/trnK DNA sequence data. The Amaranthaceae-Chenopodiaceae lineage was resolved as monophyletic, with Achatocarpaceae and Caryophyllaceae being successive sisters. Within the monophyletic Amaranthaceae, a basal grade of Bosea L. (Macaronesian islands, Cyprus, Himalaya), followed by Charpentiera Gaudich. (endemic to Hawaii and the Australian Ridge) receives high support. Celosieae appear as sister to Amaranthus L. + Chamissoa Kunth. While Celosieae were supported as natural, most other currently recognized infrafamiliar taxa were revealed to be para- or polyphyletic. Among former Aervinae, an Achyranthoid and an Aervoid clade were newly recovered. Pseudoplantago Suess., sharing some morphological features with Amaranthoideae, was found within Gomphrenoideae rather than being in a position linking both subfamilies. The evolution of morphological characters previously used for classification and of some pollen characters was analyzed based on the matK/trnK tree. The recently described metareticulate pollen architecture is reconstructed to have evolved once in the ancestor of a highly supported core Gomphrenoid clade that comprises the traditional Gomphrenoideae but excludes Iresine P. Browne. In contrast, the complex stellate pore ornamentation was reconstructed as having evolved at least twice in parallel. Unlike other morphological characters discussed in this paper, pollen characters in general represent morphological synapomorphies circumscribing many clades recovered with molecular data. In addition, the present paper provides a brief survey of the taxonomic history and the current state of research on systematics and evolution in Amaranthaceae.
10.2307/2394958|Four new species of Inga, I. allenii, I. mortoniana, I. squamigera and I. tenuipedunculata, are described among 56 recognized from Central America and the West Indies. The species are divided into three sections with the largest sect. Inga further segregated into 13 series many of which are reported as new.
40389957|The Hypochaeris sessiliflora complex (Asteraceae, Cichorieae) consists of nine species of the genus from South America (all in section Achyrophorus Scop.) that have sessile or nearly sessile flowering heads surrounded by a rosette of leaves. They occur at 1430-5100 m in elevation along the Andean chain from Venezuela to Chile and Argentina. Two species, H. sessiliflora Kunth and H. meyeniana (Walp.) Benth. & Hook. f. ex Griseb., are extremely polymorphic, and they vary conspicuously in the shape of the external phyllaries and presence or absence of different types of trichomes. They have the widest distributions (Venezuela to central Peru, and Peru to northern Chile and northwestern Argentina, respectively), they flower throughout the year, and they also are primarily associated with dry and sunny habitats. Hypochaeris meyeniana is characterized by retrorsely pinnatifid leaves (rarely lobate) and slightly narrower cypselar apices. Hypochaeris hohenackeri (Sch. Bip.) Domke and H. taraxacoides Ball are glabrous, whereas H acaulis (J. Rmy) Britton has scattered shaggy trichomes on the leaves; all three occur in humid places, such as seeps or bogs. Hypochaeris eriolaena (Sch. Bip.) Reiche and H. mucida Domke are pubescent, with long whiplike trichomes on leaves and phyllaries, giving a niveous-tomentose appearance. Hypochaeris echegarayi Hieron. (white corollas) and H. eremophila Cabrera (yellow corollas) are two related species with shaggy trichomes on the abaxial surfaces of the phyllaries, both with considerable ecological tolerance, that grow in dry as well as humid sites. Morphological cladistic analyses suggest a hypothesis of relationships within the complex. Surprisingly, H. acaulis from Chile and Argentina, although fitting morphologically within the H. sessiliflora complex, based on amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) data, clearly does not seem to belong to this group. Instead, the species ties to H. palustris (Phil.) De Wild, and H. tenuifolia (Hook. & Arn.) Griseb., also from the southern Andes. The acaulescent habit of H. acaulis seems best interpreted as a parallel adaptation to survival at high elevations. /// El complejo Hypochaeris sessiliflora comprende nueve especies de Sudamrica (seccin Achyrophorus Scop.) con cabezuelas ssiles o cortamente pedunculadas y con una roseta de hojas basales. Habitan entre los 1430-5100 m a lo largo de los Andes desde Venezuela hasta el centro de Chile y el centra oeste de Argentina. Dos especies, H. sessiliflora Kunth e H. meyeniana (Walp.) Benth. & Hook. f. ex Griseb., son extremadamente polimorficas (forma de los filarios, hojas e indumento) y presentan una amplia distribucion, desde Venezuela al centro de Peru, y desde Peru al norte de Chile y noroeste de Argentina, respectivamente; principalmente crecen en ambientes secos y soleados, y florecen todo el ano. Hypochaeris meyeniana se caracteriza por las hojas pinnatfidas y retrorsas (raro lobadas) y los aquenios ligeramente adelgazados en el pice. Hypochaeris hohenackeri (Sch. Bip.) Domke e H. taraxacoides Ball son glabras, mientras que H. acaulis (J. Rmy) Britton tiene hojas hispidas; estas trs especies estn asociadas a ambientes humedos (e. g., vegas y mallines). Hypochaeris eriolaena (Sch. Bip.) Reiche e H. mucida Domke son niveo-tomentosas. Hypochaeris echegarayi Hieron. (corolas blancas) e H. eremophila Cabrera (corolas amarillas) son especies afines con pubescencia hispidas, comnmente con cabezuelas pedunculadas y con considerable tolerancia ecologica, creciendo en ambientes secos o humedos. La hipotesis del anlisis cladstico morfologico y los recientes estudios moleculares muestran al complejo H. sessiliflora monofiltico mientras que la hipotesis basada en datos moleculares excluye a H. acaulis del complejo H. sessiliflora, donde el hbito acaule es considerado una adaptacin paralela como respuesta a la sobrevivencia en la alta montaa.
10.2307/2399496|The axillary-flowered members of the Miconieae are hypothesized to be a monophyletic group, and the generic relationships within this group have been investigated by means of a preliminary cladistic analysis, which resulted in the following taxonomic conclusions. Henriettea is circumscribed broadly, including Henriettella and Llewelynia, as is Loreya, which is considered to include Bellucia and Myriaspora. The small genus Kirkbridea is likely the sister group of Henriettea sensu lato. Clidemia sect. Calophysoides and Maieta form a single clade and are considered congeneric. Mecranium (including Ekmaniocharis), Killipia, Huilaea, and the axillary-flowered 5- or 6-merous species of Ossaea all are considered generically distinct due to their isolated cladistic positions. Species of Clidemia sect. Sagraea along with Necramium and the axillary-flowered and 4-merous species of Ossaea are considered a distinct genus, Sagraea; an autapomorphy for this group was not consistently present in the generated cladograms, and the genus is considered metaphyletic. Clidemia sect. Miconiopsis, although usually considered axillary-flowered, actually has both terminal and axillary inflorescences and may be congeneric with Miconia (and likely is related closely to sect. Tamonea). Thus, axillary-flowered groups recognized at the generic level include: Henriettea, Huilaea, Killipia, Kirkbridea, Loreya, Maieta, Mecranium, Pentossaea, and Sagraea. Axillary-flowered Miconieae appear to form two major clades based primarily on the crystal type present in the leaf mesophyll and stem. Megastyloids (sometimes along with druses) occur in Loreya, Kirkbridea, and Henriettea, while only druses are found in the remaining genera. Cladistic relationships among the genera possessing only druse crystals are obscure, although Huilaea is probably basal within this complex, as reflected by its large flowers with well-developed pedicels, and Sagraea is likely most closely related to Mecranium, the two being linked by the synapomorphy of 4-merous flowers. Relationships of axillary-flowered taxa to those with terminal infloresences are discussed briefly.
10.2307/2394615|The nomenclature of tribes and subtribes in the Orchidaceae is reviewed, and brought into line with the rules of botanical nomenclature. Tribal definition is discussed, and a different delineation of the Neottieae and Epidendreae is proposed. The Apostasieae are considered to be primitive orchids. The Vandeae are not considered to be clearly separable from the Epidendreae. A "phylogenetic" arrangement of recognized subtribes is proposed, and keys are given. A broader interpretation is given, especially of the subtribes Chloraeinae, Spiranthinae, Cyrtopodiinae, Epidendrinae, Maxillariinae and Oncidiinae. About 40 subtribes are recognized (as compared to 80 in Schlechter's system). The need for further revision is recognized. Evolutionary patterns are discussed for several features of the orchid plant, and the phylogeny of the family briefly considered. Robert L. Dressler, Missouri Botanical Garden, 2315 Tower Grove Ave., St. Louis 10, Missouri; Calaway H. Dodson, Instituto Botanico, Universidad de Guayaquil, Guayaquil, Ecuador.
40035041|The current picture of the history of taxonomy incorporates A. J. Cain's claim that Linnaeus strove to apply the logical method of definition taught by medieval followers of Aristotle. Cain's argument does not stand up to critical examination. Contrary to some published statements, there is no evidence that Linnaeus ever studied logic. His use of the words "genus" and "species" ruined the meaning they had in logic, and "essential" meant to him merely "taxonomically useful." The essentialism story, a narrative that has most pre-Darwinian biologists steeped in the world view of Plato and Aristotle, is ill-founded and improbable.
10.2307/2398923|The central African species previously known as Lapeirousia euryphylla Harms is transferred to a new genus Savannosiphon. Comparisons of Savannosiphon with Lapeirousia, Anomatheca and other Ixioid Iridaceae lead to the conclusion that Savannosiphon is allied to Lapeirousia and to Thereianthus and Micranthus, and it should be placed with these genera in tribe Watsonieae. A chromosome number of n = 7 has been found in S. euryphyllus.
10.2307/2399941|Four cladistic hypotheses were constructed for Dahlgren's Bromeliiflorae-Commeliniflorae-Zingiberiflorae complex, primarily from suggestions of affinities according to morphology-based treatments: (i) Dahlgren's treatment of the families is correct; (ii) the Bromeliaceae and Zingiberales are sister groups; (iii) the complex is monophyletic, with the Arecaceae as the closest outgroup; and (iv) a clade that contains the Bromeliaceae and Commelinaceae is monophyletic. These four hypotheses were evaluated using sequence data from the chloroplast gene, rbcL, that codes for the large subunit of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase. Results were compared between a broad analysis of 499 rbcL sequences and a smaller data set that included only families of the complex plus the Arecaceae (52 taxa). The larger data analysis supported hypothesis (iii), minus the Velloziaceae. However, hypotheses (i) and (ii) were not supported, and support for hypothesis (iv) was equivocal. Three decisions on classification can be made based on the results of this study: (i) submerge the Bromeliiflorae into the Commeliniflorae; (ii) remove the Velloziaceae from the complex; and (iii) remove the Cyclanthaceae and Pandanaceae from the Areciflorae.
10.2307/2395056|Intensive field study, combined with cytological and chemical analysis of Papaver section Oxytona has resulted in the re-evaluation of species in the group. The section is treated as comprising three species, P. bracteatum, diploid (2n = 14), P. orientale, tetraploid (2n = 28) and P. pseudo-orientale, hexaploid (2n = 42). Different major alkaloids characterize each species, and past confusion about alkaloid chemistry is clarified. A detailed taxonomic treatment with full synonymy, distribution data and listing of exsiccatae is provided.
10.2307/2395092|Correlliana, a new genus, is distinguished from specimens confused with Clavija and species confused with Weigeltia. The singular growth form, resembling a street lamp on a post, is widespread in tropical rainforests both on continents and islands, and may have evolved in different cases from forest trees or from herbaceous ancestors.
25488220|The flora of Xishuangbanna in southern Yunnan, southwestern China, consists of 3340 native seed plant species belonging to 1176 genera and 182 families. Tropical floristic elements at the generic level form a major contribution (78.3%) to the total flora of southern Yunnan, of which the dominant geographic elements are those of tropical Asian distribution. The tropical Asian flora of Xishuangbanna is similar in composition to other tropical floras from Yunnan, especially in the families with the most species richness. These regional floras have similarities of more than 89% at the family level and more than 76% at the generic level, but share only 43%-50% similarity at the specific level. Comparison with mainland Southeast Asia (Thailand) and Malesia (Malay Peninsula) floras reveals that most of the dominant families from southern Yunnan are also dominant in mainland Southeast Asian and Malesian floras. The floristic similarities between the flora of southern Yunnan and those of tropical Asia are more than 80% at the family level and more than 64% at the generic level. This suggests that the tropical flora of southern Yunnan has a close affinity with tropical Asian flora and supports the idea that the flora of southern Yunnan, together with mainland Southeast Asian flora, belongs to the Indo-Malaysian floristic subkingdom of the Paleotropical kingdom as suggested by Takhtajan, or the Malaysian subkingdom of the Paleotropical kingdom as suggested by Wu and Wu. However, situated at the northern margin of tropical Asia, the flora of southern Yunnan comprises less strictly tropical elements compared to Malaysian flora and, consequently, represents only a marginal type of Indo-Malaysian flora. The tropical flora of southern Yunnan is supposed to be derived from tropical Asian flora with the formation of the eastern monsoon climate after the Tertiary.
10.2307/2399693|Ampelocera, a genus of Ulmaceae with nine species of low- to mid-elevation rainforest trees, occurs from Mexico to Brazil. This review deals with the systematics and nomenclature, including the description of three new species, A. albertiae Todzia from Colombia, A. longissima Todzia from Ecuador, and A. macphersonii Todzia from Panama, Colombia, and Venezuela. The taxonomic history of Ampelocera is outlined, followed by a key to the species. Brief descriptions and geographic ranges are provided for each species.
10.2307/2399788|The National Science Foundation (NSF) is the primary financial broker for systematic biology, with NSF funding most basic systematic research in the United States. Systematists generate ideas in the form of proposals to the Foundation, which are subject to merit review by peers. This review process has the potential to enhance the science and, therefore, constitutes one facet of intellectual brokering. Program officers, in turn, react to the proposals and their reviews in making recommendations for awards, and in the process interact with the Principal Investigators (PIs) to provide intellectual counsel. NSF also plays a proactive role in the intellectual brokering of systematics through (1) sponsorship of study groups, workshops, symposia, and conferences; (2) development of initiatives; (3) funding of Small Grants for Exploratory Research (SGER) proposals; and (4) funding Special Creativity Extensions (SCE) to existing NSF awards. Whether reactive or proactive, NSF generally functions early in the research enterprise; the Foundation is not a direct player in knowledge synthesis and analysis-the Foundation does not disseminate the data and results from the projects it funds. Rather, it relies on the scientific community and its system of peer-reviewed journals and indices. However, NSF does fund innovative proposals to develop databases; to computerize museum collection-label data; and to exchange specimens, data, ideas, and syntheses. In this way, NSF does contribute to knowledge and/or data transfer. Information and ideas gained from NSF-supported research efforts could be diffused directly into society-at-large by coupling proposals for scientific studies with proposals for formal and/or informal educational programs. Systematic biologists are in an ideal position to take advantage of any such funding opportunities because of the already extensive interactions that occur between natural history museums and members of the systematic community.
10.2307/2399399|Eucharis is a genus of 16 species of petiolate-leaved, neotropical Amaryllidaceae restricted to rainforest understory from Guatemala to Bolivia. The two northernmost species, E. bonplandii and E. bouchei, are the only two tetraploid (2n = 92) species so far known in the genus. Eucharis bonplandii is known from only a few localities in central Colombia. Eucharis bouchei, restricted to Central America, is particularly polymorphic and three varieties are recognized largely on the basis of staminal cup morphology. Data from phenetic, chromosomal, and preliminary electrophoretic analyses are presented for both tetraploid species. On the basis of 17 floral characters, the three varieties of E. bouchei do not resolve into discrete phenetic groups. The tetraploid representatives of Eucharis exhibit a wide degree of karyotypic heteromorphism. Eucharis bouchei var. dressleri is an unstable tetraploid. Electrophoretic banding patterns for aspartate-amino-transferase exhibit additive effects of polyploidy in some individuals. Isozyme phenotypes of Eucharis bouchei var. bouchei are quite variable and cladistic analysis of the isozyme data suggests that this variety may be polyphyletic. Eucharis bonplandii and E. bouchei may be monophyletic sister taxa and the remnants of a once more widespread tetraploid complex. The entry of Eucharis into Central America was probably a geologically recent event. It is hypothesized that E. bouchei has been steadily migrating away from the Colombian border. Eucharis bouchei is a semi-species complex of geographically isolated populations in the process of morphological diversification. The evolution of E. bouchei var. dressleri may be a sympatric speciation event. Founder effects, rapid chromosomal change, and geographical isolation are considered the most important factors in the evolution of the E. bouchei complex. Tetraploidy and attendant increased levels of heterozygosity may have been important in facilitating the migration of Eucharis across the Isthmus of Panama.
10.2307/2395024|The most widely accepted model of insect-plant interaction derives from the correlation between insect species richness and the relative number of recorded Quaternary fossil remains of British tree species (Southwood, 1961). The implications of this relationship are: 1) that community formation and the equilibration of insect species richness is a very slow process, taking at least 2 million years, 2) that introduced plant species will necessarily have relatively few associated insect species, 3) that insect communities are basically different from vertebrate communities in that saturation of species does not occur (Whittaker, 1969). I present a model mutually exclusive to Southwood's, indicating that insects of British trees follow a species area relationship. The implications of this new finding are: 1) insect community formation and equilibration of species richness occurs at least within 300 years, 2) the insect diversity of introduced plants becomes a function mainly of the range of distribution of the plant within ecological time, 3) insect communities do not differ from vertebrate communities in terms of species saturation rate. The saturation occurs within ecological time for both groups.
40732232|This paper presents chromosome data for 130 accessions of 91 species or subspeciile taxa representing 26 genera of Neotropical Rubioideae (Rubiaceae). It includes the first chromosome counts for the tribe Perameae, for 11 genera, and for 71 species and subspecific taxa. A survey of the karyological knowledge (chromosome numbers, ploidy levels, chromosome morphology) for Neotropical Rubioideae is given. The relevance of the karyological information for a discussion on relationships and speciation in the Rubioideae is commented on. Possible taxonomic implications of the data are presented.
10.2307/2399812|A microcomputer system that facilitates record keeping of text-based nomenclatural and cytotaxonomic files is described. The system was used to maintain records on asters and goldenrods. More than 4,800 chromosome number reports for asters (Aster, Virgulaster, Virgulus) and over 2,000 reports for goldenrods (Solidago excluding Euthamia) were analyzed. By far the greatest number of chromosome number reports (2,110) were for Ontario, Canada. The numbers of counts for each taxon (species, subspecies, or variety) for each province or territory in Canada and state in the United States and for all of Mexico were determined. The total number of chromosome number reports and estimated numbers of taxa (species, subspecies, and varieties) of asters and of goldenrods by province, territory, and state were compared and are presented graphically. Both asters and goldenrods achieve their greatest morphological diversity in the eastern United States, peaking in North Carolina. The numbers of counts for asters and goldenrods in each area were fairly highly correlated (r = 0.70 excluding Ontario; r = 0.97 including Ontario) as were the numbers of taxa counted including Ontario (r = 0.73), but the percentages of taxa counted per area were not strongly correlated (r = 0.49). Asters show more diversity in western North America than goldenrods, and 86% of the areas had more aster than goldenrod taxa.
10.2307/2399297|The structure and some developmental aspects of the cupules of 22 species of paleotropical Castanopsis are discussed and illustrated. Some species have cupules massively invested with strong, sharp spines, but others are less spiny, and some are neatly smooth. Most cupular armament results from spines produced axillary to the valvular scales and basally adnate to them. Columns of scales straddling the sutures between the cupular valves do not become spines, but the numerous scales elsewhere on the valves become somewhat spiny with age. Dehiscence in the spiny-valved species is mostly along the sutures. The smooth cupules of some species have scales in their early stages, but cupular expansion separates and tears them; such species are often indehiscent or only irregularly dehiscent and usually show nearly complete adnation of the cupule to the nut.
10.2307/2399815|Restricted to the western Cape Province of South Africa, Sparaxis comprises 13 species of small seasonal geophytes, seven belonging to section Sparaxis and six to section Synnotia. Until now treated as a separate genus, Synnotia is separable from Sparaxis section Sparaxis (i.e., Sparaxis sensu stricto) only by the degree of zygomorphy of their flowers. Species of the two sections have similar karyotypes with x = 10; specialized scarious, brown-streaked bracts; an unusual leaf anatomy in which the leaves lack marginal sclerenchyma but have a specialized, heavily thickened marginal epidermis; and similar fruit and seed characteristics. Vegetatively, they have a common gestalt and cannot be distinguished. In section Sparaxis the perianth is always actinomorphic, but in two species the stamens are asymmetrically arranged with the anterior stamen opposed to the posterior tepal and the style curved behind it. In section Synnotia the stamens are unilateral and arcuate with parallel, contiguous anthers, and the perianth is zygomorphic. Maintenance of Synnotia, based solely on this minor distinction, is unacceptable and is inconsistent with the variation in several other genera of Iridaceae-Ixioideae, for example, Babiana, Gladiolus, Lapeirousia, Watsonia, Geissorhiza, and Tritoniopsis, all of which include species with either actinomorphic or medianly zygomorphic flowers. Cladistic analysis of Sparaxis using either Tritonia or Ixia as outgroups for character polarization produces the same internal configuration, but it is more parsimonious to regard Tritonia as the immediate outgroup, unless characters such as karyotype are weighted. Cladistic analysis shows that the species clusters recognized as section Synnotia and section Sparaxis are not phylogenetically equivalent; the two sections are thus recognized for their taxonomic utility.
10.2307/2394736|Plants containing each one of seven different tassel-modifying genes were treated with Gibberellic Acid-distilled water mixtures every three days throughout the growing season until tassel emergence. GA was found to suppress expression of ramosa-1 (ra
10.2307/2400005|Against a background of 100 original counts for 95 species in 34 genera of Iridaceae, we review chromosome information for the entire family. Counts are now available for some 1008 of the estimated 1750 species of Iridaceae, and all but 5 of ca. 78 genera are known from at least one count. We suggest ancestral base numbers for all genera known cytologically and outline patterns of cytological variation within the subfamilies and tribes currently recognized. Polyploidy was evidently important in the early diversification of Iridaceae, and many genera have base numbers higher than x = 10. Neopolyploidy is important in Northern Hemisphere genera, especially Iris and Crocus, but has an unusually low frequency in Africa, the center of diversity for the family. Changes in basic number, frequent in a few genera, are evidently the result of dysploid reduction. In all but a few possible examples, correlated morphological specialization suggests that dysploid reduction is involved in stepwise change in base number. Major dysploid series are restricted to a few genera, including Romulea, the related Crocus, as well as Gladiolus and Lapeirousia (all Ixioideae), and Iris, Moraea, and Sisyrinchium (Iridoideae). All other genera have a single base number or limited variation evident in only one or two species. Patterns of chromosomal variation are particularly complex in Iris and Crocus and await detailed elucidation. More counts are needed in the Australian Patersonia, the South American-Australasian Orthrosanthus, and the neotropical tribe Mariceae, for all of which ancestral base number remains uncertain and patterns of cytological variation appear complex.
10.2307/2992007|The orchid Disa racemosa was found to be pollinated by xylocopine and anthophorine bees (Xylocopa and Amegilla spp.) at several sites in the Cape Floral Region of South Africa. A precise floral mechanism ensures that pollinaria are always attached to the middle pair of legs on the pollinator. Flowers of D. racemosa are nonrewarding, but nevertheless attract bees searching for new food sources. Levels of pollination and fruiting success were low, varying from 4 to 48% among the eight study populations. Disa racemosa is often sympatric and co-flowering with its very similar, though much rarer, sister species Disa venosa. The only character that is consistently different between the taxa is the width of the sepals. Although the two species appear to have the same pollinators, natural hybrids between them have never been found. The results of experimental crosses indicated that a sterility barrier, rather than ethological or mechanical barriers, is responsible for the maintenance of species integrity in mixed populations.
10.2307/2395237|Chromosome numbers are reported for 39 species representing 35 genera. The following are new generic (and specific) reports: Acrocarpus fraxinifolius 2n = 24, Amblygonocarpus andongensis 2n = 28, Baikiaea plurijuga 2n = 24, Brasilletia mollis 2n = 24, Kotschya aeschynomenoides 2n = 40, K. africana 2n = 30, K. strigosa 2n = ca. 36, Maackia amurensis 2n = (18)20, Paramacrolobium coeruleum 2n = 24, Schizolobium parahybum 2n = 26, Sphaerophysa salsula 2n = 16, Sphenostylis marginata 2n = 22, Strongylodon macrobotrys 2n = 28, Tachigalia paniculata 2n = 26, Tylosema fassoglensis 2n = 52, Xanthocercis zambeziaca 2n = 26, and Virgilia oroboides 2n = ca. 54. New species reports are the following: Cordyla africana 2n = 20, Desmodium barclayi 2n = 22, Dioclea virgata 2n = 22, Entada pursaetha 2n = 28, Erythrina livingstoneana 2n = 42, Mucuna sloanei 2n = 22, and Sindora wallichii 2n = 24.
40035723|The fauna of the West Indies includes more than 1300 native terrestrial vertebrate species and is characterized by high levels of endemism. Several theories have been proposed to explain how these animals arrived to the islands, including dispersal, vicariance, and land bridges. The dispersal theory proposes that most of the West Indian terrestrial biota arrived by flying or by flotsam. The vicariance theory suggests that there was a proto-Antillean land mass, or masses, connecting North and South America in the late Cretaceous that traveled eastward as the Caribbean geologic plate developed and carried an ancient biota with it. One widely discussed land bridge theory proposes that much of the Antillean biota originated by dispersal over an unbroken dry land connection, the Aves Ridge, between South America and the Greater Antilles 35-33 Ma. Geologic evidence cannot unambiguously support or refute any of these models, despite claims to the contrary. Other evidence bearing on these three theories, or mechanisms, comes from the taxonomic composition of the fauna, their phylogenetic relationships, fossil record, paleogeography, ecology, climate, water currents, and divergence time estimates from molecular clocks. This evidence supports an origin by overwater dispersal for most or all of the West Indian terrestrial vertebrate fauna. The strongest support comes from a reduced higher-level taxonomic composition of the fauna (now and in the past), the presence of unusually large adaptive radiations, and the finding of divergence time estimates between island and mainland groups that are not clustered around a particular time. In addition, the majority of terrestrial (non-flying) groups have closest relatives in South America, which is consistent with the direction of water currents and most hurricane tracks. Some of the same evidence in support of dispersal argues against a mid-Cenozoic land bridge from South America. Several ancient, relictual groups (e.g., xantusiid lizards and solenodontoid shrews) may have arisen through proto-Antillean vicariance, and molecular clock analyses--here revisited--provide support for this, but an origin by dispersal can also be argued. No model can be completely discounted. Although the general pattern (dispersal) has emerged, many details remain to be determined concerning the origin of the fauna. /// La fauna de las Antillas incluye ms de 1300 especies nativas de vertebrados terrestres y se caracteriza por altos niveles de endemismo. Se han propuesto varias teoras para explicar cmo estos animales llegaron a las islas, incluyendo dispersin, vicarianza, y corredores terrestres. La teora de la dispersin propone que la mayora de la biota terrestre antillana lleg volando o en restos flotantes. La teora vicariante sugiere que hubo una masa (o masas) de tierra proto-antillana, que conectaba a Amrica del Norte y del Sur en el Cretcico tardo y que se desplazaba hacia el este mientras la placa geolgica del Caribe se desarrollaba y llevaba consigo una biota antigua. Una teora ampliamente discutida acerca del corredor terrestre propone que la mayora de la biota antillana se origin por dispersin sobre una conexin seca intacta de tierra, el Promontorio de Aves, entre Amrica del Sur y las Antillas Mayores hace 35-33 Ma. La evidencia geolgica no puede apoyar o refutar en forma inequvoca cualquiera de estos modelos, a pesar de que se opine lo contrario. Otra evidencia concerniente a estas tres teoras, o mecanismos, proviene de la composicin taxonmica de la fauna, de sus relaciones filogenticas, del registro fsil, de la paleogeografa, la ecologa, el clima, las corrientes de agua, y estimados de tiempo divergentes de los relojes moleculares. Esta evidencia apoya un origen por dispersin para la mayora de la fauna vertebrada terrestre antillana. El apoyo ms fuerte proviene de una reducida composicin taxonmica de alto nivel de la fauna (en el presente y el pasado), la presencia de radiaciones adaptativas inusualmente grandes y el hallazgo de divergencia en los estimados de tiempo entre grupos de las islas y del continente que no se agrupan alrededor de un tiempo particular. Adems, la mayora de grupos terrestres (que no vuelan) tienen parientes ms cercanos en Amrica del Sur, que es consistente con la direccon de las corrientes de agua y de la mayora de huracanes. Algunas de las mismas evidencias de apoyo a la dispersin argumentan en contra de un corredor terrestre desde Amrica del Sur en el Cenozoico medio. Varios grupos antiguos, relictos (e.g., lagartos xantusiidos y musaraas solenodontoides) pudieron haber surgido a travs de vicarianza proto-antillana, y los anlisis de relojes moleculares--aqu revistos--dan apoyo a esto, pero tambin se puede argir un origen por dispersin. Ningn modelo se puede descartar totalmente. Aunque el patrn general (dispersin) ha sobresalido, todava quedan por determinar muchos detalles referentes al origen de la fauna.
10.2307/2666182|A preliminary conspectus of the fossil flora from the Allon locality, in Crawford County central Georgia, documents the presence of at least 63 distinct plant organs, based on macrofossils and mesofossils, but excluding dispersed pollen and spores. The fossils are preserved in a clay lens within the Buffalo Creek Member of the Gaillard Formation, and are of late Santonian (Late Cretaceous) age. In general, macrofossils are sparse at this site, but abundant mesofossils have been isolated from bulk samples by sieving. The flora includes sporophytes and gametophytes of fossil mosses (e.g., Eopolytrichum antiquum, Campylopodium allonense), ferns (e.g., cf. Boodlepteris), and conifers, but is dominated by the diverse and abundant remains of angiosperms. Angiosperms in the flora include cf. Detrusandra (Magnoliales), Mauldinia sp. (Lauraceae), Allonia decandra (Hamamelidaceae), and Parasaurauia allonensis (Actinidiaceae). Especially abundant are flowers and cupules of two species of Fagaceae sensu lato (Protofagacea allonensis, Antiquacupula sulcata). The flora also includes fossil flowers of Caryanthus sp. (Juglandales/Myricales) and Bedellia pusilla (cf. Betulaceae), which comprise the first record of Normapolles-producing flowers from North America. The structural and systematic diversity of angiosperms in the Allon flora is comparable to that at other Turonian-Campanian sites in eastern North America and Europe. Together, these fossil floras indicate that angiosperms, and especially eudicots, were already diverse at this relatively early stage in angiosperm evolution. The source vegetation represented by the Allon fossil assemblage was dominated by angiosperms, probably with taxodiaceous conifers also common. Preservation of most of the mesofossils as charcoal indicates that fire may have been an important factor contributing to frequent disturbance of the source plant community.
42703720|Several international treaties contain provisions to regulate and reduce negative impacts of international trade on endangered plant species. Focusing on the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) and the Global Strategy for Plant Conservation (GSPC) of the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD), this paper aims to elaborate existing and potential linkages between provisions and activities of these conventions. Based on an evaluation of CITES documentation, fields of potential synergies and/or joint activities between CITES and the GSPC are indicated.
3298627|The tribe Cocoeae contains economically important palms including Cocos nucifera, Elaeis guineensis, Attalea speciosa, and Bactris gasipaes. This study, based on the nuclear prk gene sequence, addresses the monophyly of the subtribes of Cocoeae, the closest relatives of Cocos nucifera, and biogeographical implications of its distribution. The Cocoeae are divided into the spiny and non-spiny taxa. Molecular data alone suggest that Cocos nucifera did not originate in the western Pacific; it may be the only extant member of its lineage. Several Cocoeae fossils from New Zealand and India were used as calibration points to estimate times of divergence of clades. A hypothesis for the origin of the Cocos clade based on the phylogeny was postulated. It is hypothesized that Cocoeae originated from South America, diversified and radiated eastward toward Africa, Madagascar, and India, and southward to Australia and New Zealand via the Antarctic corridor. The estimated divergence dates were corroborated with major tectonic events.
10.2307/2395308|The discovery of the presence of a sterile ovary tube in a plant known both as Homeria herrei and Gynandriris spiralis led to a detailed study of the characteristics of this species. A chromosome number of n = 10 suggests that the species belongs neither to Homeria or Gynandriris but may have been derived from the genus Moraea independently, though it has characteristics of Homeria and Gynandriris. The species is thus assigned to a new genus as Barnardiella spiralis (N.E. Br.) Goldblatt.
10.2307/2398997|Circaea (Onagraceae) is a well delimited genus and the sole member of the tribe Circaeeae. Unlike other Onagraceae, Circaea is restricted to the mixed mesophytic and boreal forests of the northern hemisphere and reaches its greatest diversity in eastern Asia, where 12 of the 14 taxa occur. The very closely related C. lutetiana subspp. canadensis and quadrisulcata exhibit the frequent pattern of disjunction between eastern North America and eastern Asia. Hybridization in the genus is common and widespread and has long been recognized in Europe and North America. In Asia, hybridization is equally widespread and more complex because of the greater number of species involved. In all cases, hybrids are highly sterile and, in crosses involving C. alpina, they are often completely sterile. Very little or no backcrossing and introgression occur in Circaea. Hybrids often form large colonies and reproduce vigorously by vegetative means. They often behave as fertile species in the genus in being wide-ranging, in occupying habitats distinct from those of the parents, in being morphologically similar from population to population and in often occupying ranges partially outside the range of one or both parents. All species are diploid with n = 11, the original basic chromosome number for the family. The structure of the nectaries, the leaves, and the retention of the basic chromosome number, n = 11, are generalized characters shared with Fuchsia, which is one of the most primitive genera of Onagraceae. Fuchsia is bird-pollinated and primarily tropical in distribution while Circaea, whose epizoochoric fruits are known from the Oligocene, is pollinated chiefly by syrphid flies and small bees and is temperate in distribution. It is likely that both genera were derived from a common ancestor. The ancestor of Circaea apparently reached North America from the probable place of origin for the family in South America. The high diversity of taxa, including the most primitive in the genus, in eastern Asia seems to be related to the favorable climatic conditions prevailing there since Circaea reached this region, a well-known center of survival for many Arcto-Tertiary genera, and not to an Asian origin for Circaea. The genus has evolved in two directions since its origin: 1) towards more efficient outcrossing through modification of the nectary so that it is more conveniently positioned for visits by short-tongued insects, primarily syrphid flies, and 2) towards self-pollination by having the anthers appressed to the stigma and dehiscing before opening of the buds, and in reduction of the locules in the ovaries and fruits from two to one. Circaea repens of the Himalayan region occupies an intermediate position between the two groups in the presence of a trace of a second locule. Circaea is treated in accordance with other recent work in the Onagraceae. Seven species are recognized. Circaea alpina, the most wide-ranging of the species, comprises six subspecies, each occupying a distinct ecological and/or geographical area. Circaea lutetiana includes three subspecies, one each in Asia, Europe, and North America. The remaining species are C. cordata, C. erubescens, C. glabrescens, C. mollis, and C, repens, all confined to Asia. Three new hybrids, C. x skvortsovii, C. x decipiens, and C. x mentiens, are described, one new combination, C. x ovata, is made, and two taxa are changed in status. Full descriptions are provided for the eight known hybrids in addition to those for the species and subspecies.
10.2307/2399351|Augustus Fendler collected over 500 collection numbers of pteridophytes in Venezuela between 1854 and 1858. These collections are noteworthy because of the large number of dispersed duplicates, rarities, and types (44 collection numbers thus far identified) among them. This paper presents an annotated list of Fendler's Venezuelan pteridophyte collections and a historical account of the collections, including a portrayal of Fendler's fascination with ferns.
10.2307/2395268|The principal characters of vegetative anatomy which are of phylogenetic significance at the higher levels in angiosperm systematics are defined and discussed in relation to their taxonomic distribution in the Takhtajan and the Cronquist systems of angiosperm classification. In absence of a complete fossil record, application of the phylogenetic method of association, correlation, and common ground plan are illustrated from anatomical data. Vegetative structure contains a wealth of potentially significant systematic information. However, only the evolutionary trends in the secondary xylem and the phylogenetic conclusions that have resulted from recognizing these trends, provide a firm basis of angiosperm phylogeny. In order for the phylogenetic significance of other vegetative anatomical characters to be fully realized, more comprehensive studies must be undertaken and new methodologies and approaches applied. For the most part, anatomical data support the phylogenetic conclusions of the Takhtajan and Cronquist systems of angiosperm classification at the higher taxonomic levels. However, the most reliable application of anatomical information remains in statements of negation of close relationship rather than positive assertions of close affinity.
10.2307/2399588|One hundred years ago taxonomic botany was at the end of the first phase of producing great regional floras and encyclopedic compendiums, especially with the work of George Bentham and Joseph Hooker in Britain, Asa Gray in the U.S.A., and Alphonse de Candolle in Switzerland. The vast influx of new botanical discoveries from exploration had highlighted interest in biogeography, interpreted in terms of new evolutionary insights. The subject had been in high regard and major herbaria had recently been founded. A widespread decline of activity and prestige followed, when emphasis shifted to other botanical fields, except in Germany where Adolf Engler further developed encyclopedic coverage of plant families and genera worldwide. Revival of biological taxonomy came slowly through genetics to the "new systematics." Karyology, biosystematics, phytochemistry, and comparison of isozymes were in turn seen as panaceas; each failed to meet these expectations but continues to contribute as part of the armory of relevant approaches. Emphasis on methods of analysis led to the decade of numerical phenetics. Partly from lack of a satisfactory theoretical basis, phenetics came to be widely rejected but gave place to cladistics, ranging from the avowedly phylogenetic to abstract pattern analysis. Macromolecular genetics with analysis of data from nuclear, ribosomal, mitochondrial, and especially chloroplast genes is now rapidly producing robust data to address many previously intractable problems at all taxonomic levels by selection of appropriate gene systems. Such data may produce convincing phylogenetic trees without input from morphology, leading some to question whether systematic botany remains "an unending synthesis," though warnings against overconfidence have been sounded both from aspects of gene systems and from the way the data are analyzed. A challenge is to maintain cohesion in systematics so that the new developments are a scientific stimulus to the subject as a whole and so that herbaria and other institutions concerned with floristic projects remain within the mainstream of scientific taxonomy. Insofar as macromolecular systematics lives up to its early promise, the task of systematics may eventually become, in part, the interpretation of morphology and evolution in terms of highly corroborated phylogenies-a synthesis on new terms. As well as these more theoretical approaches, providing organized information on the diversity of the world's plants through national and regional floras remains a priority.
10.2307/2399406|The secondary chemical constituents of 42 species in sixteen genera of Solanaceae, of five species in three genera of Apocynaceae-Parsonsieae, and of 142 species in 45 genera of Ithomiinae (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae) whose larvae feed on these plants, have been analyzed and compared in a standardized manner. Large orb spiders (Nephila clavipes), which cut field-caught adult Ithomiinae out of their webs, were used to assay fractions for defensive substances eventually present in or derived from larval food plants; the fractions were applied externally to the palatable nymphaline butterfly Biblis hyperia. All extracts and fractions from Solanaceous plants were inactive, not defending Biblis against predation by Nephila. The principal defensive compounds of adult Ithomiinae (also found in eggs and occasionally in Apocynaceae used by some Ithomiinae larvae) are dehydropyrrolizidine alkaloid (PA) monoesters and their N-oxides, stored in up to 20% of dry weight. These compounds are obtained from a variety of natural sources by the adults after emergence from the pupa (freshly hatched individuals of both sexes in 26 genera were readily eaten by Nephila), especially from decomposing Boraginaceae-Heliotropoideae and flowers of Compositae-Eupatorieae, for which they serve as pollinators. Trichogonia, Adenostemma, and many Eupatorium flowers were confirmed as rich sources of the alkaloids, showing characteristics indicating long periods of coevolution in obligatory mutualism with the ithomiine pollinators. The highly diversified and variable Solanaceae toxins seem not to be stored and used for defense by the Ithomiinae, but may be important in mediating larval feeding preferences and oviposition in the butterflies, which show appreciable chemical specificity in host plant preference. Patterns of ithomiine larval use of the Solanaceae at the generic level, however, do not indicate parallel phylogenetic diversification of the two groups. An alternative hypothesis points to sequential adaptation by radiating lines of Ithomiinae to different classes of chemical toxins in the already diversified Solanaceae. By obtaining their PAs, necessary for their defense and reproduction (pheromone synthesis), from a source stabilized by mutualism, the Ithomiinae avoid dependence on the Solanaceae chemicals, constantly destabilized by divergent selection in the antagonistic system. Quantitative determination of PA concentrations in parts of different Ithomiinae and Eupatorieae permits the drawing of a diagram for the flow of these substances in natural ecosystems.
10.2307/2399012|Nivenia corymbosa has flowers with a stamen- and style-length dimorphism but pollen monomorphism. Results of an intra- and intermorph crossing program suggest that this species is androdioecious rather than conventionally distylous. A single progeny grown from a selfed long-styled plant contained 1 : 1 longs: shorts, suggesting that the longs of the ancestral distylous condition are the heterozygous morph rather than the homozygous one.
10.2307/2395275|Information about the basis of transspecific evolution can be obtained only by extrapolation from processes known to take place at subspecific levels. Given sufficient information, such extrapolation is justified by the fact that no processes can be detected at the transspecific level which are different from those that operate at subspecific levels. Nevertheless, certain shifts must be recognized: particularly, greater emphasis on alternative evolutionary strategies, and the greater importance of reproductive as compared to vegetative characters. In addition, the long time span required for transspecific evolution means that many reversals of evolutionary direction can be expected, and common ancestors of modern families and orders are likely to be extinct. Evolutionary conservatism depends upon the complexity of the developmental pattern of a character, and the uniformity versus diversity of the selective pressures to which it might be subjected. Reversibility of evolutionary trends depends upon the number of separate genetic changes needed to produce the change in the original direction. The effect of these deductions on the most widely accepted phylogenetic systems is slight. Principally, weighting of individual characters is regarded as unjustified, linear relationships between modern families are highly unlikely, and cross sectional phylogenetic charts are preferable to the conventional "trees."
10.2307/2398866|A collection from Panama, representing the first New World record of Pollia, is described as P. americana Faden. The plant appears to be indigenous
10.2307/2399470|The present study is a pollen-morphological investigation of 80 species belonging to 17 of the 22 known neotropical genera of Lauraceae. Observations were made with light and scanning electron microscopes. An ultrastructural study of the pollen wall of 11 genera was also undertaken by transmission electron microscopy. The pollen grains of most of the genera are easily identifiable by their sizes and by the number and organization of spinules. The pollen grains of all the species investigated are apolar, spheroidal, and inaperturate. The exine is very thin and coherent due to loosely or densely packed globular to variously shaped bodies. The surface of exine is scattered with pointed or blunt, monomorphic or dimorphic spinules. The spinules are made up of numerous tightly woven strands; their bases are encompassed by a thick, circular, cushionlike form. The intine was found to be the dominant layer of the pollen wall and to show varied composition and structural details. It is remarkable that a similar type of intine has been encountered in the inaperturate pollen grains belonging to such disparate genera as Canna, Heliconia, Hernandia, and Palmeria. The taxonomic implications of the palynological observations are discussed.
10.2307/2666219|Grimmia comprises 29 (plus 2 probable) species in Latin America. The centers of highest species diversity are the Mexican Volcanic Belt and the Andean Range between central Peru and southern Patagonia. All taxa are keyed and described, and they are typified if it has not been done previously. Each species is illustrated and its distribution mapped. Grimmia molesta is described as new from Peru. Previous records of G. tergestina from Mexico correspond to G. involucrata, Grimmia kidderi, G. ochyriana, and G. tergestina are reported for the first time from the Americas.
10.2307/2399596|Leaves of the recently described genus Ticodendron are simple, alternate, stipulate, symmetrical, elliptical with attenuate apices and acute bases, a single order of serrations representing modified rosid teeth, pinnate, craspedodromous principal venation, percurrent tertiaries, well-developed, random areolation, anomocytic stomates, and T-shaped hairs. Phenetic and cladistic analyses of leaf and other characters of Ticodendron were performed in order to determine its affinities and evolutionary relationships. Several new characters, including the number of veins joining the midrib and the venation of the marginal teeth, were added to the suite of standard leaf architectural descriptors because of their demonstrated potential as systematic indicators. After filtering out nonapplicable and symplesiomorphous characters, a total of 70 characters (48 leaf and 22 reproductive and wood) remained. These were organized into two main data sets, with the second further divided to form three subsets, which were then analyzed using a simple similarity comparison and parsimony methods. From the standpoint of its gross phenetic and phylogenetic affinities, Ticodendron belongs to a group of amentiferous taxa, with the extinct genus Fagopsis showing the strongest affinity, followed by Brunellia, Castanopsis, Castanea, Alnus, and Nothofagus. Our cladistic analyses show Ticodendron grouping with the Fagales and occasionally with the Myricaceae in a rosalean clade whose base is embedded in the Cunoniaceae. These data support recognition of the new genus as a member of a distinct family in the order Fagales and with closest affinities to Fagaceae and Betulaceae.
10.2307/2399757|The antiquity and diversity of Selaginella species attest to the evolutionary success of the genus. This success may be attributed, in part, to certain morphological and anatomical features that characterize Selaginella. Recent developmental studies of anisophylly, monoplastidy, the ligule, the rhizophore, marginal warty cells, and marginal teeth of the leaves, as well as aspects of the heterosporous life cycle are discussed. Unresolved questions concerning vegetative features include the function of the ligule, morphological interpretation of the so-called rhizophore, and a possible role of distinctive leaf ornamentations in water economy. Among unresolved questions concerning reproductive morphology are the basis of heterospory, control of sporangial development, spore dispersal mechanisms as they affect inbreeding and outcrossing, and other details of the reproductive process. It is concluded that the genus Selaginella offers numerous opportunities for future research.
10.2307/2992018|Geranium subg. Robertium (Geraniaceae) comprises eight sections, of which section Batrachioidea and section Divaricata are revised here. Geranium sect. Batrachioidea consists of four species centered in Eurasia, between the Mediterranean region and the Himalaya Mountains, although they have also expanded to many temperate areas in America, South Africa, and Australia. In contrast to the current literature, we consider G. brutium to be a synonym of G. molle. We also accept G. aequale to include plants similar to G. molle but with smooth mericarps. Geranium sect. Divaricata comprises two species, one widespread between the Mediterranean region and the Himalaya Mountains and the other endemic to the Caucasus. A cladistic analysis using a data set of 15 characters showed that both sections are well supported by synapomorphic features. Conversely, no new character (other than pollen color) was found to support a relationship between them. Brief accounts are also given of chromosome number, hybrids, and diagnostic aspects of morphology. Nomenclature for all species is reviewed, 32 lectotypes are designated, and descriptions, distribution maps, and illustrations are provided.
10.2307/2398916|Pollen of the American myristicaceous genera Compsoneura and Virola was studied with light, scanning electron, and transmission electron microscopy. Formal generic pollen descriptions are provided for each of these genera. Study of the pollen of these two genera reveals that they possess a number of similar palynological features, including sulcate apertures, reticuloid to reticulate exine sculpturing that sometimes consists of banded or beaded muri, a columellate interstitium with columellae frequently hanging from the tectum or only weakly attached to the nexine, and tectate-perforate to semitectate pollen grains. Pollen of Compsoneura, however, can be distinguished from that of Virola by (1) its nexine which is generally twice as thick as that in Virola, (2) its consistently more or less solid, nonlamellate nexine, and (3) its consistently inconspicuous intra-exinous, sexinous cavities. Within Compsoneura, pollen of section Coniostele is decidedly more advanced than that of section Compsoneura. Virola exhibits a wide range of exine sculpturing patterns, allowing recognition of three basic pollen types. Species of Pollen Type I have basically tectate-perforate grains although sometimes their pollen may be more or less reticuloid, and the exine surface or muri are usually psilate. Pollen Type II is characterized by tectate-perforate to semitectate grains which have banded to beaded muri, while Type III pollen grains are semitectate-reticulate with psilate muri.
10.2307/2398868|Because of its distinctive placentation, axillary structures, and unusual inflorescence structure, Engler's Tovomita sect. Dysovomita is raised to generic level. The new genus now consists of three species [D. brasiliensis D'Arcy, D. clusiifolia (Maguire) D'Arcy, D. pittieri (Engler) D'Arcy], the first newly described.
40035493|The monotypic genera Absolmsia Kuntze, Madangia P. I. Forst., Liddle & I. M. Liddle, and Micholitzia N. E. Br. (Apocynaceae, Marsdenieae) are, according to molecular phylogenetic results, nested within the genus Hoya R. Br. Together with Dischidia R. Br., these genera are considered to comprise a well-supported clade within the tribe Marsdenieae. Flower morphology of Absolmsia, Madangia, and Micholitzia is examined by SEM and light microscopy and compared to that of the related H. caudata Hook, f., H. curtisii King & Gamble, H. hypolasia Schltr., H. lacunosa Blume, H. patella Schltr., H. retusa Dalzell, and H. venusta Schltr. We discuss the morphological evidence that supports the reduction of these genera into Hoya. Among characters supporting such a position is the presence of a pellucid margin on the pollinia of Absolmsia, Madangia, Micholitzia, and Hoya that is absent on the pollinia of Dischidia. Absolmsia and Madangia have a staminal corona with outer and inner lobes, similar to that of Hoya. While the outer corona processes of Absolmsia and Micholitzia are free and revolute, as in most species of Hoya, those of Madangia are laterally fused forming a continuous skirt resembling the corona of certain species of Hoya. The flowers of Micholitzia are superficially similar to those of Dischidia in its urceolate corolla, but the staminal corona with revolute outer processes decidedly links Micholitzia to Hoya. The new combination H. inflata (P. I. Forst., Liddle & I. M. Liddle) L. Wanntorp & P. I. Forst. is proposed. For Micholitzia obcordata N. E. Br., the name H. yuennanensis Hand.-Mazz. has nomenclatural priority and should therefore be used when including M. obcordata in Hoya.
3298609|The genus Veronica (Plantaginaceae, formerly Scrophulariaceae) is well known for its reduced corolla tube in an otherwise long-tubed family. Similar character reversals to states thought to be plesiomorphic to taxa outside Veronica are found in inflorescence morphology, embryology, and karyology. We have used nuclear ribosomal ITS and plastid trnL-F sequence data in separate and combined data sets to explore character evolution in Veronica and related genera. We here use Veronica in a wide sense including the Hebe complex, Synthyris, Besseya, and Pseudolysimachion. Based on comparison with results from the molecular analyses, we infer the rosette habit to be ancestral in the tribe Veroniceae with two losses and at least two regains. The terminal inflorescence was probably lacking in the ancestor of Veroniceae but re-emerged at least twice with a concentration in annual and alpine species. Tubular flowers evolved in parallel several times, and this parallelism is also indicated by floral development. The ancestor of Veroniceae was likely to have five calyx lobes and four corolla lobes, but both characters are labile. The capsule of the ancestor of Veronica was probably wide and compressed with several specializations occurring within species groups. The pollen types identified by earlier authors match with little conflict results from the molecular analyses, as do embryological characters such as morphology of micropylar endosperm haustoria. Finally, chromosome number was likely to be x = 9 in the ancestor of Veroniceae with other base numbers evolving several times in parallel. Similarities of the inferred ancestral character states with those from the outgroups Plantago and Digitalis are discussed.
10.2307/2399671|Pollen grains of 30 orchid species from the Spiranthoideae and Epidendroideae (including the Vandeae) were studied ultrastructurally. This study complements the published palynological literature on the Apostasioideae, Cypripedioideae, Spiranthoideae, and Orchidoideae. The orchid pollen thus far studied exhibits a wide range of variation in pollen unit, aperture type, and wall ultrastructure. The least specialized Apostasioideae and some Cypripedioideae shed pollen in monads and have monosulcate grains with a tectate-columellate, perforate exine structure. These are features observed in most primitive monocotyledons. In the more specialized orchid subfamilies, pollen occurs in mealy or tightly packed, waxy pollinia, and the grains have a porate-ulcerate aperture or are inaperturate, and the sporopolleninous wall is present only on the most peripheral grains in the pollinium (a few species lack exines). The presence of the exine on only the most peripheral grains in the pollinium is accompanied by a loss of the footlayer in many taxa and elaboration of the intine. As in other monocots, endexine has not been unequivocally demonstrated in orchids.
10.2307/2399115|Study of the floral structure of Cercidiphyllum, Euptelea, Tetracentron, and Trochodendron, at anthesis and in earlier developmental phases, revealed new features of macrosystematic interest. They include the presence of rudimentary tepals in Trochodendron, and valvate anther dehiscence, similar exine structure, and similar nectaries on dorsal carpel bulges in Trochodendron and Tetracentron. These and other similarities point to a close relationship between Trochodendron and Tetracentron, which together are formally best treated as a family Trochodendraceae. Other new characters, such as zygomorphy or bilateral symmetry of the flowers in early developmental phases and relatively similar anther differentiation, in addition to the established similarities, corroborate the relative homogeneity of the four genera, which can be seen as members of a single order Trochodendrales. The position of this order is intermediate between the Magnoliidae and Hamamelidae so that the formal inclusion of the order in either group can be justified.
40982871|A defining event for Mesozoic plant-pollinator interactions is the angiosperm radiation, which extended the reach of pollinating insects during the Early Cretaceous in a brief interval of geologic time. Recent evidence indicates that events beginning in the Early Permian and increasing during the Middle Jurassic provided repeated opportunities for insect feeding on pollen, pollination drops, and reproductive tissues of extinct gymnosperm lineages. Pollination was an associated development. Studies on the detailed mouthpart structure of several fluid-feeding insect lineages indicate targeting of certain tubular features of gymnosperm ovulate organs that previously were considered anomalous and difficult to interpret. One mouthpart type, the long-proboscid condition, consists of elongate, tubular (siphonate) proboscises that accessed surface fluids powered by a cibarial pump, often assisted with a distal proboscis sponging organ. These proboscises were received in ovulate organs through often intricate cupulate integumental tubes, interovular channels, salpinx tubuli, pappus tubules, prolonged micropyles, and a catchment funnel-pipe-micropyle device. These ovulate structures also are consistent with insect access to nutritive rewards, including pollination drops, nectarial secretions, and pollen. Other evidence for pollination includes the entomophilous structure and size of pollen found on insect and plant contact surfaces and in insect guts, nutritional levels of modern pollination drop fluids similar to angiosperm nectar for supporting metabolically high activity levels of aerially active insects, and plant-host outcrossing. While the long-proboscid pollination mode of fluid feeding targeted gymnosperm hosts that deployed unisexual reproductive organs at some distance from each other, either on the same or on different plants, another mode of pollination, that of mandibulate insects, consumed typically solid tissues in compact bisexual strobili, targeting pollen and perhaps pollination drops (adults), and associated sterile tissues (larvae). These two groups of pollinator associations were irretrievably altered as angiosperms diversified during a 35-million-year interval of the Early Cretaceous, evident in three patterns. First was the demise of most pollinator associations that evolved during the preceding 65 million years; second was the lateral transfer of some of these associations onto angiosperms that continue today as relicts; and third was emergence of new pollinator associations with angiosperms.
10.2307/2398808|Recent developments in grass taxonomy give a new insight into their classification, and point to a phylogenetic sequence which maps differences in their internal metabolism. Corroboratory fossil evidence is unfortunately exceedingly meager, but it can be supplemented by examining the implications of present-day distributions. The subfamilies are distributed in worldwide climatic belts, but two-thirds of the genera are confined to single continents. Obviously, the genera are poor travellers, so how did the grasses become so widespread? Much depends on the probability of transoceanic transport. The evidence is inconclusive, but it seems likely that the tropical subfamilies spread during the first half of the Tertiary when the maximum water gap was 1200 km. Species distributions are likewise influenced by climatic differentiation and continental isolation. But they sometimes reveal the intervention of other factors, particularly the disruptive effect of climatic change in the Pleistocene. Data from the Afro-montane flora do not support the proposition that species from adjacent, but contrasting, ecological environments are distributed independently. Nor does a mapping of endemics encourage the concept of discrete centers.
10.2307/2399691|Ehretia is a pantropical genus of about 50 species with centers of diversity in eastern Africa and tropical Asia. Although as many as 12 species of Ehretia have been recognized in the New World, field and herbarium studies suggest that the patterns of variation in the New World are best treated as three species. Most recent authors have recognized Ehretia anacua and E. tinifolia as distinct species and have distinguished several species with serrate leaf margins. Field studies suggest that characters used to differentiate species with serrate leaf margins often vary within populations or on a single individual. Thus Ehretia latifolia is treated in a broad sense, including all segregate species with serrate leaves.
10.2307/2992096|Pollen of 69 species representing 34 genera from 12 of the 13 tribes of Crotonoideae sensu Webster was examined in light microscopy (LM), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). The pollen of the vast majority of the subfamily is inaperturate, and all Crotonoideae exines have a similar architecture: triangular supratectal elements attached to a network of muri having short or irregular columellae. These three components, triangular supratectal elements, muri, and modified columellae constitute the Croton structure. The triangular elements, designated subunits, can be psilate, striate, furrowed and ridged, or pitted, and with echinate, rounded, or long-attenuate apices; the subunits can be closely spaced or arrayed in more open configurations. A Croton sculpture refers to the presence of triangular sculpture elements, which may or may not have muri and modified columellae. Inaperturate grains have thin footlayers and thin endexines, whereas colpate pollen has both footlayer and endexine well developed; in porate grains, the footlayer and endexine appear intermediate between inaperturate and colpate. Tribes Micrandreae (Hevea, Micrandra, Micrandropsis examined) and Adenoclineae (Adenocline, Ditta, Glycydendron, Endospermum, Klaineanthus, Tetrorchidium) are 3-colpate and probably primitive, having retained not only apertures but (prominent) footlayers and endexines as well; Manihoteae (Manihot, Cnidoscolus examined) and Gelonieae (Suregada) are porate. The thicker aperturate exines, especially in the colpate grains, may be linked with retention of apertures. The remaining 22 genera examined, including the two largest, Croton and Jatropha, have inaperturate pollen. A thin footlayer/endexine also occurs in Oldfieldioideae, and a tectum with triangular elements is found in some Acalyphoideae. In both morphology and exine structure, the pollen of Crotonoideae closely resembles the (porate) pollen of Thymelaeaceae.
10.2307/2666206|Current views of arthropod phylogeny are assessed in light of recent research in morphological and molecular phylogenetics, developmental biology, neurobiology, and paleontology. Recent fossil discoveries and molecular clock data inform us that arthropod diversification began in the Precambrian, and suggest that by the Cambrian the arthropods were already the most speciose metazoan phylum on earth. The combination of metamerism and jointed appendages (with intrinsic musculature), and the evolutionary potential of homeotic genes, has profoundly affected arthropod evolution and created many morphological homoplasies. Evidence strongly favors a monophyletic Arthropoda. Accumulating evidence supports a hypothesis that insects and modern crustaceans comprise a phylogenetic sister group, and that they, and perhaps also trilobites, chelicerates, and myriapods, all could have evolved out of an ancient crustacean stem line. Two implications of this hypothesis are that Crustacea comprise a paraphyletic taxon and insects may be viewed as "flying crustaceans."
10.2307/2666197|We present the first report on the embryology of Takhtajania. By adding its data to those already known from other Winteraceae (Drimys, Pseudowintera, Tasmannia, and Zygogynum s.l.), we summarize embryological features of the family to evaluate the proposed basal position of Takhtajania in the family and a possible sister-group relationship between Winteraceae and Canellaceae, which were recently suggested by molecular evidence. Comparisons within and between the families showed that Takhtajania agrees well with other Winteraceae embryologically, having no distinct features to support its basal position in the family. Although Winteraceae and Canellaceae share a number of basic embryological features, including an exotestal seed coat, Winteraceae are clearly distinct by virtue of the following features: the outermost one of the middle layers and even part of the connective tissue in the anther developing fibrous thickenings at anthesis; ovules anatropous (not campylotropous as in Canellaceae); the micropyle formed by the inner integument alone (rather than by two integuments as in Canellaceae); an exostome formed after fertilization; a persistent micropylar part of the tegmen composed of variously enlarged, thick-walled cells; and the exotesta palisadal. Winteraceae are thus a well-defined group embryologically and, despite their modern widespread distribution, genera show little diversification in embryological characters.
10.2307/2666191|Wood and bark anatomy of Takhtajania are newly reported on the basis of woody stems to 4.5 cm in diameter, a woody root 4 cm in diameter, and a smaller stem with only a little secondary growth. The wood lacks growth rings and is vesselless. Tracheids bear biseriate or triseriate circular pits or scalariform pits on end walls and sparse circular pits on side walls. Warts and helical thickenings are lacking on the inner surfaces of tracheids. Axial parenchyma is very sparse. Multiseriate and uniseriate rays are about equally abundant, and both are composed of upright cells except for a small number of procumbent cells in multiseriate rays. Ethereal oil cells and sclereids are absent in rays. Bark contains sclereid nests and ethereal oil cells. Wood features closely match those of Tasmannia or Drimys, in agreement with conclusions reached on the basis of molecular data. Comparative data on bark of Winteraceae other than Takhtajania are lacking. Wood features of Takhtajania agree with those of subtropical species by lacking features found in temperate Winteraceae (growth rings, warted tracheid surfaces, helical thickenings in tracheids).
40035046|Jens C. Clausen, David D. Keck, and William M. Hiesey's biosystematic research on continental tarweeds (Madiinae; Compositae) provided diverse examples of evolutionary change for Clausen's synthesis, Stages in the Evolution of Plant Species. Subsequent anatomical work by Sherwin Carlquist demonstrated that the tarweed lineage also includes a spectacular example of adaptive radiation, the Hawaiian silversword alliance. Molecular phylogenetic data and evidence from genetic and hybridization studies have allowed additional perspectives on Clausen et al.'s and Carlquist's hypotheses of tarweed-silversword evolution. In Californian Layia, Clausen et al.'s evidence for gradual allopatric diversification for the n = 7 taxa accords with patterns of molecular divergence and decay of interfertility across lineages inferred from a rate-constant rDNA tree. In contrast, recent evidence on patterns and timing of diversification in an n = 8 Layia clade indicates multiple examples of accelerated phenotypic evolution, unresolved by Clausen et al., that evidently reflect rapid "budding off" of morphologically distinct lineages in ecologically novel settings. In rDNA trees of Californian Holocarpha, lineages representing different cryptic biological species, documented by Clausen, appear to predate the origin of a morphologically and ecologically distinctive taxon (H. macradenia (DC.) Greene) that retains interfertility with relatives of ancestral phenotype; at fine-scale levels of divergence, a disconnect is evident between evolution of intrinsic, post-mating reproductive barriers and phenotypic evolution in Holocarpha. Clausen's evidence for strong intersterility barriers between the mostly annual, continental species of the "Madia" lineage contrasts with Gerald D. Carr and Donald W. Kyhos's subsequent finding of partial to full interfertility between the phenotypically disparate, insular species of the Hawaiian silversword alliance, a monophyletic group that descended from continental ancestors in the "Madia" lineage. Molecular phylogenetic data indicating major ecological changes associated with diversification, a brief timeframe for diversification, and a shift to woodiness in the ancestry of the silversword alliance uphold Carlquist's hypothesis of adaptive radiation of the group and help explain the lack of substantial, internal barriers to gene flow across lineages therein. Results of recent investigations have shown that highly dynamic evolutionary change in Madiinae, both in phenotypic characters and in modes and patterns of diversification, extends to even finer-scale evolutionary levels than indicated by Clausen et al.'s elegant studies. In general, current evidence on diversification in Madiinae appears to be consistent with Clausen et al.'s views concerning the importance of ecological factors in incipient evolutionary divergence. Phylogeny of Madiinae is no longer the intractable problem perceived by Clausen; relatively little is known about the biological basis for the extreme evolutionary propensities of tarweeds.
10.2307/2399771|Data on wood anatomy are presented in tabular form for 56 sympetalous families of dicotyledons arranged according to the system of Dahlgren, who was influenced by data from presence or absence of iridoids and by embryological information. Each order is reviewed in terms of the degree of correlation of wood data with data from chemistry and embryology. Original data are presented for Buddlejaceae, Globulariaceae, and Selaginaceae. Ericales prove to be a natural and rather primitive group. Cornales as a whole are primitive, but Adoxaceae and Stylidiaceae have distinctively specialized woods. Dipsacales are highly diverse on the basis of woods, creating interpretational questions. Gentianales are a natural group on the basis of wood and of intraxylary phloem in primary stems; Oleales and Rubiales are peripheral to Gentianales. Scrophulariales and Lamiales have specialized wood and are probably natural groupings, but there is no difference between the orders on the basis of wood anatomy. Recognition of particular families within Scrophulariales and Lamiales is aided by wood anatomy: Buddlejaceae, Globulariaceae, and Selaginaceae are distinctive families in Scrophulariales; Avicenniaceae, Chloanthaceae, and Stilbaceae (the last of which should include Retziaceae) should be recognized in Lamiales. Wood anatomy does not aid in differentiating Solanales from Boraginales. Wood of Asterales is rather uniform in characters of major evolutionary significance, despite its diversity in ecological wood anatomy. Lamiales and Scrophulariales have wood similar to that of Asteraceae, but so do Apiaceae, which share chemical features with Asteraceae, Campanulales, and some Dipsacales. Among families incertae sedis, Desfontainiaceae (often relegated to Loganiaceae) should be recognized under Cornales near Escalloniaceae, as should Columelliaceae. Fouquieriaceae bear resemblances to Cornales and Ericales, but deserve isolation in a monofamilial order. Familial assignment of the genera Leucophyllum, Oftia, and Paulownia is discussed.
10.2307/2399599|Pollen of Ticodendron incognitum, a monotypic Central American tree of uncertain affinity, was examined in detail with the hope of clarifying the relationships of this taxon. Pollen of Ticodendron is isopolar to subisopolar due to the slight displacement of the apertures toward one of the poles, slightly rounded-convex, suboblate, and triporate with slightly aspidote pores. Exine sculpturing is minutely spinulate with the spinules clustered and restricted to short rugulate ridges. The exine is organized into an evenly thickened tectum exhibiting narrow channels and perforations, a columellate/granular interstitium composed of prominent columellae typically pendent from the tectum and coarse sporadic granules, and an unevenly thickened continuous foot layer. In apertural areas the exine is composed only of tectum and pendent columellae and granules. The foot layer terminates approximately 3 m from the external pore opening. Pollen data, particularly sculpturing and the nature of the interstitial elements, offer strong support for placement of Ticodendron among the "higher" Hamamelidae with close ties to the Myricales and Casuarinales.
10.2307/2395249|The genus Moraea (Iridaceae), a close relative of Iris, and believed to have evolved independently of Iris from Dietes, is an exclusively African genus. It ranges from Nigeria and Ethiopia south through the African highlands to the southern tip of Africa where a winter rainfall regime prevails. Moraea appears to have radiated explosively in this region where 54 of the 93 species are found, 51 essentially being endemic. The winter rainfall region is also the center of diversity of Moraea and the probable area of origin for the genus. The present revision, the first since Baker's (1892) treatment in Flora Capensis, includes details of phylogeny, ecology, phytogeography and cytology, with new chromosome reports for five species. The treatment includes descriptions of nine new species and one new combination.
10.2307/3298585|A large collaborative effort has yielded a comprehensive study of the phylogeny and a new subfamilial classification of the grass family (Poaceae/Gramineae). The study was conducted on an integrated and representative set of 62 grasses (0.6% of the species and ca. 8% of the genera) plus four outgroup taxa using six molecular sequence data sets (ndhF, rbcL, rpoC2, phyB, ITS2, and GBSSI or waxy), chloroplast restriction site data, and morphological data. A parsimony analysis using 2143 informative characters (the combined analysis) resulted in a single most parsimonious tree of 8752 steps with an RI of 0.556 and bootstrap support of > 90% for more than half of the internal nodes. Significant relationships that appear consistently in all analyses of all data sets and are strongly supported by the combined analysis include the following: Joinvilleaceae are sister to a monophyletic Poaceae; the earliest diverging lineages of the Poaceae are Anomochlooideae, Pharoideae, and Puelioideae, respectively; and all remaining grasses form a clade. Multiple monophyletic clades were recovered, including Bambusoideae s. str., Ehrhartoideae, Pooideae s.l., Aristidoideae, Danthonioideae, Chloridoideae s. str., Chloridoideae s.l., Panicoideae, Parianeae, Olyreae s. str., Oryzeae, Stipeae, Meliceae, Lygeum + Nardus, and Molinia + Phragmites. The PACCAD Clade is monophyletic, containing Aristidoideae, Danthonioideae, Arundinoideae s. str., Chloridoideae s.l., Centothecoideae, Panicoideae, Eriachne, Micraira, and Gynerium. Based on the phylogeny, a classification of 11 previously published subfamilies (Anomochlooideae, Pharoideae, Puelioideae, Bambusoideae, Ehrhartoideae, Pooideae, Aristidoideae, Arundinoideae, Chloridoideae, Centothecoideae, and Panicoideae) and 1 new subfamily (Danthonioideae) is proposed. Several changes in the circumscription of traditionally recognized subfamilies are included. Previous phylogenetic work and classifications are reviewed in relation to this classification and circumscription, and major characteristics of each subfamily are discussed and described. The matrix, trees, and updated data matrix are available at (http://www.virtualherbarium.org/grass/gpwg/default.htm).
10.2307/2399431|Work in progress on the systematics of neotropical Lauraceae had yielded several undescribed species. In this contribution, eight species (Aiouea obscura van der Werff, Aiouea vexatrix van der Werff, Caryodaphnopsis cogolloi van der Werff, Licaria velutina van der Werff, Nectandra mirafloris van der Werff, Persea pajonalis van der Werff, Phoebe elegans van der Werff, and Pleurothyrium hexaglandulosum van der Werff) are described, illustrated, and discussed. A new combination, Ocotea erectifolia (Allen) van der Werff is made.
10.2307/2398941|The corm tunics of species of Hesperantha vary to a remarkable extent in this African genus in which other morphological characteristics provide little information for classification above the species level. The presumed basic corm type is globose and distinctly asymmetric and has concentric tunics. Globose corms with imbricate tunics, distinctly notched below are believed to be derived while the most specialized are flat-sided and triangular to campanulate in outline, with imbricate tunics, either more or less unbroken below, or notched into segments and often spiny or toothed below. This variation appears to form a coherent pattern and is emphasized in an infrageneric classification in which other taxonomically useful characters are taken into account. Four sections are recognized. Species with concentric corm tunics are assigned to section Concentrica; those with globose corms and imbricate tunics are assigned mostly to section Imbricata; while most of those with symmetric, campanulate to triangular, flat sided corms with imbricate tunics are assigned to section Hesperantha. A distinctive group with bracts having margins partly united around the stem, and either globose or campanulate corms with imbricate tunics are assigned to section Radiata. A brief survey of the distribution and distinctive species of each section is outlined following the formal taxonomic descriptions.
40732238|A revision of the species of Deschampsia P. Beauv., Avenella (Bluff & Fingerh.) Drejer, and Vahlodea Fr. (Poaceae, Poeae, Airinae) present in South America is given. Fifteen species of Deschampsia and two monospecific genera segregated from Deschampsia  Avenella and Vahlodea  are found in the Andes of Argentina and Chile south of 30  S, typically in humid or damp sites and wetlands. Isolated populations of the cosmopolitan D. cespitosa (L.) P. Beauv. are also found in Bolivia and highlands of southern Brazil. Keys to differentiate among the species of Deschampsia and the allied genera Avenella and Vahlodea are provided. A lectotype is designated for D. berteroana (Kunth) Trin. Se presenta una revisin de las especies de Deschampsia P. Beauv., Avenella (Bluff & Fingerh.) Drejer y Vahlodea Fr. de Sudamrica. Se hallaron quince especies de Deschampsia y los dos gneros monotpicos Avenella y Vahlodea (segregados de Deschampsia), tpicamente en lugares hmedos o pantanosos de los Andes de Argentina y Chile al sur de los 30  S. Poblaciones aisladas de la especie cosmopolita D. cespitosa (L.) P. Beauv. se encuentran en Bolivia y las tierras altas del sur de Brasil. Se dan claves para diferenciar Deschampsia de sus gneros aliados Avenella y Vahlodea y de las especies de Deschampsia. Se designa el lectotipo de D. berteroana (Kunth) Trin.
10.2307/2400006|Alzatea verticillata Ruiz & Pav. subsp. amplifolia S. A. Graham of the monotypic neotropical family Alzateaceae has a haploid chromosome number of n = 14. This first report for the family is unique as a putative base number among the 14 core families of the Myrtales. Given that x = 12 appears to be the basic number for the order, n = 14 could have arisen as an ascending dysploid or as a tetraploid derived from an ancestral base number of x = 7. A summary of probable basic chromosome numbers is given for all families currently recognized in the Myrtales except the Crypteroniaceae, which remains unknown cytologically.
10.2307/2398894| The general distribution and striking features of Piptocarpha are discussed. Three new species and one subspecies are described and figured: Piptocarpha jonesiana G. L. Smith and P. opaca (Benth.) Baker subsp. piraparanensis G. L. Smith from southeastern Colombia; P. barrosoana G. L. Smith and P. prancei G. L. Smith from Brazil. 
40035752|A first approximation of evolutionary relationships within the Asclepiadinae (Apocynaceae: Asclepiadoideae) is inferred from two DNA data sets, from the nuclear ITS region, and from plastid trnT-L and trnL-F spacers and trnL intron. Both the subtribe as a whole and the phylogenetic radiation of largely herbaceous genera around Asclepias are monophyletic and well supported. While resolution within the Asclepias complex is limited, the lineages identified demonstrate that current generic delimitation is unsatisfactory. Asclepias should be either restricted to New World members of the subtribe or expanded to encompass the entire radiation. In the African species, it is shown that, although the corona is taxonomically important for recognizing species, it can be misleading as an indicator of phylogenetic relationship. Vegetative similarities often prove a more reliable guide, but more detailed studies are needed to refine these lineages and to detect morphological characters to aid in their practical recognition.
10.2307/2395034|Four new species of Bignoniaceae-Distictella pauciflora A. Gentry, Jacaranda irwinii A. Gentry, Memora paucifoliolata A. Gentry, and M. croatii A. Gentry-and the fruits of Roentgenia bracteomana (K. Schum. ex Sprague) Urb., Cuspidaria weberbaueri (Sprague) A. Gentry, and Tynnanthus weberbaueri Sprague are described. Confusion of the winged fruits of some species of Tynnanthus with Cuspidaria is noted, and Cuspidaria ovalis Rusby and Cuspidaria schumanniana O. Kuntze are transferred to Tynnanthus. Jacaranda praetermissa Sandw., Jacaranda robertii S. Moore, Tabebuia eximia (Miq.) Sandw., Tabebuia elliptica (DC.) Sandw., and Tabebuia bureauvii Sandw. are remterpreted.
10.2307/2399980|Edgar Anderson (1897-1969), who spent most of his life at the Missouri Botanical Garden, serving as its director from 1954 to 1957, made many contributions to economic botany and ethnobotany. Using his book Plants, Man and Life as a starting point, I shall discuss several of these contributions and bring in a number of personal recollections.
10.2307/2666171|Complete sequences of the plastid gene matK were determined for 62 species of Poaceae from 60 genera, 26 tribes, and nine subfamilies to infer phylogenetic relationships. Restio tetraphyllus (Restionaceae) and Joinvillea ascendens (Joinvilleaceae) were used as outgroups. Cladistic analysis using PAUP yielded 39 most parsimonious trees with several well-supported major lineages. The strict consensus tree shows Streptochaeta and Anomochloa forming the two most basal lineages in grasses, followed by Pharus being sister to the remaining species. The other grasses divide into three elades: (1) subfamily Bambusoideae (excluding Brachyelytrum) plus Pooideae; (2) Oryzoideae; and (3) subfamilies Panicoideae. Arundinoideae, Centothecoideae, and Chloridoideae (termed PACC). Except for Arundinoideae, monophyly of each PACC subfamily is generally well supported: however, relationships among subfamilies are unresolved or weakly supported. Results obtained using matK sequences are largely consistent with other phylogenies based on molecular and structural data, particularly in that relationships among subfamilies remain unclear.
10.2307/2399145|Three species of Hesperantha are here recognized in tropical Africa: H. petitiana is widespread in highland areas from Ethiopia to eastern Zimbabwe; H. ballii is a local endemic of the Chimanimani Mountains in eastern Zimbabwe; and H. longicollis occurs in highlands in Malawi and Zimbabwe, extending into eastern Botswana and the Transvaal, South Africa. Hesperantha petitiana is taxonomically complex and includes lowgrowing and small-flowered plants corresponding to Ixia petitiana and I. hochstetteriana, and tall and large-flowered forms corresponding to H. volkensii from Mt. Kilimanjaro, and H. alpina from Mt. Cameroun. Hesperantha petitiana is closely allied to the southern African H. baurii complex and is not readily separable from some southern African collections assigned to this alliance. Chromosome numbers are reported for three populations of H. petitiana, all polyploid and either tetraploid or hexaploid, in contrast to all southern African plants so far counted, which are diploids.
10.2307/2399811|The persistence, complexity, lobing, margins, venation, texture, shape, adaxial glands, and heteroblastic nature of leaves are summarized for all 28 genera of Maloideae. The leaves can be simple with entire, toothed, or pinnately lobed margins, or they can be pinnately compound. They can be deciduous to evergreen, thin and membranaceous to very coriaceous; they have either camptodromous or craspedodromous secondary venation and come in a wide variety of shapes. Leaves of mature foliage on short shoots can differ markedly from those on juvenile or long shoots. The amount of variation within a genus is often correlated with the number of species, with the large genera Malus, Pyrus, Aria, and Crataegus having the greatest diversity. Within a genus only a limited number of leaf types occur. The diversity of leaves in Maloideae may be due to a multifarious original gene pool that arose with the polychotomous, amphipolyploid origin of the subfamily resulting from hybridization between early members of the Spiraeoideae and Amygdaloideae.
10.2307/2992100|Dalechampia contains over 120 species and occurs throughout the lowland tropics of Asia, Africa, and the New World. Most species in both the Old and the New World secrete terpenoid resin from large glandlike aggregations of bractlets in the pseudanthial inflorescences (blossoms) and are pollinated by bees that collect resin for use in nest construction. Using comparative chemical, morphological, and ecological data and phylogenetic analyses, I attempt to ascertain the early evolutionary and biogeographic events that led to the present distribution of species, character states, and pollination systems throughout the tropics. Available evidence suggests the genus originated in western Gondwana or South America in the mid Cretaceous or early Tertiary, respectively, and spread throughout the tropics by the rafting of land masses, or by migration across higher latitudes when they had subtropical climates, or both. There is some evidence for two migrational events between the Old and New Worlds. The original pollination system may have involved pollination by pollen-collecting insects or by fragrance-collecting male euglossine bees. The origin of pollination by resin-collecting bees appears to have been a consequence of a preadaptation (exaptation): the earliest Dalechampia apparently used triterpene resins to defend flower parts against attack by herbivores and/or microbes, and resin secondarily assumed the role of pollinator reward. The mutualistic relationship with resin-collecting bees may have originated independently in the Old and New Worlds.
10.2307/2394973|The 14 species of Anotis DC. originally included in that genus by de Candolle are all referable to earlier valid genera. All species are native to the New World; none are associated with the Asian genus Anotis auct. A new generic name Neanotis is proposed for the related but distinct species indigenous to Asia and one section, 28 species, and six varieties are validated under Neanotis. All sectional and specific names known under Anotis are placed under appropriate genera. In addition, new data from the morphology of the pollen emphasize the discontinuity between the species of Neanotis and those of Hedyotis (including Oldenlandia).
10.2307/2399741|Reexamination of Carolin's cladistic analysis of Portulacaceae confirms that Cistanthe Spach should be segregated from Calandrinia Kunth and should include Philippiamra Kuntze. Calyptridium Nutt. in Torrey & A. Gray (including Spraguea Torrey) cannot be excluded from Cistanthe on phylogenetic grounds and is therefore recognized as a section therein. In all, Cistanthe includes 45-50 western American species in five sections, including Cistanthe sect. Cistanthe, C. sect. Amarantoideae (Reiche) Carolin ex Hershkovitz, C. Calyptridium (Nutt. in Torrey & A. Gray) Hershkovitz, C. sect. Philippiamra (Kuntze) Hershkovitz, and C. sect. Strophiolum (B. Mathew) Hershkovitz. The phylogenetic relationship of Cistanthe to other Portulacaceae indicated in Carolin's cladogram is, upon reanalysis, equivocal, and the relationships among the sections remain poorly understood. Biogeographic understanding of the taxa here included in Cistanthe has been obscured by earlier, unnatural, and sometimes erroneous classifications of these plants.
3298625|A recent compilation of anatomical literature and original anatomical investigations of the leaf and petiole of Araceae led to a search for the most concise systematic organization of the genera within this family. Among structural data sets summarized, useful observations included those of type and position of conducting and mechanical tissue, aerenchyma, raphide crystals, and laticifers. These data were superimposed on three lines of evidence using DNA sequences. The revised classification presented here resulted in fewer anomalous generic placements and provides a framework for understanding the evolution of the family. Currently 106 genera are recognized and divided among 9 subfamilies and 21 tribes. The new subfamily Schismatoglottidoideae is described.
40390053|We performed phylogenetic analyses of DNA sequences of three chloroplast markers: rbcL, rps16, and trnT-F, to rigorously test the monophyly of competing circumscriptions of the tribe Ixoreae. Several genera traditionally or currently associated with the type genus Ixora L. were included in the analyses. Ixora as currently circumscribed appears paraphyletic, as many other genera are nested within it with strong support: Captaincookia N. Hall, Doricera Verde, Hitoa Nadeaud, Myonima Comm. ex Juss., Sideroxyloides Jacq., Thouarsiora Homolle ex Arnes, and Versteegia Valeton. Further, Aleisanthia Ridi., Aleisanthiopsis Tange, and Greenea Wight & Arn. are more closely related to Ixora and allies than the monotypic genus Scyphiphora C. F. Gaertn. Consequently, Ixoreae fide Andreasen and Bremer (2000) is not monophyletic without an exclusion of Scyphiphora. Ixoreae fide Robbrecht and Manen (2006) is not monophyletic unless Captaincookia and Doricera are included. The monophyly of a morphologically heterogeneous Ixoreae alliance consisting of Ixora and its relatives Aleisanthia, Aleisanthiopsis, and Greenea is, however, strongly supported. In order to recognize monophyletic and morphologically consistent groups, we adopt a narrow circumscription of Ixoreae (including Bemsetia Raf., Captaincookia, Charpentiera Vieill., Doricera, Hitoa, Ixora, Myonima, Pancheria Montrouz., Sideroxyloides, Thouarsiora, Tsiangia But, H. H. Hsue & P. T. Li, and Versteegia), and two new tribes are erected for Aleisanthia + Aleisanthiopsis and Greenea, respectively. The Indo-Malesian Aleisanthieae and the pantropical Ixoreae s. str. are sister groups, and the Southeast Asian Greeneeae is sister to the Ixoreae-Aleisanthieae clade.
40035056|El presente trabajo comprende la revisin taxonmica de las especies del gnero Axonopus P. Beauv. serie Suffulti G. A. Black. Esta serie se caracteriza por incluir especies perennes, frecuentes en sabanas y campos, sobre suelo arcilloso o arenoso, con afloramientos rocosos, hasta los 3500 m. Las plantas son rizomatosas o estolonferas, con vainas conduplicadas y lminas desde angostamente lineares a linear-lanceoladas, planas o plegadas totalmente o bien solo en la base. Las inflorescencias son exertas, ubicadas en el pice de las caas, compuestas por racimos espiciformes, en nmero variable, mayormente digitados. El raquis de los racimos es triquetro, sinuoso, con ngulos hispdulos, a veces con pelos largos y rgidos. La lemma superior y la plea superior ambas endurecidas, son castao oscuro, de superficie papilosa y lustrosa. Dentro de la serie Suffulti se consideran 16 especies, mayormente distribudas en Sudamrica, con A. ciliatifolius Swallen y A. jeanyae Davidse endmicas de Belice y Panam respectivamente. Se incluyen descripciones de los caracteres morfolgicos y de los microcaracteres del antecio superior, una clave para la identificacin de las especies, y para cada una de ellas se proporciona una descripcin, sinonimia, distribucin geogrfica e ilustraciones de los caracteres con valor taxonmico. Finalmente, se lectotipifica la serie Suffulti y A. ramboi G. A. Black es incluida en la sinonimia de A. argentinus Parodi. /// The taxonomic revision of species of the genus Axonopus P. Beauv. series Suffulti G. A. Black is presented. This series includes perennial species, frequently growing in savannas and in grasslands, on argillaceous or sandy ground with rocky outcrops, at altitudes up to 3500 m. The plants are rhizomatous or stoloniferous, with conduplicate sheaths and narrowly linear to linear-lanceolate blades, flat to folded along their entire length, or open toward the apex. The inflorescences are exserted from the apex of the culms; they consist of spiciform racemes of variable number, mainly digitate. The rachis of each raceme is triquetrous, sinuous, with hispidulous angles, sometimes with long and rigid hairs. The upper lemma and the upper palea are indurate, dark brown, papillose, and shiny. Sixteen species are here considered within Axonopus series Suffulti, principally distributed in South America, with A. ciliatifolius Swallen and A. jeanyae Davidse endemic species of Belize and Panama, respectively. Description of morphological characters and microcharacters of the upper floret, a key to identify the species, descriptions, synonymy, geographical distribution, and illustrations of characters of taxonomic value are given. Finally, lectotypification of series Suffulti is established, and A. ramboi G. A. Black is included in A. argentinus Parodi as a synonym.
10.2307/2399775|Phylogenies reconstructed with molecular data may provide new hypotheses of relationships. These may serve as a basis for improved morphological analyses and comparative analyses of ecological features. In this study a new phylogenetic hypothesis based on a chloroplast DNA restriction site analysis of the Rubiaceae prompted a critical analysis of morphological characters. Several unique morphological characters were identified that support a large, previously unrecognized monophyletic group, including the tribe Chiococceae. Hence, the tribe Chiococceae is amended to include members of the former Condamineeae (subtribe Portlandiinae) and the genera Exostema and Coutarea (formerly in the Cinchoneae). The new phylogeny of the Rubiaceae, based on molecular data and the great variety of fruits in the family, makes this family suitable for comparative studies of evolution of dispersal systems and for testing hypotheses of species diversity in connection with the different dispersal systems. In the Rubiaceae, fleshy fruits, adapted to animal dispersal, have originated a limited number of times and have remained unchanged since the time of origin. The hypothesis that animal dispersal should promote species diversity is not supported for the Rubiaceae.
10.2307/2399733|Subgenus Dichanthelium was established within Panicum by Hitchcock & Chase (1910) in their treatment of the North American species of the genus. These authors defined Dichanthelium as having an overwintering rosette of short, broad leaves; in spring the culms are simple, with a terminal, chasmogamous inflorescence. Later, branch culms arise at the nodes of the vernal culms, forming loose to rather dense fascicles of reduced leaves and branches with cleistogamous inflorescences. In the present treatment, variation of these characters was analyzed in South American species of Dichanthelium. Morphological and anatomical studies of different populations of Panicum sabulorum Lam., a South American species of subg. Dichanthelium, were carried out, examining the growth patterns, anatomy, and relationships of this species with other American species of the subgenus.
10.2307/2399606|Fifty-one fossil dicotyledonous pollen types and 27 unknowns are described from the Pliocene Gatun Formation of Panama. These are Cymbopetalum, Ilex, cf. Aguiaria, Bernoullia, Ceiba, Pseudobombax, Bursera, cf. Bucida, Combretum/Terminalia, Mutisieae type, cf. Cionosicys, Ericaceae (types 1, 2), Alchornea, cf. Glycydendrum, cf. Jatropha, cf. Stillingia, Quercus, Alfaroa/Oreomunnea, Acacia, Crudia, Erythrina, Utricularia, Loranthaceae (types 1, 2), Malpighiaceae (types 1, 2), Hampea/Hibiscus, Melastomataceae, Cedrela, Guarea, Eugenia/Myrcia, Cabomba, Hauya, Rhizophora, Chomelia type, Cosmibuena, Faramea (types 1, 2), Posoqueria, Casimiroa, Allophylus, Cupania, Paullinia, Serjania, cf. Bumelia, Symplocos (types 1, 2), Mortoniodendron, Aegiphila, and Petrea. Spores of the lycopods and ferns, and pollen of the gymnosperms and monocotyledenous angiosperms, have been described previously. Paleoecological and paleoenvironmental interpretations will be presented in a concluding paper.
10.2307/2398942|The two Madagascar species regarded as belonging to the southern African genus Geissorhiza, G. bojeri and G. ambongensis are shown to have characteristics incompatible with this genus. Geissorhiza bojeri accords well with Gladiolus and is transferred here as Gladiolus bojeri (Baker) Goldbl. Geissorhiza ambongensis is not sufficiently well known to allow generic placement at this time but is excluded from Geissorhiza.
10.2307/2399793|Pseudoludovia andreana, described in a monotypic genus, is based on a mixed collection. The element here selected as lectotype is conspecific with Sphaeradenia laucheana. P. andreana is reduced to a synonym of S. laucheana, and Pseudoludovia is placed into synonymy under Sphaeradenia. Sphaeradenia laucheana is neotypified.
10.2307/2399578|Meiotic chromosome numbers were determined (n = 11 and ca. 44; x = 11) and observations made for eight species of Nassauvia (Compositae, Mutisieae). The numbers include counts for seven species that have not previously been investigated cytologically: N. axillaris, N. chubutensis, N. glomerulosa, N. lagascae, N. revoluta, and N. uniflora (all with n = 11) and N. aculeata (with n = ca. 44). The results reveal three known chromosomal levels for the genus: n = 11 (2x), n = 22 (4x), and n = ca. 44 (8x). Infraspecific polyploidy in Nassauvia is known in N. magellanica with both n = 11 and 22. The closest generic relatives are Calopappus and Triptilion, but no cytological data are yet available for them. The most closely related genus for which chromosomal data are available is Moscharia with n = 20, which suggests that it and Nassauvia could be based on x = 11 (or perhaps x = 10).
10.2307/2398996|Using a collection of liquid-preserved vegetative shoots representing all 17 genera of Onagraceae, I investigated the cross-sectional histology of mature leaves. The study focussed on a search for systematically useful and diagnostic features as well as on the determination of possible trends of specialization of leaf features. Exclusively dorsiventral-leaved species are found in Ludwigia, Hauya, Fuchsia, Circaea, and Lopezia. Leaves of these genera also have the most prominent midrib structure. The most generalized anatomy including the presence of extraxylary fibers and diverse calcium oxalate crystal structure is found in Fuchsia, Ludwigia, and Hauya. The other twelve genera, which belong to the tribes Epilobieae and Onagreae, show a variety of leaf specializations including xeromorphic isobilateral structure, small midribs with small midveins, the absence of extraxylary fibers, the absence of druses and styloid crystals, and a poorly differentiated mesophyll. On the basis of correlations with data from wood anatomy, pollen morphology, reproductive biology, and biogeography, I hypothesize that the Onagraceae leaves show a general reduction in leaf complexity. Leaf anatomy by itself is not diagnostic for those genera with reduced structure but it may be distinctive in the genera with more complex structure such as Fuchsia, Ludwigia, and Hauya.
10.2307/2399898|Phylogeny reconstruction has become respectable science over the last few decades, and trees are accumulating rapidly in the literature. Botanists have been active in this effort and can already cite success stories (e.g., recognition of streptophytes, stomatophytes, anthophytes, eudicots). Nevertheless, only a small number of problems have been addressed and some of these have resisted solution. To solve the toughest problems, especially those involving ancient, rapid radiations, various sources of data will need to be combined, including evidence from fossils. Furthermore, in view of limitations in analyzing data sets with many taxa, more attention must be paid to the consequences of different taxon sampling strategies and to how large, variable taxa can be represented in more inclusive studies. Over the next few years we should continue to move toward a phylogenetic system (monophyletic groups defined by ancestry, diagnosed by characters), which will entail the elimination of familiar paraphyletic taxa. We can expect increased use of phylogenies by ecologists, molecular biologists, and others, which will force us to attend to the issue of the reliability of phylogenetic hypotheses, and will necessitate the development of a database of phylogenetic studies. Interactions with population biologists promise to be especially productive, since there are obvious mutual concerns centered on the analysis of gene trees and reticulation.
10.2307/2399997|Museums and herbaria in industrialized countries hold a huge amount of data in the form of labels associated with specimens collected in developing countries. These data represent a significant part of the existing information on biodiversity available for most developing countries. In this paper we first discuss the usefulness of the label information, providing some examples from Mexico. Acquiring and updating the information requires international cooperation, including the agreement of common policies for ownership and use of the data. Beneficiaries of such efforts will be not only the countries that assemble the databases from foreign museums, but the international scientific community as well, due to the increased scientific value that large databases coupled with modern computer technologies provide.
10.2307/2399920|The fossil spore genus Kuylisporites contains four species, of which K. mirabilis, K. separatus, and K. scutatus seem to be restricted to the Cretaceous and Paleogene of the Northern Hemisphere. The fourth species, K. waterbolkii, a spore that has identical features with the spore of the extant fern genus Cnemidaria, has been found exclusively in Tertiary to Holocene sediments of the Southern Hemisphere, with a trend to increasing restriction to the Neotropics. Kuylisporites waterbolkii has been found in the southern Gondwanan realm from the Early Eocene through early Miocene. New occurrences of K. waterbolkii, in middle Eocene sediments from the South Orkney area (Antarctica), link the Paleogene Australian and South American distribution. Between the late Eocene and Oligocene, when dramatic glacial cooling took place, K. waterbolkii migrated north. In Australia, where climatic deterioration was balanced by northward drift, K. waterbolkii persisted until the early Miocene. Increasing drought in Australia during the Neogene led, however, to its extinction. In South America the distribution area shifted from high latitudes during the Eocene, when climatic conditions there were warm to temperate, to low latitudes during the Oligocene. From the Oligocene on K. waterbolkii has been found exclusively in an area that overlaps with the area of extant Cnemidaria, which lives mostly in (sub)montane forests in tropical Central/South America and the Antilles. Morphological identity and overlapping paleobiogeographic distribution from the Miocene on suggest that K. waterbolkii can be correlated with spores of extant Cnemidaria. If this is the case, the Recent area of distribution of Cnemidaria must be considered to be a relict area.
10.2307/2395209|Casearia guianensis (Aubl.) Urban var. rafflesioides Croat is described as new. It differs from the typical variety in having precocious flowers and in bearing branch-spines. Casearia stjohnii Johnston is considered only a variety of Casearia guianensis. It differs from both the typical variety and var. rafflesioides in having stouter, more densely pubescent pedicels, longer, darker-colored bracts, and by flowering later in the season. Xylosma sylvicola Standley and X. chloranthum Donn. Sm. are reported new to Panama.
41238130|The present paper includes a taxonomic revision of the genus Gymnopogon P. Beauv. (Poaceae, Chloridoideae, Cynodonteae), with a total of 14 species treated in this work, including more than 40 synonyms. The genus includes perennial, occasionally annual, species, with erect to decumbent culms, ligules membranous-ciliate, blades conspicuously distichous, inflorescences with spikelets on racemiform branches, spikelets laterally compressed, 1-to 4-flowered, glumes 1-nerved, lemma 3-nerved, awned. Species distributions are mostly American, with one Asian species. A description of morphological characters, key to identify the species, descriptions, synonymy, geographical distribution, and illustrations of characteres of taxonomic value are also included. The name Chloris delicatula C. B. Clarke ex Hook. f. (= Gymnopogon delicatulus (C. B. Clarke ex Hook, f.) Bor) is lectotypified. El presente trabajo consta de una revisin taxonmica de las especies del gnero Gymnopogon P. Beauv. (Poaceae, Chloridoideae, Cynodonteae). En este manuscrito se trata un total de 14 especies, incluyendo ms de 40 sinnimos. El gnero incluye especies perennes, ocasionalmente anuales, con tallos erectos a decumbentes, lgulas membranceo-ciliadas, lminas conspicuamente dsticas, inflorescencias con espiguillas sobre ramas racemiformes, las espiguillas lateralmente comprimidas, 1- 4-floras, glumas 1-nervias, lemma 3-nervia, aristada. En lo que se refiere a la distribucin geogrfica, las especies son mayormente americanas, con una especie asitica. Se incluye la descripcin de caracteres morfolgicos, una clave para identificar las especies, descripciones, sinonimia, distribucin geogrfica e ilustraciones de los caracteres de valor taxonmico. Asimismo, se ha designado un lectotipo para Chloris delicatula C. B. Clarke ex Hook. f. (= Gymnopogon delicatulus (C. B. Clarke ex Hook, f.) Bor.
10.2307/2666159|Wood anatomy was examined in both species of Apiopetalum (trees endemic to New Caledonia) and in two species of Mackinlaya (shrubs from Queensland, Australia), using light and scanning electron microscopy, to investigate their phylogenetic relationships and taxonomic position within Apiales. These genera share several wood features: small intervessel pits, ranging from 3 to 6 m: both paratracheal and apotracheal (diffuse and diffuse-in-aggregates in Apiopetalum only) axial parenchyma; non-septate fibers; rays composed of mostly upright and square cells; and brown deposits in the vessels. Differences in wood structure between the genera appear to be related to habit. The results confirm recent molecular sequence data suggesting that Apiopetalum and Mackinlaya form a monophyletic group. Evidence from wood anatomy neither validates nor refutes the hypothesis that these two genera are intermediate between Araliaceae and Apiaceae and offers no clear indication of the group's phylogenetic position. Several wood characters (small intervessel pits, thick fiber walls, non-septate fibers) suggest a relationship with Myodocarpus, Delarbrea, and Pseudosciadium. No clear synapomorphies were found to support a sister relationship between Apiopetalum and Mackinlaya and core Apiaceae as previously suggested by Plunkett, nor between them and other Araliaceae. Helical thickenings on the walls of both ray and axial parenchyma, previously reported only once in Trigonia (Trigoniaceae), were observed in one sample of M. macrosciadea.
10.2307/2399975|The Accelerator Mass Spectrometry (AMS) method of radiocarbon dating has shortened the history of maize agriculture by demonstrating that purported earliest cobs from Mexico, New Mexico, and eastern North America are younger than, and intrusive into, earlier archaeological strata. Models of agricultural origins based on a 5000 B.C. or earlier date for cultigens must be discarded or validated by directly dated specimens. A more recent date (ca. 3000-3500 B.C.) for maize domestication leads to a new focus on settled hunter-gatherers in resource-rich zones. Social complexity in nonagricultural societies elsewhere is becoming more generally appreciated. In the Lower Mississippi Valley, nonagricultural mound builders persisted until 1100 A.D., and in Florida, California, and the Pacific Northwest, stratified hunter-gatherers flourished until Europeans arrived. These examples of sustainable harvesting demonstrate the long-term viability of such systems.
10.2307/2399372|Eighteen native insect species were found on flowers of 18 Solanum species in a field study in Australia. All of the Solanum species studied are endemic to Australia, and about one-half of them are andromonoecious or dioecious. Fifteen of the insect species and 93% of total floral visitors were bees. New records of activity on Solanum flowers in Australia are reported for Braunsapis and Xylocopa (Anthophoridae), Leioproctus (Colletidae), and Trigona (Apidae). Two species each of the pollen-collecting bees Amegilla (Anthophoridae), Nomia (Halictidae), and Trigona are considered the most significant floral visitors. This conclusion is based on the distribution, abundance, and behavior of the bees, and on the high percentage of Solanum pollen in pollen loads. Amegilla and Nomia extract pollen by "buzzing" it out of the anthers; Trigona species do not. Species of Amegilla are hypothesized to effect interpopulation outcrosses. Trigona species are considered important primarily in self-pollination, and species of Nomia transmit pollen both within and between plants. This pollinator assemblage is postulated to have been associated with the evolution of dioecy in Australian Solanum.
3298515|Didymodon sect. Fallaces (Musci, Bryopsida) is taxonomically revised for Europe, North Africa, Macaronesia, and Southwest and Central Asia. Nine species are recognized. Didymodon planotophaceus, D. spadiceus var. siluricus, and Didymodon ceratodonteus are newly synonymized with D. tophaceus; D. barbuloides is a new synonym referred to D. spadiceus, and Trichostomum rigidulum var. paludosa to D. fallax. Lectotypes for Barbula adriatica, B. falcifolia, B. insidiosa, B. kneuckeri, B. rigidicaulis, B. serpenticaulis, B. sinensi-fallax, Didymodon barbuloides, D. bosniacus, D. giganteus, D. levieri, D. maximus, D. rufus, D. spadiceus, D. spadiceus var. siluricus, D. tophaceus, D. tophaceus var. breidleri, Limneria viridula, and Trichostomum rigidulum var. paludosa are designated here. Didymodon asperifolius and D. tophaceus are reported for the first time from the Caucasus and Mauritania respectively. Descriptions, a taxonomic key, as well as LM and SEM photographs are included.
40982874|Eudicots and their currently recognized major subclades are characterized as to floral structure (including some "embryological" features) based on ca. 3000 original publications. A new classification of nucelli is presented. In particular, the distinction between tenuinucellar and incompletely tenuinucellar ovules has proven to be useful for the characterization of larger subclades. Tenuinucellar ovules characterize Gentianales, and largely Lamales of lamiids, and Asteraceae of campanulids, thus all of the most diversified subclades of asterids. In contrast, incompletely tenuinucellar ovules are present in basal asterids and the less diversified subclades of lamiids and campanulids. Interestingly, Santalales and Caryophyllales, which have been tentatively classified in the asterid lineage s.l, have relatively thin nucelli. Also, the presence of endosperm haustoria or the particular differentiation of the embryo suspensor characterizes some larger subclades such as Fabales and Lamales or core Saxifragales, respectively. The expanded malvids (with inclusion of Crossosomatales, Geraniales, and Myrtales) are supported by floral features. For several features that are potential key innovations, because they characterize strongly diversified clades (e.g., pentamerous flowers in core eudicots or monosymmetric flowers in Lamales), it is shown that they are also sporadically present in species-poor clades more to the base of the phylogenetic tree. This indicates that what appear as key innovations in certain groups may be present in latent form long before their manifestation as a key innovation. Thus, it is possible that such key innovations are not always apomorphies in a strict sense (e.g., monosymmetric flowers). This conforms with results of evo-devo research, in which genetic structures connected with floral features were found in clades in which the floral features are not present.
3298613| Seed burial experiments were conducted for 15 alpine species derived from 15 genera and 12 plant families from a subantarctic location on Cerro Rin, Tierra del Fuego, 54S, Chile. Batches of seed buried at 5 cm depth at 550 m elevation in February 1996 were exhumed after 335, 363, and 755 days, and their status and viability determined. Thirteen species (87%), one marginally (Acaena magellanica, Anemone multifida, Azorella lycopodioides, Bolax gummifera, Calceolaria biflora, Caltha appendiculata, Draba magellanica, Empetrum rubrum, Gentianella magellanica, Gunnera magellanica, Luzula alopecurus, Oremomyrrhis hookeri (marginal), Pernettya pumila), were judged as having potential to form a persistent soil seed bank, while two (Senecio magellanicus, Berberis buxifolia) only showed evidence of a transient seed bank. Seed viability in residual intact seeds was high and showed little tendency to diminish over the two-year experimental period, indicating optimal conditions for seed survival in the alpine soil. Fits of the number of remaining viable seeds at each exhumation date to the negative exponential model gave maximum seed longevity estimates of 1623 days in Draba magellanica, 2779 days in Empetrum rubrum, 3026 days in Gunnera magellanica, 777 days in Oreomyrrhis hookeri, and 5983 days in Pernettya pumila. Estimated seed longevities for some species at the subantarctic alpine site are among the highest reported for alpine species to date. 
10.2307/2399515| The four Old World species of Fuchsia--F. cyrtandroides, F. excorticata, F. perscandens, and F. procumbens--form a monophyletic group (sect. Skinnera) defined by blue pollen and the presence of flavones in all species. Data on foliar flavonoid compounds in the section were reanalyzed, and additional nonflavonoid characters were employed to make a phylogenetic reevaluation of the group, using the rest of the genus as the outgroup. Of 17 characters used, 7 were phylogenetically informative, resulting in two equally most parsimonious cladograms 23 steps long. Both have a consistency index of 0.75 when all noninformative characters are excluded. The two trees differ in the position of the Tahitian F. cyrtandroides and the New Zealand F. procumbens, each of which appears as the sister group of the other species in the respective cladograms. In both trees, F. excorticata and F. perscandens form a clade defined by constricted floral tubes. These results differ from a prior cladistic analysis of the section based primarily on flavonoids, which placed F. cyrtandroides unambiguously as the sister species of the rest of the section and grouped F. procumbens in a clade with F. perscandens. 
40035754|Four species of Ithomiinae butterflies (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae) were observed in nature taking up pyrrolizidine alkaloids (PAs) from withered flowers of Prestonia amabilis J. F. Morales (Apocynaceae, Echiteae) in a montane rainforest in southern Ecuador (ca. 1000 m a.s.l.). Quantitative experiments were subsequently carried out using either withered flowers or crushed roots of P. amabilis. Field trials were conducted in November 2000 at six locations in the area of the Reserva Biolgica San Francisco (1800-2000 m a.s.l., ca. 15 km from the first site) where P. amabilis was not known to occur. A total of 40 specimens of 10 species of the Ithomiinae butterflies and 40 specimens of eight species of Arctiidae moths were quantitatively sampled. While the first group showed a clear preference for baits with withered flowers, the latter preferred the crushed roots. In total, 13 species of Ithomiinae were observed visiting PA sources. Eight of these 13 species have no previous records of pharmacophagy for PAs. Within the Ithomiinae, there is evidence of phylogenetic difference in attraction, with a noticeably high proportion of recorded species belonging to the Napeogenini. Analysis of plant material by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry revealed the presence of two novel retronecine monoesters of the lycopsamine type, tentatively identified as 5'-demethyllycopsamine (ideamine A) and 5'-demethylisolycopsamine or one of its diastereoisomers. The highest PA levels were found in flowers of P. amabilis (0.13%, dry weight basis), followed by roots (0.075%) and leaves (0.044%). In flowers, ideamine A accounted for 84% of total PAs, whereas roots contained ideamine A (53%) and 32% of its 3'-acetyl ester. We suggest that Prestonia R. Br. may have served as an ancestral source of PAs in the evolution of pharmacophagous behavior in the Ithomiinae.
10.2307/2666181|The origins of many groups of flower-visiting insects are generally believed to have been in the Cretaceous. However, a recent hypothesis has concluded that many modern families of insects originated in the Jurassic, and that the Cretaceous radiation of angiosperms had little positive effect on the diversity of insect families. It is shown here, based on critical and phylogenetic interpretation of Mesozoic fossils, that radiations of major anthophilic groups of insects took place in the late part of the Lower Cretaceous to Upper Cretaceous: the bees (Apoidea/Apidae sensu lato), pollen wasps (Vespidae: Masarinae), various families of brachyceran flies (Acroceridae, Apioceridae, Bombyliidae, Empididae, Nemestrinidae, Stratiomyidae, and Syrphidae), and the Lepidoptera. The pattern of diversification of these insects, centered in the mid-Cretaceous, is consistent with the chronology of appearance of entomophilous syndromes in Cretaceous flowers, and not with a model of late Jurassic or earliest Cretaceous diversification of pollinating insects. Despite a more refined understanding of the timing of Cretaceous insect-angiosperm co-radiations, cause and effect relationships remain obscure.
10.2307/2399114|Of Lithocarpus, Castanopsis, Castanea, and Quercus only Lithocarpus frequently bears branched spikes suggestive of the primitive condition in the Fagaceae; the other genera sometimes have them in some individuals. Simple and branched spikes can occur on the same tree. Evolution of the simple spike is interpreted as the loss of branching capacity in the branched spikes. The Fagaceae show various transitional stages from perfect, entomophilous to imperfect, anemophilous flowers and from mixed-sex to unisexual spikes. Complete separation of staminate from pistillate function into separate spikes and catkins occurs only in Quercus, which is also the only anemophilous member of these four genera. Lithocarpus is the least specialized while Quercus is the most specialized in inflorescence structure of the four genera.
10.2307/2398836|Based on an examination of 377 new collections, range extensions are noted for 24 species, Erythrina sousae Krukoff and E. lanata subsp. calvesces Krukoff are newly described, E. megistophylla is reinstated as a valid species, two forms (E. petraea and E. oaxacana) are raised to specific rank, and E. crista-galli var. corallina is reduced to synonymy. All new specimens from Nicaragua are cited, as well as selected African and Asian specimens. Vouchers are cited for specimens used in the chemical and pollination studies reported in this symposium.
10.2307/2395332|Three types of data were used to analyze 28 natural populations of Juniperus ashei: 16 morphological characters, 152 terpenoids, and 23 peroxidases. In this paper the peroxidase electromorphs were treated as ordinary qualitative chemical characters to examine the feasibility of using isozymes for taxonomic purposes and as indicators of populational variability. The data sets were subjected to various numerical analyses to examine regional trends, ancestral affinities, and variability within populations. Principal coordinate analysis was used to resolve the major coordinates of variation from the similarity matrix of each data set. Coordinate loadings were then contoured for the first three coordinates of each similarity matrix to aid the visualization of the regional trends. The terpenoids and morphology showed a series of uniform populations from central Texas into the Ozarks with divergent populations on the south and west portions of the range, extending into northern Mexico. No regional trends were apparent in the peroxidases and no corresponding modes of variation were seen between the peroxidases and the other two data sets. Pleistocene vegetation is reviewed and migration paths are speculated upon. Advanced and primitive character states are discussed. The uniform body of J. ashei populations from central Texas to the Ozarks appear to be advanced (recent), whereas the divergent populations seem to be more primitive (ancestral). A method called differential similarities is introduced to analyze the clinal gradation of J. ashei toward J. saltillensis in Mexico. Intrapopulational variability was analyzed by use of the average similarity within populations and the coefficient of phenetic variation (CPV). In general, the recent populations had high similarities and low variability, and the ancestral populations had lower average similarities and higher CPVs with both the morphological and terpenoid data. The pattern of variation in the peroxidases could not be generalized upon, but appeared to be mosaic. Peroxidases did not appear useful in this analysis when subjected to standard numerical analysis procedures. The evolution of J. ashei into its present distribution appears to have had at least two phases composed of very uniform, recent migrations and persistent, variable, relict populations perhaps extending close to the geographic origin of this taxon in northern Mexico.
40035657|Verbena L. comprende ca. 45 especies; el gnero es mayoritariamente americano con unas pocas especies de distribucin mundial. Se presenta un tratamiento taxonmico para el gnero Verbena serie Pachystachyae Schauer; esta serie incluye 18 especies de distribucin principalmente sudamericana. En el presente tratamiento se trata bajo la serie Pachystachyae dos subseries: Pachystachyae y la nueva subserie Pseudoracemosae N. O'Leary, estableciendo los caracteres diagnsticos de las mismas. Se proporcionan descripciones detalladas de todos los taxones, claves para identificarlos, ilustraciones, una sinonimia actualizada con 43 nuevos sinnimos, y se discuten las relaciones entre taxones afines. Se introducen dos nuevas combinaciones: Verbena hispida var. obovata (Moldenke) N. O'Leary y V. litoralis var. brevibracteata (Kuntze) N. O'Leary; un nombre nuevo: V. subpetiolata N. O'Leary; se funda la subserie nueva Pseudoracemosae; y se presenta la lectotipificacin de V. bonariensis L. f. robustior Chodat, V. buchnera Vell, y V. lobata Vell. /// Verbena L. is represented by ca. 45 species; the genus is mainly American with a few species of worldwide distribution. A taxonomic treatment of the genus Verbena series Pachystachyae Schauer is here proposed; this series includes 18 species, the majority of South American distribution. In the present treatment, under the series Pachystachyae, two subseries are treated and their diagnostic characters are given: Pachystachyae and the new subseries Pseudoracemosae N. O'Leary. Detailed morphological descriptions are given for each taxon, as well as keys for their identification, illustrations, up-to-date synonymy with 43 new synonymized species, and discussion of relationships between closely related taxa. Two new combinations are introduced: Verbena hispida var. obovata (Moldenke) N. O'Leary and V. litoralis var. brevibracteata (Kuntze) N. O'Leary; the new name V. subpetiolata N. O'Leary is established; the new subseries Pseudoracemosae is established; and the species V. bonariensis L. f. robustior Chodat, V. buchnera Veil., and V. lobata Veil, are lectotypified.
10.2307/2398983|The genus Liriodendron L. consists of a southeast Asian-eastern North American disjunct species pair, but the genus had a much wider distribution in the Northern Hemisphere during the late Cretaceous and the Tertiary. Although generally similar in morphology, the two extant species are measurably different. In 1973 and 1977 they were hybridized, and interspecific heterosis was observed in the progeny. After seven years, the interspecific hybrids synthesized in 1973 had a significantly greater biomass than intraspecific hybrids of L. tulipifera. The growth rate of interspecific and intraspecific F
40033783|Field observations, floral dissections, floral nectar, and pollen load analyses of captured insects of 53 species of Babiana Ker Gawl. show that flowers of this geophytic genus of some 90 species of Iridaceae subfamily Crocoideae, predominantly of the southern African winter-rainfall zone, are cross pollinated by a wide range of animals. These include passerine birds and insects of four different orders, Hymenoptera (mainly Apidae), Diptera (mainly Nemestrinidae), Coleoptera (Scarabaeidae), and Lepidoptera (mainly Noctuidae). Apid pollination involves two discrete systems--passive pollination by anthophorines and native Apis mellifera foraging for nectar and active pollen gathering by A. mellifera and other Apoidea foraging for pollen. From what is known about relationships within Babiana and Crocoideae, it seems likely that passive pollination by anthophorines and honeybees, with nectar secreted in zygomorphic, bilabiate flowers as a reward, is the ancestral condition; it is also the most common, demonstrated for 18 and inferred for 35 more species from all three taxonomic sections of the genus. Active pollination by honeybees and female Apoidea foraging for pollen was demonstrated in one species and is inferred for four more, all of which have radially symmetric flowers and prominent anthers. Pollination by long-proboscid nemestrinids, mostly species of Prosoeca, is recorded for 13 species and inferred for five more, while moth pollination is recorded for one species and inferred for another two. Pollination exclusively by hopliine scarab beetles, known for six species, is associated with development of radial symmetry of the flower. Passerine bird pollination, associated with the classic syndrome of a wide floral tube, red floral pigmentation, and rigid, well-exserted stamens, occurs in two species, and is inferred for one more. Species with a bimodal system in which bees and beetles both visit and accomplish pollen transfer is known for three species. Comparing pollination systems with what is known about species relationships in Babiana, we infer that long-proboscid fly pollination evolved at least four times and moth pollination three times. Active pollination by pollen-collecting bees and hopliine beetle pollination also probably evolved three times each and bird pollination twice. Pollination systems are labile, and we postulate that there has been a minimum of 14 shifts in pollination system, approximately one shift for every six species. Lastly, Babiana species show the same correlation of morphology and floral presentation with particular sets of pollinators, described for several other genera of Iridaceae, e.g., Gladiolus L., Hesperantha Ker Gawl., and Lapeirousia Pourr., as well as Geraniaceae and Orchidaceae. This increases our confidence in predicting pollinators on the basis of floral presentation in other species and genera in which pollinators have not been established.
10.2307/2398800|In angiosperms selection has led to the utilization of numerous substances other than pollen and nectar that help to insure repeated visitation by pollinating animals. Here, we group the various substances into nonnutritive and nutritive rewards and discuss within each group the specific kinds that occur. In our discussion of nutritive rewards, we emphasize floral oils, lipids produced by one of two types of specialized secretory organs called elaiophores and which serve as nutritive rewards for certain New World anthophorine bees. Although discovered only within the last 15 years, the syndrome of oil production now appears to be one of the most widespread kinds of floral rewards. We report here for the first time the occurrence of oil production in the Solanaceae (Nierembergia). It is apparent that oil production has evolved independently many times, but plants which produce oils that are collected by female anthophorine bees show similarities in the chemistry of the oils and the types of structures that produce them. It is not clear whether other groups of plants reported to produce oils but which are not pollinated by anthophorine bees possess an analogous system or not.
40390052|In this study, foliar and petiole anatomy of several genera was compared to determine whether there are characteristics that can be used to reevaluate the circumscription and taxonomic position of Hamelieae (Rubiaceae). Our sample included a total of 36 species, which were sectioned using conventional embedding and staining methods. From these species, 23 represented six of the seven genera of Hamelieae sensu Robbrecht; Syringantha Standl. was included in order to reevaluate its putative inclusion within Hamelieae. For comparative purposes, the sample also included reprsentative species of tribes Psychotrieae (Rubioideae), the Portlandia informai group (Cinchonoideae), and Gardenieae (Ixoroideae). Our results indicated that foliar and petiole anatomy contained taxonomic information that can be used in systematic studies. Members of Hamelieae shared the following characters: cuticle more than 3 m, dorsiventral mesophyll, a single palisade parenchyma cell layer, loose spongy parenchyma, raphides, tannins, and vascular tissue of types I, II, or III in the midrib and petiole. Plocaniophyllon Brandegee is unique in having fibers associated with major and minor veins. The petiole vascular tissue has an open arc shape in all studied species except in Randia L., which has a closed cylinder. Hamelieae, Syringantha, and Psychotria L. have raphides, one layer of palisade parenchyma cells, and loose spongy parenchyma, while the other taxa have druses, two layers of palisade parenchyma cells, and compact spongy parenchyma. Bouvardia Salisb. is unique, showing both raphides and druses. Our results show that comparative foliar and petiole anatomy may provide additional characters to be considered in taxonomic and phylogenetic studies within Rubiaceae. There was anatomical support for the inclusion of Syringantha within Hamelieae, while the presence of raphides and the mesophyll attributes suggest an understanding of why Hamelieae was morphologically treated as a member of Rubioideae.
10.2307/2395221|Abies scherrii Axelrod is described from the Miocene of western Nevada, and it resembles the living A. bracteata of the Santa Lucia Mountains, coast-central California, a unique endemic representing the sole member of the subgenus Pseudotorreya. Although the fossil species A. chaneyi Mason and A. longirostris Knowlton have previously been considered allied to A. bracteata, those species are extinct, they are not closely allied to bracteata, and they are only distantly related to living Asian firs. A. scherrii occupied an ecotone between broadleaved evergreen sclerophyll forest and mixed conifer forest during the Miocene in western Nevada, and its descendant A. bracteata has a similar occurrence today. The Miocene communities were much richer than the living, including species whose nearest descendants occur only in regions with summer rainfall, or now occupy more restricted areas in California. The latter include Sequoiadendron of the central and southern Sierra Nevada, species of Chamaecyparis and Picea that are confined to the Klamath-Siskiyou region of northwestern California, and species of Abies and Pinus that are largely subalpine in the Sierra Nevada. Abies scherrii and its associates shifted coastward as colder and drier climate developed over the interior. Abies bracteata has survived in a near-coastal climate where evaporation rate is not so high as in the interior or in areas to the south, and where it is largely removed from regular heavy winter snow and ice. Some of its associates were segregated into their present areas as the summer-dry mediterranean climate emerged in the Quaternary. Sequoiadendron was confined to the relatively drier and sunnier central and southern Sierra Nevada where there was sufficient light in an open forest to enable it to reproduce. Chamaecyparis and Picea were restricted to the northwest sector where there is a longer precipitation season, some summer rain, and where evaporation rate is lower than in the Sierra. Present subalpine species of Abies, Pinus and Tsuga were eliminated from the mixed conifer forest in the Sierra Nevada as evaporation rate increased during summer and produced conditions inimical for seedling establishment, though they still persist in the upper mixed conifer forest in moister, more equable areas to the northwest. A. bracteata may have had a wider distribution in the Coast Ranges during the moister phases of the Quaternary, together with the mixed conifer forest species. It was apparently restricted with them as drier, hotter climates spread during the later postglacial periods.
10.2307/2666132|Twenty-eight species and six subspecies of the hemiparasitic genus Striga Lour., witchweed, occur in Africa. Twenty-two species are endemic. Witchweeds occur throughout the continent with greatest diversity in the grasslands and savannas north of the equator. Striga gesnerioides (Willd.) Vatke and S. hermonthica (Del.) Benth. have developed host-specific strains that may have distinct morphotypes. We accord these no formal taxonomic status. Striga hermonthica and S. asiatica (L.) Kuntze, limited to agroecosystems, may be recently derived from non-ruderal species. Striga hirsuta Benth. and S. lutea Lour., sometimes treated as conspecific with S. asiatica, are recognized as distinct species restricted to natural ecosystems. Striga linearifolia Hepper, with its strongly bilabiate corolla and perennial habit, is considered as a subspecies of S. bilabiata (Thunb.) Kuntze. Striga baumannii Engl. and S. fulgens Hepper are excluded from the genus. Striga baumannii has tuberous roots and a ligneous calyx and may represent a distinct genus. Striga fulgens, with free petals, is aligned with Chascanum E. Mey. in the Verbenaceae.
10.2307/2399174|The monotypic southwestern Cape genus Empleuridium was assigned with doubt to Rutaceae when first described in 1860. Poorly known until recently, it has been rediscovered and new collections have made possible detailed studies of its embryology and reproductive anatomy; stem and leaf anatomy; and pollen. Results confirm that Empleuridium is misplaced in Rutaceae and it seems best referred to Celastraceae, in which it is unusual in its ericoid habit, small size, and unilocular ovary that develops into a follicle-like single-seeded fruit. The very small flowers have a floral disc in which the inferior ovary is embedded. Previous observations that Empleuridium was dioecious are incorrect; the flowers are perfect.
10.2307/2394818|The following rubiaceous taxa are proposed: Hedyotis acerosa var. polypremoides (Gray) W. H. Lewis, H. alexanderae (A. Carter) W. H. Lewis, H. crassifolia f. albiflora (Standley) W. H. Lewis, and H. nigricans var. parviflora (Gray) W. H. Lewis. Range extensions are also given for H. australis Lewis & Moore and H. rosea Raf.
10.2307/2992031|A new subgenus, Ebelia (Rchb.) E. L. Cabral & Bacigalupo, is proposed within the genus Galianthe (Rubiaceae: Spermacoceae). The species included therein are characterized by their fruits with indehiscent mericarps. Nine species are recognized: Galianthe bogotensis (Kunth) E. L. Cabral & Bacigalupo, Galianthe brasiliensis (Spreng.) E. L. Cabral & Bacigalupo, Galianthe cymosa (Cham.) E. L. Cabral & Bacigalupo, Galianthe dichasia (Sucre & C. G. Costa) E. L. Cabral, Galianthe dichotoma (Willd. ex Roem. & Schult.) E. L. Cabral & Bacigalupo, Galianthe hispidula (A. Rich. ex DC.) E. L. Cabral & Bacigalupo, Galianthe polygonoides sp. nov., G. humilis sp. nov., and G. vaginata sp. nov.; the last three are found in Brazil. All the species are described and illustrated.
10.2307/2399590|We track botanical conquest from Oviedo (who met Columbus in 1490 and visited Santa Marta, present Colombia, in 1515) to the corporate botanical garden at the close of the 19th century. We also recognize the foreign correspondent of the 16th century; the solitary missionary-naturalist of the 17th century; the apologist of systems (who advocates schemes of classification) in the 18th century; and the naturalist-collector, then often a member of a government-sponsored expedition in the 19th century.
41805964|Concepts about development of the plant component of New World terrestrial ecosystems through deep time have reached a point where it is possible to consider some subtle and refining details about the process. One such detail is the temporal relationship between the opportunity of new habitats provided by the physical processes of landscape development and long-term climate change, and the availability of the mostly angiosperm lineages that presently occupy these habitats. Some habitats (e.g., beach/strand/dune) were in existence long before the rise of the flowering plants ca. 125 million years ago (Ma), and some did not develop until late in the Neogene from a combination of cooling climates and locally to regionally increasing elevations (alpine tundra/pramo). In other instances, both habitats and lineages existed contemporaneously, but in different parts of the world, so development of the particular ecosystem had to await the appearance and spread in the New World of the lineage through migration (e.g., Rhizophora L. into modern mangrove habitats after the Late Eocene; Quercus L. from the north into modern oak-Weinmannia L. habitats only after 330 thousand years ago (Kyr). The temporal correspondence between opportunity and availability joins the more widely recognized forcing mechanisms of geologic and climate change, acting on evolutionary processes, as one additional factor in better understanding the origin, composition, and distribution of the ecosystems that presently characterize the New World.
10.2307/2399035|In the last decade significant new information has been gained about the early evolution of flowering plants through studies of Early Cretaceous angiosperm pollen and the pollen of living primitive flowering plants. Although most recent palynological studies of extant primitive angiosperms have used both scanning and transmission electron microscopy, few ultrastructural studies of early fossil angiosperm pollen grains exist. This paper represents an attempt to remedy this situation. Thirteen different types of Lower Cretaceous angiosperm pollen grains from the Potomac Group of eastern North America and the Fredericksburgian of Oklahoma were examined ultrastructurally, including Clavatipollenites hughesii, two aff. Clavatipollenites species, Asteropollis asteroides, Stephanocolpites fredericksburgensis, Retimonocolpites dividuus, R. peroreticulatus, two aff. Retimonocolpites species, Stellatopollis barghoornii, and three species of Liliacidites. These grains were investigated using a technique that we have developed for working with single fossil pollen grains by which we are able to undertake combined light, scanning electron, and transmission electron microscopy of the same pollen grain. This technique is invaluable for the evolutionary study of small, light-microscopically similar, dispersed fossil pollen grains, such as those that constitute the bulk of the earliest known part of the fossil record of the flowering plants, and provides a much improved means of delimiting Early Cretaceous angiosperm pollen form genera such as Clavatipollenites, Retimonocolpites, and Liliacidites. Our study also reveals that a close similarity exists between some Early Cretaceous angiosperm pollen and pollen produced by certain living primitive angiosperms. Clavatipollenites hughesii, Asteropollis asteroides, and Stephanocolpites fredericksburgensis exhibit varying degrees of similarity at the ultrastructural level respectively to pollen of the extant angiosperm genera Ascarina, Hedyosmum, and Chloranthus, all three of which belong to the modern family Chloranthaceae. Pollen described under the form genus Liliacidites possesses many features that are restricted to pollen of living monocotyledons, while Retimonocolpites possesses certain monocotyledonous palynological features, but to a lesser extent. Large monosulcate pollen grains with distinctive crotonoid sculpturing described as Stellatopollis barghoornii have no counterpart among the pollen of extant angiosperms. The question of the origin and early evolution of the angiosperms is dealt with in the second part of the paper, and the fossil pollen record of early flowering plants is considered in light of what is known about pollen evolution in living primitive angiosperms. Analysis of the taxonomic distribution of characters of living primitive angiosperms suggests that angiosperm pollen is primitively monosulcate, boat-shaped, large- to medium-sized, psilate or at best only weakly sculptured, noninterstitiate to interstitiate-granular, atectate, and without endexine. This type of pollen is found today only in the otherwise primitive angiosperm families Magnoliaceae, Degeneriaceae, and Annonaceae. It is concluded that Clavatipollenites and other currently known types of Early Cretaceous angiosperm pollen grains represent relatively advanced primitive angiosperm pollen that is already too specialized to reveal anything about the earliest evolution (or the origin) of the flowering plants. Finally, what can be deduced about the origin and early evolution of flowering plants from fossil and living primitive angiosperms is considered. The conclusion is drawn that the ancestory of the angiosperms must be sought in the pteridosperms or in a derivative group. A 5-stage model of early angiosperm evolution is proposed, based on the early (Barremian to Middle Cenomanian) fossil pollen record of the flowering plants and the inferred phylogenetic relationships of living primitive angiosperms. From an original, pre-Barremian basal complex of entomophilous flowering plants, whose living descendants include such angiosperms as the Magnoliales, Laurales, and Winterales, we envision evolution of a major line of anemophilous and apetalous angiosperms in the Barremian-Aptian, the descendants of which include advanced magnoliid angiosperms, such as the Chloranthaceae, as well as related primitive hamamelidid angiosperms, such as the Trochodendrales, Cercidiphyllales, and Hamamelidales. The evolution of wind-pollination so early within the angiosperms may have been connected with the increasing aridity (and possible decline in insect pollinators) that occurred soon after the earliest appearance of Clavatipollenites-type pollen in the Barremian of Africa and South America, when major splitting of West Gondwana was taking place. The majority of dicots, including the subclasses Dilleniidae, Rosidae, and Asteridae, appear to be derived from this early group of entomophilous-derived anemophilous angiosperms, and, thus, most of the dicots probably represent flowering plants that have secondarily returned to entomophily.
10.2307/2666160|Carlos Luis Spegazzini (1858-1926) was a leading figure in Argentinian natural history, mainly recognized for his mycological and vascular plant studies. Information concerning Spegazzini's travels and his botanical work focusing on vascular plants, including his specimens and publications, is provided. The collecting expeditions of Spegazzini and collaborators in Argentina are summarized. The identification of his typic and non-typic materials is frequently complicated by the lack or sparcity of label information. Spegazzini published ca. 100 papers on vascular plants, mostly in Argentinian journals, describing ca. 1000 new taxa. A list of the new genera, species, and infraspecific taxa described by Spegazzini is provided. Spegazzini was professor at the University of La Plata and Buenos Aires in Argentina, curator of the herbarium of the National Department of Agriculture, first head of the herbarium of Museo de La Plata, and founder of an arboretum and an institute of mycology in La Plata city.
40389934|Urera Gaudich. is unique among Mesoamerican Urticaceae in having bright, fleshy fruits. Within Mesoamerica, there is significant confusion over the application of many names, especially U. corallina (Liebm.) Wedd., U. elata (Sw.) Griseb., and U. eggersii Hieron. Three new species, U. fenestrata A. K. Monro & Al. Rodr. (Costa Rica and Panama), U. guanacastensis A. K. Monro & Al. Rodr. (Costa Rica), and U. lianoides A. K. Monro & Al. Rodr. (Mexico, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Panama, Peru, and Bolivia), are described and illustrated on the basis of staminate flowers, staminate inflorescences, stem, leaf morphology, and habit. The affinities of the new species are discussed. The first record of ant associations for the genus is documented in relation to U. fenestrata. In addition, a key is presented to the 10 species of Urera recognized for Mesoamerica; nomenclatural review is given in which U. mitis (Vell.) Miq. is lectotypified; U. baccifera (L.) Gaudich. ex Wedd., U. caracasana (Jacq.) Griseb., U. mitis, and Unica nitida Veli, are epitypified; and Urera denticulata Miq., U. eggersii, U. subpeltata Miq., and U. subpeltata var. morifolia Miq. are neotypified; and a list is provided of more than 900 exsiccatae from 13 herbaria. /// Urera Gaudich. es un gnero nico entre las Urticceas de Mesoamrica por presentar frutos lustrosos y suculentos. En Mesoamrica existe una confusin significativa en la aplicacin de muchos de los nombres, especialmente en las especies U. corallina (Liebm.) Wedd., U. elata (Sw.) Griseb. y U. eggersii Hieron. Tres nuevas especies, U. fenestrata A. K. Monro & Al. Rodr. (Costa Rica y Panama), U. guanacastensis A. K. Monro & Al. Rodr. (Costa Rica) y U. lianoides A. K. Monro & Al. Rodr. (Mexico, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Panama, Peru, Bolivia), son descritas e ilustradas sobre la base de sus flores e inflorescencias estaminadas, tallo, morfologa de hojas y hbito. Las afinidades de las nuevas especies son discutidas. Se registra por primer vez la asociacin de una hormiga con el gnero, especficamente en U. fenestrata. Adicionalmente se presenta una clave para las 10 especies reconocidas por Urera en Mesoamerica; se entrega una revisin en la cual U. mitis (Veli.) Miq. es lectotipificada; U. baccifera (L.) Gaudich. ex Wedd., U. caracasana (Jacq.) Griseb., U. mitis y Unica nitida Veli, son epitipificadas; Urera denticulata Miq., U. eggersii, U. subpeltata Miq. y U. subpeltata var. morifolia Miq. son neotipificadas; y se suministra una lista de ms de 900 especimenes existentes en 13 herbarios.
10.2307/2395313|Eleven species of Bauhinia native to Panama are enumerated with the three species new to the flora described. Synonyms, typification, and key to species are provided.
10.2307/2395155|Study of herbarium specimens and of living populations of Hudsonia plants over several seasons showed a wider range of variation than could be accommodated by the present nomenclature of the genus. Four characters (leaf length, pedicel length, leaf hairiness, and ovary hairiness) were found to form distinct associations on a scatter diagram. Ecological conditions showed correlations with these morphological associations. The associations are designated as five subspecies of Hudsonia ericoides L. Linnaeus' type specimen of the genus is a taxon intermediate between subsp. tomentosa and an unnamed clearly distinct taxon now apparently confined to Nova Scotia but formerly more widespread southward along the coast. This latter heretofore unrecognized taxon is here described as H. ericoides subsp. andersonii. Evidence is presented which indicates that this subspecies is headed toward oblivion by man's use of its habitar.
10.2307/2399343|Psychotria subgenus Psychotria (Rubiaceae) comprises 61 species and eight varieties of understory shrubs and small trees in Mexico and Central America. The subgenus is most diverse in Panama (40 species) and Costa Rica (32 species), with a secondary center of diversity in southern Mexico (26 species) and Guatemala (26 species). Endemism is also greatest in Panama (15 species). Species-rich regions in Costa Rica and Panama are especially recommended for conservation efforts. The 61 species are grouped into eight species-groups; several groups and species complexes contain one wide-ranging species and several species with much smaller ranges. Only one species-rich group, the P. calophylla group, lacks a continuously wide-ranging member.
10.2307/2399266|A new species, Jatropha stevensii, is described from collections in Dept. Boaco in Nicaragua. It may be assigned to subg. Curcas and appears related to Jatropha fremontioides, a species from southern Mexico. Jatropha stevensii represents yet another extension of the Mexican xerophytic element into Central America, and the second record for Jatropha subg. Curcas.
10.2307/2399036|Studies of angiosperm leaf cuticles from the Lower Cretaceous Potomac Group reinforce previous evidence for a Cretaceous adaptive radiation of the flowering plants and suggest unsuspected trends in the evolution of stomata and trichomes. Early Potomac Group angiosperm leaf cuticles (Zone I of Brenner or Aptian?) show little interspecific structural diversity, particularly in stomatal organization. All species conform to the same highly plastic pattern of variation in subsidiary cell arrangement, in which the stomata on a single leaf conform to several types, including paracytic, hemiparacytic, anomocytic, laterocytic, and weakly cyclocytic. Several species resemble extant Chloranthaceae and Illiciales, but none represents a modern family. Later leaves (Subzone II-B of Brenner, or Albian) exhibit greater interspecific structural diversity, particularly in stomatal organization. Three new patterns of variation in subsidiary cell arrangement are present in addition to the older one and each has a subset of the variation present in the older pattern. Cuticular anatomy is consistent with proposed leaf affinities to Platanaceae and Rosidae. The stratigraphic trend in cuticle types supports the concept that the subclass Magnoliidae includes the most primitive living angiosperms. However, it also suggests that the uniformly paracytic stomatal pattern characteristic of Magnoliales, generally considered primitive for the flowering plants, may actually be derived from the variable condition found in Zone I leaves.
40732234|Three monotypic and endemic genera of epiphytic Gesneriaceae (Gesnerioideae, Coronanthereae) occur in temperate rainforests of southern South America. In this article, intraspecific differences in rooted substrate and interspecific variation in epiphytic growth habits among these three Gesneriaceae species were assessed. The presence or absence of plants on the ground and main rooted substrate when growing epiphytically on trees were used to characterize epiphytic growth habits in two old-growth temperate rainforests of northern Chilo Island (4230'S) in Chile. An evolutionary interpretation based on reported phylogenies and morphologies within the Coronanthereae is proposed. Two species of Chilean Gesneriaceae, Mitrara coccnea Cav. and Asteranthera ovata (Cav.) Hanst., originate from the forest floor, then climb on trees while maintaining their main roots in the ground, and are classified as secondary hemiepiphytes. The third species, Sarmienta repens Ruiz & Pav., was found exclusively on tree trunks and branches of living and dead trees and thus may be classified as a holoepiphyte. Based on reported phylogenies and biogeographical, ecological, and morphological data, the mechanically independent arboreal habit appears to be the ancestral condition in the Coronanthereae, which in turn gave rise to the climbing habit and finally the holoepiphytic habit. This may be a common evolutionary pathway toward holoepiphytism within other lineages in the Gesneriaceae.
10.2307/2395089|Studies of morphology, anatomy, ecology, phenology, cytology, palynology, phytogeography, and an analysis of related genera form the basis of a major tribal re-arrangement in the Convolvulaceae, and a systematic study of the American members of the tribe Erycibeae. Detailed results of the palynological and anatomical studies will be reported later. Field studies in Peru, Venezuela, Guyana, and Brazil, along with greenhouse grown plants from Brazil and Panama have aided in the understanding of some of the biological relationships of the taxa. Specimens, including types, from 23 major North and South American, and European herbaria have been utilized in this study, which has led to the recognition of eleven new taxa: one new subgenus, two new sections, three new subsections, five new species, two new varieties, and two new combinations. Keys, descriptions, typification, synonymy, and specimen citation are included for each taxon.
10.2307/2399105|Three new species and one subspecies of Mouriri are described, with one new species of Votomita. Mouriri peruviana and Votomita pubescens occur in northeast Peru, Mouriri pranceana is from the elevated regions of southeast Para and north Mato Grosso, Brazil, and M. viridicosta is from French Guiana. Relations of the first three are clear but M. viridicosta has no close relatives and does not fit well in any of the existing sections of the genus. Mouriri cearensis subsp. carajasica is a distinct inland form of the species.
10.2307/2399374|Many Solanum species that occur in Nigeria are sources of food and medicinal products. The domesticated species especially serve as sources of edible fruits and vegetables. Many of the species remain good sources of diosgenin and solasodine, chemicals of great importance in the steroid industry.
10.2307/2399221|Principles of phylogenetic analysis (cladistics) are introduced with an examination of relationships among extant genera of Gnetales. The Gnetales can be supported as a monophyletic group, with Gnetum and Welwitschia more closely related to each other than either is to Ephedra. Characters of the progymnosperm Archaeopteris and 19 extinct and extant seed plant taxa are then reviewed as a basis for a cladistic analysis of their interrelationships. The seed plant taxa included are: medullosans, cycads, Lyginopteris, Cordaixylon, Mesoxylon, Lebachia, extant conifers, Ginkgo, Callistophyton, peltasperms, glossopterids, Caytonia, corystosperms, Bennettitales, pentoxylon, Gnetum, Welwitschia, Ephedra, and angiosperms. Preliminary analyses of relationships within conifers, glossopterids, and Bennettitales are also presented. Results suggest that seed plants are a monophyletic group, and Lyginopteris is resolved as the sister taxon to all other seed plants considered. The cordaites, Cordaixylon and Mesoxylon, along with Lebachia, extant conifers, and Ginkgo constitute a monophyletic group. Pentoxylon is the sister taxon to Bennettitales, and the Gnetales are the sister group to angiosperms. Together the Gnetales plus the angiosperms form the sister group to the Bennettitales plus Pentoxylon. If the outer integument of bennettitalean and angiosperm ovules is interpreted as homologous with the "cupule" of Caytonia and corystosperms, then the corystosperms are resolved as the sister group to the Bennettitales plus Pentoxylon plus Gnetales plus angiosperm clade. Under this interpretation all the seed plant taxa considered except Lyginopteris, cycads, and medullosans are part of a single clade in which flattened seeds and saccate pollen are primitive. The principal difficulties with the cladistic analysis concern necessary inferences on unknown characters in certain plants, and the current absence of a large base of comparative data. Results of the analysis suggest that the seed ferns as currently circumscribed are not a meaningful group for phylogenetic purposes and permit an evaluation of the possible phylogenetic position of Eremopteris, Nystroemia, Spermopteris, Phasmatocycas, Vojnovskiales, Leptostrobus, and several other enigmatic groups of plant fossils. Comparison of the phylogenetic analysis with previous theories of angiosperm origin shows that it reconciles the ideas of Arber and Parkin, that Bennettitales and Gnetales are closely related to flowering plants, with more recent hypotheses that invoke Caytonia and corystosperms as highly relevant to the angiosperm problem. The results suggest that increased understanding of Triassic Bennettitales, Gnetales, and corystosperms will be of maximum interest in further elucidating the phylogenetic relationships of flowering plants.
10.2307/2399852|Parsimony analyses of DNA sequence data from the chloroplast rbcL gene were used to assess the circumscription and phylogenetic position of the Geraniaceae, generic relationships within the family, and the affinities of the families previously assigned to the order Geraniales. The other families placed in the Geraniales in recent higher-order classifications fall into four well separated lineages, none of which appears to be closely related to the Geraniaceae. Only Hypseocharis, often included in the Oxalidaceae, receives strong support as a close relative to the monophyletic Geraniaceae sens. str., as suggested by Boesewinkel on the basis of seed anatomy. Sequence comparisons of rbcL provide the first highly resolved phylogeny of the Geraniaceae, indicating that Pelargonium is a sister group to the remainder of the family, that Erodium and Geranium are probable sister genera, and that Monsonia and Sarcocaulon are either sister genera or are congeneric.
10.2307/2399365|Aquatic angiosperms have evolved from terrestrial ancestors several times. About 79 angiosperm families and 380 genera contain aquatic species; 119 genera (31.3%) are wind pollinated. Among these wind-pollinated aquatics, 100 genera have obvious terrestrial relatives that are also wind pollinated. Sixteen genera (4.2%) have no obvious terrestrial relatives but belong to exclusively anemophilous families; the anemophily, however, could be associated with life in water. In only two genera (0.5%), Brasenia (Cabombaceae) and Limnobium (Hydrocharitaceae), is it likely that the evolution from entomophily to anemophily has taken place in the aquatic environment. In Hydrilla (Hydrocharitaceae) the pollen grains are heavy and are propelled through air from the male to the female; although this mechanism almost certainly evolved in water, it is not considered to be true anemophily where buoyant grains are carried by air movements. Wind pollination is not considered an important feature especially associated with life in the aquatic environment.
10.2307/2398980|Much information on distribution and taxonomy of North American trees with relationships in eastern Asia, including atlases and monographs, is now available. Eastern Asia is the world's largest and richest source of temperate deciduous hardwoods. Because of splitting of genera and species, relationships are becoming obscured and are primarily generic. Eastern Asia is the geographic region or center with greatest display of remnants of the widespread Arcto-Tertiary flora, while Eastern North America is second, with roughly one-half as many tree species. Europe and Western North America have smaller numbers, perhaps one-fourth. Many tree genera are widespread in all four regions. Most of the possible patterns of distribution are represented. Eastern North America and Eastern Asia have the most tree genera, about 16 in common. The relationships have been overemphasized. They are readily explained by mountain-building and changes in climate, especially Pleistocene glaciation.
10.2307/2399245|Galaxia kamiesmontana and G. parva are new species, both of subgenus Eurystigma. Galaxia kamiesmontana is restricted to the Kamiesberg in Namaqualand, where it grows in shallow soils overlying rock, while G. parva is known only from the Mierkraal flats near Bredasdorp in the southern Cape. Chromosome number is n = 9 in G. kamiesmontana and n = 6 in G. parva. Both numbers are new for the subgenus, in which n = 8, 7, and 17 have been recorded. The chromosome number in G. kamiesmontana links subgenus Eurystigma to the more specialized subgenus Galaxia in which x = 9 is basic. Chromosome evolution in Galaxia, reviewed in the paper, is seen as having proceeded from a base of x = 9 by aneuploid reduction to n = 8, 7 and ultimately 6 by unequal translocation and centric loss. Galaxia kamiesmontana is evidently a primitive relict species retaining the ancestral basic karyotype, while G. parva, an inbreeding, autogamous species with a highly derived karyotype is one of the most specialized.
10.2307/3298535|Although revised in the past 20 years for the two major centers of its range, the southern African winter-rainfall zone and the eastern southern African Drakensberg, the sub-Saharan African genus Hesperantha remains inadequately understood. Continuing botanical exploration in southern Africa has resulted in the discovery of several new species and of populations of species known only from the type or very few collections. Species are listed here in a revised taxonomic order together with keys for the genus in the southern African winter-rainfall zone and in eastern southern Africa and tropical Africa that have a summer-rainfall climate. Included here are 11 new species, a shift in the application of the name H. Candida to plants called H. vernalis, recognition of H. leucantha for plants previously called H. Candida, and a series of novel observations relating to species delimitation, biology, geography, and taxonomy. Important range extensions are also noted for poorly known species, among them H. ciliolata, H. flava, H. quadrangula, and H. teretifolia. Including the novelties described in this account, 79 species of Hesperantha are now recognized, 4 in tropical Africa, 37 in summer-rainfall southern Africa, mostly of the Drakensberg, and 42 in winter-rainfall southern Africa. Hesperantha longicollis and H. coccinea are shared between tropical and eastern southern Africa, and H. radiata and H. bachmannii between the winter- and summer-rainfall zones of southern Africa. The new species from the southern African winter-rainfall zone are: H. decipiens, from Namaqualand, allied to H radiata; H. glabrescens, from the Roggeveld Escarpment, closely related to H. pilosa; H. malvina, also related to H. pilosa, from cliffs on the Anysberg in the Little Karoo; H. rupicola, a lithophyte from western Bushmanland, possibly most closely related to H. acuta; and H. sufflava, a member of section Hesperantha from Malmesbury in Western Cape Province. New species from the southern African summer-rainfall zone are: H. altimontana, a spring-blooming, white-flowered species of the high Drakensberg of Lesotho and KwaZulu-Natal; H. brevistyla, a dwarf plant from Free State and adjacent KwaZulu-Natal; H. debilis, evidently allied to the widespread H. bachmannii, from the Albany District of Eastern Cape Province; H. exiliflora, from Lesotho, which has small, purple flowers; H. saxicola, of rocky outcrops in Mpumalanga, South Africa, which has large white flowers with short anthers; and H. stenosiphon, a long-tubed, pink-flowered species with blackish anthers from Eastern Cape, South Africa.
40035671|Appreciation for the role of ontogeny in plant evolution has been heightened by advances in studying development using molecular techniques, with a growing number of specific structural features now understood in terms of the genetic, regulatory, and biochemical mechanisms by which they are produced. Paleontological approaches to plant development provide a vehicle for extending that understanding to the ontogeny and evolution of whole organisms through time. Recent studies have shown that developmentally diagnostic features can be identified in the fossil record, where they represent fingerprints for genemediated regulatory pathways. The first paleontological evidence for the regulation of cambial activity via the polar axial flow of auxin consists of circular patterns of tracheary elements above buds and branch junctions in the wood of the 375-million-year-old fossil progymnosperm Archaeopteris Dawson. That evidence strongly supports homology of secondary vascular tissues in progymnosperms and seed plants, and monophylesis of the lignophytes (progymnosperms and seed plants). Similar anatomical patterns at the same position have now been identified in the wood of tree-sized fossil equisetophytes and arborescent lycophytes that belong to independent lineages, demonstrating that a similar mechanism involving the regulation of secondary vascular tissue production by the polar axial flow of auxin characterizes those clades as well. These data imply that the wood in lignophytes, lycophytes, and equisetophytes originated in conjunction with the parallel evolution of regulation of secondary tissue production by auxin in each clade. The independent origins of secondary vascular tissue in three major clades of Paleozoic plants sensu Kenrick and Crane (1997) reveal evolutionary patterns that are not represented in the living flora and illuminate promising avenues for combining future paleontological studies with molecular and genetic studies to substantially impact our understanding of the role of developmental regulation in vascular plant evolution.
10.2307/2666190|In combination with phylogenetic analyses of morphological and molecular data from modern plants, fossils allow improved reconstruction of the history of Winteraceae. Phylogenetic analyses link Winteraceae with Canellaceae, nested among Magnoliales, Laurales, and Piperales, implying that their lack of vessels is derived rather than primitive. The oldest records, from the Barremian and Aptian-Albian (Early Cretaceous) of Northern Gondwana (Gabon, Israel), are ulcerate tetrads (Walkeripollis) with an annulus underlain by thickened endexine but finer sculpture than modern Winteraceae, which most likely represent the stem-lineage leading to crown-group Winteraceae. Early Cretaceous Afropollis and Schrankipollis, which have also been compared with Winteraceae, are probably not related. The distribution of Walkeripollis implies that the winteraceous line originated in tropical, possibly dry, environments, like those of modern Canellaceae, rather than equable temperate and upland tropical habitats like those where Winteraceae occur today. Crown-group Winteraceae, first represented in the Santonian-Campanian (Late Cretaceous) by more coarsely reticulate tetrads in Australia and vesselless wood in Antaretica, and later by tetrads in South America and Africa, appear to be derived from a line that spread south into the temperate zone, consistent with ecological hypotheses that vessels were lost as an adaptation to cooler climates. Late Cretaceous paleogeography suggests that the crown-group could have dispersed to Australasia via either South America and Antarctica or Madagascar (where the family is represented by the basal genus Takhtajania) and India.
10.2307/2395070|Spondias radlkoferi J. Donn. Sm. is considered distinct from Spondias mombin L. It differs chielfy in flowering precociously about one month later than S. mombin, in having fewer styles and a fruit which is green at maturity with an oblong endocarp, in having a trunk with a smooth periderm, and in forming droplets of viscid, cloudy sap when slashed. It is most easily recognized by the villous pubescence of its parts.
10.2307/2399932|A morphological, anatomical, and taxonomic study of the endemic herbaceous bamboo (Poaceae: Bambusoideae: Olyreae) genera Ekmanochloa and Mniochloa (including its new segregate Piresiella) is presented; the new combination Piresiella strephioides is proposed. An unusual feature of all three genera is the presence of inflorescences consisting of paired, conjugate racemes. Illustrations of the leaf blade anatomy show unusual features such as the absence of fusoid cells in Ekmanochloa and Mniochloa and the presence of compound epidermal papillae in Ekmanochloa. The three genera are compared with possible close relatives within the Olyreae.
10.2307/2399605|Thirty-one fossil spores and pollen of ferns, gymnosperms, and monocotyledonous angiosperms have been identified from the Pliocene Gatun Formation of Panama together with one unidentified Pyrrophyta. These are Lycopodium (types 1-4), Selaginella, Alsophila, Cnemidaria, Cyathea (types 1, 2), Ophioglossum, Grammitis, Ceratopteris, Pteris (types 1-5), other trilete fern spores (types 1, 2), Ctenitis (types 1-3), other monolete fern spores (types 1-5), Podocarpus, Gramineae, and Palmae (types 1, 2). Pollen of dicotyledonous angiosperms (51 types, including 13 with no previously known fossil records) and 27 unknowns presently under study make the Gatun assemblage one of the largest Tertiary floras in northern Latin America. The remaining descriptions and interpretation of the flora will be presented in concluding papers.
10.2307/2399340|Recent collecting activity in montane cloud forests of western and central Panama has led to the discovery of two new species of Tessmannianthus, a little-known genus of trees previously recorded from Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru. Tessmannianthus carinatus and T. gordonii are described, illustrated, compared, and contrasted with similar species. A key to the new taxa and a synoptic history of the genus are also provided.
10.2307/2399401|In cultivation, two species of the basically dioecious genus Freycinetia (Pandanaceae) have produced pistillate and staminate inflorescences both sequentially and simultaneously on individual plants. These findings are discussed, together with other cases of occasional deviations from dioecy.
10.2307/2399965|In addition to the potential negative impacts on biodiversity from fishing activities, there are positive aspects as well. Fisheries agencies are among the best equipped organizations to examine questions involving marine biodiversity because of their long history of studying marine populations. Furthermore, expansion of their involvement in these questions is in the agencies' interest. Fisheries management depends not only on the accurate identification of target species, but also on understanding the ecosystems from which they come. Systematics is the base from which many questions about biodiversity must be addressed. Taxonomy is a critical tool for ecologists. Therefore, in addition to training new systematists, the systematics community must develop better ways to disseminate the information it develops and train other biologists to be proficient in taxonomy. Closer cooperation between fisheries and systematics is urgently needed to develop the knowledge and skills necessary for assessment and maintenance of marine biological diversity.
10.2307/2399394|Vascular epiphytes share few qualities beyond occurrence in tree crowns that identify them as a single ecological type, primarily because their phylogenetic origins and life styles in forest canopies are diverse. Mineral ion procurement by epiphytes is sometimes novel, often requiring trophic mutualism and unusual substrata. Patterns of moisture and nutrient use are, on the whole, not unlike those of terrestrial native to comparably arid or infertile sites. Moisture supply, more than any other feature, determinies where a particular type of epiphyte will survive. Epiphytes constitute about 10% of all vascular species; the group is dominated by higher ferns and relatively few angiosperm taxa. Factors that probably predisposed ancestors of such modern clades as ferns. bromeliads, and orchids for epiphytism are identified. Reasons for the disproportional representation of certain dicot families in tree crowns are less clear, but some possibilities are offered. Constraints centered on water relations and, indirectly, mineral nutrition may explain why epiphytism has rarely, if ever, preceded branch parasitism.
10.2307/2399699|Three new species of Malouetia (M. bubalina, M. molongo, and M. naias) and one new variety (M. pubescens var. glabra) are described. All new taxa are from northwestern South America.
10.2307/2394941|Three species of Erythronium are recognized in Kansas, E. rostratum Wolf, E. albidum Nutt. and E. mesochoreum Knerr. Erythronium rostatum has erroneously been considered E. americanum Ker and both this species and E. propullans Gray are excluded from the state flora. Erythronium mesochoreum is recognized as distinct from E. albidum based on differences in chromosome number, the first diploid and the second tetraploid, and by different tendencies in vegetative reproduction, leaf morphology, perianth and fruiting characters as well as in habitat.
10.2307/3298559|Our actions during the next two decades will largely determine how many of the world's ca. 300,000 species of vascular plants will survive for future generations. The fundamental data that define both the taxonomic frameworks within which species are circumscribed and delimited from related species, as well as the geographical distributions of those species, reside in the world's ca. 3000 herbaria. These herbaria, and the taxonomists who work in them, can and must play a critical role in identifying as rapidly as possible those species most threatened with extinction. A project that has focused on the species in Madagascar's seven endemic plant families has demonstrated the necessity of reviewing, and then revising when necessary, the existing taxonomic framework. Comprehensive databasing and geo-referencing of primary occurrence data then facilitated simple GIS analyses of Extent of Occurrence, Area of Occupancy, estimates of the number of "subpopulations," and their presence/absence in protected areas, all of which are parameters that contribute to an expedient preliminary assessment of extinction risk. In addition, simultaneous mapping of all species in the endemic families revealed centers of species richness and endemism of particular conservation importance: both those already incorporated in the protected areas system, and, more importantly, those that currently fall outside of the protection network. Partnerships among the world's herbaria can efficiently achieve an initial global assessment of the most threatened vascular plant species by focussing on taxa endemic at political and regional (e.g., Hotspot) scales. The synthesis and analysis of the primary data housed in the world's herbaria-our only incontestable record of plant life on Earth-constitutes the most effective and robust means of directly informing conservation planning, and thereby minimizing the loss of plant diversity.
40035047|The adaptive radiation of Darwin's finches in the Galapagos archipelago stands as a model of species multiplication. The radiation began two to three million years ago, and resulted in 14 species being derived from the original colonizing species. This system is highly suitable for investigating the causes of speciation because closely related species occur sympatrically in several combinations and in environments with relatively little anthropogenic disturbance. The role of natural selection and adaptation to feeding niches in the allopatric phase of speciation has been demonstrated repeatedly. In the sympatric phase of speciation, differences in song and morphology act as a premating barrier to gene exchange. This form of reproductive isolation evolves at least partly as a passive consequence or byproduct of adaptive divergence in beak morphology. Song characteristics diverge in allopatry, largely independent of beak morphology and for a variety of reasons, not all of which are well understood. The barrier to gene exchange in sympatry is not completely effective, however; species hybridize rarely, and under some circumstances the hybrids are surprisingly fit. These results challenge some current notions of species. For example, the ground finch species Geospiza scandens Gould and G. fortis Gould on the island of Daphne Major have lost morphological diagnosability, as a result of introgressive hybridization, while retaining vocal diagnosability. Speciation is a process of divergence, and therefore these two populations are currently despeciating. With a change in climatic conditions they are expected to respeciate. Such merge-and-diverge dynamics may occur frequently in hybrid zones and in relatively young radiations in habitats subject to strong environmental fluctuations.
10.2307/2666220|An attempt is made to summarize what is known about the richness of the total terrestrial angiosperm flora of the "cerrados" (as a complex of formations) in Brazil, based on published surveys and species lists. A "refined" list of arboreal and shrubby species was compiled from a total of 145 individual lists from 78 localities, taking into account synonymy and recent taxonomic changes. The refined list had 1709 references to taxonomic entities at the species level (973 identified with confidence and 31 with aff. or ef.), 572 references to generic entities (363 genera identified with confidence), and 210 references to the family level (88 families identified with confidence). There are many unidentified arboreal and shrubby taxa at the specific, generic, and family levels, indicating that a considerable amount of taxonomic research remains to be done on the cerrado flora, and that this flora may be much richer than is generally assumed. Depending on the assumptions made, these data suggest a total of around 1000 to 2000 arboreal and shrubby species and 2000 to 5000 herbaceous ones, yielding estimates for the total cerrado flora (terrestrial angiosperms) ranging from 3000 to 7000 species. These limits, especially the upper one, are dubious, but give an idea of the magnitude of the angiosperm flora in the Brazilian cerrados. Surveys of cerrados are very unevenly distributed, and studies of relatively unknown sites may reveal much more diversity than that presently known.
10.2307/2395108|A new species of Dicranostyles, D. costanensis, is described from the Costal Cordillera and lowland forests of Apure State, Venezuela. The collections of this species extend the known range of the genus northwest of the llanos.
10.2307/2399629|Chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) restriction site variation among 24 of 27 extant species of the Hawaiian silversword alliance (Argyroxiphium, Dubautia, Wilkesia) was studied to enhance understanding of phylogenetic patterns and evolutionary processes in this outstanding example of insular adaptive radiation. Analysis with 16 restriction endonucleases revealed a total of 55 restriction site differences, 36 being shared by a subset of at least two taxa. In pairwise comparisons among these taxa, cpDNA divergence ranged from 0 to 0.46% of nucleotides. Chloroplast DNA divergence within Dubautia exceeded that of all intergeneric comparisons. A strict consensus tree from Wagner parsimony analyses of this variation was topologically congruent with evolutionary resolutions from Dollo parsimony and the Fitch-Margoliash genetic distance algorithm. Conflict between these outcomes and results from a phenetic analysis suggest a cpDNA molecular clock is not operating among these taxa. The cpDNA consensus phylogeny indicates monophylesis of the silversword alliance, in accord with biosystematic and cytogenetic evidence. These data further suggest: (1) rapid radiation of lineages early in the history of the silversword alliance; (2) few successful interisland migrations that led to new species lineages; (3) a unidirectional, older-to-younger island pattern of migration within the n = 13 Dubautia group; (4) striking inconsistency between relative rates of morphological and cpDNA evolution among Wilkesia and five Kauaian Dubautia species; and (5) hybrid speciation or extensive introgression among certain Argyroxiphium and Dubautia taxa. These phylogenetic conclusions require testing with molecular analyses of nuclear DNA to clarify the extent to which hybridization has influenced the evolution of this reproductively and genetically cohesive group of plants.
10.2307/2399159|Phylogenetic analysis of 19 families or quasi-families of the Myrtales is carried out by CLAX, a new numerical technique, as well as by other methods, the comparative merits of which are discussed. The results establish some phylads as reliable, in particular Psiloxylaceae-Heteropyxidaceae-Myrtaceae and the Lythraceae sensu lato (including Punica, Duabanga, and Sonneratia). Onagraceae are very distinct, but may have an early link with Trapaceae. Memecylaceae and Crypteroniaceae are separated from Melastomataceae sensu stricto, a family Alzateaceae is recognized, and the new unigeneric family Rhynchocalycaceae is described. The earlier suggestion of the separate order Lythrales is not supported. Scenarios of phylogeny are given, with attention to phytogeography; the order seems to have originated and largely radiated (except for the predominantly Australasian Myrtaceae sensu stricto) in West Gondwana. Similar analysis of Myrtaceae depends particularly on features of androecium, trichomes, and wood anatomy; a complex set of changes in the androecium is hypothesized. The analysis implies a considerably altered picture of tribal and generic relationships; the formerly recognized subfamilies Myrtoideae and Leptospermoideae must be abandoned. The subfamily Chamelaucioideae, previously discarded by us, is shown to be a polyphyletic grade taxon, and cannot be sustained as an integrated suballiance, much less as a subfamily. Consideration is given to the status of Kjellbergiodendron, the (possibly combined) Eucalyptopsis and Eucalyptus alliances, the Acmena alliance, and Osbornia.
40389952|A taxonomic revision of the endemic Malagasy genus Helmiopsis H. Perrier (Malvaceae s. l.) is presented, based on material that has been collected since the last complete revision by Arnes. Nine species and one subspecies are recognized, of which one species (H. polyandra Appleq.) and one subspecies (H. hily Arnes subsp. boinensis Appleq.) are newly described from Madagascar. Arnes' infrageneric taxonomy is simplified; two sections (section Glandulipetalae Arnes and section Helmiopsis) are recognized. The section Glandulipetalae is typified by H. pseudopopulus (Baill.) Capuron ex Arnes, and H. inversa H. Perrier, the type species for the genus, is lectotypified. Dombeya rigida Baill. is excluded from Helmiopsis. Preliminary conservation assessments using IUCN criteria indicate that most taxa are of potential conservation concern: four species native to the extreme north should be considered Vulnerable, and one species and one subspecies are considered Data Deficient but likely to be at risk.
10.2307/2399955|The genus Xiphotheca Eckl. & Zeyh. consists of nine species, all endemic to the Flora Capensis region of South Africa: X. canescens, X. cordifolia, X. elliptica, X. fruticosa, X. guthriei, X. lanceolata, X. phylicoides, X. reflexa, and X. tecta. Morphological, chemical, and cytological characters of the genus are briefly discussed. A cladistic analysis, based on morphological data, shows that there are two distinct groups in the genus. These are described as two sections, sects. Congestae and Xiphotheca. Full descriptions, diagnostic characters, illustrations, and distribution maps of the species are presented.
10.2307/2395259|Lopezia concinna Raven is described from Sinaloa, Mexico. It is unique in the genus in its elaborately marked petals and wide lower sepals. It appears to be closely related to L. conjungens. See p. 641.
10.2307/2399049|Anthurium (Araceae), a distinct neotropical genus with more than 700 species, is a member of the subfamily Pothoideae. The genus ranges from Northern Mexico and the Greater Antilles to Southern Brazil and Northern Argentina and Paraguay. Species diversity is greatest at lower to middle elevations of northern South America, Panama, and Costa Rica, while the upper Amazonian forests and lower Amazonian forests are relatively poor in species. In this paper, 122 species from Mexico and Middle America are revised. The 152 Panamanian species will be treated in a subsequent paper. In Mexico and Middle America, Costa Rica is richest in species, with 65. The remainder of Middle America is relatively poor in species, with Nicaragua having only 25 known species, Honduras having only 13 known species, Guatemala having 25 known species, and Belize fewer than 10 species. Mexico has 41 known taxa with 26 species endemic. In all, six new taxa from Mexico and Middle America were described in this revision: A. armeniense, A. chamulense Matuda ssp. oaxacanum, A. halmoorei, A. lancetillense, A. nelsonii, and A. rzedowskii. In addition, five new combinations have been proposed, including A. chiapasense ssp. tlaxiacense (Matuda) Croat, A. cuneatissimum (Engler) Croat, A. pedatoradiatum ssp. helleborifolium (Schott) Croat, A. schlechtendalii ssp. jimenezii (Matuda) Croat, and A. subcordatum ssp. chlorocardium (Standl. & L. O. Wms.) Croat.
10.2307/2399148|Because of their frequently bulky nature and unfamiliar morphology, palms need special attention if they are to be adequately collected. A guide is presented to indicate how to go about preparing good herbarium specimens of palms and what notes to make in the field.
10.2307/2399207|The new monotypic genus Koehneria is described, based on Pemphis madagascariensis, one of two species of the lythraceous genus Pemphis. It is distinguished from Pemphis acidula and other members of the Lythraceae by a combination of characters including: glandular trichomes, strongly reflexed calyx lobes, doubled episepalous stamens, a conspicuous ovary stipe, elongated inner epidermal cells of the ovary wall, septifragal capsule dehiscence, 3-pseudocolpate pollen, and wood with septate fibers, scanty parenchyma, and erect ray cells. Morphological, palynological, and anatomical comparison of Koehneria is made to the Old World genera Pemphis, Lagerstroemia, Woodfordia, and the New World genera Adenaria and Pehria. The last three genera share with Koehneria a three-character synapomorphy absent from Pemphis and Lagerstroemia and all other genera of the family. A common ancestral origin is postulated for Koehneria, Woodfordia, Adenaria, and Pehria, but subsequent extensive morphological divergence, together with wide geographic dispersal and extinction of intervening forms, limits understanding of more specific inter-generic relationships.
40389947|Some landscapes cannot be understood without references to the kinds, degrees, and history of human-caused modifications to the Earth's surface. The tropical latitudes of the Andes represent one such place, with agricultural land-use systems appearing in the Early Holocene. Current land use includes both intensive and extensive grazing and crop-or tree-based agricultural systems found across virtually the entire range of possible elevations and humidity regimes. Biodiversity found in or adjacent to such humanized landscapes will have been altered in abundance, composition, and distribution in relation to the resiliency of the native species to harvest, land cover modifications, and other deliberate or inadvertent human land uses. In addition, the geometries of land cover, resulting from differences among the shapes, sizes, connectivities, and physical structures of the patches, corridors, and matrices that compose landscape mosaics, will constrain biodiversity, often in predictable ways. This article proposes a conceptual model that implies that the continued persistence of native species may depend as much on the shifting of Andean landscape mosaics as on species characteristics themselves. Furthermore, mountains such as the Andes display long gradients of environmental conditions that alter in relation to latitude, soil moisture, aspect, and elevation. Global environmental change will shift these, especially temperature and humidity regimes along elevational gradients, causing changes outside the historical range of variation for some species. Both land-use systems and conservation efforts will need to respond spatially to these shifts in the future, at both landscape and regional scales.
10.2307/2394942|Claytonia rosea Rydb., not currently recognized in the Rocky Mountains, is separable from C. lanceolata Pursh by gross morphological, karyological and ecological characters.
40389944|The mosses of the tropical Andes are examined to determine a conservative estimate of diversity, excluding a significant number of unconfirmed names and dubious reports that have distorted estimates in the past. In this analysis, 1376 species represented by 327 genera and 69 families are recognized. Within this cohort, species endemism for the tropical Andes is estimated at 31%. Regionally, the number of mosses restricted to the northern Andes (321 species) is higher than the number restricted to the central Andes (241 species). Regional endemism exhibits a similar pattern: more endemics in the northern Andes (155 species) than in the central Andes (129 species).
40035044|Hybrid speciation refers to the establishment of novel hybrid genotypes that are reproductively isolated from their parental species and genetically stabilized. Most frequently, reproductive isolation is achieved via an increase in ploidy. However, in some instances new hybrid species arise and become reproductively isolated without a change in chromosome number, a process known as diploid or "homoploid" hybrid speciation. The annual sunflowers of the genus Helianthus provide a well-studied example of this latter mode of speciation. Here, I review this work, placing individual studies in their proper context. These include (1) computer simulations that describe the evolutionary conditions under which hybrid speciation is most likely; (2) molecular phylogenetic studies that document the origins of three hybrid sunflower species; (3) comparative genetic mapping studies that describe the karyotypic changes associated with hybrid speciation; (4) experimental re-creations of homoploid hybrid species that allow genotypic and phenotypic comparisons between synthetic and ancient hybrid lineages; (5) quantitative trait locus (QTL) studies that describe the genetic basis of phenotypic differences between the parental species and the mode of gene action underlying the generation of extreme phenotypes in hybrids; (6) phylogeographic studies that estimate the ages and number of origins of each hybrid species; (7) selection studies that measure the strength of selection on individual traits and QTLs in synthetic hybrids transplanted into hybrid habitats; and (8) candidate gene studies that search for correlations between candidate genes for ecological divergence and traits and QTLs shown to be under selection in the habitats of the hybrid species. Ongoing work includes searches for the molecular signature of selection during hybrid speciation, surveys of gene expression shifts associated with hybrid speciation, and experiments that evaluate the role of new hybrid gene combinations versus reproductive isolation in the ecological divergence of hybrid lineages.
10.2307/2400001|The 11 species of Lycianthes that occur in Venezuela are described and distinguished with illustrations, a dichotomous key, and notes on their appearance and ranges. The separation of Lycianthes from Solanum and its closer relationship to Capsicum are reviewed in light of morphological and recent molecular evidence.
10.2307/2394821|Seven species from the neotropics are described as new to the Bombacaceae: Eriotheca peruviana (Peru), Hampea dukei (Panama), H. micrantha (Panama), Quararibea bilobata (Peru), Q. longitubulosa (Peru), Q. sanblasensis (Panama), and Q. wurdackii (Peru). In addition, a key to the Panamanian species of the genus Hampea is given.
10.2307/3298660|Pollination strategies of Gladiolus, one of the largest genera of the monocot family Iridaceae, are unusually diverse, and include various bee species, foraging either for nectar or for pollen, passerine birds, long-proboscid flies foraging for nectar, hopliine beetles that use the flowers primarily as sites for assembly, and Lepidoptera. Pollination by insects of this order comprises two entirely different sets of pollinators, night-flying moths (Noctuidae or Sphingidae) and butterflies (evidently only one species of Satyridae). These lepidopteran-pollinated flowers have quite different floral adaptations and both types are specialist systems, although moth flowers may be pollinated by a range of different moths. In Gladiolus moth-pollinated flowers are usually large, long-tubed and pale-colored, or mottled dull purple to brown, are usually richly scented, often open fully only at night, and produce relatively concentrated nectar that is sucrose-rich. Butterfly flowers, in contrast, are fully open during the day, close partially or completely at night, are often bright crimson to scarlet, usually with prominent white splashes on the lower tepals, but are also large, have a long tube, and produce quantities of relatively dilute nectar, either sucrose-rich or hexose-rich. Comparing the pollination systems of related species, we infer that night-flying moth pollination arose 6 times in the genus, whereas butterfly pollination arose 3 times in the 165 species of southern Africa, and that the two lepidopteran pollination systems in Gladiolus arose quite independently of one another.
10.2307/2399807|About half of the small representation of Solanaceae on Madagascar is introduced. The largely endemic representation of native species displays unusual features in hair type, floral egress, anthers, and fruits, which may relate to unusual pollinators and dispersal agents present on the island. Affinities are noted with plants in Africa, South America, and Australia, suggesting that various ancestral stocks probably arrived at different times and have undergone different degrees and kinds of specialization. The Mozambique Channel is a barrier crossed by only one species that can germinate after marine flotation.
40035487| Xeric limestone prairies (XLPs) are herbaceous plant communities that occur on shallow rocky calcareous soils from Missouri and Pennsylvania south to Arkansas and Georgia (U.S.A.). There has been considerable confusion regarding the classification of XLPs due to their similarity with limestone cedar glades (LCGs), an edaphic climax community type restricted to unglaciated southeastern United States. Although C perennial grasses typically are the dominant taxa in XLPs, portions of sites with extremely shallow soils ( 0.1 m) are typified by local dominance of Sporobolus vaginiflorus (Torr. ex Gray) Alf. Wood, a C summer annual grass that is the characteristic dominant in LCGs. In this study, we assess the relative importance of C perennial grasses versus S. vaginiflorus in XLP community types identified in Kentucky over a range of scales. We then use these data to analyze variability in XLP vegetation and physical environmental conditions and to further compare XLPs with LCGs. Sporobolus vaginiflorus had high frequencies in many of the fine-scale community types (0.01 and 0.1 m) identified in this study. However, dominance of C perennial grasses (particularly Schizachyrium scoparium (Michx.) Nash) in all 12 of the community types identified at the largest scale (100 m) is indicative of the relatively small areal extent of extremely shallow-soiled regions in XLPs. XLPs also differ from LCGs in that the former generally lack early-stage primary successional community types dominated by cryptograms and/or C annual forbs. Thus, the results of our study suggest that the total range of environmental conditions and the variety and extent of plant community types present in a site should be considered when classifying the vegetation of calcareous rock outcrop communities in the eastern United States. 
10.2307/2399120|Chemical data for the Hamamelidae (sensu Cronquist) are numerous but scattered. Few large-scale comprehensive surveys of any particular group of compounds (micro- or macromolecular) exist for the Hamamelidae. This has limited the use of such data in drawing broad systematic conclusions beyond those based on extant morphological, anatomical, and palynological studies. Certainly, available data for some classes of compounds, such as phenolics, have proven useful at the inter- and intrafamilial level (e.g., Ulmaceae, Juglandaceae, Urticaceae). However, the diverse and sometimes "exotic" micromolecules (e.g., alkaloids, sesquiterpene lactones, polyacetylenes, glucosinolates) often found in the other subclasses of angiosperms are mostly lacking in the Hamamelidae. This implies, at least from present surveys, a biochemical conservatism (or alternatively, reduction) for the group and an early and considerable divergence from its more chemically diverse putative Magnoliid ancestors.
10.2307/2399168|Rhynchocalycaceae is a monotypic family represented by the rare Rhynchocalyx lawsonioides from South Africa. Although unquestionably myrtalean, it is isolated in the order with closest affinity to Alzatea verticillata in the monotypic Alzateaceae. Foliar flavonoids of Rhynchocalyx are reported for the first time. The flavonoid pattern comprises five quercetin 3-O-glycosides, present in approximately equal concentrations. These are quercetin 3-O-glucoside, 3-O-diglucoside, 3-O- rhamnoside, 3-O-xyloside, and 3-O-galactoside. Quercetin 3-O-glucoside and quercetin 3-O-diglucoside also occur in Alzatea. The pattern agrees with the typical profile of the Myrtales in which flavonols are common and flavones are rare. It differs in absence of myricetin, which is frequently found in the order. No more specific relationships are possible based on these flavonoid data due to the generalized nature and widespread occurrence of the compounds.
10.2307/2399454|Streptogyna is the only herbaceous bamboo genus with an amphi-Atlantic distribution. Streptogyna crinita occurs in tropical Africa, Sri Lanka, and India, and S. americana is found throughout the Neotropics. Although marked differences in habit and in morphology of lodicules and starch grains suggest segregation at the generic level, they are here retained in a single genus because they are quite similar in spikelet morphology and leaf anatomy. Multicellular microhairs are present on the lodicules of S. crinita and mark the first report of microhairs in the genus. Multicellular microhairs are otherwise well developed in the grasses only in the African herbaceous bamboo Guaduella, and they may be a primitive feature in the family as they are common in its putative outgroup, the Joinvilleaceae. Streptogyna shows strong bambusoid affinities in its ligule and leaf anatomy, spikelet structure, caryopsis and embryo morphology, and chromosome number, but differs from the core group of the subfamily in its seedling morphology and lack of epidermal papillae. Autapomorphies in the two species suggest that neither could have been derived directly from the other.
10.2307/2399465|An analysis of historical trends in diversification can suffer from a variety of defects and limitations. Among these is the potential failure of genus and family compilations to yield sufficient information on biological events, such as mass species extinctions. Another is the inadequacy of taxonomically based estimates of diversification to reveal patterns in changing community structure and morphology, which are important in evaluating adaptive evolution. These deficiencies are examined for the plant fossil record and by means of computer simulations of mass extinction events. Comparisons among species, genus, and family diversification patterns reveal qualitative differences sufficient to warrant caution in the use of taxonomic ranks above the species level. However, genus tabulations appear to be an adequate surrogate database for inferring patterns of species origination. Computer simulations revealing patterns of family extinctions may be inadequate for evaluating mass species extinction events since peaks in species and family extinctions rarely, if ever, coincide. A pluralistic approach to evaluating diversification is advocated involving the examination of biotic changes within assemblages and trends in morphological, anatomical, and reproductive evolution.
10.2307/2395257| This paper provides an account of the native and naturalized South American species of Oenothera sect. Oenothera (Onagraceae). Included are 63 taxa (species and subspecies) of three subsections, of which 58 are native in South America and the remainder introduced from North America (Oenothera laciniata subsp. laciniata, O. drummondii, O. villosa) or possibly from Europe (O. erythrosepala, O. biennis). Subsection Munzia includes 57 taxa, subsect. Raimannia 3 (O. laciniata subsp. laciniata, O. laciniata subsp. pubescens, O. drummondii), and subsect. Euoenothera also 3 (O. erythrosepala, O. villosa, O. biennis). The main focus of this monograph is a revision of the exclusively South American subsect. Munzia, which is divided into the three series Renneria, Allochroa, and Clelandia. All taxa were cultivated at the Botanical Institute of the University of Dsseldorf from one to several wild strains. Cytological examination of meiosis in 600 plants representing 280 strains showed that 20 taxa were chromosomally homozygous, forming 7 bivalents at meiotic metaphase I. All other taxa were complex heterozygotes forming a ring of 14 chromosomes at meiotic metaphase I or with a smaller but still stable ring configuration (ring of 12 and 1 bivalent, ring of 8 and ring of 6, or ring of 10 and ring of 4). Homozygous species were distributed throughout the range of subsect. Munzia. Some of the individual chromosomally homozygous species also had individual wide ranges; for example, O. scabra and O. versicolor (series Renneria), O. mendocinensis, O. odorata, O. indecora, O. affinis, and O. ravenii (series Allochroa). The following species of subsect. Munzia were adventive or established outside of South America: (1) O. mendocinensis: Europe (adventive); (2) O. longiflora subsp. longiflora: Europe, Atlantic Islands (Azores, Madeira, Canary Islands, Cape Verde Islands), South Africa, Australia; (3) O. indecora subsp. indecora: Europe (adventive); (4) O. indecora subsp. bonariensis: Europe (adventive), Australia, South Africa, Tristan da Cunha (adventive?); (5) O. affinis: Europe, India, Pakistan, Australia, Hawaii, South Africa; (6) O. mollissima: U.S.A. (adventive?), Australia; (7) O. stricta subsp. stricta: U.S.A., Mexico, Hawaii, Europe, Japan, India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Java, Australia, New Zealand, North Africa, South Africa, Ethiopia; (8) O. parodiana subsp. parodiana: South Africa, Europe (adventive). The common ancestor of Oenothera sect. Oenothera subsect. Munzia seems to have arrived in South America from North America no more than a few million years ago, and to have given rise to some 57 taxa there subsequently in response to drastic climatic changes and increasing elevation of the mountains in that continent. Oenothera laciniata subsp. pubescens seems to have arrived in South America from North America much more recently, perhaps within the past 100,000 years. 
10.2307/2399978|The frameworks commonly used for understanding the causes of biodiversity depletion are inadequate. This paper offers some alternative frameworks for understanding biodiversity depletion, conservation, and the roles of states, local communities, and economic botanists. Wild resources are economically important to many rural communities, and a wide range of common property tenurial systems for managing and allocating those resources have been developed. Economic botanists have documented wild plant resources, their uses, and their management. This information has primarily been used by people outside local communities who are interested in commercial enterprises and economic development. But by not paying attention to the question of tenurial rights over natural areas, wild resources, and knowledge about those resources, economic botanists indirectly participated in colonial expansion and the marginalization of indigenous peoples by neocolonial states. Today, economic botanists have opportunities to participate in efforts to recognize and document property rights to land and forest. They also have opportunities to recognize and support intellectual property rights over medicinal plant knowledge and crop varieties, although the potential application and conservation benefits of intellectual property rights are as yet unclear. Efforts to link conservation of biodiversity with development are stimulating collaborative partnerships among economic botanists, social scientists, ecologists, governments, and local communities.
10.2307/2399595|The single known species of Ticodendron has notably primitive wood (scalariform perforation plates with numerous bars; primary wall remnants in perforations; scalariform lateral wall pitting in vessels; imperforate tracheary elements all tracheids; axial parenchyma diffuse; rays Heterogeneous Type I). Although wood of Betulaceae and Corylaceae (Betulaceae subfamily Coryleae of most authors) is more specialized, primarily in tracheary element morphology and ray histology, wood features in these families are consonant with relationship to Ticodendron. Presence of crystals in rays is alike in Ticodendron, Corylaceae, and Fagaceae. Bark anatomy features are shared by the fagalean families: fusiform-shaped nests of sclereids containing large rhomboidal crystals; druses in cortex, phloem parenchyma, and ray parenchyma; and subdivision of ray cells that contain druses. Placement of Ticodendron in Fagales as a separate family, more primitive than others in the order, is indicated by the data reviewed.
10.2307/2992043|Paragonia (Bignoniaceae) is a genus of two species, P. brasiliensis and P. pyramidata, the latter containing two varieties (var. pyramidata and var. tomentosa). Both species are lianas with subulate-appressed pseudostipules, lavender to magenta, tubular-campanulate corollas, linear-oblong fruit, and winged seeds. Paragonia pyramidata var. pyramidata is distributed from southern Mexico to southern Brazil and Uruguay, whereas P. pyramidata var. tomentosa is restricted to southern Brazil. Paragonia brasiliensis is known only from a few states in eastern Brazil. A key to flowering and fruiting material, maps of species distributions, graphs of flowering and fruiting phenology, and an illustration of P. pyramidata var. pyramidata are provided.
40035722|Based on the unequaled southern Late Cretaceous-Cenozoic record, the history of South American land mammals is divisible into two major episodes we term the Gondwanan Episode and the South American Episode. The former episode is distinguished by the northern and central Patagonian Argentinian record, while the latter is mostly based on the extra-Patagonian Argentinian record. The Gondwanan Episode is so termed because it is exclusively represented by endemic mammals of Gondwanan origin, i.e., Mesozoic lineages. In contrast, the South American Episode is almost exclusively distinguished by endemic Therian mammals whose ancestors emigrated from the Laurasian North American Continent. These two major, successive, and for some time superimposed episodes are the result of the geologic history of the South American Plate. (1) This plate was part of the Gondwana Supercontinent until about 120 millions of years before Present (mybP), when it began to separate and drifted westward (but always south and relatively near the North American Plate). Until about 30 mybP it was connected to Western Antarctica, and through it to most of the Eastern Gondwanan continents. (2) By approximately 125 mybP, Donnelly's "Flood Basalt" was initiated. After its cessation by 85 mybP a variety of compressive tectonic features around the Caribbean began, i.e., subduction and island arcs or continental margin magmatism. These features probably permitted the first known inter-American exchange of tetrapods, dinosaurs such as Hadrosauridae from the rising North American continent and Titanosauridae Saltasaurinae from the South American continent. Probably by the latest Cretaceous these geologic features also permitted the immigration of the first Therian, which gave rise to the native South American land mammals. (3) The geologic definition of southern Central America is the last and most important phenomenon related to the final connection of both Americas. By 12 mybP the submarine connection of Central America with South America began, and subsequent volcanic island arcs permitted the beginning of The Great American Biotic Interchange. According to the Patagonian record, the absence of tribosphenic mammals and the total extinction of the endemic non- and pre-tribosphenic mammals are the most outstanding events characterizing the Gondwanan Episode. Up to the beginning of the South American Episode (early Paleocene), few Gondwanan lineages of mammals (a native Gondwanatheria and an endemic Dryolestoid) survived in the South American continent; another related Gondwanatheria taxon survived up to the Late Eocene in Western Antarctica. These Gondwanan survivors lived together with the first, but advanced, immigrant Therian that initiated the South American Episode. Although not conclusively demonstrated, there are some suggestions that this superposition began earlier, probably by the pre-Campanian Cretaceous. The history of endemic Therian mammals characterizing the South American Episode began to be known in 1948 thanks to the efforts of the Ameghinos and G. G. Simpson. These represented the only known higher taxa until 1985 when Bonaparte recorded the first non-therian Gondwanan lineages in Late Cretaceous (Campanian) Patagonian beds. Successive authors contributed to this history, ratifying Simpson's statement that the South American Cenozoic mammal evolution was episodic. Thus, the most characteristic geobiotic features of the two major episodes are based almost exclusively on the most eloquent Campanian-Quaternary Argentinian record. /// De acuerdo a registros sin iguales del Cretcico-Cenozoico tardo meridional, la historia de los mamferos terrestres suramericanos se puede dividir en dos episodios importantes que llamamos el Episodio de Gondwana y el Episodio Suramericano. El primer episodio se distingue por el registro argentino patagnico del norte y centro, mientras que el segundo se basa sobre todo en el registro extra argentino patagnico. El Episodio de Gondwana es as llamado porque est representado exclusivamente por los mamferos endmiros de origen gondwnico, i.e., linajes mesozoicos. En contras te, el Episodio Suramericano se distingue casi exclusivamente por mamferos terios endmicos cuyos antepasados emigraron del continente leureico norteamerieano. Estos dos episodio importantes, succesivos y por cierto tiempo sobrepuestos son el resultado de la historia de geolgica de la placa surumericana. (1) Esta place formaha parte del supercontinente de Gondwana haste corea de 120 maap, cuando comenz a seperarse y desplazarse hacia e1oeste (pero siempre al sur y relativamente cerca de la placa norteamericana). Hasta hace cerca de 30 maap estuvo conectada a Antrtica occidental, y a travs de esta a la mayora de los continentes gondwnicos orientales. (2) Alrededor de 125 maap. empez la "inundacin basltica'' de Donnelly. Despus de su cesacin hace 85 maap. comenz una variedad de caractersticas tectnicas compresivas alrededor del Caribe, i.e., arcos de islas y subduccon o magmatismo marginal continental. Estas caractertsticas probablemente permitieron el primer intercambio interamericano conocido de tetrpodos, dinosaurios tales como Hadrosauridae del continente norteamericano en levantamiento y Titanosauridae Saltasaurinae del continente suramericano. Prohahlemente hacia fines del Cretcico estas caractentstcas geolgicas tambin permitieron la migrucin del primer terio, que dio origen a los mamferos terrestres suramericanos. (3) La definicin geolgica del sur de Amrica Central es el ltimo y ms importante fenmeno relacionado con la conexin final de ambas Amricas. Hace 12 maap comenz la conexin submarina de Amrica Central y del Sur, y subsecuentes arcos de isla volcnicos permitieron el inicio del Gran lntercambio Bitico Americano. Segn el registro patagnico, la ausenci a de mamferos tribosfnicos y la extincin total de los memferos endmicos no- y pre-tribosfnicos son los acontecimientos ms excepcionales que caracterizan el Episodio de Gondwana. Haste principio del Episodio Suramericano (Paleocene temprano), pocos linajes gondwnicos de mamferos (un Gondwanaterio nativo y un Dryolestoide endmico] sobrevivieron en el continente suramericano; otro taxn Gondwanaterio relacionado sobrevivi hasta el Eoceno tardo en Antrtica occidental. Estos sobrevivientes de Gondwana vivieron juntos con el primer, pero avanzado, inmigrante terio que inici el Episodio Suramericano. Aunque no se ha demostrado en forma concluyente, hay algunas sugerencias de que esta superposicin comenz antes, probablemente por el Cretcico pre-Campaniano. La historia de los mamferos terios endmicos que caracterizan el Episodio Suramericano se empez a conocer en 1948 gracias a los esfuerzos de los Ameghinos y G. G. Simpson. Estos representaban los nicos taxones avanzados conocidos hasta 1985 cuando Bonaparte regietr los primeros linajes no terios de Gondwana en depsitos patagnicos del Cretcico tardo (Campaniano). Autores posteriores contribuyeron a esta histora. ratificando las afirmaciones de Simpson que la evolucin de los mamferos suramericanos cenozicos fue episdica. As, las caractersticas geobiticas ms distintivas de los dos episodios ms importantes se basan casi exclusivamente en el ms elocuente registro argentino del Campaniano-Cuaternario.
10.2307/2398986|A phytogeographic analysis is made of the orchid floras of temperate North America and eastern Asia. The relationships between them are shown characteristically by the disjunctive patterns of distribution in the eight species-pairs of Cypripedium, Listera, Pogonia, Liparis, and Platanthera, as well as in some other genera such as Tipularia, Arethusa (Eleorchis), Aplectrum (partly Cremastra), and Tropidia, in the two continents. Data of these distribution patterns support an assumption that the discontinuous distribution in orchids between temperate North America and eastern Asia is the result of migration via the Beringian link, or by way of the northern Pacific, but this was not necessarily the only migration route concerned.
10.2307/2991996|Calamagrostis porteri A. Gray subsp. insperata (Swallen) C. W. Greene is a rare grass that is currently treated as a "species of concern" by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Production of viable seed had never been observed, and little was known about the factors affecting this reproductive failure. In this study we examined the effects of maternal genotype, pollen source, and light intensity on caryopsis (the single-seeded fruit produced in grasses) production. Maternal genotype and pollen source (self vs. outcross) significantly affected the number of caryopses initiated, while light intensity had no significant effect. However, nearly all of the caryopses initiated aborted late in development. In the 2000+ florets we examined, only one fully filled, viable caryopsis was found. The conditions under which this caryopsis was produced suggest future courses of management.
10.2307/2399519|In preparing the treatment of the Orchidaceae for the Flora of the Venezuelan Guayana, several new taxa have been detected. These include specimens from recently completed expeditions and earlier herbarium material. Reconsideration of generic boundaries within several subtribes has made necessary various nomenclatural changes. The following new taxa and combinations are proposed: Cleistes huberi, sp. nov.; C. rosea f. pallida, f. nov.; C. unifoliata, comb. nov.; Octomeria romerorum, sp. nov.; Pleurothallis deborana, sp. nov.; P. pemonum, sp. nov.; Stelis garayi, comb. nov.; Sobralia oliva-estevae, sp. nov. In addition, comments are supplied, where pertinent, on the affinities of the various taxa proposed.
10.2307/2400004|Examination of the pollen grains of Aristea using light and scanning electron microscopy shows that this Afro-Madagascan genus of ca. 50 species is one of the palynologically most diverse genera of the family Iridaceae. Exine sculpturing ranges from reticulate to rugulate to areolate with lumina ranging from large to small. Overall size is also variable, with grains ranging from medium-sized (45-60  m equatorial diameter) to large (70-97.5  m equatorial diameter). Monosulcate apertures are plesiomorphic, and derived sulculate (apertural membranes obscured by masses of exine), zonasulculate, 2-zonasulculate, 3-sulcate, and spiral apertures are present in various species. Pollen characters were combined with morphological and anatomical features in a matrix and subjected to cladistic analysis. Trees obtained using successive weighting procedures were used as the basis for a revised infrageneric classification of Aristea in which three subgenera are recognized. Two subgenera are restricted to the winter-rainfall zone (the Cape Floristic Region) of southern Africa, and the third is dispersed widely across sub-Saharan Africa and Madagascar but is barely represented in the Cape Region. Apomorphic character states are discussed in relation to the biology of the genus, and we suggest that some derived aperture types may be adapted to the desiccating climate of the Cape Region.
3298550|A key problem for conservation is the coincidence of regions of high biodiversity with regions of high human impact. Twenty-five of the most threatened centers of plant diversity were identified by Myers et al., and these "hotspots" play a crucial role in international conservation strategies. The primary goal of the hotspots is to cover the most threatened centers of plant diversity, but their efficacy has not yet been tested empirically. For sub-Saharan Africa, our study evaluates the hotspots postulated by Myers and compares them to a set of redefined hotspots proposed on the basis of mapped distribution data for 5985 plant species. The two sets of hotspots overlap by 48%. Our redefined hotspots include 80% of the species and 66% of the range-restricted species of the sub-Saharan flora in areas under high human impact, whereas these values are 15% and 11% lower for Myers's hotspots. Despite having equal size and a considerable spatial overlap with Myers's hotspots, our redefined hotspots include further highly threatened centers of plant diversity in the Maputaland Pondoland Region, in Katanga, the East African Afromontane region, the Lower Guinea Region, and the Albertine Rift. Many of these redefined hotspots are poorly protected centers of plant and animal diversity. Their conservation is essential for a comprehensive coverage of Africa's centers of biodiversity.
10.2307/2399669|In the Zingiberales, a primarily tropical order of monocotyledons, most phylogenists currently recognize eight families: Musaceae, Strelitziaceae, Lowiaceae, Heliconiaceae, Zingiberaceae, Costaceae, Cannaceae, and Marantaceae. Some taxonomists still prefer the earlier classifications that included Strelitziaceae, Lowiaceae, and Heliconiaceae in Musaceae s.l., and Costaceae as a part of Zingiberaceae s.l. Attempts to reconstruct the phylogenetic history of the order have been made by Lane, Tomlinson, and Dahlgren & Rasmussen. An original analysis of the evolutionary relationships of the eight families of the Zingiberales based on the principles of phylogenetic systematics is presented here. The most parsimonious topology is (Musaceae (Strelitziaceae (Lowiaceae (Heliconiaceae ((Zingiberaceae, Costaceae) (Cannaceae, Marantaceae)). The cladogram rejects the recognition of Musaceae s.l. as an evolutionary group. A new phylogenetic classification based on the cladogram is proposed that recognizes eight families, two superfamilies, and five suborders within the Zingiberales.
10.2307/2395223| Preparation of the treatment of Bignoniaceae for Flora de Venezuela and field work in Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador, and Brazil have turned up several novelties and some taxonomic problems. In this paper the Adenocalymma apurense, A. bracteolatum, and Amphilophium paniculatum complexes in Venezuela are reinterpreted necessitating one new variety, one new combination, and resurrection of two previously synonymized species. Anemopaegma villosum, Arrabidaea prancei, Cuspidaria subincana, Haplolophium rodriguesii, Mansoa onohualcoides, Memora aspericarpa, M. tanaecicarpa, Tanaecium apiculatum, Tynnanthus villosus, anemoaegma alatum, and A. patelliforme are described as new. Seven generic mergers necessitating a total of nine new combinations are proposed: Onohualcoa to Mansoa, Pseudopaegma to Anemopaegma, Sanhilaria to Paragonia, Nestoria and Kuhlmannia to Pleonotoma, Roseodendron to Tabebuia, and Xerotecoma to Godmania. An eighth generic merger--Distictella with Distictis--is rejected but a new combination is needed for one species which is transferred to Distictis. 
10.2307/2399848|Nucleotide sequences of the plastid protein-coding gene rbcL from 64 species of 36 families in subclass Magnoliidae sensu Cronquist and representatives of all other major seed plant groups were analyzed by parsimony in a series of four analyses. Ceratophyllum (Ceratophyllaceae) was found to be sister to all other angiosperms. Other magnoliids formed five major groups, roughly corresponding to the Magnoliales, Laurales, Aristolochiaceae/Piperales, Nymphaeales, and Ranunculales/Papaverales. Four magnoliid lineages, those with monosulcate or monosulcate-derived pollen (Magnoliales, Laurales, Aristolochiales/Piperales, and Nymphaeales), and the monocots (with the same type of pollen) formed a weakly supported monophyletic group. The Illiciales (Illiciaceae and Schisandraceae), with a unique type of tricolpate pollen, also fell into this monosulcate clade. Relationships among these major lineages were resolved in all trees, but with low levels of support. Magnoliidae with tricolpate and tricolpate-derived pollen, Ranunculales/Papaverales and Nelumbonaceae, fell into the other large clade of angiosperms, which have sometimes been termed the eudicots. Monophyly of this large tricolpate clade was strongly supported. These results demonstrated a high degree of congruence with the major groups identified in other studies, but they differed in the general relationships of these groups, particularly the monophyly of the monosulcate taxa and the sister-group relationship of angiosperms with the two general pollen types. They also deviated in the specific taxon composition of some major clades.
40035750|Even though the species-rich genus Ceropegia L. (Apocynaceae, Ceropegieae) is convincingly characterized by its pitfall flowers, investigation of non-coding markers of chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) (trnT-L and trnL-F spacers and the trnL intron) and nuclear ribosomal DNA (nrDNA) (ITS) has shown that Ceropegia is twice paraphyletic. The 36 analyzed Ceropegia taxa scatter over a grade of seven clades. One clade is shared by Ceropegia and all Brachystelma R. Br. species investigated, making Ceropegia (without Brachystelma) paraphyletic. All endemic Madagascan Ceropegia taxa investigated and the East African C. robynsiana Werderm. share a terminal, but not further-resolved clade with the stapeliads. Thus, again, Ceropegia without the stapeliads is paraphyletic. These results are incongruent with current taxonomy. In the absence of adequate morphological, anatomical, or karyological characters supporting a taxonomic reclassification of the genus in accordance with the retrieved clades of the phylogenetic analysis, it is proposed that the current taxonomy be maintained.
3298576|Gene genealogy of the cpDNA atpB-rbcL noncoding spacer was reconstructed to assess the phylogeographic pattern of two closely related oaks, Lithocarpus formosanus (Skan) Hayata and L. dodonaeifolius (Hayata) Hayata (Fagaceae). High levels of nucleotide and haplotype diversities but low levels of genetic differentiation between species and among populations were detected. The result is consistent with the paraphyly of this cpDNA spacer in both species suggested by a neighbor-joining analysis. A minimum spanning network of the cpDNA haplotypes identified two major clades, A and A' (consisting of clades of B, C, and D). No clades were confined to either species or single populations. Clades B and C did not occur in two smaller populations of L. dodonaeifolius. The apportionment of haplotypes between species and populations indicated a lineage sorting of the cpDNA noncoding spacer. On the contrary, RAPD fingerprints revealed limited ongoing gene flow and significant genetic differentiation between species and among populations. Given low possibilities that seeds disperse across a long geographic range in the modern vegetation, high Nm values, estimates of number of migrants per generation deduced from the seed-carried organelle DNA marker are likely to represent historical migrations. A migrant-pool model explains the heterogeneous composition of the organelle DNA within populations and the low differentiation among populations. According to geological evidence, during the deglaciation period common ancestral populations were possibly forced to migrate into refugia at local peaks. Invading and adapting to habitats of different elevations, two oaks flower with a lag interval of about half a month, which may have triggered the reproductive isolation and speciation. Ancestral polymorphic alleles, however, prolonged the lineage sorting period within populations and species. (Given a relatively short evolutionary duration since isolation, high genetic heterogeneity has made the attainment of coalescence improbable.
10.2307/2399922|Chromosome numbers in 126 accessions representing 58 taxa belonging to 27 genera of Panicoideae from Pakistan are reported. Chromosome numbers of three species viz. Panicum atrosanguineum (n = 18), Pennisetum lanatum (n = 18), and Elionurus royleanus (n = 10) are new determinations. New cytotypes are reported for Isachne himalaica (tetraploid) and Setaria intermedia (tetraploid). Chromosomal counts for 30 other species are new to the flora of Pakistan. More than two-thirds of the species investigated were found to be polyploid in nature.
10.2307/2399957|Due to the increase of human impact on the world scale, there is an urgent need to identify the sectors of the greatest biodiversity that are also the most endangered. Examination of the plant biodiversity of the five regions with a mediterranean climate (SW Australia, the Cape region of South Africa, California, mediterranean Chile, and the Mediterranean basin) clearly demonstrates their key role in the world context. The delimitation and definition of 10 red alert areas or "hot-spots" situated in the Mediterranean basin and in Macaronesia are explained in detail. The 10 sectors identified are: the Canary Islands and Madeira, the High and Middle Atlas mountains, the Baetic-Rifan complex, the Maritime and Ligurian Alps, the Tyrrhenian Islands, Southern and Central Greece, Crete, Anatolia and Cyprus, the Syria-Lebanon-Israel area and, lastly, the Cyrenaic Mediterranean. There are two main centers of biodiversity in the Mediterranean basin: one in the west that includes the Iberian Peninsula and Morocco, and one in the East that includes Turkey and Greece. This analysis demonstrates the uniqueness and fragility of the island habitats.
10.2307/2399917|Comprehensive reevaluation of both herbarium specimens and field observations of the North American Thermopsis leads to our recognition of 10 species. Three species occur in the southern Appalachians: T. villosa, T. mollis, and T. fraxinifolia. The Rocky Mountains and intermountain regions are populated by the relatively variable and widespread species T. divaricarpa, T. montana, and T. rhombifolia. The Pacific coastal mountains of California are dominated by the variable T. californica (with three infraspecific taxa), which gives way to T. gracilis in northern California and western Oregon. Thermopsis macrophylla and T. robusta have restricted ranges in California.
10.2307/2399038|The author's contributions to the problem of angiosperm origin since 1975 are summarized. Jurassic Hirmerella is assigned to proangiosperms based on its fruit-like diaspores. Achenes with persistent receptacles bearing long trusses of hairs came from the Lower Cretaceous of Lake Baikal province. They resemble cyperaceous achenes but could have arisen from bennettitalean ovulate receptacles by reduction of ovules to one and fusion of interseminal scales. Angiosperm fruits, grass-like leaves, and several kinds of spikes and spiked heads are found in the Lower Cretaceous of Mongolia. A middle Albian fructification from Kazakhstan with bitegmic ovules is related to Ranunculidae. Some minor findings are mentioned in discussion. The "spotted layer" of Caytonia is interpreted as inner integument. Mesegenous stomata and incipient vessel members are revealed in bennettites. Possible links of proangiospermous Caytonia, Dirhopalostachys, and Leptostrobus with angiosperms are indicated.
10.2307/2399016|Four new combinations in Oenothera sect. Megapterium and one each in sects. Pachylophus and Oenothera are made here to make them available for use in regional floras. Oenothera harringtonii (sect. Pachylophus) from southeastern Colorado, O. clelandii (sect. Oenothera subsect. Raimannia) principally from the Great Lakes region south to Iowa and Illinois, and O. heterophylla subsp. orientalis from two disjunct areas in Alabama and Arkansas are newly described here in order to also make them available.
25488210|Sequence data from the nuclear ribosomal ITS region and the chloroplast trnL-F were used to examine the generic delimitations of Solms-laubachia Muschl., Christolea Cambess., Desideria Pamp., Leiospora (C. A. Mey.) F. Dvok, and Phaeonychium O. E. Schulz. Solms-laubachia, Desideria, and P. jafrii Al-Shehbaz formed a well-supported monophyletic clade, with Christolea as sister group. However, both Solms-laubachia and Desideria were polyphyletic, as they appeared in more than two positions in that clade, within which P. jafrii was embedded. The results are consistent with those based on sequences of plastid maturase (matK) and the nuclear chalcone synthase (Chs). SEM survey further reveals that the seed epidermis micromorphology of D. baiogoinensis (K. C. Kuan & C. H. An) Al-Shehbaz is most similar to that of S. lanata Botsch. Based on these findings, a comprehensive synopsis of an expanded Solms-laubachia with 26 species is presented; all species of Desideria and P. jafrii are transferred to Solms-laubachia resulting in 12 new combinations: S. baiogoinensis (K. C. Kuan & C. H. An) J. P. Yue, Al-Shehbaz & H. Sun, S. flabellata (Regel) J. P. Yue, Al-Shehbaz & H. Sun, S. haranensis (Al-Shehbaz) J. P. Yue, Al-Shehbaz & H. Sun, S. himalayensis (Cambess.) J. P. Yue, Al-Shehbaz & H. Sun, S. incana (Ovcz.) J. P. Yue, Al-Shehbaz & H. Sun, S. jafrii (Al-Shehbaz) J. P. Yue, Al-Shehbaz & H. Sun, S. linearis (N. Busch) J. P. Yue, Al-Shehbaz & H. Sun, S. mieheorum (Al-Shehbaz) J. P. Yue, Al-Shehbaz & H. Sun, S. mirabilis (Pamp.) J. P. Yue, Al-Shehbaz & H. Sun, S. nepalensis (H. Hara) J. P. Yue, Al-Shehbaz & H. Sun, S. prolifera (Maxim.) J. P. Yue, Al-Shehbaz & H. Sun, and S. stewartii (T. Anderson) J. P. Yue, Al-Shehbaz & H. Sun. Furthermore, four new species of Solms-laubachia are described from western China: S. angustifolia J. P. Yue, Al-Shehbaz & H. Sun, S. grandiflora J. P. Yue, Al-Shehbaz & H. Sun, and S. sunhangiana J. P. Yue & Al-Shehbaz (all from Sichuan Province), and S. calcicola J. P. Yue, Al-Shehbaz & H. Sun (from Xizang). Both S. linearifolia (W. W. Sm.) O. E. Schulz and S. mirabilis are lectotypified.
10.2307/3298528|Plant immigrants to North America arrived from Europe with the first human immigrants, products of the intense incentive early colonists felt to transplant European agriculture into the Western Hemisphere. Among early deliberate and accidental introductions were species that would soon become naturalized in eastern North America: Artemisia absinthium, Hyoscyamus niger, Plantago lanceolata, and Taraxacum officinale. The naturalized flora grew as species for food, forage, seasonings, and medicine were imported, cultivated, and escaped the bounds of cultivated fields. Importation of what has become the most common category of naturalized species, erstwhile ornamentals, had a modest beginning by the mid 17th century. The first recorded invasion, the spread and proliferation of Linaria vulgaris in the Mid-Atlantic colonies, was recognized by the mid 18th century, and Berberis vulgaris was rampant in southern New England before 1800. Botanical records, including published floras, became much more common in the first decades of the 19th century and reveal a naturalized flora in the U.S. that was quite similar in composition to the agricultural weed flora of Western Europe. Many ruderals and agricultural weeds were widespread in the eastern U.S., but probably not invasive by 1860, and included Bromus secalinus, Cynoglossum officinale, Galium aparine, and Senecio vulgaris. Other alien species had, however, become invasive by the 1840s, such as Echium vulgare in Virginia. Species that were to form devastating invasions in the United States from 1860 onward (e.g., Bromus tectorum, Euphorbia esula, Lonicera japonica, Melaleuca quinquenervia) had either not arrived by 1860, were undetected, or were not reported as having escaped from cultivation. Growth of the naturalized flora and the subsequent number of invasive taxa was certainly facilitated, and probably sparked, by the enormous growth of railroads and rail-borne commerce in the late 19th century.
10.2307/2394741|Thirteen species of the Osmundaceae were compared in the following respects: gross morphology of the fronds, sporangial structure, epidermal structure, leaf base anatomy and rhizome morphology. The purpose of comparing rhizome structure was to try to find anatomical criteria by which species could be identified in section, thereby providing a tool for the paleobotanist for determining affinities of fossil species. Disposition of sclerenchyma in the leaf bases is the only reliable character for this purpose. It is suggested that any descriptions of new living species or monographic treatments of the family should include this character. The subgenus Plenasium is unique in having two protoxylem groups in the leaf traces while they are still attached to the stem. The origin of this character is thought to be relatively recent and may have been derived through the subgenus Osmunda. Figures in the literature indicate that previous work on Todea and Leptopteris employed small rhizomes. Further study on larger rhizomes of these two genera may indicate the evolutionary pathway by which the stele in the family has undergone reduction in size and number of xylem bundles. Walter Hewitson, Department of Biology, Parsons College, Fairfield, Iowa.
10.2307/2399281|Comparisons of systematic information generated from both classical systematic approaches and from DNA analysis at a number of taxonomic levels in the Onagraceae are presented. Phylogenetic results from chloroplast DNA restriction fragment analysis in Clarkia sect. Sympherica (= Peripetasma) are not entirely congruent with results from morphology, but are congruent with distribution of duplications of isozyme-coding loci. Chloroplast DNA and nuclear rDNA evidence for the origin of the monotypic genus Heterogaura from within the genus Clarkia is discussed with respect to morphological divergence between the two genera. Detailed chloroplast DNA restriction site mapping within the seven diploid sections of Clarkia and subsequent preliminary intersectional phylogenetic analysis are presented. These DNA-based relationships are compared with a morphological and cytological model of relationships, and to various gene duplication-based models. Section Godetia is implicated as the sister group to the rest of Clarkia, a result concordant with preliminary cladistic analysis of morphological and isozymic characters. The monophyletic nature of sections encompassing the PGI gene duplication is not rejected or supported by this cpDNA restriction site analysis. Preliminary DNA restriction fragment analysis for the nine previously described sections of Fuchsia and one new section is presented and then compared with published biogeographical, fossil, morphological, and cytological results. The preliminary chloroplast DNA analysis in Fuchsia indicates that the disjunct Old World sect. Skinnera was the first lineage to diverge, followed by the monotypic Central American sect. Jimenezia. The phylogenetic relationships of the other sections of Fuchsia remain unclear. Comparisons of systematic results using cpDNA restriction site variability and morphological, cytological, and isozymic variability are reviewed for the Onagraceae and other angiosperms.
10.2307/2399144|Serotaxonomic comparisons were made on about 50 species of Solanaceae. Immunoabsorption data were obtained from reactions of seed protein antigen systems with antibody systems absorbed by several antigen systems in numerous permutations. Relationships of the taxa were computed by newly developed methods. Twenty species of Solanum, mostly of subg. Leptostemonum, were compared using six antisera. Solanum nigrum (subg. Solanum) was serologically distinct from the others. Several groups of species belonging to different sections of Solanum were recognized. Phenetic and phyletic relationships within sect. Androceras were explored. Re-analysis of a complete cubic matrix of immunoabsorption data for eight species of Solanum rearranged relationships slightly but emphasized the divergence between different sections of this genus. A broad survey was made using an antibody system raised to Capsicum annuum. This revealed the distinctiveness of Nicandra from other Solanaceae, several possible inter-generic relationships, but also some unlikely ones. Further studies revealed closer relationships of Dunalia species to Capsicum than to Iochroma.
10.2307/2992016|The Paeonia delavayi complex, a group of woody peonies endemic to China, is problematic because of the lack of agreement among the taxonomic treatments of the group. Some taxonomists recognize one species with three infraspecific taxa, while others accept only two species, and yet others accept three species with two infraspecific taxa. The present paper is based on extensive field observations, population sampling, and analysis of certain characters. The results show that the complex is extremely variable both within and between populations in the number, length, and width of leaf segments and in number, size, and color of all the floral parts. This variation is continuous, and there is no correlation between the characters. Only one species, P. delavayi, is recognized, without infraspecific taxa. Paeonia lutea, P. potaninii, and their infraspecific names are reduced to synonymy of P. delavayi. Vegetative reproduction by stolons is predominant in this variable species, and the roots are thickened fusiformly. These two features probably facilitate adaptation to open and somewhat dry habitats, and allow for rapid colonization whenever plants become established. Although P. delavayi has been listed as endangered, it is unlikely to become extinct if wanton digging is controlled.
10.2307/2398939|Taxonomic studies based on herbarium and field plot observations were conducted on all species of Amsonia (Apocynaceae) native to the southwestern United States and northwestern Mexico. Within subgenus Sphinctosiphon, data obtained in this study from recent collections support the retention of A. jonesii, A. kearneyana, A. palmeri, A. peeblesii, and A. tharpii. Amsonia hirtella and its varieties are reduced to synonymy with A. palmeri. In subgenus Longiflora, which is here elevated from its previous status as a section of subgenus Sphinctosiphon, A. grandiflora and A. longiflora are retained, and A. salpignantha is treated as a variety of A. longiflora. In subgenus Articularia, one species with two varieties is recognized: Amsonia tomentosa var. tomentosa, including A. brevifolia; and A. tomentosa var. stenophylla, including A. arenaria and A. eastwoodiana. A key to the species and taxonomic synopsis are included.
40035481|Previous studies have shown that reproductive structures do not simply represent carbon sinks, since several flower parts are green and a fraction of the carbon allocated to reproduction may be obtained through the photosynthetic activity of these accessory structures. This extra-foliar contribution may represent up to 60% of the cost of production and maintenance of the reproductive structures. In Floerkea proserpinacoides (Limnanthaceae), a spring ephemeral annual plant of the deciduous forests of eastern North America, fruit maturation is costly and occurs only at the end of the plant's cycle. Sepals increase three- to five-fold in area after anthesis and thus may contribute significantly to the plant's carbon budget, thereby reducing the cost of reproduction. To test this hypothesis, plants were grown in shade and in full-light conditions, with sepals intact or removed. Results indicate that sepal contribution to the plant's carbon budget is more important in full light than in shade. In shade, sepals contribute 11% of the total biomass and 30% of the fruit output, while in full light they contribute 31% and 53% of the total biomass and fruit output, respectively. In F. proserpinacoides, each individual produces an average of only ca. three fruits per plant in the natural habitat at the margin of the species range in Qubec. Hence, sepal contribution to the carbon budget may allow the plant to optimize its reproductive output in the relatively short temporal window that corresponds to the period prior to canopy closure.
10.2307/2399933|A phenological study carried out over 5 years is presented and flower morphology of Trichilia havanensis is given. Dioecy was confirmed in this species, despite the fact that female and male organs occur in the same flowers. A tree that behaved as male during the first 3 years of our phenological observations has fruited since 1988.
10.2307/2399378|Ludwigia sect. Microcarpium is a polyploid complex of 14 species distributed primarily in the southeastern United States. Several of the species are variable and taxonomically difficult; the boundaries of many are blurred by intermediate forms. Relationships among the species are often reticulate and in some cases difficult to specify precisely. Data from the study of meiosis in artificial and natural hybrids were used to analyze relationships among the species. Among diploid (n = 8) species, L. linearis and L. linifolia are similar in morphology but differ chromosomally by one reciprocal translocation. F
10.2307/2398843|The pollination ecology of Erythrina leptorhiza is discussed. Flowering takes place synchronously during the rainy season. The species is self-incompatible and produces some flowers with short styles. The flowers are adapted for hummingbird pollination in their morphology and high nectar production early in the day. Of four bird visitors, three were nectar robbers (89% of the total foraging visits) and one was a legitimate, traplining pollinator (11% of the foraging visits).
10.2307/2399622|The flora of the Canary Islands is rich in endemic species and shows typical insular evolutionary features, such as large-scale adaptive radiation (Echium, Sonchus, Argyranthemum, Aeonium) and interisland vicariance. It is also a relict flora of the Tertiary Epoch of the Mediterranean Region and the drier regions of Africa, and as such has enormous scientific value. Many taxa (e.g., Olea europaea subsp. cerasiformis, Brassica bourgaei) are valuable economic plants or close relatives whose conservation is of considerable importance. Locally, action has been taken on various levels to provide protection, especially for natural areas. This involves major legislation (Ley de Espacios Naturales), planning via a series of "Planes Especiales para Proteccion de Espacios Naturales," and establishment of national parks, biosphere reserves, and a World Heritage Site. This is supported by intensive research on endangered species involving studies of genetic diversity, population biology, breeding systems, resource evaluation, micropropagation, and restoration of some ecosystems. Some of the theoretical and practical difficulties encountered in this field are noted. The role of local botanical gardens in planning, conservation-oriented research, and the extremely important field of environmental education is explained, and the value of the garden as the interface between ex situ and in situ conservation is considered.
10.2307/2399118|Comparison of the shoots, pistillate inflorescences, and infructescences of Joffrea speirsii Crane & Stockey from the upper Paleocene of Canada, Nyssidium arcticum (Heer) Iljinskaya from the upper Paleocene of southern England, and Trochodendrocarpus arcticus (Heer) Kryshtofovich from the lower Paleocene of Amur, eastern U.S.S.R., reveals considerable diversity in phyllotaxy, shoot growth, inflorescence position, and the number and crowding of follicles in each infructescence. Despite this diversity, the pistillate inflorescences of all these fossil Cercidiphyllum-like plants are directly comparable in basic organization, to inflorescences of extant Cercidiphyllum. These similarities add to the evidence that the fossil and extant taxa are closely related and support the view that the condensed inflorescence of Cercidiphyllum evolved by reduction from an elongated form. In extant Cercidiphyllum each flower consists of a single carpel, but in fossil taxa flowers may contain either one or two carpels. The arrangement of carpels in bicarpellate flowers resembles that in extant Hamamelidaceae.
10.2307/2666150|The neotropical species of Beilschmiedia are revised here, including general descriptions for morphology, anatomy, biogeographic distribution, and seed dispersal. The systematic position of Beilschmiedia within the family, as well as the systematic treatment of its neotropical species, is provided. As a result, 28 species were recognized with 4 newly described and 2 newly combined; they divide into five species groupings based on their leaf anatomical characters.
10.2307/2666192|The Winteraceae have long been regarded as the most primitive living family of angiosperms. The justification for this view partly arises from their lack of xylem vessels. Because xylem vessels have been considered a key innovation in allowing angiosperms to rise to their current ecological dominance, Winteraceae have been portrayed as declining relicts, limited to wet forest habitats where their tracheid-based wood does not impose significant hydraulic constraints. However, phylogenetic analyses indicate that the vesselless wood of Winteraceae may be secondarily derived, while extension of the Winteraceae fossil record into the Early Cretaceous suggests that this family has a more complex ecological history than can be deduced from their current distribution. These observations motivate a re-examination of the functional significance and selective pressures underlying the pattern and direction of character change of the distinctive features of this family. In particular, physiological studies on stomatal plugs and xylem hydraulic parameters are consistent with their ecological success in wet, temperate environments.
10.2307/2399784|The paradigm of scientific literature has been the paper journal for the past 300 years. An economical design is needed for future information acquisition and storage, and the electronic journal may be the model for the future. Four issues seem to drive the production and dissemination of future scientific literature: the development of an acceptable standardized format; the copyright of intellectual property; the use and preservation of the literature; and funding for access to the literature. Today's electronic journals are characterized as being from the not-for-profit sector, originating with faculty members in universities. They are text only, they are not expensive, and they are relatively unknown. Electronic publishing will not supplant paper journals in the near future, but we are in the early stages of electronic communication.
10.2307/2399034|Wall ultrastructure of fossil-dispersed pollen has recently played an important role in increasing our understanding of the origin and early evolution of angiosperms. The criteria currently used to determine the affinities of fossil-dispersed pollen is discussed in relationship to homologies of gymnosperm and angiosperm wall layers based on biochemical, developmental, and morphological data. The bearing of these data on our present interpretation of angiosperm origins and early evolution is discussed along with new data on the wall structure of early Mesozoic dispersed pollen.
10.2307/2398927|In the USSR, five species of Circaea are recognized: C. alpina L., C. caulescens (Kom.) Hara, C. lutetiana L., C. cordata Royle, and C. mollis Sieb. & Zucc. Also, the sterile hybrid C. \times intermedia Ehrh. is known from several regions. Distribution areas of all these taxa are presented on maps based on herbarium materials studied by the author. Among these materials, no specimen of C. erubescens Franch. & Savat. has been detected, though this species had been reported from southern Sakhalin previously. Circaea caucasica A. Skvortsov, described by the author earlier, is now regarded to be a disjunct fraction of C. caulescens.
10.2307/2399182|Rhipidocladum clarkiae Pohl and R. pacuarense Pohl are described from Costa Rican flowering material and R. panamense Pohl is described from flowering specimens from Panama.
25488206|The genus Arctopus L. is revised. It is an anomalous member of the family Apiaceae, with several unusual morphological characters such as the prostrate spiny leaves, thick resinous tuberous roots, sessile female flowers with a homochlamydeous perianth, and pseudanthia formed by distinctive bracteoles. The three species of Arctopus were found to differ mainly in their reproductive morphologies, being easily distinguishable by the large involucral bracteoles that surround the female pseudanthia. The anatomy of the petiole as well as the morphology of the inflexed spines and leaf margins were also found to be useful diagnostic characters and are illustrated and discussed. Possible phylogenetic relationships were explored using both morphological and DNA sequence data (ITS). A formal taxonomic treatment is presented, including a key to the species, correct nomenclature, typification, descriptions, illustrations, and distribution maps.
10.2307/2394834|Soil particles from herbarium sheets of aquatic, bog and terrestrial plants were used as innoculum on Bold's modified Bristol's medium. Forty-six of the 124 innoculations were successful, and algae were obtained from specimens up to 60 years old. Green algae were the most frequent survivors from plants collected within the last 30 years, and blue-greens from the period before that.
3298626|The presence of idioblastic cells bearing calcium oxalate raphide crystals is a defining character for Araceae. This light microscopical survey of vegetative organs, mostly leaf and petiole tissues, of 104 out of 106 recognized genera of the family, plus Acorus, demonstrated the presence of several distinctive raphide crystal types and the sometimes specialized cells that bear them. Cell types may be unmodified with respect to neighboring cell shapes, or may be idioblastic and become wide, elongated, tubular, articulated, spindle-shaped, or biforine-shaped. Crystal bundles may be simple, compound, or oblique-overlapping. This variation is posted against a new classification of the family. Although each of the nine subfamilies has a unique collection of types, trends of specialization are obscure. Biforines are found only among the unisexual-flowered genera.
10.2307/2399565|The Fanjing Shan mountain range, one of six Man and the Biosphere (MAB) Preserves in China, covers an area of ca. 567 km
10.2307/2992009|Following a palynological and general morphological survey, the genus Echinopepon (Cucurbitaceae) has been divided into three species groups on the basis of stamen and pollen morphology. Three new species of Echinopepon are described and illustrated: E. tultitlanapaensis A. K. Monro & Staff., E. belizensis A. K. Monro & Staff., and E. micropaniculatus A. K. Monro & Staff.; three new combinations are proposed: E. arachoides (Dieterle) A. K. Monro & Staff., E. gemellus (DC.) A. K. Monro & Staff., and E. glutinosus (Cogn.) A. K. Monro & Staff.; and E. floribundus (Cogn.) Rose is reduced to synonymy of E. pubescens (Benth.) Rose. A nomenclatural review is presented, and the 18 species of the genus Echinopepon are listed, together with the specimens examined.
10.2307/2395330|The study of phenotypes and their variation often provides evidence for phylogenetic inferences in plant systematics. Therefore, it is critical that the phenotypes analyzed reflect as directly as possible the underlying genotypes. The equation between phenotype and genotype is simpler and better understood for evidence obtained by electrophoresis of plant enzymes than for most morphological characters. This article discusses the advantages and limitations of electrophoretic evidence to test hypotheses in plant systematics and evolution. It also summarizes the results of a large number of studies which have utilized this evidence. Three general observations from these studies are: (1). Conspecific plant populations are extremely similar genetically as documented by their very high mean genetic identities, 0.95 \pm 0.02. This result suggests that one or a few populations often constitute an adequate sample of a species. (2) Congeneric plant species have strikingly reduced mean genetic identities, 0.67 \pm 0.07. However, certain pairs of annual plant species have genetic identities similar to those of conspecific populations. In these cases, the species have been shown to be related as progenitor and derivative with the derivative being of recent origin. (3). The amount of genetic variability within plant populations appears closely correlated with their breeding system, with outcrossing populations substantially more variable than inbreeding ones. The article also describes a number of actual and potential applications of electrophoresis in plant systematics.
10.2307/2992045|Observations on the flowers of 45 of 166 species of southern African Gladiolus (in sects. Blandus, Densiflorus, Hebea, Heterocolon, Homoglossum, Linearifolius, Ophiolyza) show that 42 species are pollinated largely by polylectic bees in the family Apidae, 2 species by bees of the families Andrenidae or Halictidae, and 1 by a combination of hopliine beetles (Scarabaeidae) and Andrenidae. The floral phenology, attractants, diversity of floral foragers, and sometimes the rewards, vary according to geography and are not correlated with taxonomy. Flowering in most Gladiolus species in the southern African winter-rainfall zone coincides with the end of the wet season, August to October, but a few flower from February to April at the end of the dry season. They have sweetly fragrant flowers with a wide range of colors and markings. These species receive a diversity of floral foragers including bees in the genera Allodape, Amegilla, Andrena, Anthophora, Apis, and Pachymelus. Most Gladiolus species of the summer-rainfall zone flower from December to April, from the middle to the end of the wet season, but a few species bloom from August to November, at the end of the dry season. Their flowers have no discernible fragrance and are colored mostly in shades of pink to mauve or white. Most floral foragers collected on these species were bees in the genus Amegilla, but other bee genera, as well as flies in the genera Prosoeca and Stenobasipteron, were captured. Among the southern African species of Gladiolus pollinated by bees, there are two distinct pollination strategies. The majority have bilabiate, "gullet" flowers or "flag" flowers that secrete sucrose-rich nectar at the base of an obliquely funnel-shaped floral tube 9-20 mm long with the lower, narrow part 5-15 mm long. Apis mellifera and large-bodied anthophorine bees (especially Amegilla and Anthophora) contact dehiscent anthers and/or receptive stigmas while probing the tube for nectar with elongated probosces. In contrast, G. brevitubus, G. quadrangularis, and G. stellatus have rotate, actinomorphic (or subactinomorphic) perianths offering little or no nectar at the base of tubes less than 7 mm long. Andrena species or Apis mellifera contact both dehiscent anthers and receptive stigmas of G. stellatus or G. quadrangularis, respectively, while foraging for pollen. An additional 53 Gladiolus species also have bilabiate, gullet or flag flowers with obliquely funnel-shaped tubes 9-20 mm long (the most common flower type in the genus), and are presumed also to be adapted for pollination by long-tongued anthophorine and honey bees. The actinomorphic, rotate floral form is present in 2 more species. Thus, 60% of the Gladiolus species in southern Africa may be regarded as being pollinated by bees, and the overwhelming majority of these species (95%) have gullet or flag flowers and are visited primarily by long-tongued anthophorine bees that are foraging for nectar. The remaining species of Gladiolus in southern Africa have flowers with elongate perianth tubes and are adapted for pollination by sunbirds or insects other than bees, most importantly long-tongued flies (Nemestrinidae, Tabanidae), moths, and the large satyrid butterfly, Aeropetes.
40732233|Previous studies have postulated that the Streptanthus glandulosus Hook, complex (Brassicaceae) originated through gradual range contraction and isolation of populations of an ancestral species distributed in California, United States. Here, we integrate patterns of interfertility, morphology, ITS, and chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) variation to generate a classification system reflective of the phylogeny of this group. As a result, we propose a single species, S. glandulosus, with 10 subspecies, to constitute the complex. Populations of S. glandulosus subsp. glandulosus distributed north of the San Francisco Bay are now divided between two new subspecies, S. glandulosus subsp. arkii M. S. Mayer and subsp. raichei M. S. Mayer, diagnosable through molecular apomorphies, perianth color, and fruit orientation. The name S. peramoenus Greene is synonymized to S. glandulosus subsp. glandulosus and is further lectotypified.
10.2307/2399299|Three new species of Nectandra from the Venezuelan Guayana are described in advance of a complete monograph of the genus.
10.2307/2399608|Two new species of Dioscorea, D. carpomaculata and D. sumiderensis, are described from the region encompassed by the Flora Mesoamericana. Geographical and ecological distributions and notes on flowering and fruiting are presented. Relationships and sectional placement are discussed for each species. Based on the information provided by recent collections, one new combination is made, and discussion and specimen citations of noteworthy species are provided.
40732229|The floral morphology of Sassafras randaiense (Hayata) Rehder (Lauraceae), a rare species endemic to Taiwan, has never been well documented. Consequently, much confusion exists in taxonomic literature regarding its flower structure and reproductive biology. To clarify these matters, we observed 20 flowering individuals of S. randaiense in their native habitats in the spring of 2007. The inflorescences of S. randaiense are highly reduced panicles to botryoid cymes, with up to 10 such inflorescences clustered subterminally to form an umbel of panicles and/or cymes. Its flowers are bisexual, and its third-whorl anthers are extrorse, structured as a typical hermaphroditic flower of Lauraceae. Our observations also revealed that its flowers are protogynous and flowers in a reproductive shoot alternate their sexual phase synchronously, suggesting the sexual system of synchronous dichogamy. The temporal dioecy imposed by this sexual system may explain why S. randaiense has been variously described as a dioecious, androdioecious, or polygamous species in the past.
10.2307/3298524|The obligate pollination mutualism between yuccas (Agavaceae) and yucca moths (Lepidoptera, Prodoxidae), in which the adult moth pollinates yucca flowers and her progeny feed on developing seeds, is one of the classically cited examples of coevolution. While known since 1872, our understanding of the ecology and evolution of this association has increased dramatically in the past decade. Here I review current information on organismal diversity and phylogenetic relationships, ecological relationships, origin and reversal of the mutualism, and the potential for analyzing patterns of co-speciation and the historical role of coevolution on specific traits in driving diversification in the interaction. Major novel developments in recent years include the recognition of a large species complex of pollinators, previously thought to be one polyphagous species; a majority of all moth species are monophagous. Considerable life history diversity has been unveiled, and mechanisms that maintain a mutualistic equilibrium by preventing over-exploitation documented. Phylogenetic and ecological information, including data from other, newly discovered facultative pollinators in the Prodoxidae, have been used to erect a hypothesis for the evolution of obligate mutualism. Application of a molecular clock to phylogenetic data suggests that the plant-moth association arose at least 40 Mya, and that the obligate mutualism evolved very quickly after this event. Two separate events of reversal of mutualism have been identified, involving derived "cheater" moth species that oviposit into fruits resulting from pollination by other pollinator species. This appears to have happened not through selection for cheating, but rather as a byproduct of a phenological shift to an unexploited seed resource, in which case pollination behavior became redundant. Analyses of parallel diversification and character coevolution are hampered by incomplete phylogenetic information at the species level, especially for the plants, but also for the pollinators. Available data indicate considerable deviation from strict co-speciation, and no evident examples of this process. Analyses of the role of coevolutionary processes in driving the diversification of yuccas and yucca moths will be possible once fully resolved phylogenies become available.
10.2307/2398885|Studies of the reproductive system and pollination syndrome of cultivated trees of Couroupita guianensis Aubl. are presented. The first report of the internal morphology of the stigma is included. In the stigmatic area two parts can be distinguished, one is hydrophobic and is composed of conspicuous collector hairs and the other is hydrophilic and is formed by the top of the transmission tissue; both parts have important functions in fertilization. The flowers are odoriferous, nectarless and are visited by bees for their pollen. Osmophores are more evident in the top of the filaments of the hood anthers. The pollen is morphologically and physiologically dimorphic. The fertility of the pollen was tested, "in vivo" and "in vitro"; under both conditions, only the staminal ring pollen germinated. The species is self-compatible. Pollen tubes begin to develop in 45 minutes and arrive at the ovules in 24 hours. The field observations and tests demonstrate that the species studied, although allogamous, is self-compatible.
10.2307/2399934|Clerodendrum is the largest genus of Verbenaceae, with about 560 species and varieties. It is most abundant in Africa and Asia, with only 20 species native to the New World. In Mesoamerica, 15 species and one variety are known: five of these species are native, and the remainder are cultivated as ornamental plants; several are more or less naturalized. Three of the introduced species and one of the native ones are first records for the Mesoamerican region.
10.2307/2399983|Detailed descriptions, habitat preferences, geographic ranges, and representative specimens are given for the 13 ant-acacia species and hybrids from Mexico, Central America, and South America. A principal component analysis (PCA) of vegetative and floral features shows these species form discrete groups in plots of the first three principal components. Taxa were found to be relatively homogeneous, as indicated by the tight clusters formed in the PCA plots. The data suggest that there is very little gene flow between species, and hybrids are extremely uncommon. Of the 13 species in this group, Acacia ruddiae is only marginally a myrmecophyte, rarely being inhabited by acacia-ants, and apparently never producing Beltian bodies on the tips of the leaflets. The remaining taxa have stipular spines that usually are inhabited by obligate acacia-ants of the genus Pseudomyrmex, produce Beltian bodies, and have enlarged petiole and rachis glands.
10.2307/2399101|The middle(?) to upper Eocene Gatuncillo Formation outcrops near Alcalde Diaz, Panama. From layers of lignite in the formation an assemblage of fossil pollen and spores was recovered, including Selaginella, Ceratopteris, Pteris, monolete fern spores (Types 1-5), trilete fern spores (Types 1-5), cf. Tillandsia, Palmae (Types 1-5), cf. Campnosperma, Ilex, cf. Araliaceae, cf. Paragonia/Arrabidaea, cf. Protium, cf. Tetragastris, Combretum/Terminalia, Casearia, Lisianthius, cf. Tontalea, Alfaroa/Engelhardia (rare), Crudia, Malpighiaceae, cf. Ficus, Eugenia/Myrcia, Coccoloba, Rhizophora, Faramea and other Rubiaceae, Cardiospermum, Serjania, Paullinia, cf. Chrysophyllum, Pelliceria, and Mortoniodendron. Moist lowland communities, as presently occur between the Atlantic side of Gatun Lake and Pina, are well represented, whereas vegetation of higher altitudes and drier habitats is poorly represented or absent. A reconstruction of paleoenvironments, based on varied lines of biological and geological evidence, includes a series of volcanic islands of moderate to low relief, bordered seaward by shallow limestone-depositing coralline communities, and fringed by mangrove swamps of Rhizophora and especially Pelliceria. Inland communities included tropical moist, tropical wet, and premontane wet forests growing under the general tropical conditions of high rainfall (ca. 2,500 mm) and high uniform temperatures. The lowland insular environment may not record subtle climatic changes more evident in paleocommunities derived from continental areas of greater topographic relief and may reflect paleoenvironmental conditions in the immediate vicinity of the Gatuncillo depositional basin. An assessment of regional paleoclimates and paleophysiography must await discovery of other fossil floras, because the Gatuncillo assemblage is the only one of Eocene age known for northern Latin America.
10.2307/3298640| Rhynchostegiopsis Mll. Hal. is a morphologically variable genus of five species that grow in moist, humid habitats in montane forests in Mexico, Central America, the Caribbean, tropical Andes, and southeastern Brazil. This moss genus is characterized by ecostate leaves with serrate margins and lax elongate median cells; two-celled axillary hairs; furrowed exostome teeth that are horizontally striate below; endostomial cilia; rostrate opercula; and cucullate calyptrae. The genus lacks differentiated alar cells, paraphyllia, pseudoparaphyllia, a central strand, and hyalodermis. Several of its key morphological features are found in different families: the Hypnaceae, Hookeriaceae, and Leucomiaceae. In this study, Rhynchostegiopsis is retained in the Leucomiaceae based on overall sporophyte and gametophyte morphology, including its stem anatomy, as well as the presence of cucullate calyptrae. 
10.2307/3298529|As invasive ants spread, their interactions with plants are inevitable and have potentially great implications for agriculture and conservation. When considered in the context of pre-existing models of ant-plant interactions, the higher abundance, aggressive nature, and attraction to high-carbohydrate resources typically associated with invasive ants lead to hypotheses about how invasive ants may differ from native ants in protecting plants from herbivores, tending of Homoptera, and interactions affecting plant reproduction. Examples demonstrate that all three of these traits common to invasive ants can influence the outcome of interactions between invasive ants and plants, but ant biology and attributes of other organisms also determine the consequences for the plant. Drawing from these examples and considering traits of the invasive ants, plants, and other organisms that interact with the plant, I offer predictions for the contexts in which plants will be at high and low risk of adverse outcomes or may benefit from interacting with an invasive ant. The potential for effects of invasive ants on plants to counteract, and the complexity and context-dependency that are hallmarks of ant-plant interactions generally, preclude drawing simple conclusions about the net impacts of invasive ants on plants. Further research on interactions between invasive ants and plants will contribute directly to conservation and agriculture, and provide insights to invasion ecology and our understanding of ant-plant interactions.
10.2307/2399086|The first part of this study reconstructs the changing Cenozoic environment of continental drift, tectonics, and climate. The northward movement of Australia brought it into collision with Southeast Asia in Miocene time. Throughout the Cenozoic, New Zealand has remained in approximately the same relative position and the same distance from Australia. Tectonics within Australia have been minor, gentle, and the main topographic features have probably existed in much the same form all through the Cenozoic. The climate of the early Tertiary was wetter and warmer than that of today, and although the start of desiccation is debated, the present degree of aridity has existed only since the late Pliocene. In the Quaternary, glaciation has been restricted to very small areas in Australia and the glacial periods were more arid than the interglacials. Sea levels have changed throughout the Tertiary as well as the Quaternary. Today, the arid center of the continent is the major feature of the climate. Soils are generally low in fertility, and have been low all through the Cenozoic, when some soils may have been even less fertile than those of today. In the vegetation today, there are small and disjunct areas of closed forest (= rainforest) in the better watered northern and eastern coastal regions. Eucalyptus dominated forests and scrublands cover the major area. Grasslands and shrublands are found in the arid center. The second half presents the paleobotanical record of all reliable identifications of macro- and micro-fossils, first appearances and the quantitative relationships of the abundant pollen groups. The vegetation must have been closed forest for most of the Tertiary. The nature of these closed forests changes, but open forests only start developing in the Pliocene. The first evidence of grasslands is found in the Miocene of Central Australia, and open savannah and/or grasslands became dominant in southeastern Australia in the Pleistocene. The vegetation was not necessarily more uniform than that seen today, for there is considerable evidence of geographic and time-related variation in the Tertiary floras. The Quaternary shows cyclic changes of a more open and drier kind of vegetation in glacial periods and a more forested, wetter vegetation in the interglacials. A comparison of the Australian and New Zealand paleobotanical records shows a general similarity. A number of fossil taxa appear first in Australia and later in New Zealand. The paleoclimate of both has been similar, and distance has not been an insurmountable barrier. The paleobotanical record of Southeast Asia is different, and limited migrations after the Miocene are probably associated with uplift. During the Miocene, there is an increase in Myrtaceae in both Australia and Southeast Asia. It is thought that new availability of soils of low fertility is the cause of this increase in Southeast Asia, whereas both low soil fertility and the developing aridity has been responsible for the increase in Australia. Climate is the most important environmental factor, for the paleobotanical and paleoclimatic records usually go together. Climate has probably not been a barrier within Australia for most of the Cenozoic, when habitats suitable for closed forest existed in Central Australia, although not necessarily continuous. Some drier areas have probably existed long before the development of the present degree of aridity, allowing adaptations of the flora to develop before these conditions became wide-spread. Within Australia, tectonics and topography have not been barriers, although they have been important in maintaining habitat diversity. These factors may have been more important as barriers between Australia and Southeast Asia. This study shows a complex, continuously changing, interwoven environment and flora, rather than migrations stopped or permitted by changing barriers. The concepts of barriers and migrations come from historical biogeography, and they seem inappropriate in this study, which essentially follows paleoecological principles.
10.2307/2395236|The genus Calylophus (Onagraceae), a segregate of Oenothera, was studied in reference to systematic relationships, breeding systems, pollination, and cytology. Six species are recognized, four in sect. Salpingia: C. tubicula, C. hartwegii, C. toumeyi and C. lavandulifolius, and two in sect. Calylophus: C. berlandieri (formerly C. drummondianus) and C. serrulatus. Several changes in nomenclature and rank are made. Crosses performed among species demonstrated strong barriers to hybridization between the two sections of the genus and slight to moderate barriers among species within sections. Populations of CaIylophus are distributed through the Great Plains, the southwestern United States, and northern Mexico. The various taxa occupy distinct habitats which range from xeric sites in the Chihuahuan Desert to relatively mesic pine and pine-oak forests. In most forms of the genus, the plants are suffrutescent perennials and occupy calcareous soils. One form is restricted primarily to gypsum soils. Cytological investigations showed a remarkable degree of translocation heterozygosity in natural populations of Calylophus. Translocations were observed in all taxa, with 75% of 183 plants (excluding C. serrulatus) exhibiting heterozygosity for at least one translocation. Numerous plants were heterozygous for more than one translocation, and the mean number per plant was 1.3. Calylophus serrulatus is a complex structural heterozygote and ali individuals observed were heterozygous for at least five or six translocations. Hybridization experiments with C. berlandieri suggested that C. serrulatus maintains structural hybridity with gametophytic lethals in pollen and embryo sacs. The basic chromosome number of the genus is x = 7. Tetraploidy was observed in individuals from 5 of 62 populations of C. hartwegii that were examined. A few plants of several taxa possessed diminutive chromosomes ranging from 1 to 11 in number. The most frequent observation was of a single dark-staining pair in addition to the normal complement. Chromosome observations of hybrids showed profound intersectional differences in structure, primarily from translocations. Translocation differences are also marked among populations in sect. Calylophus, but are slight among the taxa of sect. Salpingia. The breeding systems of Calylophus are varied, with C. serrulatus self-compatible and highly autogamous and the other species self-sterile. Calylophus berlandieri and C. tubicula have short floral tubes, strong ultraviolet contrast patterns, matinal anthesis, and are visited by a variety of diurnal insects. Anthesis of the remaining members of sect. Salpingia occurs in the afternoon or evening. These plants possess long floral tubes, variable ultraviolet contrast patterns, and are visited by sphingid moths and crepuscular bees in numbers that vary from locality to locality.
10.2307/2399457|This paper supplements our treatment of Sisyrinchium for Flora Mesoamericana in which 13 species are recognized. One new species is described, S. subalpinum, from Mexico (only Chiapas), Guatemala, and Costa Rica. Sisyrinchium trinerve, previously known from Andean South America, S. dimorphum from Texas and northern Mexico, S. longispathum from Oaxaca, Mexico, and S. subcernuum from northern Mexico are reported in Mesoamerica for the first time. The type material for S. convolutum, S. tenuifolium, S. mandonii, S. tinctorium, and S. bogotense has been examined and a lectotype designated for each species.
10.2307/2398858|Southern Africa, including Namibia (South West Africa), South Africa, Lesotho, Swaziland, and Botswana, covers an area of ca. 2.5 million km
40035669| A major challenge in the post-genomics era will be to integrate molecular sequence data from extant organisms with morphological data from fossil and extant taxa into a single, coherent picture of phylogenetic relationships; only then will these phylogenetic hypotheses be effectively applied to the study of morphological character evolution. At least two analytical approaches to solving this problem have been utilized: (1) simultaneous analysis of molecular sequence and morphological data with fossil taxa included as terminals in the analysis, and (2) the molecular scaffold approach, in which morphological data are analyzed over a molecular backbone (with constraints that force extant taxa into positions suggested by sequence data). The perceived obstacles to including fossil taxa directly in simultaneous analyses of morphological and molecular sequence data with extant taxa include: (1) that fossil taxa are missing the molecular sequence portion of the character data; (2) that morphological characters might be misleading due to convergence; and (3) character weighting, specifically how and whether to weight characters in the morphological partition relative to characters in the molecular sequene data partition. The molecular scaffold has been put forward as a potential solution to at least some of these problems. Using examples of simultaneous analyses from the literature, as well as new analyses of previously published morphological and molecular sequence data matrices for extant and fossil Chiroptera (bats), we argue that the simultaneous analysis approach is superior to the molecular scaffold approach, specifically addressing the problems to which the molecular scaffold has been suggested as a solution. Finally, the application of phylogenetic hypotheses including fossil taxa (whatever their derivation) to the study of morphological character evolution is discussed, with special emphasis on scenarios in which fossil taxa are likely to be most enlightening: (1) in determining the sequence of character evolution; (2) in determining the timing of character evolution; and (3) in making inferences about the presence or absence of characteristics in fossil taxa that may not be directly observable in the fossil record. 
40035492|Within Rauvolfioideae (Apocynaceae), genera have long been assigned to tribes based mainly on only one or two superficial fruit and seed characters. Taxa with drupaceous fruits were included in Alyxieae. To elucidate relationships within Alyxieae, we analyzed phylogenetically a data set of sequences from four plastid DNA regions (rbcL, matK, trnL intron, and trnL-F intergenic spacer) and a morphological data set for 33 genera of Apocynaceae, including representatives of all genera previously included in Alyxieae and two non-Apocynaceae species. Results of parsimony analysis indicate that Alyxieae as previously delimited are polyphyletic, with most genera falling into two main clades. The Alyxia clade includes seven genera: Alyxia Banks ex R. Br., Lepinia Decne., Lepiniopsis Valeton, Pteralyxia K. Schum., and Condylocarpon Desf. together with Plectaneia Thouars. (earlier included in Plumerieae) and Chilocarpus Blume (earlier included in Chilocarpeae). The Vinca clade includes eight genera: Cabucala Pichon, Petchia Livera, Rauvolfia L., Catharanthus G. Don, Vinca L., Neisosperma Raf., Ochrosia Juss., and Kopsia Blume. Vallesia Ruiz & Pav. and Anechites Griseb. are not related to either clade and come out as sister to Aspidosperma Mart. & Zucc. (Aspidospermeae) and Thevetia L. (Plumerieae), respectively. The fruit and seed characters previously used to demarcate Alyxieae are homoplasious, as are other morphological characters such as style head structure and syncarpy versus apocarpy. Conversely, pollen morphology, which has not previously played much of a role in tribal delimitation, was shown to be the most useful morphological character for delimiting Alyxieae from other tribes of Rauvolfioideae.
10.2307/2399697| Revision of the family Combretaceae for accounts in eight tropical American floras has revealed the following twelve novelties: Terminalia chicharronia subsp. neglecta (Bisse) Alwan & Stace, comb. nov.; T. chicharronia subsp. domingensis (Urban) Alwan & Stace, comb. nov.; T. chicharronia subsp. orientensis (Monach.) Alwan & Stace, comb. nov.; T. ramatuella Alwan & Stace, nom. nov.; T. virens (Spruce ex Eichler) Alwan & Stace, comb. nov.; T. crispialata (Ducke) Alwan & Stace, comb. nov.; T. steyermarkii Alwan & Stace, sp. nov.; T. kuhlmannii Alwan & Stace, sp. nov.; T. uleana Engl. ex Alwan & Stace, sp. nov.; T. eichleriana Alwan & Stace, nom. nov.; Bucida molineti (M. Gmez) Alwan & Stace, comb. nov.; and Buchenavia amazonia Alwan & Stace, sp. nov. 
10.2307/2398847|Successful methods of propagation from seeds and by cuttings for Erythrina species are described. Species cultivated in the Waimea Arboretum, Haleiwa, Hawaii are listed, and information on their flowering periods is given.
10.2307/2399964|In forest and agricultural ecosystems the conspicuous elements, namely the trees, crop plants, and farm animals, form complex interactions with many less conspicuous organisms. These less conspicuous but specious organisms such as insects, fungi, nematodes, and bacteria can be beneficial, even essential, or they can be utterly devastating causing billions of dollars damage. Our present knowledge of the systematics of these less conspicuous organisms is limited. For some groups even the most elemental systematic understanding-an inventory, a checklist, a means of identification-is lacking. This paper presents examples in which systematics has contributed to solving a problem in agriculture and forestry. Our current agricultural practices reflect the systematic understanding of pest organisms that influence crop productivity. The success of efforts to discover and develop biological agents that control agricultural pests and pathogens depends on systematics. International exchange of agricultural commmodities can be enhanced or hindered by accurate or inaccurate systematic knowledge as exemplified by the recently opened market for California wheat to the People's Republic of China. Systematics is essential in directing the collection, organization, and use of vascular plant germplasm as for breeding improved crops. Forests in eastern North America have been devastated by the introduction of exotic pests and pathogens. Systematic knowledge helps to prevent such introductions. In Australia native forests threatened with extinction from an introduced weed were saved by the biological control of that weed using a fungus. Detailed systematic knowledge of both the host and pathogen allowed the safe and effective introduction of this biocontrol agent. In all the examples detailed in this paper, basic systematic knowledge was essential to solving important problems in agriculture and forestry.
10.2307/2398917|The neotropical genera of Bignoniaceae are surveyed palynologically and applications of palynology to the taxonomy of the family are reviewed. The family is markedly eurypalynous and pollen morphology is extremely useful taxonomically in generic delimitation. However, most of the divergent pollen types found in the family appear to have evolved independently in different lineages, limiting the applicability of palynological data to tribal and familial classification. The importance of interpreting palynological data in taxonomic context is emphasized. Several generic realignments and informal subtribal groups are proposed based largely on palynological evidence.
10.2307/2992099|Experimental crossings within Phyllanthus subsect. Odontadenii reveal different levels of reproductive incompatibility between taxa of varying morphological distinction. Some of the reproductive barriers may be circumvented using in vitro culture. Cytological and morphological studies of the progeny of experimental crosses has yielded information about the processes of differentiation of taxa within subsection Odontadenii, as well as within the Phyllanthus urinaria complex. The results of this study support the recognition of taxa earlier proposed in these two complexes, and furthermore document the existence of a tetraploid taxon (Phyllanthus magnificens) with a base chromosome number of x = 10.
10.2307/2399303|Original chromosome counts for Buchenroedera (new generic report) and Lotononis (44 new specific reports) are presented. The most common somatic number in Lotononis, 18, was found in 29 species. Three species of Buchenroedera and nine species of Lotononis have 2n = 28. In Lotononis section Krebsia 2n = 28; 42, 56, and 84 were found in a closely related species group. This is the first report of a polyploid series in the Crotalarieae and includes the highest numbers recorded in the tribe. The chromosome numbers indicate anomalies in the existing sectional classification of Lotononis and may provide evidence for a more natural generic and infrageneric classification.
10.2307/2399272|Several new taxa are described in advance of a complete monograph of Oenothera sect. Oenothera subsect. Raimannia. The populations previously assigned by Munz to O. laciniata subsp. pubescens are here treated as a species in the new subsect. Nutantigemma, which is characterized by nodding buds and a distinct geographical range in montane sites from the western United States south to South America. It forms sterile artificial hybrids with members of subsect. Raimannia sensu stricto, which has erect buds and which ranges at low elevations from the central and eastern United States through the plains to eastern Colorado and Texas. Two new outcrossing species, O. breedlovei and O. tamrae, are differentiated from the permanent structural heterozygote O. pubescens, for a total of three species assigned to subsect. Nutantigemma. Subsection Raimannia is here divided into two series: series Candela, established for the species with densely flowered spikes bearing two or more flowers opening per day, inflorescences without lateral branches, acute to rounded petals, and straight floral tubes (O. rhombipetala, O. heterophylla, O. clelandii, O. bifrons, and O. curtissii); and series Raimannia is restricted to plants with loose inflorescences usually interrupted by lateral branches, usually only one flower opening per day, truncate to emarginate petals, and floral tubes curved upward prior to anthesis (O. grandis, O. falfurriae, O. mexicana, O. laciniata, O. drummondii, and O. humifusa). The new species Oenothera falfurriae is described for relictual populations in southeastern Texas that are autogamous but form seven bivalents in meiosis I. It has a unique plastome differentiated from its presumed ancestor O. grandis and from the morphologically similar and sympatric O. laciniata. The new combination O. drummondii subsp. thalassaphila is made for the populations in Baja California previously treated as O. thalassaphila.
10.2307/2666199|The somatic chromosome number of Takhtajania perrieri, the only relict representative of Winteraceae on Madagascar, is documented as 2n = 36. The possibly paleotetraploid karyotype appears "diploidized." Chromosome size and be havior, as well as structure of interphase nuclei, correspond to the prochromosome type, widespread among the Magnoliid assemblage. Chromosome numbers available for all other Winteraceae and the related Canellaceae (Winterales) are critically compiled, compared, and interpreted. In light of the postulated molecular phylogeny of the two families, it appears that several successive phases of polyploidization and parallel descending dysploid series coupled with much extinction can explain the karyological features and distribution of the few surviving taxa.
10.2307/2399735|The New World genus Eleutherine (Iridaceae, tribe Tigridieae) is treated as comprising two species that are characterized by a bulbous rootstock, a large subapical cauline leaf, and small, white, stellate, evening-blooming flowers. The more common E. bulbosa (syn. E. plicata) extends across South America from Bolivia and southeastern Brazil to the West Indies and is widely cultivated for its medicinal properties. Less well known is E. latifolia (here including E. citriodora), with centers in northern Central America and subtropical South America. Both species have a basic chromosome number of x = 6 (2n = 12) and a similar bimodal karyotype, which is distinctive in Tigridieae; all other genera of the tribe have x = 7. The common form of E. bulbosa has a heteromorphic long chromosome pair, the result of a pericentric inversion in one of the long chromosomes, and it is sexually sterile, unlike E. latifolia, which is self-compatible and autogamous. The systematics and nomenclature of the two species are dealt with in detail, and the medicinal properties of E. bulbosa are outlined.
10.2307/2395238|Fischeria brachycalyx, Gonolobus rothschuhii, Matelaa pseudobarbata, and M. viridis are newly reported for the Panamanian flora. Matelea viridis (Moldenke) Spellman is a new combination based on Fischeria viridis Moldenke.
10.2307/2399193|The famous yucca-yucca moth pollination mutualism is presented in simplified, idealized form in most biology text books and some books on pollination biology itself. In fact, the interaction is probably more complicated than any single account has implied. It was first noticed in 1872 by George Engelmann but worked on much more by entomologist C. V. Riley and botanist W. Trelease. A conventional statement of the sequence of events is given and the complications are considered. References to seed setting in the absence of Tegeticula are reported that may be due to self-pollination or to the activities of other flower visitors. A nectar reward is provided by septal nectaries at the base of the ovary in many species of Yucca. There is disagreement among authors as to whether plants of some species are self-compatible and as to the extent of geitonogamy in various species. Tegeticula yuccasella appears to be the pollinator of all yucca species east of the Rockies and all the western species except Yucca whipplei (sensu lato) and Y. brevifolia. Yucca whipplei is served by Tegeticula maculata, which is diurnal in operation and has to contend with a capitate stigma. Yucca brevifolia also has its own species of yucca moth (T. synthetica). Natural hybridization appears to be rampant in the species pollinated by T. yuccasella but not for the two western species that have separate Tegeticula pollinators. There is some evidence, however, that T. yuccasella is a complex of taxa separately adapted to individual species of Yucca. Another genus is concerned with the pollination in Arizona and southeastern Mexico: Parategeticula, which has very different oviposition and larval behavior. "Tentacleless" Tegeticula occur in significant proportions in some populations and, like the "bogus yucca moths," they are purely parasitic, not displaying any pollinatory activities. An attempt at placing these organisms in an evolutionary context is made.
10.2307/2398853|Chromosome numbers of four species of Drosera are newly reported. Chromosome counts for D. cistiflora (2n = 40), D. glanduligera (2n = 22), and D. nitidula (2n = 28) contribute toward a determination of new basic chromosome numbers for sects. Ptycnostigma (x = 10), Coelophylla (x = 11), and Lamprolepis (x = 11), respectively. The count of 2n = 30 for D. schizandra verifies the basic number previously reported for sect. Arachnopus.
10.2307/2399473|Karyomorphological analyses of Urginea ensifolia, U. pauciflora, Drimiopsis barteri, Dipcadi tacazzeanum, and D. longifolium are presented. All the materials investigated were obtained from the wild in Nigeria. The karyotypes and chromosome counts are new records for the five species. Both Urginea species are 2n = 20, Drimiopsis barteri is 2n = 24, Dipcadi tacazzeanum and D. longifolium are 2n = 12 and 2n = 24, respectively. Other members of Urginea and all the known species of Albuca, which have previously been investigated and reported, are summarized.
40035043|Caribbean Anolis lizards are a classic case of adaptive radiation, repeated four times across islands of the Greater Antilles. On each island, very similar patterns of evolutionary divergence have occurred, resulting in the evolution of the same set of ecological specialists--termed ecomorphs--on each island. However, this is only part of the story of the Caribbean anole radiations. Indeed, much of the species diversity of Caribbean Anolis occurs within clades of ecomorphs, which contain as many as 14 ecologically-similar species on a single island. We ask to what extent the classic model of ecological interactions as the driving force in adaptive radiation can account for this aspect of anole evolutionary diversity. Our answer is that it can in part, but not entirely. More generally, the most complete understanding of evolutionary diversification and radiation is achieved by studying multiple hierarchical evolutionary levels from clades to populations.
10.2307/2666141|This study reports a phylogenetic analysis of the genus Dicoma and the related genera Achyrothalamus, Erythrocephalum, Pasaccardoa, and Pleiotaxis (Mutisieae, Asteraceae), which share a series of morphological characters of the corolla, ray floret epidermis, anther appendages, and style branches. A matrix of 77 morphological and anatomical characters was used for the analysis. The genera Gochnatia and Oldenburgia were used as outgroups. The topology of the resulting consensus cladogram suggests that the genus Dicoma appears paraphyletic. A clade including Dicoma and Pasaccardoa appears monophyletic with subgroups clearly defined by a large number of synapomorphies. These findings indicate that maintenance of Pasaccardoa as an independent genus implies a need to divide Dicoma into several genera. The genera Pleiotaxis, Achyrothalamus, and Erythrocephalum form a monophyletic group. Issues relating to the geographical origin of Dicoma (probably Madagasear or southern Africa), and to the evolution of the different species groups, are briefly discussed.
10.2307/2399058|Aphelandra (Acanthaceae) is a neotropical genus of about 170 species of herbs, shrubs, and small trees. The A. pulcherrima complex is a monophyletic group of about 40 species distinguished by the presence of bracteal nectaries and a unique corolla morphology. Thirteen Central American species belonging to this complex are recognized based on herbarium, field, and greenhouse studies; pollen morphology; and artificial hybridizations. The genus Aphelandra and the A. pulcherrima complex probably originated in South America. Central American species have evolved from South American or intermediate Central American ancestors. The species treated here are diffusely branched shrubs or sparsely branched, monocaulous plants. They are found in primary forest to disturbed secondary and edge habitats, and from low to middle elevations. Field observations indicate that all species produce odorless flowers that last a single day, produce copious, rather dilute nectar, and are hummingbird pollinated. All but A. deppeana are pollinated by large hermit hummingbirds (Trochilidae: Phaethorninae) or hermit-like species. The long, decurved bills and traplining foraging habits of these birds correspond to the floral morphology and spatial distribution of the plants. Chromosome data are not systematically useful within the group studied. All 12 species for which counts were obtained have n = 14 chromosomes. The 13 species are variable palynologically, showing three distinct pollen types, as well as significant variability in pollen size (length and width). Pollen characters resolve all but two species and provide evidence for patterns of phylogenetic relationships among the species. Although hybrids between many species pairs can be readily synthesized, hybrids in nature are rare. Four isolating mechanisms in addition to allopatry and intersterility are identified as potentially important among Central American Aphelandras. The paucity of naturally occurring hybrids is in most cases due to more than one type of barrier. Putative hybrids between A. sinclairiana and A. gracilis, and between A. sinclairiana and A. golfodulcensis have been found in the field. Artificial disturbance has apparently been important in creating situations favorable for hybridization between at least one of these pairs of species. Phylogenetic analysis identifies two main lineages within the group: Group I (A. terryae, A. sinclairiana, A. storkii, A. gracilis, A. golfodulcensis, A. panamensis, and A. deppeana) and Group II (A. lingua-bovis, A. leonardii, A. laxa, A. campanensis, A. hartwegiana, and A. darienensis). These results are in accord with data from artificial hybridizations, except that phylogenetic analysis indicates that the species of Group II are as closely interrelated as those of Group I, whereas crossability indices suggest that these species are much more distantly related. Genetic incompatibility may be an important barrier to interbreeding between species of Group II such that the results of artificial hybridizations do not provide reliable estimates of the degree of relationship among these species.
40035728|The fossil record of the Rhizophoraceae includes numerous questionable identifications from strata of unconfirmed age, together with others representing clear evidence of the family in deposits whose age is well constrained by independent or multiple lines of evidence. Bruguiera or the Bruguiera lineage, and Ceriops are known from the early Eocene, Kandelia from the middle Eocene, and Rhizophora from the late Eocene. Combretocarpus is likely present by the middle Miocene, but it belongs to a family (Anisophylleaceae) earlier placed in the Rhizophoraceae that is now considered unrelated to that family. Rhizophora, as a genus, has existed essentially uninterruptedly in the Caribbean region since the late Eocene, but cooling events at ca. 15-14 Ma, ca. 3.4 Ma, and ca. 1.6 Ma, and the subsequent 18 to 20 glacial intervals provide a mechanism for development of the cold(er) tolerant populations toward the northern part of its range in the New World. In reconstructing the biogeographic history of Rhizophora in the Caribbean region, it is worthwhile noting that molecular-defined lineages (with little morphological or palynological variation) may have been introduced and gone extinct on multiple occasions. This allows for variation in molecular patterns and apparent stasis in the fossil record--a possibility not widely considered in the literature. The most recent molecular-defined common ancestor to existing populations is estimated to have arrived in the New World ca. 11 Ma, using an origin in the Paleocene (ca. 60 Ma) as the basis for calculation. /// El registro fsil de Rhizophoraceae incluye numerosas identificaciones cuestionables de estratos sin edad confirmada, junto con otros que representan clara evidencia de que la familia se encuentra en depsitos cuya edad est forzada por lneas de evidencias independientes o mltiples. Bruguiera o el linaje Bruguiera, y Ceriops se conocen del Eoceno temprano, Kandelia del Eoceno medio y Rhizophora del Eoceno tardo. Combretocarpus est presente probablemente a partir del Mioceno medio, pero pertenece a una familia (Anisophylleaceae) ubicada anteriormente en Rhizophoraceae que ahora se considera sin relacin a esa familia. Rhizophora, como gnero, ha existido esencialmente sin interrupcin en la regin del Caribe desde el Eoceno tardo, pero eventos de enfriamiento hace ca. 15-14 Ma, ca. 3.4 Ma y ca. 1.6 Ma, y los subsecuentes 18 a 20 intervalos glaciales proporcionan un mecanismo para el desarrollo de poblaciones tolerantes al fro hacia la parte norte de su distribucin en el Nuevo Mundo. Al reconstruir la historia biogeogrfica de Rhizophora en la regin del Caribe, cabe observar que linajes moleculares (con poca variacin morfolgica o palinlogica) pudieron haber aparecido y extinguido en mltiples ocasiones. Esto permite la variacin en patrones moleculares y aparente estasis en el registro fsil - una posibilidad no ampliamente considerada en la literatura. El antepasado comn de definicin molecular ms reciente de las poblaciones existentes se estima que lleg al Nuevo Mundo hace ca. 11 Ma, si se usa un origen en el Paleoceno (ca. 60 Ma) como la base para el clculo.
10.2307/2399821|Pleurothyrium, a genus of Lauraceae mostly consisting of trees, ranges from Guatemala to Bolivia and possibly Southern Brazil. The genus is best represented in Peru, Ecuador, and Colombia and mostly occurs at low elevations. In this revision 39 species are included in Pleurothyrium, of which 19 are described as new. Taxonomic history, characters, and phylogenetic classification are discussed. Data on phenology, habitat preference, and altitudinal range are presented when available.
10.2307/2666134|The phylogenetic relationships of Goyazia and Lembocarpus are investigated based on cladistic analysis of ndhF sequences. Both genera are currently classified in the tribe Gloxinieae, but both are poorly known. Based on its floral morphology, the classification of Goyazia in Gloxinieae is not controversial. Lembocarpus may be placed in Gloxinieae, Episcieae, or Sinningieae. The acaulescent, tuberous nature of Lembocarpus limits the number of characters available for a morphological analysis and has made its classification and phylogenetic relationships difficult to resolve. Phylogenetic analyses of ndhF sequences place both genera in Gloxinieae. Although the affinities within the tribe are ambiguous for Goyazia, Lembocarpus is sister to Capanea. The addition of Goyazia, Lembocarpus, and an additional species of Capanea provide better resolution of relationships within Gloxinieae and Gesnerieae than had been obtained previously from parsimony analysis. A maximum likelihood analysis is largely congruent with the parsimony tree.
10.2307/3298587|Notopleura (Benth. & Hook. f.) Bremek. is a neotropical genus of about 73 species of herbs and subshrubs, both terrestrial and epiphytic, found in wet neotropical forests from Mexico and the Antilles to Bolivia and Brazil. This genus was formerly included in Psychotria L., from which it differs in its low succulent habit, distinctive stipule morphology, usually pseudoaxillary inflorescences, and pyrenes with two germination slits on the adaxial face. Presented here are a description of the morphology of Notopleura, a key and enumeration of its species, nomenclature including synonymy and new combinations for 2 subgenera, 53 previously described species, and 4 infraspecific taxa, and descriptions and illlustrations of 18 new species.
10.2307/3298546|New data on nectaries in Iridaceae are presented in combination with a literature review, in the context of systematics and pollination biology. Iridaceae are a highly diverse family with respect to nectar production, reflecting the wide range of pollination syndromes within the family. Based on outgroup comparison, presence of septal nectaries is probably the plesiomorphic condition for Iridaceae, despite their absence from the putatively basal genus Isophysis. Within Iridaceae, septal nectaries are present in the largest subfamily Crocoideae (Ixioideae) and also in Diplarrhena, which is putatively sister to all other Iridoideae, but absent from the rest of Iridoideae. Within the paraphyletic Nivenioideae (six genera), septal nectaries are absent from Aristea, Geosiris, and Patersonia and present in the three shrubby Cape genera Klattia, Nivenia, and Witsenia. Perigonal nectaries and elaiophores (oil-producing hairs) are mostly confined to the subfamily Iridoideae, where they take many different forms, although some Iridoideae lack nectaries entirely. In different species of Iris, nectaries are present either on the base of the perianth tube or around the base of the style, or sometimes in a continuous region between the two. In many other Irideae they are located at the bases of the outer tepals (most species of Moraea) or the bases of all six tepals (e.g., Ferraria). In Olsynium douglasii and O. junceum (Sisyrinchieae) nectar is apparently secreted directly from the filament column, and in Sisyrinchium subg. Sisyrinchium elaiophores are present on the lower part of the filament column. Perigonal nectaries may have evolved from septal nectaries by developmentally later formation of nectaries in a more distal position on organ primordia (i.e., heterochrony).
10.2307/2399725|A taxonomic treatment of the species in Cybianthus subg. Conomorpha occurring in the Guayana Floristic Province is presented. Twenty-one species are described and illustrated, and their phylogenetic relationships are discussed. The distribution and ecology of each species are provided. A key to the subgenera of Cybianthus occurring in Guayana is presented, as is a key to the species within subgenus Conomorpha. Of the 21 species described, seven are new to science, one is transferred from subgenus Weigeltia, and one is transferred from subgenus Cybianthus. The new taxa include: Cybianthus fabiolae, C. huberi, C. julianii, C. plowmanii, C. wurdackii, C. holstii, and C. maguirei. The species concept of Cybianthus guyanensis is amplified to include C. multipunctatus as a subspecies, and the new combination, C. guyanensis subsp. multipunctatus, is made. Five additional binomials are lectotypified.
40732230|Se realiza un estudio sistemtico de las especies afines a Paspalum denticulatum Trin., incluyendo la totalidad de las especies que han sido usualmente tratadas en el grupo informal Livida de Paspalum L. El anlisis efectuado muestra que Livida es un grupo artificial, que no posee caracteres que permitan delimitarlo de los restantes grupos del gnero Paspalum, por lo que las especies aqu estudiadas se consideran como no agrupadas dentro del subgnero Paspalum. Se describen, comparan y analizan un total de 11 especies. Paspalum hieronymii Hack., P. jujuyense Zuloaga, P. lividum Trin. ex Schltdl. y P. proliferum Arechav. se mantienen como sinnimos de P. denticulatum. En este trabajo se reducen a la sinonimia a P. tinctum Chase bajo P. hartwegianum E. Fourn., a P. arsenei Chase bajo P. pubiflorum Rupr. ex E. Fourn., y P. pisinnum Swallen y P. trinii Swallen son tratados aqui bajo la sinonimia de P. trichophyllum Henrard. Se presentan mapas de distribucin, lminas de las especies no ilustradas anteriormente, microfotografas (MEB) de los antecios y una clave taxonmica para diferenciar las especies aceptadas. Species related to Paspalum denticulatum Trin. are studied systematically, including taxa traditionally placed in the informal group Livida of Paspalum L. The analysis demonstrates Livida to be an artificial group, without characters that delimit it from remaining groups within Paspalum; for this reason, its species are treated as ungrouped within subgenus Paspalum. A total of 11 species are herein described, compared, and analyzed. Paspalum hieronymii Hack., P. jujuyense Zuloaga, P. lividum Trin. ex Schltdl., and P. proliferum Arechav. are maintained as synonyms of P. denticulatum. Paspalum tinctum Chase is here reduced to synonymy under P. hartwegianum E. Fourn. and P. arsenei Chase under P. pubiflorum Rupr. ex E. Fourn. Paspalum pisinnum Swallen and P. trinii Swallen are here treated under the synonymy of P. trichophyllum Henrard. Distribution maps, plates of species not previously illustrated, and SEM microphotographs of the upper anthecia are included, as well as a taxonomic key to differentiate the accepted species.
10.2307/2399202|Three new species of Solanum are described: S. darienense from eastern Panama, S. unifoliatum from the low elevation wet forests of the department of Choco in Colombia, and S. dolosum from higher elevations in the department of Valle de Cauca in Colombia. Relationships of these species are discussed.
10.2307/2399013|Condylocarpon, which has a center of distribution in Brazil and the Guianas, has been infrequently collected and thus is not well known. Here the number of species is reduced from 17 to 7, and the new combination Condylocarpon intermedium Muell.-Arg. subsp. laxum (Muell.-Arg.) Fallen is made. Peculiar petal appendages, fruit type, and the shape of the style-head are shown to be important taxonomic characters that can be used to define two basic groups within the genus.
10.2307/2394742|The floral anatomy and morphology of several species of Secamone is discussed. Ontogenetic studies reveal that the anthers are 4-locular. In this respect Secamone differs from other members of the subfamily Cynanchoideae of Asclepiadaceae. The bilocular anthers of other Cynanchoideae are a result of phylogenetic suppression of the two outer locules of each anther, as shown by ontogenetic studies and by the origin and nature of the tapetal tissue. Ontogeny of the pollinum sacs is followed in Secamone. Pollen mother cells undergo considerable elongation before the formation of the tetrads. The two meiotic divisions are simultaneous, contrasting in this respect with the successive divisions of other Cynanchoideae and agreeing with the Periplocoideae and Apocynaceae. The resulting tetrads have different configurations depending on the direction of the second meiotic spindle; they are rhomboidal or T-shaped. This is in sharp contrast to the linear tetrads characteristic of all other members of Cynanchoideae, but similar to Periplocoideae and Apocynaceae. The ontogeny of the stigma head is followed, which reveals that at maturity the entire stigma head of Secamone is glandular, contrasting sharply with the five restricted glandular regions of this structure in other Asclepiadaceae and agreeing with similar structures of the Apocynaceae. The five glandular furrows of Secamone in which the simple translators are secreted are not well defined. Each translator consists of a more or less solid portion which is pushed upward and slightly outward by another more or less fluid substance. Thus the whole translator of Secamone is comparable to the stalk-adhesive disc of Periplocoideae and the corpusculum of higher Cynanchoideae. Secamone thus presents several primitive characters shared with Periplocoideae and Apocynaceae but not with other Cynanchoideae (where it has been placed by taxonomists). It shares with other Cynanchoideae, however, the presence of pollinium sacs and a primitive development of the translators. It is difficult to draw a sharp line between members of Apocynaceae and Aslepiadaceae since they apparently represent closely, consecutive levels of floral evolution. Fuad M. Safwat, Department of Botany, college of Agriculture, University of Baghdad, Baghdad, Iraq.
10.2307/2399291|One hundred fifty-five species of 41 families belonging to the proposed ordinal composition around and including the families Rhizophoraceae and Anisophylleaceae have been studied with respect to their sieve-element plastids. The great majority of taxa, including the Anisophylleaceae, contain S-type plastids. P-type sieve-element plastids were found in Humiriaceae, Rhizophoraceae, and Erythroxylaceae (all with specific subtype-P5), and (with P-forms not readily assigned to a specific subtype) in Eucryphiaceae, Neuradaceae, Oxalidaceae (s.l.), Rhabdodendraceae, and part of Zygophyllaceae. A critical evaluation of sizes and specific contents of their sieve-element plastids negates close relationships between Rhizophoraceae and Anisophylleaceae, integrates the Rhizophoraceae in the Geraniales, but is not able to suggest a position for the Anisophylleaceae. Within the Geraniales the family sequence Humiriaceae (form-P5cs plastids) -Erythroxylaceae (P5c) -Rhizophoraceae (P5c) is proposed to be paralleled by another P-type containing sequence Lepidobotryaceae (S-type) -Hypseocharitaceae (S) -Oxalidaceae (S, Pc) -Averrhoaceae (Pcfs), both being linked to the S-type Linaceae s.l. Sieve-element data do not support the inclusion of Rhizophoraceae in the Celastrales; however, such data corroborate the exclusion of the new celastralean family Elaeocarpaceae from the Malvales. Among the taxa proposed by Dahlgren, Anisophylleaceae would be best placed in vicinity to the S-type families of the Rosales, not in close association to P-type Neuradaceae. The presence of P-type sieve-element plastids in Zygophyllaceae, Neuradaceae, and Humiriaceae is reported here for the first time.
10.2307/2399937|Studies of the distributions of species of seasonal woodland habitats in South America by means of dot-mapping and phytosociological analyses indicate the presence of three nodal areas: the Caatingas nucleus of arid northeastern Brazil; the Misiones nucleus, comprising a roughly right-angled triangular area enclosed by lines connecting Corumba-Puerto Suarez (Brazil/Bolivia) southward to Resistencia-Corrientes in northern Argentina, and eastward to the upper Uruguay River valley system in Argentinian Misiones and Brazilian Santa Catarina, and thus including most of eastern Paraguay and the west bank of the Paraguay River; and the Piedmont nucleus, which extends from Santa Cruz de la Sierra in Boliva to Tucuman and the sierras of east Catamarca in northwestern Argentina. Distribution maps are presented for over 70 taxa that show this kind of distribution pattern or its modifications. Most of the seasonal woodland species of this affinity are notable by their absence from the cerrado vegetation of central Brazil, although some occur on calcareous outcrops in the general cerrados area, and they also avoid the Chaco of northern Argentina. It is proposed that these fragmentary and mostly disjunct distributional patterns are vestiges of a once extensive and largely contiguous seasonal woodland formation, which may have reached its maximum extension during a dry-cool climatic period ca. 18,000-12,000 BP, coinciding with the contraction of the humid forest.
10.2307/3298579|Using a compartmentalization approach, we conducted phylogenetic analyses of the basalmost extant angiosperms using sequences from six genes (over 12,000 bp per taxon) from all three genomes (chloroplast-atpB, rbcL; nuclear-18S rDNA, 26S rDNA; mitochondrial-matR, atpA). Trees resulting from parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses of the compartmentalized data are identical. We find strong support (100% for each node) for the earliest-branching angiosperms: Amborellaceae, Nymphaeaceae, and an Austrobaileyales clade (Illiciaceae, Schisandraceae, Trimeniaceae, Austrobaileyaceae). Whereas most recent studies using multiple genes provided poor resolution and support for relationships among the remaining basal angiosperms (Ceratophyllaceae, Chloranthaceae, Canellales ( = Winterales), Piperales, monocots, Magnoliales, Laurales), with compartmentalization, we find high levels (> 90%) of bootstrap support for relationships among these clades. Canellales and Piperales form a strongly supported (100%) sister group that is, in turn, sister to a well-supported (100%) clade of Laurales and Magnoliales. Canellales + Piperales and Magnoliales + Laurales form a well-supported magnoliid clade. Ceratophyllaceae are strongly supported (100%) as sister to the monocots; the monocot/Ceratophyllaceae clade is well supported (86%) as sister to all remaining angiosperms (Chloranthaceae, the magnoliid clade, and eudicots). The addition of entire 26S rDNA sequences clearly contributed to this increased internal support. We examined the diversification of perianth phyllotaxis, merosity, and differentiation using our phylogenetic hypothesis for angiosperms. Ancestral perianth phyllotaxis and merosity are equivocal for each node of the Amborellaceae, Nymphaeaceae, Austrobaileyales grade; however, an undifferentiated perianth is reconstructed as the ancestral state for the angiosperms. Trimery and whorled perianth phyllotaxis have played a major role in basal angiosperm perianth evolution and represent the ancestral states for the large clade comprising all angiosperms other than Amborella, Nymphaeaceae, and Austrobaileyales. A differentiated perianth has apparently evolved multiple times.
10.2307/2399555|Three species of Solanum are included in a new section, Solanum sect. Allophyllum. Two of the species, S. allophyllum and S. mapiriense, have been previously known; the third, S. morellifolium Bohs, is described as new. The combination of characters exhibited by members of this section, such as unbranched hairs, 2-3-leaved sympodial units, simple leaves with decurrent bases, and tapered anthers, is unique to this group and does not agree well with any existing subgenus of Solanum.
10.2307/3298523|Endemism values are not equivalent among the Mexican Musci, Poaceae, and Asteraceae. The number of endemic species varies from one group to the next in various types of vegetation or geographical areas, perhaps in response to age, peculiarities of their life cycle, dispersal ability, and individual response to selective pressures. In Mexico, the three major plant groups include 2373 endemic taxa among which 86 are mosses, 257 are grasses, and 2030 are composites. Cluster analysis of a similarity matrix shows relationships between neighboring states and among geographically related state groups. Along the Neovolcanic Belt there are areas of endemism in western and central Mexico, but the relationship between state pairs does not always have a geographical basis. From the standpoint of the number of endemic species per unit area, Distrito Federal is the richest area in Mexico.
10.2307/2399756|Devonian and Carboniferous herbaceous Lycopsids are reviewed to illustrate their diverse morphologies. The problem of interpreting small fragments of Lycopsids as either the remains of herbaceous plants, or as terminal portions of much larger plants, is highlighted. Lycopsids resembling the extant genera Lycopodium and Selaginella are known from the Carboniferous onward. The problems of assigning these herbaceous taxa to extant genera are discussed. The presence of both isophyllous and heterophyllous Selaginella-like plants in the Carboniferous supports the idea that the genus should be divided into at least two genera.
10.2307/2399866|The phylogeny of the mostly African tribe Amaryllideae is presented as a basis for classification and an enquiry into the evolutionary interrelationship between seed and fruit characters and seed dispersal modes. The cladistic analysis is based on morphological, seed anatomical, and cytological data, of which seed and fruit specializations are illustrated. Three dispersal modes, anemochory, atelechory/rain wash, and autochory, are optimized onto the selected cladogram and the pattern is considered in terms of functional fruit and seed morphology. The new classification recognizes two monophyletic subtribes: Crininae (Boophone sensu stricto, Crinum, Ammocharis, and Cybistetes) and Amaryllidinae (Amaryllis, Nerine, Brunsvigia, Crossyne, Hessea, Strumaria, and Carpolyza). The phylogeny suggests that in Amaryllidinae the ability of the green, stomatose seeds to mature after they are released favored the development of rapidly shed, wind-tumbled infructescences in three clades especially in semiarid, southwestern Africa. In Crininae the seeds are large, cork-covered, endosperm-rich, and relatively slow developing. The limited seed dispersal mode in Crinum and Ammocharis appears to be a consequence of the derived indehiscent fruit, which is basal in Crininae, and the anchoring function of their persistent, lax scape.
10.2307/2399979|Chemically-complex natural product drugs are not readily synthesized, and large-scale production for clinical and commercial development often involves isolation from the natural source. The rapidly escalating demand for taxol, originally isolated from the bark of Taxus brevifolia, has emphasized the need for alternative sources to the wild plant, and the National Cancer Institute (NCI) has developed policies for exploring such sources at the early stages of preclinical development of potential new drugs. The potential for pharmaceutical crop development in the case of several possible anti-AIDS agents will be discussed.
10.2307/3298565| El gnero Justicia es el ms grande y complejo de la familia Acanthaceae, y est muy diversificado en las regiones tropicales y subtropicales de Amrica del Sur. Este trabajo comprende la revisin de las especies de Sudamrica austral sobre la base de material de Argentina y Paraguay. Las 38 especies de Justicia de esta regin se agrupan en 8 secciones en relacin a caracteres de su morfologa, especialmente de inflorescencia, flor, cpsula y semilla. Todas las especies se describen, se dan referencias de ilustraciones ya publicadas o se ilustran por primera vez, y se da una clave para identificarlas. Algunas no haban sido citadas para la regin, y la nomenclatura de las mismas incluye varias sinonimias nuevas basadas en el estudio de los tipos nomenclaturales. Tambin se dan notas sobre su fenologa, hbitat, distribucin geogrfica, caracteres distintivos y afinidades taxonmicas. /// The genus Justicia is the largest and most complex of the Acanthaceae family, and is highly diversified in tropical and subtropical regions of South America. This work revises the species of southern South America based on material from Argentina and Paraguay. The 38 species of Justicia that are found in this region are grouped in 8 sections in relation to their morphological characters, especially inflorescence, flower, capsule, and seed morphology. All the species are described, references to published illustrations are given or they are illustrated for the first time, and a key is provided for their identification. Some had not been reported previously for the region, and their nomenclature includes several new synonymies based on the study of type material. Notes on phenology, habitat, geographic distribution, distinguishing characters, and taxonomic affinities are also given. 
10.2307/2666178|A critical time interval for vertebrate evolution-between 100 and 112 million years in duration-spans the beginning of the Cretaceous period to the late Eocene epoch of the Cenozoic. This interval encompasses the appearance in the Cretaceous of many of the modern vertebrate groups that persist today, the extinction event at the Cretaceous-Tertiary (K/T) boundary, and the restructuring of the vertebrate megafauna dominated by mammals in the Paleocene and Eocene. Cretaceous turnover in the dinosaur fauna has been tied to the radiation and diversification of angiosperms, but these correlations do not apply to all continental regions represented by a fossil record. The Cretaceous also marks the emergence and radiation of certain groups of mammals, birds, lizards, and freshwater fishes. Reconstructions, however, that push back the diversification of modern lineages of birds and mammals (groups that include extant representatives) to the Early or middle Cretaceous are not supported by the fossil record. Despite the severity of the Cretaceous-Tertiary (K/T) extinction event of 65 million years ago, effects on vertebrates are strikingly selective, with a number of groups, including actinopterygians (ray-finned fishes), multituberculate mammals, eutherian mammals, turtles, lizards, champsosaurs, and crocodiles surviving across the K/T boundary. Subsequent to the K/T event, the basic organization and dynamics of the larger vertebrate fauna were radically transformed. Of general evolutionary interest is the protracted "rebound" of the larger vertebrate fauna and the nature of its controlling factors. The loss of the non-avian dinosaurs meant a loss of larger herbivorous browsers not replenished for some millions of years into the Paleocene. Diversification in the smaller mammal fauna shows a new emphasis on frugivory and granivory. Some of the modern groups of mammals first appear in the late Paleocene-early Eocene. Subsequent climate and habitat changes coincide with the radiation of large herbivorous mammals such as perissodactyls and artiodactyls. The coevolutionary relationships of the terrestrial mammalian megafauna and the changing flora likely promoted the spread of more open habitals that characterized the later Cenozoic.
10.2307/2395252|New chromosome counts are provided for 234 populations of the tribe Eupatorieae including the first reports for the genera: Asplundianthus, Carminatia, Cronquistia, Decachaeta, Guevaria, Heterocondylus, Matudina, Peteravenia, Phalacraea, and Sclerolepis. Chromosome data is summarized on the basis of over 325 of about 2,000 species in the tribe representing 70 of the 160 known genera. Cytology is correlated with recent taxonomic revisions including new generic concepts and reidentification of many vouchers of previous cytological studies. The number n = 10 is regarded as basic for the tribe; it is the most common in the tribe and is characteristic of most groups of genera. Important derivatives include specialized members of the Brickellia series with x = 9 and members of the Piqueria, Stevia, Carphochaete, Microspermum series with x = 11 and 12. The Bartlettina series has a base of x = 16 but is closely related to Hebeclinium with x = 10. Other groups with higher numbers are more distinctive, Neomirandea subgenus Critoniopsis with x = 17, subgenus Neomirandea with x = ca. 20 and ca. 25, Mikania with x = 16-20, Ageratina with mostly x = 17, Oxylobus with x = 16. Hofmeisteria with x = 18-19 is regarded on other bases as one of the most distinctive elements in the tribe. Individual examples of reduction in groups with a base of x = 10 are Adenostemma involucratum with n = 5 and the weedy Fleischmannia microstemon with n = 4.
40035049|A systematic revision of Capparis sect. Capparis, from western and Central Asia, North Africa, and Europe, is presented here. The taxonomy of this section has been approached combining morphological, biogeographical and molecular data when available. Ten species are recognized, including two new species, Capparis atlantica and C. zoharyi. In addition, four new subspecies are presented: Capparis ovata subsp. myrtifolia, C. parviflora subsp. sphaerocarpa, C. sicula subsp. mesopotamica, and C. sicula subsp. sindiana. Lectotypes are designated for C. aegyptia, C. hereroensis, C. mucronifolia, C. elliptica, C. mucronifolia Boiss. subsp. rosanoviana, C. rupestris, C. ovata, C. parviflora, C. spinosa var. canescens, C. sicula subsp. herbacea, and C. sicula subsp. leucophylla. A full taxonomic treatment, keys, and distribution maps of the recognized species are provided. The two new species are illustrated.
10.2307/2399282|The tempo of evolutionary change determines in what manner any class of characters is informative in evolutionary studies and at which taxonomic levels. Here we describe and summarize some fundamental features of the evolution of the DNA sequences that encode ribosomal RNA genes in the nuclear genome of higher plants. By analyzing a sample of angiosperm species having known phylogenetic relationships at five different taxonomic levels ranging from the intraspecific to the interfamilial, we show that plant ribosomal DNA determines at least eleven classes of characters that can be distinguished by comparisons at the DNA level. These classes are temporal and physical subsets of three basic modes of variation: length variation, single base pair substitution, and DNA modification. We also discuss the impact of length variants on population genetic studies and the implications of these studies for understanding the molecular mechanisms of rDNA evolution.
10.2307/2399593|A new family is described to accommodate the genus Ticodendron. The unusual characters of this monotypic genus, with only T. incognitum, have been discussed by us elsewhere (Gomez-Laurito & Gomez P., 1989), analyzed by several experts in their special fields, and reported elsewhere in this issue of the Annals.
10.2307/2394616|The genus Philonotion Schott is included in Schismatoglottis, forming the American section of an otherwise Asian group. Two species are recognized in this section: 1) S. americana, known only from Surinam, and 2) S. spruceanum, here transferred from the genus Philonotion and represented by two varieties: var. spruceanum of Amazonian Venezuela and adjacent Colombia, and var. williamsii of Amazonian Venezuela only. George S. Bunting, Missouri Botanical Garden, 2315 Tower Grove Ave., St. Louis 10, Missouri.
10.2307/2395064|The renewal of interest in systematic problems of the ferns has recently encouraged increased interest in comparative anatomical studies of the ferns. Three current examples are discussed in some detail: comparative morphology of fern shoot meristems, comparative anatomy of vascular tissue, and comparative studies of stomata patterns and ontogenies. Broad survey anatomical studies of critical problem taxa are suggested as preferable to narrow detailed studies unrelated to systematic problems. Professional taxonomists and systematists are useful resources for the identification of significant problems. The use of more recent taxonomic schemes and of techniques related to Wagner networks and trees is suggested as a means of handling the data and applying it to the solution of systematic problems.
10.2307/2398888|The chromosome numbers are reported for twenty-one species in eight genera of Bruniaceae, a small family almost entirely restricted to the Cape Floristic Region of South Africa, an area with a very distinctive flora. With the only previous count in the family disregarded, a base number of x = 11 is suggested as fundamental in the family. A diploid number of 2n = 22 is recorded in the monotypic and apparently primitive Audouinia. Other genera counted evidently have a base number in the x = 20-23 range and thus may be palaeopolyploid in comparison to Audouinia. Staavia, Raspalia and Lonchostoma have x = 22, with the widespread S. radiata tetraploid, 2n = ca. 88. Exact base numbers in the remaining genera examined are uncertain owing to difficulties in counting: Pseudobaekia has n = ca. 22; Nebelia n = 22 and ca. 23; Brunia n = ca. 20 and 23; and Berzelia n = 20 and ca. 21. Berzelia ecklonii and B. abrotanoides are tetraploid, n = 80-88, while B. intermedia has diploid, tetraploid and hexaploid races.
3298511|International goals have been set to protect global plant diversity and limit ecosystem damage due to climate change, but large-scale effects of changing climate on species distributions have yet to be fully considered in conservation efforts. For sub-Saharan Africa we study the shifts in climatically suitable areas for 5197 African plant species under future climate models for the years 2025, 2055, and 2085 generated by the Hadley Center's third generation coupled ocean-atmosphere General Circulation Model. We use three species distribution models, a "Box model," a simple genetic algorithm, and a Bayes-based genetic algorithm. The results show major shifts in areas suitable for most species with large geographical changes in species composition. The areas of suitable climate for 81%-97% of the 5197 African plant species are projected to decrease in size and/or shift in location, many to higher altitudes, and 25%-42% are projected to lose all of their area by 2085. In particular, the models indicate dramatic change in the Guineo-Congolian forests, mirroring proposed ecological dynamics in the past. Although these models are preliminary and may overestimate potential extinctions, they suggest that efforts to protect African plant diversity should take future climate-forced distribution changes into account.
10.2307/2992091|The Euphorbiaceae are often described as a heterogeneous group with ambiguous affinities. Although their vegetative and floral characters are markedly modified in relation to the habitat and pollination mechanisms, the embryological features are comparatively more conservative, and therefore quite useful in the delimitation of as well as in understanding of relationships. The diagnostic embryological characteristics of the family are: (1) tetrasporangiate anther, 4- or 5-layered anther wall, fibrous endothecium, ephemeral middle layer(s), secretory tapetum with multinucleate cells, simultaneous cytokinesis, tetrahedral, decussate and isobilateral microspore tetrads, and 2- or 3-nucleate pollen; (2) tricarpellary, syncarpous, and trilocular ovary with one or two ovules in each locule, axile placentation, anatropous or hemianatropous, bitegmic, crassinucellate ovule, placental obturator and presence of hypostase; (3) embryo sac with ephemeral antipodal cells, nuclear endosperm and mature embryo with broad/leafy cotyledons; and (4) albuminous seed with both integuments forming seed coat, and outer epidermis of inner integument developing into a fibrous or sclerotic layer. Most of the 30 families included in the Euphorbiales by various authors have significant embryological differences from Euphorbiaceae. It appears more appropriate that the Euphorbiales should include only one family, the Euphorbiaceae. The closeness of the Euphorbiales with the Malvales finds support on embryological grounds. The present level of embryological information substantiates the classification of the Euphorbiaceae into five subfamilies. It seems that the Acalyphoideae diverged rather early from the Phyllanthoideae-Oldfieldioideae, and later the Crotonoideae and the Euphorbioideae evolved as independent lines from the Acalyphoideae. Since only 16 of the 50 tribes have so far been embryologically explored, comments on the tribal classification must await further probes into their reproductive biology.
10.2307/2395239| Three new species are described from wet forest regions of eastern Panama and the Choc of Colombia--Gibsoniothamnus alatus A. Gentry, Gibsoniothamnus mirificus A. Gentry, and Tournefortia tacarcunensis A. Gentry & Nowicke. 
40035659|Chromosome numbers were determined from microsporocytes (meiotic counts) and root-tip cells (mitotic counts) in 201 collections of 51 genera and 119 specific and infraspecific taxa belonging to nine tribes of Asteraceae and Acicarpha spathulata R. Br. of Calyceraceae from Australia, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Mexico, and the United States. These include the first reports and new numbers for the basal members of the Barnadesieae and Mutisieae. First reports are provided for 45 taxa, including five genera, Dasyphyllum HBK (2n = 54), Dithyrostegia A. Gray (2n = 14), Epitriche Turcz. (2n = 10), Revealia R. M. King & H. Rob. (2n = 22), and Stifftia J. C. Mikan (2n = 54). In addition, new chromosome numbers are established at the generic level in the genera Barnadesia Mutis (2n = 54), Eremanthus Less. (2n = 34, 30), Macvaughiella R. M. King & H. Rob. (2n = 24), and Trichocline Cass. (2n = 38), and in 12 additional species. Remaining counts augment and agree with previously reported determinations. The base chromosome numbers of Calyceraceae and Asteraceae are discussed in published records and our original counts.
10.2307/2395107|The first published description is given for the flowers of Trattinnickia aspera, endemic to Panama.
10.2307/2399170|Pollen grains representative of the Lythraceae (including subfamilies Punicoideae, Sonneratioideae, and Duabangoideae), Trapaceae, Oliniaceae, Combretaceae, Alzateaceae, Rhynchocalycaceae, Penaeaceae, Crypteroniaceae, Melastomataceae, Myrtaceae (including Psiloxylaceae and Heteropyxidaceae), and Onagraceae, the 11 families constituting the order Myrtales, were examined with scanning (SEM) and transmission (TEM) electron microscopy. With omission of the Trapaceae, Myrtaceae, and Onagraceae, the remaining families have enough similarities to be grouped together palynologically. Heterocolpate pollen characterizes the Lythraceae, Rhynchocalycaceae, Combretaceae, Oliniaceae, Penaeaceae, Crypteroniaceae, and Melastomataceae. In the latter five families, subsidiary colpi (pseudocolpi) were noted in all taxa examined except Adelobotrys, Allomorphia, Astronia, Bredia, Oxyspora, and Tococa of the Melastomataceae and Buchenavia, Laguncularia, and Strephonema of the Combretaceae. With the exceptions of the latter four genera these taxa possess intercolpar concavities. Subsidiary colpi and intercolpar concavities are considered to be functionally equivalent, their distinction being the larger size of the intercolpar concavities. Subsidiary colpi are equal to the number of apertures except in Lythraceae where Ammannia, Nesaea, and Crenea have twice the number; intercolpar concavities are also isomerous with apertures. In Oliniaceae, the subsidiary colpi are located on just one polar face and hence considered as half subsidiary colpi while Alzateaceae may have incipient subsidiary colpi. The pollen of Lythraceae subfamilies Sonneratioideae, Duabangoideae, and Punicoideae possess meridional ridges which alternate with the apertures; they are prominent in the former two subfamilies and weakly defined in the latter. Meridional ridges are also present in some Lythraceae lacking subsidiary colpi. Exine sculpturing in the mesocolpia is variable throughout the order with Crypteroniaceae, Alzateaceae, Oliniaceae, and Penaeaceae basically psilate; Melastomataceae basically striate and rugulate; Combretaceae echinate, reticulate, rugulate, striate, and psilate; Lythraceae subfam. Lythroideae striate, psilate, verrucate, and granular; Lythraceae subfam. Punicoideae basically granular-microrugulate; and Lythraceae subfam. Sonneratioideae and Duabangoideae basically verrucate-rugulate. Commonly, the subsidiary colpi (and intercolpar concavities) and colpi have different sculpturing than the mesocolpial regions. Exine structure is essentially of the post and beam construction with the fundamental ektexine and endexine stratification layers. In all Combretaceae and some Melastomataceae the foot layer is strikingly delineated as domes, whereas in Alzateaceae the columellae layer follows a zig-zag course. The Oliniaceae and Penaeaceae are distinct throughout the order with remarkably thickened tectum and foot layer and negligible columellae; Acanathella of the Melastomataceae is somewhat similar, differing only in a better developed columellae layer. In general, Lythraceae have the most diverse pollen at both sculptural and structural levels; Combretaceae also have considerable diversity, primarily exomorphically, and Strephonema is the only taxon noted in the order with a reticulate sculpture; Melastomataceae are diverse exomorphically, with the pollen of Miconia melanotricha shed as tetrads and that of Tococa spadiciflora as polyads, the only example of polyads in the order other than Ludwigia (Onagraceae); Oliniaceae, Penaeaceae, and Crypteroniaceae show rather uniform intrafamilial morphology. The monogeneric Trapaceae with protruding and domed apertures and meridional ridges resulting from exine folds is totally unique in Myrtales. One sample shows linked pollen grains suggestive of polyads while sections through the ridge area show an extremely thick endexine and loosely organized ektexine reminiscent of some Onagraceae. Myrtaceae, with pollen oblate-elliptic in lateral view and triangular in polar view, are also without a counterpart in Myrtales. Based on the nature of the colpi, three distinctive pollen groups are evident: (1) longicolpate, (2) syncolpate and parasyncolpate with and without intercolpar concavities, and (3) brevicolpate and brevissimicolpate. Myrtus communis and Psidium littorale shed pollen in tetrads as well as in monads and are the only tetrads recorded in Myrtales other than Onagraceae and Miconia melanotricha (Melastomataceae). The pollen morphology of Psiloxylon and Heteropyxis, genera of questionable taxonomic placement, suggests that they fit within the Myrtaceae. The final family, Onagraceae, is also very distinctive in Myrtales. The viscin threads, tetrads and polyads, exceptionally thick endexine, essentially spongy-paracrystalline ektexine with columellae absent or greatly reduced, absent foot layer, protruding apertures, and 2-aperturate grains (in Fuchsia) distinguish this family, which with a few superficial similarities to Trapaceae and Penaeaceae differs from all others in Myrtales.
10.2307/2399758|Occurrences of lycopsid megafossils and their spores in the Mesozoic are reviewed. Subarborescent lepidodendralean forms diversified in the early Mesozoic before going extinct in the early Jurassic, although herbaceous, Isoetes-like forms-considered here also to be lepidodendraleans-survived to the present day as represented by the sole surviving genus Isoetes. Records of Isoetes-like forms from Triassic strata are considered questionable; the earliest good-quality examples that can currently be accepted are in the late Jurassic/early Cretaceous. The two other major groups of lycopsids that also survive today-the lycopodialeans and selaginellaleans-were present throughout the Mesozoic as entirely herbaceous forms. Some of them closely resemble extant species but most are less similar and some, such as Synlycostrobus with its apparently compound strobili, greatly extend our knowledge of lycopsid diversity. A few of the Mesozoic species appear to provide important and hitherto unsuspected links between these two major groups. Increasingly refined knowledge of late Paleozoic through Mesozoic lycopsids and their spores is contributing to growing precision in biostratigraphy and also in environmental changes that have affected our planet in the geological past, particularly the protracted interval of global warming that began in the late Paleozoic and continued throughout the Mesozoic. New information is presented on Mesozoic lycopsids from the United States and England, including a new species of Isoetites of Cretaceous age with well-preserved spores in situ.
10.2307/2395002|Chromosome counts are reported for 60 collections of Peruvian Compositae representing 59 species in 31 genera. Most of these are first reports for a taxon concerned, including the genera Ascidiogyne (n = 10), Diplostephium (n = 9), Oriotrophium (n = 9), Achyrocline (n = ca 14), Gynoxys (n = 40), Loricaria (n = ca 14), Monopholis (n = ca 30) and Pappobolus (n = 17). Supernumerary or "B" chromosomes have been found in Baccharis and Monopholis, and an unusual aneuploid series has been detected in Liabum (x = 9, 12, 14, and ca 18).
10.2307/2992030|The fruit and seed morphology and anatomy of Jasminum mesnyi are described here for the first time, as part of a larger comparative study on the fruit and seed structures in the Oleaceae. The evidence presented here weakens the current delimitation between Jasminum and Menodora. As usual in Jasminum, the two carpels of the ovary of J. mesnyi grow up independently to form separate mericarps, while the septum remains small. At maturity, however, the mericarps dry out and dehisce loculicidally on their adaxial side, from the style outward. The wall of the mericarps is membranous at their distal ends, but increasingly thickened toward the base. This is unique in Jasminum but reminiscent of Menodora, where the mericarps of most species show circumscissile dehiscence. The seed coat of Jasminum mesnyi is as unequal-sided as in Jasminum nudiflorum, which in turn shares dry, irregularly fragmenting mericarps with Menodora spinescens. After a discussion of the characters supposed to separate the two genera, it is concluded that the discontinuity between them is not greater than among some of the sections of Jasminum. A decision on the final status of these taxa is deferred until detailed molecular evidence becomes available.
10.2307/2398892| Thirty-three species are recognized for Syngonium in this first published revision since that of Engler and Krause in 1920. Syngonium (now including Porphyrospatha) is the only member of the tribe Syngonieae (Araceae). The genus includes 4 newly described sections, sect. Oblongatum Croat, sect. Cordatum Croat, sect. Pinnatilobum Croat, and sect. Syngonium Croat, defined by leaf morphology, namely by blades basically oblong, cordate, pinnately lobed, and pedately lobed, respectively. Eleven new species are described: S. chocoanum (Colombia: Choc), S. dodsonianum (Ecuador: Los Ros), S. foreroanum (Colombia: Choc), S. gentryanum (Peru: Hunuco), S. glaucopetiolatum (Costa Rica, Panama), S. harlingianum (Ecuador: Pastaza), S. laterinervium (SW Costa Rica, NW Panama), S. llanoense (Panama), S. sparreorum (Ecuador: Cotopaxi), S. steyermarkii (Guatemala and SE Mexico), S. triphyllum (Honduras to Panama). 
10.2307/2399316|The southern distributional limit of Burmeistera has long been obscured by the inclusion in that genus of several disharmonious elements from central and southern Peru. Of the six Peruvian species that have previously been assigned to Burmeistera, only B. ramosa is retained in that genus. The recent collection of B. microphylla brings the number of Peruvian species of Burmeistera to two. The southernmost stations known for these two species, and thus the genus as a whole, are at approximately 5
10.2307/2399194|Since Pinus occurs in the Early Cretaceous (ca. 125-130 Ma), it probably had emerged from a Pityostrobus complex by the Late Jurassic (ca. 140-135 Ma). Initial adaptation to seasonal climate and drier sites may account for rapid evolution on several occasions. This presumably was enhanced by symbiotic association with ectotrophic mycorrhizae that gave pines an adaptive advantage in new, spreading, more stressful environments throughout its history. Pinus probably underwent major splitting into early subsections in the Late Cretaceous-Early Tertiary as Laramide tectonism created new environments (dry slopes, rain shadows). In the later Eocene-Oligocene, new opportunities for speciation resulted from increased tectonism, volcanism, and the spread of regional dry climate. New drier sites appeared in the Late Oligocene (28-27 Ma) as erosion increased in response to lowered base level as sea level decreased and as Drakes Passage opened and cold water was shunted northward. Further speciation no doubt occurred as seasonally dry climates spread in response to developing ice sheets (East Antarctic, 13 Ma; West Antarctic, 7-6 Ma; Arctic, 4-3 Ma). Continued volcanism, tectonism, and markedly fluctuating climate at the close of the Cenozoic fostered further speciation, especially in Mexico where pines show much intergradation owing to rampant hybridization in the recent past. Species of three subsections (Cembrae, Strobi, Sylvestres) in North America are represented by taxa in Eurasia. They reflect the early spread of ancestral taxa into both land areas via connections across the mid-to-north Atlantic and Beringian areas. Neogene records in Europe of taxa allied to east American pines (Australes) may be valid but need reevaluation. The fossil record suggests that six of the eight subsections indigenous to North America (Balfourianae, Cembroides, Leiophyllae, Oocarpae, Ponderosae, Sabinianae) probably originated over the Cordilleran region that extends southward into Mexico. Subsect. Australes may be largely southeastern and the Contortae evidently spread northward (P. contorta, P. banksiana) and into mountains as colder environments appeared there. Movement along the San Andreas rift system probably transported taxa northward from western Mexico, as indicated by species of Oocarpae, Leiophyllae, and Strobi in Tertiary rocks of coastal California. As more extreme climates spread in the late Cenozoic, the richer Tertiary forests and woodlands lost taxa, and the survivors retreated to moister areas. Pines now increased numerically as competition was reduced and more space appeared in the impoverished, surviving vegetation zones. In addition, spreading new regional environments, notably drier lowlands (for pinons), drier upland slopes (for P. ponderosa, P. scopulorum, P. jeffreyi, P. flexilis), colder, wetter basins (for P. banksiana, P. contorta), and cold uplands (for P. albicaulis, P. aristata, P. contorta, P. monticola), now became available as more continental climates spread. Pines in these more extreme environments, where they are also associated with ectotrophic mycorrhizae, may form regionally extensive, pure stands. These are not recorded in presently-known Tertiary floras in which pines were members of rich, mixed conifer, conifer hardwood, and sclerophyllous woodland vegetation. During the past few centuries, some pines greatly increased in number as man upset ecosystems by fire, logging, and clearing.
10.2307/2394715|Chromosome numbers are reported for 85 collections of Compositae, representing 26 genera and 68 species, from Colombia and Venezuela. Most of the counts are previously unreported, including four genera, Blakiella (n = 9), Hinterhubera (n = 9), Oyedaea (n = ca. 28), and Paragynoxys (n = ca. 40), and about 30 species of Espeletia (n = 19).
10.2307/2399397|Tailed amphibians, or salamanders, occur in the tropics only in the New World, where they are concentrated primarily in Middle America and northwestern South America. All are members of the family Plethodontidae, the lungless salamanders. As recently as 1926 only 30 species of tropical salamanders were known, and all were placed in a single genus. Today 11 genera are recognized. All occur in Middle America, and over 140 species have been described. Many local tropical regions are very rich in numbers of species, and as many as 21 species may be present along a single altitudinal gradient. Community organization of species of salamanders in the tropics differs from that in temperate regions in that species of tropical salamanders tend to be segregated into discrete elevational zones, with any given species restricted to a narrow elevational band. Within elevational zones, species are segregated by major habitat type, then by microhabitat, body size, and finally trophic and behavioral features. Cloud forests at middle elevations, from about 750 m to 2,500 m, are especially rich in salamanders, in both diversity and density. In Nuclear Central America nearly 50% of arboreal bromeliads in a local sample (N = 903) contained salamanders. Some species are found almost exclusively in bromeliads, and over 30 salamanders have been encountered in a single bromeliad. Farther south, in Costa Rica, cloud forests harbor salamanders in bromeliads as well as in arboreal and terrestrial moss mats. Extreme microhabitat specialization enriches the Costa Rican fauna to the maximum number of species present locally anywhere in the tropics. In the relatively lower latitudes (e.g., Costa Rica and Panama) the proportion of species occurring at lower elevations increases compared with Mexican and Guatemalan transects. Bromeliads and moss mats in the mid-elevational wet and rain forests are ideal microhabitats for these insectivorous, direct developing amphibians. Bromeliads offer abundant food resources, egg deposition sites, protection from predation, and microenvironments buffered against temperature extremes and low humidity. Salamanders are top carnivores in the bromeliad microhabitat. The extensive adaptive radiation of plethodontid salamanders in Middle America has featured both convergent and parallel evolution. The mid-elevational cloud forests, with their rich epiphytic assemblages and highly dissected topography, have been of great significance in speciation, morphological and behavioral diversification, geographical ecology, and historical biogeography of tropical plethodontid salamanders.
10.2307/2399833|Lapeirousia subg. Lapeirousia (Iridaceae) consists of 21 species endemic to sub-Saharan Africa, with the Mediterranean southwestern part of southern Africa the center of diversity. Analysis of the floral ecology of 19 species shows that the majority secrete large amounts of sucrose-rich or sucrose-dominant nectar, and the 16 species for which pollinator observations were obtained are cross-pollinated exclusively by insects with elongated mouth parts, representing three orders (Diptera, Hymenoptera, and Lepidoptera). In the absence of pollinators, at least four species (L. arenicola, L. jacquinii, L. oreogena, L. simulans) were found to set seed without cross pollination and are assumed to be mechanically autogamous. The 20 species segregate into three pollination types based on divergent patterns of pigmentation, scent production, perianth tube length, and pollinator taxa. Species with flowers of the L. silenoides-type are pollinated exclusively by Prosoeca species (Diptera: Nemestrinidae), and species with flowers of the L. fabricii-type are pollinated exclusively by Moegistorhynchus longirostris (Diptera: Nemestrinidae) and Philoliche gulosa (Diptera: Tabanidae). The latter two fly species, together with the Prosoeca species, have the longest mouth parts of all pollinators examined on species of subgenus Lapeirousia. The L. divaricata-type flower is pollinated by a combination of bees, mostly female Anthophoridae (e.g., Anthophora, Amegilla, Tetraloniella) and native Apis mellifera (Apidae), and to a lesser extent by bombyliid flies and some Lepidoptera. Observations of insect pollen load analysis suggest that the evolution of these three flower types has encouraged ethological isolation between species, but is a small component in broader pollination guilds encompassing co-blooming species in other genera and families, including Asteraceae, Geraniaceae, Scrophulariaceae, and Sterculiaceae. Mapping of pollination syndromes on a phylogenetic tree of subgenus Lapeirousia demonstrates the extreme adaptive radiation in the subgenus and the convergent development of the same pollination strategy repeatedly across the subgenus.
10.2307/2394836|The scattered information on characters useful in seed and seedling identification is brought together and terms defined. The problem of information retrieval in identifying seedlings is discussed and an example given of the use of a polyclave for naming an unknown. Seedling characters are given for a number of tropical families.
10.2307/2398994|Mature pollen from 76 species in the complete roster of genera in the Onagraceae was examined for starch-containing or starchless contents. Fuchsia and Lopezia pollen grains, after passing through a stage of starch accumulation, lose the starch (presumably converted to lipid) and are classified as "starchless." All other genera have pollen that is starch-containing at maturity. The phylogenetic implications of this are considered. Pollen grain diameter is larger in the "starchy" taxa than in the "starchless" ones. There is a strong correlation of pollen grain diameter and the length of style to be traversed by the pollen tube in species with "starchy" grains.
40035753|Most genera of the subfamily Asclepiadoideae (i.e., 29 genera) can be found in the southeastern Brazilian region. Among these, the most representative is Oxypetalum R. Br., with 71 taxa (including specific and infraspecific). In Rio de Janeiro State, there are 25 taxa of Oxypetalum that are climbers, with the exception of O. patulum E. Fourn., which is a suberect shrub and decumbent. Most taxa from Rio de Janeiro occur in secondary Atlantic Forest, but four are from sandy coastal plain (restinga) vegetation, namely O. alpinum (Vell.) Fontella & E. A. Schwarz var. alpinum, O. pachyglossum Decne., O. banksii Schult. subsp. banksii, and O. banksii subsp. corymbiferum (E. Fourn.) Fontella & C. Valente. The latter species is restricted to restingas. Some taxa occur in high-altitude grasslands, namely O. costae Occhioni, O. lanatum Decne ex E. Fourn., O. patulum E. Fourn., O. sublanatum Malme, O. insigne (Decne.) Malme var. insigne, O. insigne var. glabrum (Decne.) Fontella & E. A. Schwarz, O. insigne var. glaziovii (E. Fourn.) Fontella & E. A. Schwarz, and O. regnellii (Malme) Malme. Four species and one subspecies are endemic to the state of Rio de Janeiro: O. costae, O. glaziovianum Loes., O. lutescens E. Fourn., O. schottii E. Fourn., and O. banksii subsp. corymbiferum. Two species are cited here as new records for the state of Rio de Janeiro: O. molle Hook. & Arn. and O. pannosum Decne. var. pannosum. The following taxa are proposed as new synonyms: O. sobralii Occhioni (= O. schottii), O. villosum E. Fourn. (= O. pachyglossum Decne.), and O. mourai Hoehne (= O. glaziovianum Loes.). Oxypetalum appendiculatum Mart., O. molle, O. pannosum var. pannosum, O. sublanatum, O. wightianum Hook. & Arn., and O. banksii subsp. banksii are widely distributed, the first five reaching Paraguay and Argentina, while O. banksii subsp. banksii is limited to Brazil (from Alagoas to Rio Grande do Sul). Lectotypifications were made for the following species: Calostigma guilleminianum Decne., Cystostemma glandulosum Silveira, Oxypetalum glaziovianum Loes., O. lanatum, O. mourai, O. pachyglossum, O. regnellii, O. schottii, O. selloanum E. Fourn., and O. sublanatum. Types are designated for Schizostemma Decne. and Pachyglossum Decne. as synonyms of Oxypetalum.
10.2307/2395128|The Phytolaccaceae, a largely tropical and subtropical plant family, are revised utilizing pollen morphology in addition to floral and vegetative morphology. Seventy-one species, including the novelty Ercilla syncarpellata Nowicke, are treated with descriptions of pollen and gross morphology; keys are provided to all major taxa and species. The 17 genera recognized (Anisomeria, Ercilla, Phytolacca, Gallesia, Seguieria, Rivinia, Trichostigma, Schindleria, Hilleria, Petiveria, Ledenbergia, Monococcus, Agdestis, Microtea, Lophiocarpus, Stegnosperma, and Barbeuia) are placed in six subfamilies (Phytolaccoideae, Rivinoideae, Agdestioideae, Microteoideae, Stegnospermoideae, and Barbeuioideae) three of which are newly established, with all subfamilies except the Rivinoideae (with Seguierieae and Rivineae) being monotribic. Four major pollen types are recognized: 3-colpate with variations of minor os formation or polar exine thickening; pantoporate; 12-colpate with four colpi forming a square at each pole and four perpendicular to the equator; and 15-colpate with five colpi forming a pentagon at each pole and five perpendicular to the equator. In terms of gross morphology the family is considered relatively primitive with only occasional examples of characters considered advanced. In terms of pollen morphology, the family has advanced types (those other than 3-colpate) well represented.
10.2307/3298599|Twenty-five species are treated in this work, in which exomorphological characters are analyzed cladistically. Species of Paspalum subg. Ceresia are characterized by their rigid, filiform to lanceolate blades, inflorescences with one to several racemes, rachis of the racemes winged and hyaline to membranous, spikelets pilose, occasionally glabrous, with the upper anthecium pale, hyaline to membranous, occasionally chartaceous, and the upper lemma not enclosing the tip of the upper palea. Species grow in South America from Mexico to Argentina and Uruguay. A cladistic analysis of subgenus Ceresia was conducted to test its monophyly, and to establish its relationship with other groups of Paspalum. A key to the species in subgenus Ceresia is given, as well as morphological description and illustration, and distribution maps.
10.2307/2394761|Morphological and anatomical evidence is presented for recognizing the generic status of the two American species of Juglandaceae with winged fruits. Oreomunnea pterocarpa is endemic to Costa Rica, while O. mexicana ranges from Mexico to Costa Rica. Engelhardia nicaraguensis Molina is reduced to synonymy under O. mexicana subsp. mexicana, and O. mexicana subsp. costaricensis is described as new. Information is provided on the geographic range, general ecology, morphology, and taxonomy of the American taxa. The somatic count of 2n = 32 for O. mexicana subsp. mexicana is the first report for the genus.
40033786|Distictis Mart, ex Meisn. is a genus of 11 species in the tribe Bignonieae. All the species are lianas and can be recognized by their ribbed hexangular branchlets without interpetiolar glandular fields; bifoliolate leaves with a trifid (or occasionally additionally branched) terminal tendril; terminal inflorescence; usually glandular, campanulate, more or less truncate calyces; more or less straight, tubular-infundibular or tubular-campanulate corollas that are white, purple, orange, or red; usually elliptic, non-echinate capsules with both ends pointed, and often with both valves convex; and usually bialate seeds, with the body brown and ridged and often papillose or pubescent, and the wings usually well demarcated from the seed body and membranous-hyaline. Relationships with similar genera are discussed, and a key to the species of Distictis, species descriptions, and species distribution maps are provided. The relationships of the species are also discussed, and a new combination, D. frutescens (DC.) A. Pool, is proposed. A neotype is designated for D. granulosa Bureau & K. Schum., and lectotypes are designated for Bignonia rigescens Jacq., Pithecoctenium buccinatorium DC, P. buccinatorium var. subinclusum DC, P. buccinatorium var. exsertum DC, P. cinereum DC, and P. uleanum Kraenzl. Pithecoctenium stipulare Mart, ex DC. and D. stipularis Mart, ex Glaz. are presented as new synonyms of D. frutescens, P. cinereum var. parviflorum Hochr. is presented as a new synonym of D. laxiflora (DC) Greenm., and P. scabriusculum var. macranthum Bureau & K. Schum. is presented as a new synonym of D. scabriuscula (Mart, ex DC.) A. H. Gentry.
10.2307/2398921|Pollen loads were analyzed from 30 honey possums in the Albany region of southwestern Australia. The pollen of Banksia attenuata was the major component of the pollen loads followed by Adenanthos cuneata and Banksia coccinea. The data from pollen loads and flower-head morphometrics indicate that Tarsipes is the primary pollinator of Banksia attenuata, and not birds as might be surmised from other characteristics. Tarsipes also visits typically bird-pollinated plants such as Banksia coccinea and Adenanthos cuneata, but little or no pollination would be expected from such visitation. The lack of distinct flowering seasonality in the southwestern Australian flora is correlated with the presence of a high percentage of long-lived, resident pollinators such as birds and nonflying mammals. A number of plant genera are mentioned which show possible adaptations for pollination by nonflying mammals. Several groups of small mammals which might play a role in pollination are also discussed.
10.2307/2399853|The evolutionary relationships among the seven tribes of Onagraceae, the most intensively studied family of intermediate size, have been examined from morphological and molecular perspectives. Previous cladistic analyses of chloroplast (cp) and nuclear ribosomal (nr) DNA restriction sites, nuclear-encoded rbcS amino acid sequences, nrRNA nucleotide sequences, and morphological characters, produced trees that agree in defining the tribe Jussiaeeae as the sister group to the rest of the family. However, the relationships among the rest of the tribes are not completely resolved by these analyses. Cladistic analyses of sequence data from the chloroplast encoded rbcL gene produced results that bear on two major issues: (i) intertribal relationships within Onagraceae, and (ii) congruence with other cladistic analyses. Sequences of rbcL were obtained from all tribes of Onagraceae and from three families that have been proposed as sister taxa of Onagraceae on the basis of other molecular and morphological evidence (Lythraceae, Punicaceae, Trapaceae). Phylogenetic analysis of rbcL sequence data produced a single most parsimonious tree, both Fitch and weighted, that defines three strongly supported monophyletic groups within the family: all tribes except Jussiaeeae; Onagreae and Epilobieae; and, most interestingly, Fuchsieae and Circaeeae. The formation of this last clade corroborates the results of the cpDNA restriction site and of the nrRNA sequence data. The data also indicate an apparent slowdown in the rate of rbcL sequence divergence in the woody Fuchsia lineage relative to the herbaceous Circaea lineage. The placements of monogeneric tribes Lopezieae and Hauyeae are not strongly supported. The topology of the rbcL tree basically confirms that of the cpDNA restriction site tree. Among the other cladistic analyses, the nrRNA sequence survey produced the tree closest to the rbcL tree, followed in order by the rbcS amino acid sequence tree, the nrDNA restriction site tree, and the morphological tree.
40035769|Two new arborescent species of Santalaceae, both endemic to Madagascar, are described in the new monotypic genera, Staufferia Z. S. Rogers, Nickrent & Malcot and Pilgerina Z. S. Rogers, Nickrent & Malcot. Based on available molecular and morphological data, the new species are part of a clade formed with Pyrularia Michx. of Asia and North America, the Indo-Malesian genus Scleropyrum Arn., and the central and western African Okoubaka Pellegr. & Normand. Staufferia is distinguished morphologically from Okoubaka by the smaller inflorescences (4 to 10 vs. 50 to 100 flowers); smaller (1.8-2  1.1-1.6 cm vs. ca. 9  5 cm), obovoidal (vs. ellipsoidal) fruits; smaller (ca. 1.5 mm vs. 7-8 mm diam.), persistent perianth; thinner (0.5-1 mm vs. 15-20 mm thick), 5-sulcate (vs. smooth) exocarp; and thinner (ca. 0.5 mm vs. 3-4 mm thick), smooth (vs. deeply striate or alveolate) mesocarp. Pilgerina differs from Scleropyrum by the smaller inflorescences (8 to 23 vs. 60 to 100 flowers); pedicellate (vs. sessile) flowers; smaller (1.2-1.9  1.7-2.7 cm vs. ca. 3  2 cm), broadly transversely ellipsoidal to subspheroidal (vs. obovoidal to pyriform) fruits; and thinner (ca. 0.5 mm vs. 1.5-3 mm thick), smooth or finely striate (vs. deeply striate or alveolate) mesocarp. Both species are illustrated and assigned an IUCN preliminary conservation status of Least Concern (LC).
10.2307/2399500|Chromosome numbers are reported for all eleven taxa currently recognized in Fuchsia sect. Quelusia and for F. lycioides, the sole member of sect. Kierschlegeria. Results are based on the study of individuals from 103 native populations and 13 cultivated plants. Most species and sections of Fuchsia are diploid (n = x = 11), but sects. Quelusia and Kierschlegeria are entirely polyploid, including the only naturally occurring octoploids in the genus. Polyploidy in these sections is always associated with 3(4)-aperturate pollen grains, instead of the normal 2-aperturate condition in the genus. All chromosome counts obtained from F. lycioides and from seven of the nine species in sect. Quelusia were tetraploid, but intraspecific variation in ploidy level was found in two Brazilian species of sect. Quelusia. The only wild individual examined of F. alpestris was tetraploid, whereas a cultivated specimen of this species from Europe was octoploid. In the widespread, polytypic F. regia, all individuals examined of subspecies reitzii and serrae were octoploid, but both tetraploid and octoploid populations were found in subsp. regia. Both ploidy levels were also found in the extreme northern range of subsp. serrae, in individuals that were morphologically intermediate with subsp. regia. This situation suggests that octoploidy has evolved recently and possibly repeatedly in sect. Quelusia, whereas tetraploidy probably originated in a common ancestor to sects. Quelusia and Kierschlegeria.
10.2307/2399942|Five genera of Magnoliaceae occur in China; these and the 81 indigenous and 7 cultivated species they contain are described here. In Magnolia, 28 wild and 4 cultivated species are recognized. Magnolia nitida var. robusta is newly described, and Magnolia lotungensis is reduced to Magnolia nitida var. lotungensis. In Manglietia, 17 indigenous and 1 cultivated species are recognized. Section Manglietiastrum is transferred from Magnolia to Manglietia, and Magnolia sinica is renamed Manglietia sinica. Manglietia forrestii is reduced to Manglietia fordiana var. forrestii, Manglietia kwangtungensis is reduced to Manglietia fordiana var. kwangtungensis, and Manglietia calcarea is reduced to Manglietia fordiana var. calcarea. In Kmeria, one species is recorded for China. In Michelia, 34 indigenous and 1 cultivated species are recognized. Section Tsoongiodendron, based on Tsoongiodendron W. Y. Chun, is recognized with one species, Michelia odora; section Paramichelia, based on Paramichelia H. H. Hu, is recognized with one species in China. Michelia elliptilimba is newly described. Michelia crassipes is reduced to Michelia figo var. crassipes. In Liriodendron one indigenous and one cultivated species are recognized. An identification list of all the collections studied, as well as a bibliography of Chinese Magnoliaceae, is given at the end of the paper.
10.2307/2399181|A new species of Rubiaceae, Antirhea aromatica Castillo-Campos & Lorence, is described from central Veracruz, Mexico. A tree of the tropical semideciduous forest, it appears to be very localized in distribution and is the first record of the genus for Veracruz. Its distribution, habitat, and affinities are discussed, and specimen citations are given.
10.2307/2399342|Thirty-nine palynomorphs have been identified from among 54 forms recovered from the lower Miocene La Boca Formation in the Canal region of Panama. These are ascomycete cleistothecia, the dinoflagellates Spiniferites and Operculodinium, Lycopodium, Selaginella, Cyathea, Pteris (types 1 and 2), cf. Antrophyum, other trilete fern spores (types 1-3), monolete fern spores (types 1-5), Gramineae, Palmae (Attalea, Manicaria, and Synechanthus types), Ilex, cf. Aguiaria, cf. Ceiba, Pseudobombax, Alchornea, Alfaroa/Engelhardia, Crudia, Utricularia, Malpighiaceae (types 1-5), Malvaceae, Rhizophora (constituting 67-88% of five samples counted), Rubiaceae (types 1 and 2), and Pelliciera. The flora is estuarine in aspect, and consistent with three other lower Miocene assemblages (Uscari, Culebra, Cucaracha), reflects low-lying volcanic islands fringed seaward by mangroves, with freshwater fern and palm swamp marshes in the lowlands and versions of the tropical wet, tropical moist, and premontane forests on the adjacent slopes. There is no palynological evidence for communities of drier to arid aspect (including savannahs) or of high altitudes; elevations of 1,200 to 1,500 m would accommodate all taxa present in the La Boca and other fossil floras. The affinity of the flora is distinctly with Central America and areas to the north. With the exception of Crudia, all genera occur in the modern vegetation of Panama, and consequently the paleoclimate, in agreement with Tertiary paleotemperature curves, was similar to that prevailing today in coastal, lowland, and moderate-altitude tropical habitats in southern Central America.
10.2307/2399690|The Ranunculaceae Juss. are distributed worldwide. The primary differentiation of this family apparently took place in the vast territory of Eurasia during the Paleogene at least 50 million years ago or earlier, in Cretaceous time. The western and eastern floristic centers in eastern Asia played the most significant role in the secondary differentiation (i.e., formation of most genera and some groups of species), but important additional centers of ranunculaceous differentiation were in North and South America. The distribution of many groups of this family throughout the world and their local differentiation were associated with the general fall in temperature, development of the temperate floras, and the Alpine rise of mountain ridges (Neogene and more recent epochs).
10.2307/2395273| The use of the distribution patterns of plant natural products--alkaloids, terpenes, phenolics, etc.--is well established as a major tool for investigating population structures, species, and phyletic relationships of genera. Here, it is suggested that the distribution patterns of biogenetically closely related substances should be of considerable value for deducing evolutionary relationships at higher taxonomic levels. Approximately 540 plant taxa (cultivars through orders) have been included in approximately 150 systematic serological publications in the last 25 years. Research has demonstrated that extracts of seeds, pollen, leaves, tubers, and spores of vascular plants can be used if the required extraction procedures are followed. Both quantitative and qualitative immunological techniques have provided complementary data which have proven to be provocative and valuable in the classification of higher plants. The examples presented clearly indicate serology has contributed chemical data which can be--and have been--used with other data to aid in producing systems of classification such as those of Cronquist and Takhtajan. The phylogenetic relationships among 15 species belonging to 12 families of vascular plants based on a comparison of cytochrome c amino acid sequences agree in general outline with morphologically based phylogenetic diagrams. Amino acid sequence data on homologous plant proteins are in too limited a supply to permit other than very preliminary phylogenetic comparisons. Acquisition of more data will require considerable time and work before an impact will be realized. Published protein sequence data have not revolutionized presently accepted phylogenetic diagrams, and it is too soon to hint at the ultimate contribution of sequence data to phylogenetic schemes. The technique of nucleic acid hybridization is, in principle, applicable to chemotaxonomy at all taxonomic levels since it involves the fundamental hereditary material deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and its transcribed copy, ribonucleic acid (RNA). In contrast to the relative ease with which meaningful plant natural products distribution patterns are determined, are the difficulties and patience required to carry out nucleic acid hybridization experiments and to interpret the results from them. Thus, it is not surprising that few nucleic acid hybridization data for higher plants are available to meaningfully influence the interpretations of Cronquist and Takhtajan for the evolution of the angiosperms; nevertheless, the method inherently has great potential. 
10.2307/2666163|Species of the Chinese endemic genera Yinshania, Hilliella, and Cochleariella were originally placed in or closely associated with Cochlearia. A previous preliminary molecular study mainly on European Cochlearia and detailed morphological studies by us showed that this complex was not affined to Cochlearia s. str. Depending on the authority consulted, the number of taxa recognized in this complex ranged from 11 to 25 species in one to four genera. The present phylogenetic study is based on the analysis of the ITS (internal transcribed spacer regions of the nuclear ribosomal DNA) and the chloroplast trnL-intron sequences from 18 taxa. Resulting phylogenies were compared, and the results demonstrate that there are two different lineages. One lineage combines exclusively the highly polyploid taxa from Hilliella and Cochleariella. The second lineage includes the diploid taxa from Yinshania. However, incongruencies when nrDNA- and cpDNA-derived phylogenies were compared suggest hybridization between these two lineages. We followed a concept to combine all taxa of this complex into the genus Yinshania. Our results from phylogenetic analysis of nr and cpDNA support the association of Yinshania with Cardamine and Rorippa, rather than with Cochlearia, as was suggested by nearly all previous authors.
10.2307/2399572|The genus Rondonanthus Herzog has until now contained only the species R. roraimae and R. micropetalus, and has been defined by free petals in both sexes of flowers and the dioecious condition. It is here redefined according to a large suite of characters, especially the presence of long filamentous staminodes in the pistillate flowers, and by the adnation of the filament base to the corolla in the staminate flowers. Five additional species, including the monotypic genus Wurdackia, are transferred to Rondonanthus, and R. micropetalus is removed to Paepalanthus. It is proposed that Rondonanthus is a highly primitive paepalanthoid genus, to be taken as a primitive outgroup of Syngonanthus.
10.2307/2399754|The recognition of numerous similarities between Isoetes L. and extinct arborescent lycopsids historically led to one of the best known phylogenetic lineages in vascular plant evolution. The lycopsid reduction series proposed the derivation of the extant quillwort Isoetes from the Carboniferous lepidodendrids through a progressive reduction in both stems and stigmarian rooting systems. New information gained in the past decade demonstrates that the history of this group is more complex than the linear reduction sequence suggests. Newly recognized isoetalean plants, such as Protostigmaria Jennings, Chaloneria Pigg & Rothwell, and Cormophyton Pigg & Taylor, establish the presence of isoetalean lycopsids in the Paleozoic. In Mesozoic strata, isoetaleans were widespread and diverse. They included woody plants, such as Pleuromeia Corda, that resemble the Carboniferous lycopsid Chaloneria, and smaller forms (Isoetites Munster) more similar to the extant Isoetes. In the Cretaceous and Tertiary, forms similar to the modern genus Isoetes were also widespread. Differences among "woody" isoetalean lycopsids such as Chaloneria, Takhtajanodoxa Snigirevskaya, and Pleuromeia are minimal; their differences with Isoetes are also relatively few. Trends that can be documented among isoetaleans include the reduction of axial elongation and vegetative growth, a change from trilete to monolete microspores, the development of sunken sporangia with a velum, and development of ligules with glossopodia. The relationship of these isoetalean plants to the lepidodendrids and other members of the rhizomorphic clade (sensu Rothwell and Erwin) is based on homologies between rooting structures and comparative ontogenetic studies. This new information suggests that lycopsid diversity is complex and that phylogenetic and ecological aspects of the rhizomorphic forms are closely intertwined.
10.2307/2399313|Panicum subg. Panicum sect. Rudgeana, herein revised, includes six species: P. cayennense, P. campestre, P. cervicatum, P. ligulare, P. rudgei and P. vinaceum. It is characterized mainly by a stipitate upper anthecium. The stipe consists of two portions: a membranous portion towards the ventral face of the spikelet and an indurate portion towards its dorsal face. The position of the section within subg. Panicum is discussed, as is the relationship of Rudgeana with other sections containing species having a stipitate upper anthecium.
10.2307/2399192|Since Linnaeus originally described 22 species in the single genus Cactus, over 11,000 binomials and 400 generic names have been proposed for Cactaceae, and the nomenclature of cacti has been in a constant state of change and turmoil. When Engelmann began his cactus studies, only 25 generic names had been proposed, and the family was not well collected. Engelmann described and skillfully illustrated many cacti from the western United States and northernmost Mexico. By 1900, all known columnar species were classified in Cereus Miller; but soon Britton and Rose subdivided this form genus into many smaller and more homogeneous units. The descriptive phase of cactology has slowed, and since Buxbaum researchers have attempted to unravel the evolution of the family and to express phylogenetic information in a generic classification. One area of active phylogenetic research has been in tribe Pachycereeae, which includes the large columnar cacti of Mexico and adjacent areas. These species are often treated as two subtribes: Stenocereinae, which includes species with funicular pigment cells, abundant stem triterpenes, and seeds with verrucose testa having prominent striae; and Pachycereinae, which includes species that lack funicular pigment cells and that often have stem alkaloids but no triterpenes and seeds with smooth testa. New chemical surveys of Stenocereinae have revealed that an individual stem usually has a great number of triterpene glycosides and flavonoids. Crude visual comparisons are made of chromatographic patterns in triterpenes and flavonoids to evaluate existing phylogenetic hypotheses of the species groups. New reports of alkaloids in Pachycereinae are presented for Lemaireocereus hollianus, Neobuxbaumia mezcalaensis, Pachycereus grandis, and several species of Cephalocereus, but alkaloids are definitely absent in some of the species of Cephalocereus and Neobuxbaumia as well as Mitrocereus. In addition, alkaloids are reported here for the first time in species of Stenocereinae.
40035739|A taxonomic treatment of Trisetum Pers. for South America, is given. Eighteen species and six varieties of Trisetum are recognized in South America. Chile (14 species, 3 varieties) and Argentina (12 species, 5 varieties) have the greatest number of taxa in the genus. Two varieties, T. barbinode var. sclerophyllum and T. longiglume var. glabratum, are endemic to Argentina, whereas T. mattheii and T. nancaguense are known only from Chile. Trisetum andinum is endemic to Ecuador, T. macbridei is endemic to Peru, and T. foliosum is endemic to Venezuela. A total of four species are found in Ecuador and Peru, and there are two species in Venezuela and Colombia. The following new species are described and illustrated: Trisetum mattheii Finot and T. nancaguense Finot, from Chile, and T. pyramidatum Louis-Marie ex Finot, from Chile and Argentina. The following two new combinations are made: T. barbinode var. sclerophyllum (Hack, ex Stuck.) Finot and T. spicatum var. cumingii (Nees ex Steud.) Finot. A key for distinguishing the species and varieties of Trisetum in South America is given. The names Koeleria cumingii Nees ex Steud., Trisetum sect. Anaulacoa Louis-Marie, Trisetum sect. Aulacoa Louis-Marie, Trisetum subg. Heterolytrum Louis-Marie, Trisetum subg. Isolytrum Louis-Marie, Trisetum subsect. Koeleriformia Louis-Marie, Trisetum subsect. Sphenopholidea Louis-Marie, Trisetum malacophyllum Steud., Trisetum variabile E. Desv., and Trisetum variabile var. virescens E. Desv. are lectotypified. /// Se realiz un estudio taxonmico del gnero Trisetum en Amrica del Sur. Se reconoci 18 especies y 6 variedades sudamericanas de Trisetum. Chile (14 especies, 3 variedades) y Argentina 12 especies, 5 variedades) poseen el mayor nmero de taxones del gnero Trisetum. Dos variedades, T. barbinode var sclerophyllum y T. longiglume var glabratum, son endmicos de Argentina, mientras T. mattheii y T. nancaguense se conocen slo para Chile. Cuatro especies se encuentran en Ecuador y Per y dos especies en Venezuela y Colombia. Trisetum andinum es endmica del Ecuador, T. macbridei es endmica del Per, y T. foliosum es endmica de Venezuela. Se describen e ilustran las siguientes nuevas especies: Trisetum mattheii Finot y T. nancaguense Finot, de Chile, y T. pyramidatum Louis-Marie ex Finot, de Chile y Argentina. Se establecen las siguientes dos nuevas combinaciones: T. barbinode var sclerophyllum (Hack. ex Stuck.) Finot y T. spicatum var cumingii (Nees ex Steud.) Finot. Se entrega una clave para separar las especies y variedades de Trisetum en Sudamrica. Los nombres Koeleria cumingii Nees ex Steud., Trisetum sect. Anaulacoa Louis-Marie, Trisetum sect. Aulacoa Louis-Marie, Trisetum subg. Heterolytrum Louis-Marie, Trisetum subg. Isolytrum Louis-Marie, Trisetum subsect. Koeleriformia Louis-Marie, Trisetum subsect. Sphenopholidea Louis-Marie, Trisetum malacophyllum Steud., Trisetum variabile E. Desv., y Trisetum variabile var virescens E. Desv. fueron lectotipificados.
10.2307/2399167|In this paper we present the first embryological studies of Alzatea, one of the genera of the order Myrtales whose placement has been most controversial. Although Alzatea agrees rather completely with the other Myrtales in its basic embryological characteristics, it stands apart from all other members of the order that have been examined in having a bisporic Allium-type embryo sac. Comparisons with related groups, including Axinandra, Rhynchocalyx, Lythraceae, and Melastomataceae, indicate that Alzatea shares many more characteristics with Rhynchocalyx than with the others. Among the groups mentioned, only Alzatea and Rhynchocalyx coincide in their micropyle form, and both genera further agree with Lythraceae in the multi-celled ovule archesporium, which is not known elsewhere in the order except in one of the small subfamilies of Lythraceae, Sonneratioideae. A totality of similarities and dissimilarities with the other Myrtales favors the establishment of a monotypic family, Alzateaceae, and suggests that Alzatea and Rhynchocalyx may be parallel descendants from a common ancestor, with which the modern Lythraceae possibly has a link.
10.2307/2399777|The Asteraceae are generally divided into two large subfamilies, the Cichorioideae (syn. Lactucoideae; tribes Mutisieae, Cardueae, Lactuceae, Vernonieae, Liabeae, Arctoteae) and the Asteroideae (Inuleae, Astereae, Anthemideae, Senecioneae, Calenduleae, Heliantheae, Eupatorieae). Recent phylogenetic analyses based on morphological and chloroplast DNA data show that the Mutisieae-Barnadesiinae are the sister group to the rest of the family. The Mutisieae-Barnadesiinae are here excluded from the Mutisieae and elevated to the new subfamily Barnadesioidae.
10.2307/2394879|Hepaticites devonicus is described from the lowermost Upper Devonian of New York. Many fragments were obtained by macerating shale This is the oldest fossil hepatic reported to date. It is tentatively considered to be a member of the Anacrogynae, and is compared with the living genera Pallavicinia and Metzgeria. Francis M. Hueber, Department of Botany, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York.
40035058|Chromosome numbers and observations on meiotic chromosome behavior of 37 taxa of American Panicoideae are given. The taxa studied are: Axonopus scoparius (Flgg) Kuhlm., Cenchrus myosuroides Kunth, Dichanthelium aciculare var. aciculare (Desv. ex Poir.) Gould & C. A. Clark, D. acuminatum var. acuminatum (Sw.) Gould & C. A. Clark, Echinochloa chacoensis P. W. Michael ex Renvoize, Eriochloa montevidensis Griseb., Isachne arundinacea (Sw.) Griseb., Panicum hirticaule J. Presl, P. stoloniferum Poir., P. trichanthum Nees, Paspalum blodgettii Chapm., P. buchtienii Hack., P. caespitosum Flgg, P. candidum (Humb. & Bonpl. ex Flgg) Kunth, P. ceresia (Kuntze) Chase, P. clavuliferum C. Wright, P. commune Lillo, P. denticulatum Trin., P. ekmanianum Henrard, P. ellipticum Dll, P. fimbriatum Kunth, P. glabrinode (Hack.) Morrone & Zuloaga, P. glaucescens Hack., P. hartwegianum E. Fourn., P. inconstans Chase, P. indecorum Mez, P. juergensii Hack., P. pauciciliatum (Parodi) Herter, P. penicillatum Hook, f., P. plicatulum Michx., P. prostratum Scribn. & Merr., P. saccharoides Nees ex Trin., P. squamulatum E. Fourn., P. variabile (E. Fourn.) Nash, P. wrightii Hitchc. & Chase, Urochloa fusca (Sw.) B. F. Hansen & Wunderlin, and U. lorentziana (Mez) Morrone & Zuloaga. Nine counts are first reports for Echinochloa chacoensis (2n = ca. 72), Panicum stoloniferum (2n = 20), Paspalum buchtienii (2n = 20), P. ceresia (2n = 40), P. ekmanianum (2n = 20), P. glabrinode (2n = 20), P. inconstans (2n = ca. 60), P. penicillatum (2n = 40), and P. variabile (2n = 40). Ten counts differed from previously published counts: Axonopus scoparius (2n = 60), Cenchrus myosuroides (2n = ca. 72), Isachne arundinacea (2n = 20), Paspalum denticulatum (2n = 20), P. ellipticum (2n = 40), P. fimbriatum (2n = ca. 40), P. hartwegianum (2n = 40), P. saccharoides (2n = 40), P. squamulatum (2n = 20), and Urochloa lorentziana (2n = 36).
10.2307/2399827|The genus Styphnolobium is recognized as a segregate from Sophora on the basis of habit, stipels, bracteoles, legume, and chromosome number. It is enlarged from four to nine species through the description of five species new to science: Styphnolobium burseroides, S. monteviridis, S. parviflorum, S. protantherum, and S. sporadicum. Two sections are recognized, one requiring the new combination section Oresbios. The genus is centered in the Mexican-Mesoamerican area. Through similarities in habit, bracteoles, and dehiscence of the legume, it is clearly most closely related to Calia.
41238124|The African Plants Initiative (API) was conceived as a web-based, electronic venture that would provide rapid access to images of type specimens of African plant names. This soon grew to also encompass images of living plants, associated taxonomic literature, artwork, and related texts. In many respects, Africa, which is host to a flora of over 50,000 species, for which about six times that number of alternative and incorrect names are available, has historically lagged behind the world in terms of both taxonomic capacity and access to the global electronic ether. Through the API, a consortium of 73 institutions from the North and South, 291,289 specimen images alone are now available for accessing through the Internet. In this regard, the API has been a pioneer in and has become a catalyst for facilitating the generation and dissemination of fundamental taxonomic information on African plants, a role it is increasingly fulfilling through the JSTOR Plant Science portals.
10.2307/2399162|The wood anatomical diversity of the woody Myrtales, comprising Combretaceae, Lythraceae (including Alzatea), Melastomataceae (including Cryteroniaceae), Myrtaceae, Oliniaceae, Onagraceae, Penaeaceae, Punicaceae (can also be included in Lythraceae), Psiloxylaceae, Sonneratiaceae and also Thymelaeceae, is summarized. All these families share intraxylary phloem and vestured pits, and their other wood anatomimcal attributes represent parts of continuous, sometimes divergent, often parallel, specialization series. Rhizophoraceae, Lecythicaceae, Elatinaceae, Cordiaceae, Chrystobalanaceae and Dialypetalanthaceae are excluded because they lack this combination of characters. The phylogenetic relationships within Myrtales are discussed, and pictured in a two-dimensional diagram (Figs. 2-8). Most families are mutually closely related. The wider wood anatomical affinities of the order are with Gentianales.
10.2307/2399219|Historical ecology is presented as a complementary approach to evolutionary ecology. The prime distinction between the two approaches is the use of direct estimates of history in explanations by the former and of indirect estimates of history by the latter. Direct estimates of history are obtained by using phylogenetic systematics. They require analysis of many species simultaneously. Indirect estimates can be applied in individual cases and include such concepts as: (1) equating number of species in an ecological association with the age of the association; (2) equating the geographic range of a species with its age; and (3) equating the specificity of ecological interactions with the length of time species have been associated. Historical ecological methods have been applied in three general areas: (1) the historical context of geographic distribution patterns; (2) the historical context of ecological associations; and (3) the historical context of particular ecological life history traits. A unified quantitative approach allows historical ecological analysis for individual clades or aggregates of clades. Among the most interesting general conclusions that are forthcoming from the historical ecological perspective are those that differ from the evolutionary ecological view. These include: (1) ecological diversification lags behind morphological diversification historically; (2) degree of specificity is not a thoroughly reliable indicator of the age of an association; (3) resource tracking models of coevolution seem to include unacceptable assumptions; and (4) maximum competition scenarios are indistinguishable from random association scenarios. Future studies promise to be fruitful.
40035489|The North American-Greenlandic genus Boechera . Lve & D. Lve (Brassicaceae) is distinguished from other phylogenetic lineages recognized within the artificial taxon Arabis L. s.l., in which it has formerly been included, by its base chromosome number x = 7. Based on outgroup comparisons, we consider this chromosome number to be derived from an ancestral genome comprising eight chromosomes. Chromosome counts are now available for about half of the species names listed in the most recent taxonomic treatments of the genus. An analysis of the karyological differentiation with respect to chromosome numbers was performed, and these patterns were correlated with data on pollen viability and population genetic measures in order to deduce modes of reproduction. This approach allowed us to distinguish three main groups: sexual, amphiapomictic, and apomictic species, respectively. We focused further on the cytology of gametes, especially on that of pollen, and we discuss its role in the formation of new genotypes and cytotypes. Evidence for the following evolutionary phenomena is currently available: (1) allopolyploidization, (2) homoploid hybrid formation, and (3) establishment of viable offspring by means of fusion of highly aneuploid gametes, which resulted from irregular meiotic divisions. In contrast, there is no strict evidence demonstrating the occurrence of autopolyploidization. Boechera experts have just started to integrate evolutionary concepts derived from molecular analyses into taxonomic research, and profound changes, with respect to species definition and circumscription, are to be expected in the near future. The identified modes of reproduction and evolutionary phenomena will contribute to the development of a theoretical and practical basis on which future taxonomic classifications and species concepts can be based.
10.2307/2399632|A checklist is provided for the Gramineae of the Brazilian Shield region in eastern Santa Cruz, Bolivia. Annotations include keys to genera and species, a regional synonymy, notes on habitat preference, geographic distribution, cytology, phenology, and palatability for 275 species of tropical grasses; six new taxa are described: Andropogon sanlorenzanus, Eragrostis chiquitaniensis, Eriochrysis x concepcionensis, Paspalum kempffii, Schizachyrium beckii, and Thrasya crucensis.
40982875|The order Poales comprises a substantial portion of plant life (7% of all angiosperms and 3 3% of monocots) and includes taxa of enormous economic and ecological significance. Molecular and morphological studies over the past two decades, however, leave uncertain many relationships within Poales and among allied commelinid orders. Here we present the results of an initial project by the Monocot AToL (Angiosperm Tree of Life) team on phylogeny and evolution in Poales, using sequence data for 81 plastid genes (exceeding 101 aligned kb) from 83 species of angiosperms. We recovered highly concordant relationships using maximum likelihood (ML) and maximum parsimony (MP), with 98.2% mean ML bootstrap support across monocots. For the first time, ML resolves ties among Poales and other commelinid orders with moderate to strong support. Analyses provide strong support for Bromeliaceae being sister to the rest of Poales; Typhaceae, Rapateaceae, and cyperids (sedges, rushes, and their allies) emerge next along the phylogenetic spine. Graminids (grasses and their allies) and restiids (Restionaceae and its allies) are well supported as sister taxa. MP identifies a xyrid clade (Eriocaulaceae, Mayacaceae, Xyridaceae) sister to cyperids, but ML (with much stronger support) places them as a grade with respect to restiids + graminids. The conflict in resolution between these analyses likely reflects long-branch attraction and highly elevated substitution rates in some Poales. All other familial relationships within the order are strongly supported by both MP and ML analyses. Character-state mapping implies that ancestral Poales lived in sunny, fire-prone, at least seasonally damp/wet, and possibly nutrient-poor sites, and were animal pollinated. Five subsequent shifts to wind pollinationin Typhaceae, cyperids, restiids, Ecdeiocoleaceae, and the vast PACCMAD-BEP clade of grassesare significantly correlated with shifts to open habitats and small, inconspicuous, unisexual, and nectar-free flowers. Prime ecological movers driving the repeated evolution of wind pollination in Poales appear to include open habitats combined with the high local dominance of conspecific taxa, with the latter resulting from large-scale disturbances, combined with tall plant stature, vigorous vegetative spread, and positive ecological feedback. Reproductive assurance in the absence of reliable animal visitation probably favored wind pollination in annuals and short-statured perennials of Centrolepidaceae in ephemerally wet depressions and windswept alpine sites.
10.2307/2394858|Recent collecting has produced eight major range extensions or other unusual plants for the Ozark flora.
40035672|Biogeography is one of the most synthetic of biological undertakings; it requires placing a substantiated phylogenetic model in a geological, climatological, and ecological context, all of which shift through time. In the past two decades, the application of cladistic and molecular techniques has diversified our grasp on phylogeny. This has allowed the formulation of hypotheses of past distribution patterns based on samples from available living material and algorithms for their interpretation. Fossils contribute to these cladistic approaches by adding morphological checkpoints to character associations in time and by providing a basis for estimates of rates of divergence. However, fossils also check these hypotheses by direct occurrence (does a fossil of the taxon occur where predicted?) and by ecological suitability (is it reasonable that the taxon could occur in the predicted environment?). The first test is straightforward if difficult, requiring the finding of a specific fossil in a specific place and time. The second is based on the assumption of physiological uniformitarianism--that fossil and modern taxa united by a common morphology possess similar physiologies. If correct, then hypotheses of past distribution must accord with the predicted physiological tolerances of the taxon in question. Application of physiological uniformitarianism to phylogeographic hypotheses, together with new paleontological data, suggest (a) the validity of many established phylogeographic hypotheses; (b) the need to reevaluate others; and (c) the recognition that the North Atlantic land bridge likely functioned as a link between the Old and New Worlds into the Later Tertiary, contrary to this author's earlier papers.
40035751|Plastid sequences of trnL-F are used to estimate the age of biogeographical events in New World Asclepiadoideae. These data suggest that the subfamily arose somewhere in the Old World in the Late Eocene (40 million years ago (Ma)) and that there were at least four independent episodes of dispersal to the New World. The MOG clade, comprising Metastelmatinae, Oxypetalinae, and Gonolobinae, probably colonized South America through transoceanic dispersal from Africa at 32 Ma. The three subtribes emerged at 24 Ma, radiating 15-16 Ma. Cynanchum L. subg. Mellichampia (A. Gray) Woodson (Cynanchinae) only arrived in the New World at 24 Ma and has since diversified gradually. Asclepias L. (Asclepiadinae) probably arrived in the New World through the Bering Strait at 20 Ma, dispersing to South America before the emergence of the Isthmus of Panama. More recently, tropical Marsdenia R. Br. (Marsdenineae) probably arrived in the New World by long-distance dispersal at 16 Ma. Most diversification in New World Asclepiadoideae is estimated to have occurred during the Miocene. The synchrony of events suggests an environmental influence on the diversification of the lineages. Nevertheless, individual rates of diversification point out the importance of intrinsic factors.
10.2307/2399824|Five species of Commelina (Commelinaceae), all introduced in the eastern United States, are reviewed and discussed. The widespread but overlooked C. caroliniana is contrasted with the more common C. diffusa, and the species are found to be distinguished best by their seeds. Commelina gigas is determined to be a polyploid of C. diffusa, and the new combination C. diffusa var. gigas is made. Variety gigas is considered likely to have been separately introduced. Commelina benghalensis probably became naturalized in Florida early this century. Of the two recently discovered species, C. forskaolii is known from a single Florida population that may have been eradicated, and C. nigritana var. gambiae is becoming well established along roadsides in Florida. Maps of the eastern North American distributions of C. caroliniana, C. diffusa var. gigas, C. benghalensis, C. forskaolii, and C. nigritana var. gambiae are provided. Chromosome counts are reported for C. caroliniana (2n = ca. 86), C. diffusa var. diffusa (2n = 30), C. diffusa var. gigas (2n = 90), C. benghalensis (2n = 22), C. forskaolii (2n = 30), and C. nigritana var. gambiae (2n = 56), all first reports from the United States.
3298617|Within the sister families Frankeniaceae and Tamaricaceae (order Caryophyllales) we investigate the systematic placement of Hypericopsis, Myrtama, and Hololachna, which have at times been lumped into other genera (Frankenia, Tamarix or Myricaria, and Reaumuria, respectively) or, alternatively, retained as small distinct genera. We describe their previous taxonomic placements and analyze sequence data from the nuclear ribosomal region 18S and chloroplast regions rbcL and tRNA Ser (GCU)/ tRNA Gly (UCC) intergenic spacer for the genera in both families, finding cladistic support for the placement of Hypericopsis within Frankenia, and for Myrtama and Hololachna as distinct genera.
10.2307/2399409|The new species Ocotea uxpanapana is a common riparian tree of the Uxpanapa area of extreme southern Veracruz, Mexico. It appears to be most closely related to O. eucuneata of Guatemala and Belize. It is yet another species apparently endemic to the rain forests of the Uxpanapa area.
10.2307/2399570|Seven species of Lauraceae from Ecuador and Peru are described and their affinities are discussed. The new species belong to the genera Caryodaphnopsis (C. tomentosa), Cinnamomum (C. napoense and C. palaciosii), Endlicheria (E. citriodora), Ocotea (O. alata, O. infrafoveolata, and O. rotundata), and Rhodostemonodaphne (R. synandra).
10.2307/2399909|This revised synopsis of the taxa of Euphorbiaceae recognizes, and provides keys to, 5 subfamilies, 49 tribes, and 317 genera. Two new tribes, Croizatieae and Podocalyceae, are proposed, as well as four new subtribes, Leptopinae, Podocalycinae, Pycnocominae, and Tetracoccinae; five taxa are reduced to subtribal status. One genus (Ophellantha) is reduced to a section; 14 new binomial combinations are proposed. Lectotypifications are provided for almost all taxa not previously typified.
10.2307/3298586|The "Alpine Ranunculi of New Zealand" are a monophyletic group of species distributed between the New Zealand alps, Australian alps, and the subantarctic Campbell and Auckland Islands. For this group we determined and analyzed sequences for the nuclear ITS and chloroplast JSA regions. This latter region was identified from an amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) gel as being potentially phylogenetically informative. We have used quartet puzzling to represent the overall phylogenetic structure of these sequence data and split decomposition to investigate more closely the phylogenetic information among sequences from two lineages within the alpine radiation. We describe molecular evidence that shows that diversification of alpine Ranunculi has accompanied the onset of Pliocene mountain building in New Zealand, and that during range expansion of species, regional speciation into novel alpine habitats has occurred with parallel evolution of morphologies between more distantly related species. Our analyses also show that, during diversification and range expansion, the New Zealand alps acted as a center for long-distance dispersal to Australia and the New Zealand subantarctic islands.
10.2307/2399805|Field and herbarium studies of the Convolvulaceae in the southwestern United States indicate that 17 species are rare in all or part of their ranges. Degree of rarity varies. A few show temperate affinities, while most show tropical relationships. Rare Convolvulaceae vary from being exotics introduced in the area to United States endemics. Those species that are globally endangered to threatened are Bonamia ovalifolia, Calystegia longipes, Ipomoea cardiophylla, I. tenuiloba, and I. thurberi. Species that are uncommon throughout their ranges, but not in peril are Bonamia repens and I. lindheimeri. Taxa on the margins of their American ranges are Calystegia macounii, Cressa nudicaulis, Cressa truxillensis, Dichondra argentea, I. dumetorum, I. x leucantha, I. longifolia, I. pubescens, and Jacquemontia agrestis.
10.2307/2399841|Nothotsuga longibracteata Hu ex Page is one of the rare gymnosperms endemic to China. Although previously ascribed to the genus Tsuga, it was recently segregated as a monotypic genus on account of its distinctive exomorphology. The wood and bark structure described here show that it has unique characteristics as well as features in common with Tsuga. The presence of vertical normal resin canals in the wood, together with resin cavities in the bark, does not support the earlier assignment of Nothotsuga to the section Heopeuce Keng & Keng f. of Tsuga, nor does it fit any other pinaceous taxon. Thus the present study supports the view that Nothotsuga should be validated as a genus in Pinaceae.
10.2307/2399072|Saurauia veraguensis in Costa Rica is morphologically androdioecious but functionally dioecious. Both staminate and pistillate flowers bear pollen. The pollen in the staminate flowers is tricolporate, and smaller than the inaperturate pollen borne by the pistillate flowers. The inaperturate pollen probably plays a role in pollination by serving as a reward, but it does not germinate on the stigmas and is therefore non-functional in fertilization. Dioecy in Saurauia may have evolved via androdioecy, although other evolutionary pathways such as via gynodioecy cannot be ruled out.
10.2307/2399594|The newly described monotypic family Ticodendraceae is endemic to Mesoamerica, where it ranges from southern Mexico to central Panama. Although locally common in some areas very close to old collecting sites (at least in Costa Rica), few collections from prior to 1985 are known. Recent funds for exploration and concentration on the arborescent flora may account for the "rediscovery" of Ticodendron during the 1980s. It may also have been overlooked by botanists because it looks so familiar, like an oak or an alder. Most evidence suggests that it can be placed comfortably in the Fagales. Ticodendron is most common in the narrow strip of wet montane Atlantic slope forests between 750 and 1,500 m, where it often grows in association with endemic taxa of Alfaroa, Oreomunnoa, Nyssa, and other remnants of the Tertiary Laurasian flora. Further study and survey of this area will surely provide insight into the composition of that ancient flora surviving in Mesoamerica.
10.2307/2394953|For the first time since the days of DeCandolle, a revision of all the known species of Drymaria is presented. The species are arranged in seventeen series, and keys are provided to the forty-eight species recognized. Illustrations, mostly based on type material, and morphological descriptions are provided for each species. Two new species, D. barkleyi and D. conzattii, are described, as well as several new infraspecific taxa.
10.2307/2399324|Field observations of the endemic New Caledonian genus Campynemanthe (Liliales: Campynemataceae) indicate that at least C. neocaledonica and C. viridiflora are strongly protandrous and have an unusual postanthesis recurving of the filaments. A chromosome number of n = 11 has been determined for both species from meiosis in pollen mother cells, these being first records for the genus and family. Endosperm formation in C. neocaledonica is nuclear rather than helobial as in several genera of the putatively related Melanthiaceae.
10.2307/2399103|Taxonomic confusion in Mesoamerican Clethraceae, caused by important differences between Sleumer's 1967 monograph and the 1966 "Flora of Guatemala" treatment by Standley and Williams, is resolved. Seven new species of Clethra are described also: three from Mexico, Clethra breedlovei, C. oaxacana, and C. michoacana; one from Nicaragua, C. nicaraguensis; one from Costa Rica, C. talamancana; and two from Panama, C. tutensis and C. coloradensis.
10.2307/2398851|Chromosome numbers of n = 15 are reported for Barberetta aurea, Wachendorfia paniculata, and W. thyrsiflora; n = ca. 19-21 for Dilatris pillansii; n = 24 for Lachnanthes caroliniana; n = 21 for Lophiola aurea; and n = 36 for Lanaria plumosa, a genus of uncertain familial position sometimes assigned to Haemodoraceae. Barberetta and Wachendorfia are believed to be closely related, but the relationships of the other genera are unclear and indicate that further detailed study is merited.
10.2307/2399180|Study of one of the few San Blas Islands (Panama) with intact vegetation indicates that the flora has a greater affinity with distant circum-Caribbean islands than with the nearby mainland.
10.2307/3298658|Roentgenia and Potamoganos (Bignoniaceae) are small genera of lianas with "Cydista-type" corollas that are closely related to larger and more well known genera such as Cydista, Clytostoma, and perhaps Phryganocydia. Roentgenia is ditypic, containing R. bracteomana and R. sordida, whereas Potamoganos is monotypic, containing only P. microcalyx. The two species of Roentgenia have white to lavender, campanulate-funnelform, Cydista-type corollas, stems with eight phloem arms, bi-trifid tendrils, 3(-4)-colpate pollen with reticulate exine, 2-seriate ovule organization, nectariferous disk lacking, linear-oblong fruit, and winged seeds. Roentgenia bracteomana is distributed from southern Colombia to northern Bolivia and north-central Brazil, whereas R. sordida is restricted to eastern Venezuela, Guyana, Suriname, French Guyana, and portions of northern Brazil. Potamoganos microcalyx has lavender to magenta, campanulatefunnelform, Cydista-type corollas, with four phloem arms, trifid tendrils, 3-colpate pollen with reticulate exine, 4-seriate ovule organization, and a nectariferous disk. Potamoganos microcalyx is known from southern Venezuela, Guyana, Suriname, and northernmost Brazil. A key to species, maps of species distributions, reproductive phenology, and illustrations of R. bracteomana and P. microcalyx are provided.
10.2307/2399888|Based on morphological and anatomical investigations of selected species of Argostemma, Steenisia, Strumpfia, Acranthera, Antherostele, and Posoqueria, and reports in the literature about several other taxa, the paper surveys how unions in the androecium of Rubiaceae can come about. In Argostemma, the formation of anther tubes is either by union of adjacent apical connective appendages and agglutination of neighboring pollen sac walls, or only by union of connective appendages (with or without sterile remnants of pollen sacs); the anthers dehisce longitudinally and the subepidermal cell layer (endothecium) has thickenings. Argostemma, moreover, has species without proper anther tubes in which the anthers (with apical pores and a pollen sac wall without thickenings in the subepidermal cell layer) are, nevertheless, variously grouped together. The anther tube of Steenisia comes about by the interlocking of epidermal layers of neighboring apical connective appendages and agglutinated cuticles. Strumpfia is unique in having a special cell layer uniting all anthers. The strictly cylindrical anther tube of Antherostele is, like in the Asteraceae, held together by agglutinated cuticles of neighboring pollen sacs; apical connective appendages are not involved in the tube formation. Acranthera has an "anther-style and stigma complex" (stamens, united by apical connective appendages, are firmly connected with the stigma; descriptions and comments about the highly unusual stigmatic areas in this genus are also included). Posoqueria has an anther head, which is held together only by agglutinated, sterile appendages or extensions of the thecae that are produced both basally and apically. The unstable nature of the anther complex is a prerequisite for proper function of Posoqueria's unique "catapult mechanism" of the stamens, by which pollen is hurled at the pollinator. Argostemma, Steenisia, Neurocalyx, and Strumpfia are believed to be buzz pollinated. In taxa with longitudinal anther dehiscence (Argostemma in part, Steenisia, Neurocalyx), the apically constricted anther tubes with porelike openings are thought to represent structures analogous to the poricidally dehiscent anthers of buzz-pollination systems. It is speculated that at least some Acranthera species may also be buzz pollinated; the windows formed by the elongated connective appendages above the longitudinally dehiscent anthers might take over the function of pores.
10.2307/2666162|Results of a cladistic analysis of morphological and anatomical data of the Duguetia alliance (Annonaceae) are presented. Several novel characters, or characters so far not incorporated into phylogenetic analyses, are used. Parsimony analysis resulted in two strongly supported clades: a Fusaea clade, comprising Fusaea, Duckeanthus, Letestudoxa, and Pseudartabotrys, and a Duguetia clade, comprising all Neotropical and African species of Duguetia. Support for the past distinction of Pachypodanthium from Duguctia appears to be absent. Characters used to resolve relationships between and within the two clades are difficult to polarize by outgroup comparison. It is demonstrated that the critical reassessment of classical morphological characters, and the search for new ones, may well advance phylogenetic resolution within Annonaceae.
10.2307/2395073|Jacquemontia ovalifolia (Choisy) Hallier f. is one of the most broadly distributed species of the genus. A study of herbarium material from throughout its range lead to the recognition of three subspecies: subsp. ovalifolia from Africa, subsp. obcordata (Millspaugh) Robertson from Mexico and the West Indies, and subsp. sandwicensis (A. Gray) Robertson from the Hawaiian Islands. The species is probably of American origins and was dispersed at an unknown time by unknown means to Africa and Hawaii. The nomenclatural histories of the species and subspecies are reviewed, and a complete taxonomic treatment is presented.
10.2307/2399995|The National Biological Service (NBS) is leading the development of the National Biological Information Infrastructure (NBII), a distributed network of biological data and information available electronically over the Internet. The important role of systematics information in the NBII is discussed by presenting a vision of a "national systematics information infrastructure." Several current initiatives of the NBS that directly contribute to developing such a systematics information infrastructure are described.
10.2307/2666217|The ancestral and most common flower in the African genus Moraea is Iris-like and consists of three functional units (meranthia). Each unit consists of an outer tepal opposed to a broad style branch terminating in prominent paired crests, together forming a gullet-like unit. However, many species in this genus of some 200 species have mechanically protandrous flowers in which the three stamens form a sheath surrounding the style and the style branches are narrow, with reduced stigmatic crests, and the subequal inner and outer tepal whorls form a shallow or deep bowl sometimes fully enclosing the stamens and style branches. The flowers secrete hexose-dominant nectar and, except for M. collina, are self-incompatible. Flowers of the nine species in two sections studied comprise two different modes of pollination based on the presentation of the staminal column and perianth, pigmentation, scent, and edible rewards. In five species, M. collina, M. comptonii, M. elegans, M. ochroleuca, and M. vallisbelli, the perianth forms a wide or narrow bowl and produces strong, sweet or musk-like odors, and the weakly diverging anthers are appressed to the narrow, inconspicuous style branches. These flowers are pollinated primarily by flower flies, scarab beetles, and honey bees that land on the perianth and brush against the anthers and/or receptive stigmas while foraging for nectar or pollen, or in the case or beetles merely assembling on the flowers. In the second group of species, M. bifida, M. miniata, M. pseudospicata, and M. reflexa, the perianth is stellate, pink, yellow, or blue, usually without discernable scent, the filaments are united into a column that is exserted from the flower, and the anthers are usually coherent. These flowers are pollinated primarily by polylectic bees in the families Apidae (Anthophora diversipes, Apis mellifera) and Melittidae (Rediviva spp.). The bees land on the staminal column and forage for pollen, sometimes later moving onto the perianth to take nectar present at the base of the tepals. The columns of these species are interpreted as both morphological and functional intermediates between pollen presenters or protostigmas (e.g., in Asterales, Campanulales, Proteales) and true gynostemia/gynostegia (in Aselepiadaceae, Orchidaceae, and Stylidiaceae). These flowers represent a profound shift in the ancestral pollination strategy in the genus from one of passive pollen deposition on bees foraging for nectar on meranthia to one of active foraging for nectar or pollen on whole flowers.
10.2307/2399627|The tarweeds produce a diverse array of flavonoids, including glycosylated compounds and methylated aglycones. Extra hydroxylation at positions 6 and/or 8, with frequent O-methylation at these and other positions, is prevalent. This structural diversity coupled with the variety of classes of flavonoids accumulated (flavanones, dihydroflavonols, flavones, flavonols) provides a rich source of characters for study of relationships within and among genera. The distribution of flavonoid aglycones within Dubautia is consistent with morphological, cytogenetic, electrophoretic, and phytogeographic evidence bearing on the evolution of its taxa. Flavonoids have also provided a means of assessing the dynamics of hybridization in Dubautia. In Hemizonia, multivariate analyses of flavonoid arrays have corroborated the view, based on cytogenetic and morphological criteria, that each perennial taxon is independently derived. Ongoing investigations suggest that Argyroxiphium, Calycadenia, Holocarpha, Layia, Wilkesia, and other genera each exhibit distinctive substitution and accumulation tendencies. Flavonoids may be helpful in developing and testing phylogenetic hypotheses in the Madiinae.
10.2307/2399260|Twenty-seven bee taxa and 24 wasp taxa were collected on the open inflorescences and/or extrafloral nectaries of eight Acacia species in Victoria, Australia. Despite this superficial similarity in taxonomic diversity, bees outnumbered wasp foragers by 88% of the combined catch of winged Hymenoptera. Representatives from five families of bees were recorded, with the short-tongued Halictidae and Colletidae comprising the largest unit of native Apoidea on the Acacia species studied. Pollen foraging female bees of the genera Lasioglossum (Halictidae) and Leioproctus (Colletidae) comprised 83% of the combined catch of the two short-tongued families. The number of bee taxa collected on the Acacia species tended to increase from late winter through late autumn. Polylectic foraging bee taxa expanded from mid spring through late summer when the flowering of nectariferous Myrtaceae peaked. There was no correlation between the density and diversity of bees foraging on Acacia species bearing secreting extra-floral nectaries and those species that lacked extra-floral nectar while the inflorescences were blossoming. Representatives of seven families of wasps were collected on the eight Acacia species. No wasps, however, were collected on var. retinodes of A. retinodes. Approximately 66% of the wasps collected belonged to the families Sphecidae and Tiphiidae. Wasps repeatedly foraged on extra-floral nectar before foraging on nectarless inflorescences. The density and taxonomic diversity of wasps remained highest on the Acacia species that offered the greatest volume of sucrose-rich, extrafloral nectar (i.e., A. terminalis). Bees are probably more important pollinators of Acacia in southeastern Australia than are wasps. The direct influence of wasps on polyad dispersal appears to be nominal except in those Acacia species bearing functional extra-floral nectaries.
10.2307/2399367|Several reproductive strategies have evolved within the genus Nymphaea. Sexual reproduction is mostly protogynous; flowers are open two to several days (depending on the species), with pollen release usually commencing on the second day. The five subgenera of Nymphaea exhibit differences in floral biology. There is considerable variation in the timing of flower opening, floral odor, flower color, and the form and function of various flower parts. These differences may contribute to genetic isolation between species both through temporal separation of flowering and attraction of different pollinators. While sexual reproduction in many species is dependent on xenogamy or geitonogamy, other species have adaptations to promote autogamy. No species of Nymphaea is known to be agamospermous, but several other modes of asexual reproduction are exhibited: detachable tubers, stolon formation, and proliferations of floral and foliar tissue. Wide-ranging tropical species all avoid being totally reliant on pollinators by employing one or more reproductive alternatives to outcrossing; clearly some obligate outcrossers are limited in their colonizing by pollinator availability. The most important of these reproductive alternatives is autogamy. Wide-ranging temperate species, which mostly rely exclusively on outcrossing for sexual reproduction, probably avoid pollinator limitations by utilizing a broader range of pollinators.
10.2307/2399734|Raddiella is a genus of seven species of low- to mid-elevation, small herbaceous bamboos (Poaceae: Bambusoideae: Olyreae) that occurs from Panama and Trinidad to Bolivia and Brazil. Raddiella esenbeckii is widespread in savannas and cerrados, but its six congeners are rare, and many occur only on wet rocks in the spray zone below waterfalls. The new Brazilian species, R. minima, with the smallest leaves of any bambusoid grass, and R. lunata, with lunate female florets, are described. This first revision of Raddiella includes a key to the recognized species, descriptions, and distribution maps, as well as scanning electron micrographs of the female florets, which reveal taxonomically important interspecific differences.
10.2307/2398859| The area covered follows political boundaries and amounts to just over 20,000,000 km
10.2307/2394934|Sorghum [S. bicolor (L.) Moench] pachytene chromosomes show considerable detail in morphology. Previous reports have characterized karyotypes. In the present study, karyological observations covered a wide range of sorghum germplasm. Most collections were found unsatisfactory for karyotype analysis. Of those which were satisfactory, exhaustive simultaneous comparisons of chromosome lengths, arm ratios, and other morphology could not establish any complete karyotypes. Of the ten chromosome pairs, however, one nucleolar pair and one asymmetric pair were easily identified. A group of three longer pairs could be distinguished from five shorter pairs. Beyond this, it did not seem that complete karyotypes could ever be obtained, in view of the large length variation computed for the two identifiable chromosomes. This variation could not be entirely assigned to hypotheses of chromosome shortening or to any feature of the technique, though each step of the technique was analyzed for its reliability. The nonconformity of the present results from those of previous reports challenges the repeatability of the previous experiments. This, in line with statements by some sorghum workers, suggests that the basic karyology of sorghum is not well understood.
10.2307/2992003|A combined analysis of 162 extant angiosperm taxa for which rbcL sequence-data and/or an appreciable amount of non-molecular information is available was calculated. A non-molecular tree, an rbcL tree, and a combined tree are presented. Only the rbcL and the combined data set show large numbers of groupings with bootstrap percentages greater than 50%, whereas the non-molecular trees show only eleven clades of this kind; this seems due to the number of missing cells in the non-molecular matrix. We tried to identify non-molecular characters (including biochemical) that support groups present in these analyses, especially in cases where clades turned out to be new when compared to one or more "classical" taxonomic systems. New groupings found in the non-molecular analysis that parallel the rbcL topologies include a grade containing Illiciales, Austrobaileyaceae, and Amborellaceae (magnoliid II); a clade containing Magnoliales, Laurales, Aristolochianae, and monocots (magnoliid I); a hamamelid group; subgroups of asterids (e.g., a similar asterid III clade containing Scytopetalaceae, Lecythidaceae, Sapotaceae, Ebenaceae, Theaceae, Primulales, Styracaceae, Marcgraviaceae, Actinidiaceae, Clethraceae, and Ericales); an expanded caryophyllid group; a Malvales s.l. clade; a partial Malpighiales grade containing Quiinaceae, Linales s. str., Passiflorales, Violaceae, Kiggelariaceae, Flacourtiaceae s. str., and Ochnaceae; and some smaller clades, similar to the corresponding groups found in rbcL cladograms (Illiciales-Austrobaileyaceae; Aristolochianae-monocots; Hydrangeaceae-Cornales; Lecythidaceae-Scytopetalaceae; Pittosporaceae-Araliales; Geissolomataceae-Stachyuraceae; Connaraceae-Oxalidaceae). Capparales s.l. and the nitrogen-fixing clade, two novel molecular clades, are only found in the rbcL and the combined trees. Cistaceae have been shown to share important characters with Malvales s.l. and are consistently found within this clade. These findings argue against their previous inclusion in Violales. The rbcL tree contains 38 terminal taxa that are included for the first time in a published phylogeny. Considerable progress has been made in assembling a morphological/chemical data set that parallels the broad coverage of angiosperms seen in DNA studies.
40982872|Over the past two decades there has been remarkable progress in resolving angiosperm phylogeny and patterns of evolution. Analyses of large, primarily plastid molecular data sets have revealed new insights into numerous historically contentious problems of deep-level angiosperm phylogeny, including relationships among "basal angiosperms" (not members of either the eudicot or monocot clades), among clades of Mesangiospermae, and among major clades of eudicots. The same large data sets also have provided evidence for numerous rapid radiations throughout the evolution of angiosperms. The five lineages of Mesangiospermae, as well as most major core eudicot lineages, each likely arose within a narrow range of just a few million years. The rapid radiations in rosids (Rosidae) gave rise to angiosperm-dominated forests, which are also associated with the diversification of ants, beetles, hemipterans, amphibians, and most extant ferns. Ongoing phylogenetic analyses now routinely construct phylogenetic hypotheses encompassing thousands of taxa. Such trees enable us to take a broad phylogenetic perspective on character evolution, community assembly, and conservation. While the wealth of new sequence data continues to transform the study of angiosperm evolution, it also presents major computational and informatic challenges associated with the management and analysis of enormous data sets.
10.2307/2399976|Indigenous peoples traditionally use a wide range of plants to maintain their health. Modern medicine has benefited substantially from anecdotal results of their empirical methodology by selecting needed candidates for a currently inadequate pharmacopeia to treat large numbers of illnesses. When the rapid destruction of diverse tropical forests, where the majority of cultured peoples using traditional medicine live, is related to the recent upsurge of interest in finding new antiviral, antineoplastic, and other agents, there is ample reason to justify learning what plants people use, how they use them, and under what circumstances the plants prove efficacious. These often ignored ethnobotanical findings set the stage for targeting plant materials that can be meaningfully analyzed for activity using appropriate biodirected assays and, when these are significant, for chemical isolation and characterization of active principles. Examples of ethnomedicinally selected western Amazonian plants used by Jivaro Amerindians having potential value by modern medical standards are described and evaluated.
10.2307/2399963|The use of phylogenetic reconstruction for the testing of comparative hypotheses is a recent development in the fields of plant physiology and developmental biology. In this review, several uses of phylogenetic information are discussed, including (1) the use of phylogenetic trees for choosing experimental systems, (2) justifying the statistical independence of compared taxonomic groups, (3) identifying evolutionary direction using outgroup analysis, and (4) studying the evolutionary tempo of physiological and developmental change. Difficulties are also discussed, especially with respect to (1) mapping continuous, physiological traits onto the discrete, binary structure of phylogenetic trees, (2) constructing trees from traits that are independent of the physiological and developmental characters being mapped, and (3) respecting the statistical nature of phylogenetic trees. The bulk of the review is devoted to several examples from the literature that illustrate the power of a phylogenetic perspective in comparative studies. Reviewed examples include (1) elucidation of a novel pyrophosphate-dependent phosphofructokinase in the glycolytic pathway of phosphate-stressed plants in the Brassicaceae, (2) evolutionary pattern in the origins of polyploid endosperm in angiosperms, (3) adaptive radiation of Hawaiian Island plants into dry habitats, and (4) evolutionary pattern in the origins of C
10.2307/2399880|The internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of 18S-26S nuclear ribosomal DNA (nrDNA) has proven to be a useful source of characters for phylogenetic studies in many angiosperm families. The two spacers of this region, ITS-1 and ITS-2 (each <300 bp), can be readily amplified by PCR and sequenced using universal primers, even from DNAs of herbarium specimens. Despite high copy numbers of both spacers, the near uniformity of ITS paralogues, attributed to rapid concerted evolution, allows direct sequencing of pooled PCR products in many species. Divergent paralogues, where detected, require cloning, but may offer a means of obtaining multiple estimates of organismal relationships and of determining placement of the root in a phylogeny independent of outgroup considerations. In reported studies, variation between ITS sequences is mostly attributable to point mutations. A relatively minor proportion of sites is affected by insertions or deletions (indels) among sequences that are similar enough to have retained sufficient signal for phylogenetic analysis. Within these limits, sequence alignment is generally unambiguous except in small regions of apparently lower structural constraint. Phylogenetic analyses of combined data sets from both spacers, where examined, yield trees with greater resolution and internal support than analyses based on either spacer alone. This beneficial effect of simultaneous analysis is not surprising based on the low number of useful characters in each spacer. This effect also suggests high complementarity of spacer data, in accord with similarity in size, sequence variability, and G + C content of ITS-1 and ITS-2 in most investigated groups of closely related angiosperms. Nonindependent evolution of ITS sites involved in intraspacer RNA base-pairing may occur, given possible functional constraints, but preliminary secondary structure analyses of ITS-2 in Calycadenia (Asteraceae) show no definite evidence of compensatory spacer mutations. As expected, levels of ITS sequence variation suitable for phylogenetic analysis are found at various taxonomic levels within families, depending on the lineage. The apparent rates of ITS molecular evolution are roughly correlated with plant life-form, as with chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) data, but reasons for this observation are unclear. ITS characters have improved our understanding of angiosperm phylogeny in several groups by (1) corroborating earlier unexpected findings, (2) resolving conflicts between other data sets, (3) improving resolution of species relationships, or (4) providing direct evidence of reticulate evolution. Hybridization or sorting of ancestral polymorphism in a lineage can complicate interpretation of trees based on any type of evolutionary evidence, including ITS or cpDNA sequences, particularly in the absence of at least one independent phylogenetic data set from the same organisms. The need for phylogenetic markers from the nuclear genome, to complement the rapidly growing body of cpDNA data, makes the ITS region a particularly valuable resource for plant systematists.
10.2307/2398948|Cytological studies of plants from two different sources cultivated at Missouri Botanical Garden, St. Louis and the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, suggest that Byblis liniflora Salisb. has a gametic chromosome number of n = 16 instead of n = 12 as reported by Kondo (1973). This previous and apparently erroneous report was cited in recent reviews of angiosperm chromosome numbers by Raven (1975) and Lewis (1980).
3298519|The Hengduan Mountain region is located at the eastern end of the Himalayan range and in the southeastern corner of the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau in eastern Asia. It is probably the richest temperate region in the world biologically, with about 8000 species recorded from the 500,000 km
10.2307/2395266|An eclectic ramble through phylogenetic aspects of floral structure includes the following: (1) Sterling's view that the ancestral flowers of Rosaceae had only two ovules per carpel is examined and rejected. (2) Recent observations on the direction of androecial development in various taxa are reviewed, and it is concluded that centrifugality is not as valuable a phylogenetic indicator as some systematists had hoped it would be. (3) An attempt is made to reinterpret the inverted placental bundles of Capparales and the inverted "recurrent" bundles of Nestronia along morphogenetic lines. It is suggested that the inverted orientation is causally related to the initiation and differentiation of these bundles in isolation from previously formed vascular tissue.
10.2307/2399270|Urginea indica (Roxb.) Kunth is a morphologically variable species of wide distribution in the Old World. In West Tropical Africa, it has been considered to consist of a large form and a dwarf form. The large form was investigated morphologically in the field and in the laboratory, as well as karyotypically. Four morphological variants were encountered in the field. They differ in both vegetative and floral morphology, were found in different populations, and showed differences in ecological preferences. Biometrical analysis of vegetative and floral morphology showed that the four variants are distinct and separate but not immediately recognizable taxa. Preliminary karyotype analysis showed that they are similar but not identical in karyomorphology. Artificial crosses between them failed to produce viable seeds. It is concluded that U. indica is an incipient polyspecies or species complex.
10.2307/2394852|Distributions of West Indian mosses are analyzed in detail. The West Indies is an area of rather high species endemism, although a large portion of the species is common throughout much of tropical America. The relationship between the Greater Antilles and South America is much stronger than expected. The relationships of the West Indian species of Pilotrichum indicate some of the patterns of migration of mosses to the West Indies.
10.2307/3298655|Breonia A. Rich., a Malagasy endemic genus of the tribe Naucleeae (Rubiaceae, Cinchonoideae), is revised here. The morphology of Breonia species is described and compared with that of the other Malagasy Naucleeae, Breonadia Ridsdale, Gyrostipula J.-F. Leroy, and Janotia J.-F. Leroy. Breonia is distinguished from these genera by having flattened and elongated placentae, imbricate ovules, and indehiscent, multiple fruits rather than triangular placentae, ovules attached side by side to the base of the placentae, and free, capsular fruits as in these genera. Neobreonia Ridsdale is again included in Breonia. Twenty species are recognized, including eight that are new to science. A full taxonomic treatment, keys, and distribution maps of the recognized species are provided. The newly described species are illustrated.
10.2307/2399452|Given the taxonomic and biogeographic differences between dominant species in grasslands of the Great Plains and the palouse grasslands and steppe of the Pacific Northwest, it seems likely that the two biomes have had separate origins. Fossil leaf and seed floras and pollen data from east and west of the Rocky Mountain cordillera and pollen data from the cordillera area suggest that three distinct floristic provinces were in existence by the beginning of mid-Miocene (Barstovian) time. Montane conifer forest poor in genera typified the Rocky Mountain foothills and nearby basins, while mixed conifer-deciduous hardwood forest and Taxodium swamps rich in woody genera occurred in the Columbia Basin. On the Great Plains the Kilgore flora (Barstovian of Nebraska) indicates deciduous open forest and prairie dominated by species of eastern and southern affinities. Younger Neogene floras in the Pacific Northwest suggest that steppe and local grassland were beginning to be important in the Pliocene of the Pacific Northwest, while grasslands and open forest became widespread on the Great Plains somewhat earlier (late Miocene or Clarendonian-Hemphillian time). The persistence of mixed conifer and broad-leaved forest on the Columbia Plateaus suggests that this area was open to the west through about 8 Ma. Due to the increasing height of the Cascade Range and/or regional upwarping, the rain shadow east of the Cascades became increasingly effective after the Clarendonian. Many of the terrestrial herbaceous groups and some shrub taxa of xeric environments reported here from a variety of sites are unknown in the Paleogene and may have evolved during the Neogene. According to the regional pollen record, terrestrial herbs become more diverse in the late Neogene.
10.2307/2666205|Many prokaryotic microorganisms inhabit "extreme environments"-habitats in which some chemical or physical variable(s) differs significantly from that found in habitats that support plant and animal life. Great strides have been made in recent years in the isolation and characterization of extremophilic prokaryotes, and many of them turn out to have fascinating metabolic properties and interesting evolutionary histories. Prokaryotes that grow at very high temperatures are perhaps the most dramatic in these regards, as all cellular components need to be made heat stable and their evolutionary position is that of the least evolved of all known life forms. As our knowledge of bacterial diversity improves, primarily from the introduction of molecular tools for assessing bacterial phylogeny and diversity and from new advances in isolation and laboratory culture, it is becoming clear that the bulk of evolutionary diversity on Earth does not reside in plants and animals, but instead in the invisible prokaryotic world. There is now great interest in mining the diverse genetic resources of Earth's smallest cells for use in biotechnology and related areas.
40389946|Patterns of broad-scale plant species richness are thought to be largely determined by (1) variation in energy and water availability among sampling units (species energy hypothesis), (2) habitat and topographic heterogeneity within sampling units (spatial heterogeneity hypothesis), and (3) regional differences in geographic configuration and history (regional effects hypothesis). However, lack of taxonomic and distribution data, particularly for tropical regions, has impeded assessments of the relative importance of these three hypotheses. We used a large botanical database to estimate the pattern of relative vascular plant richness across the western Neotropics and regression models to measure the extent to which this estimated pattern supported predictions from each of the above three hypotheses. Variation in plant richness across three major paleophysiographic regions (northwest South America, southern Central America, and northern Central America) was primarily predicted by the spatial heterogeneity hypothesis, with secondary contributions from the species energy hypothesis and, to a lesser extent, the regional effects hypothesis. Regression models that incorporated the relative contributions of all three hypotheses predicted peaks of relative species richness mostly in topographically complex areas (e. g., Sierra Madr de Chiapas, Cordillera de Tilarn, Cordillera de Talamanca, Panama's Cordillera Central, the Andes, and the Venezuelan Guayana); relatively low richness in central Mexico and Yucatan, Los Llanos of Venezuela, and in the Gran Chaco region of Bolivia, Paraguay, and Argentina; and a richness trough in lowland Amazonia relative to southern Central America, the Andes, and the Venezuelan Guayana. We discussed the contrast between our results and previous assessments that found plant richness to be primarily determined by the species energy hypothesis and predicted different patterns of plant richness across the western Neotropics.
41805966|The genus Peristethium Tiegh. (Loranthaceae) is re-established to comprise five species previously placed in Struthanthus Mart. (P. aequatoris (Kuijt) Kuijt, P. leptostachyum (Kunth) Tiegh., P. lojae (Kuijt) Kuijt, P. polystachyum (Ruiz & Pav.) Kuijt, and the new nomenclatural combination presented here, P. tortistylum (Kuijt) Kuijt). Also included are five species from Cladocolea Tiegh. (P. archeri (A. C. Sm.) Kuijt, P. peruviense (Kuijt) Kuijt, and P. primarium (Kuijt) Kuijt), with two transferred as new nomenclatural combinations herein, P. nitidum (Kuijt) Kuijt and P. roraimense (Steyerm.) Kuijt). Additionally, five new species are described and illustrated (P. attenuatum Kuijt, P. colombianum Kuijt, P. confertiflorum Kuijt, P. lamprophyllum Kuijt, and P. palandense Kuijt). The genus Peristethium thus consists of 15 species and a key is provided for the genus. It is characterized by pairs of conspicuous, often caducous, chaffy scale leaves at the base of the mostly determinate inflorescences, and by lateral inflorescence units that are triads and/or ebracteolate single flowers called monads (in one case, partly pentads). Some species have bisexual flowers while others are dioecious; flowers are either tetramerous or hexamerous, and one pentamerous species is included (P. nitidum). The minute anthers are sessile or nearly so, placed far above the middle of the petals. Geographically, the genus reaches from northern Bolivia to Costa Rica, with two rare, narrow endemics on Mt. Roraima in Venezuela and the Pakaraima Mountains.
10.2307/2399326|Many crucifers in the Mediterranean and desert floras of Israel frequently form large monospecific patches but do not suffer severe herbivore damage. This situation is unexpected from some recent theory of insect-plant interactions which predicts that such resource concentration should attract high herbivore loads, and that herbaceous plants should rely on unpredictability in time and space as a defense against herbivores. In Israel, Mediterranean crucifers flower earlier than members of other species-rich families with similar growth forms (Lamiaceae, Asteraceae, Liliaceae, Solanaceae, Poaceae, Papilionaceae, Apiaceae). This is not true for desert crucifers; their phenologies are unpredictable from year to year. We hypothesize that their displaced phenologies and possession of potent allelochemicals allow Mediterranean patch-forming species to produce monocultures while not sustaining high levels of herbivory. In contrast, desert patch-forming crucifers rely on unpredictable phenologies as well as allelochemicals as defenses against herbivores. Patch formation may be reinforced by plant-pollinator interactions. Among Mediterranean crucifers, patch formers are taller and have larger petals than do non-patch formers. In addition, patch formation is correlated with high levels of floral ultraviolet reflectance and patterning. These differences may result from reduced interspecific but enhanced intraspecific competition for pollinators among patch formers. These patterns are not found among desert species, although desert patch formers do initiate flowering before other crucifers.
41805963|The predominantly Australasian genus Patersonia R. Br. (Iridaceae, Patersonioideae) includes 18 species in Australia, one in New Caledonia, and just one currently recognized species in the Malesian archipelago, although two more have been described previously but are now reduced to synonymy. After examining the available collections of the genus from this vast area, I have identified two distinct sets of populations in Borneo, two more in New Guinea, one in Sumatra, and one in Mindoro, The Philippines. Many collections lack flowers or are poorly preserved, yet greater-than-expected differences in vegetative and some fruit features for a single species are evident among the six population sets. Morphological variation includes leaf size; marginal vestiture and microscopic surface structure; flowering stem orientation, width, and length relative to leaves; inflorescence spathe and floral bract vestiture; and absence or presence and type and amount of pubescence on perianth tube and ovary. Recognition of just one hypervariable Malesian species does not adequately reflect the biological situation. I propose the following: recognition of P. borneensis Stapf and the west New Guinean P. novo-guineensis Gibbs, currently subsumed in P. lowii Stapf; addition of a second species in Papua New Guinea, P. inflexa Goldblatt; and treatment of the Sumatran highland plants as P. sumatrensis Goldblatt from Indonesia. Philippine plants from Mindoro match none of these and represent another species, P. philippinensis Goldblatt. Lectotypes are designated for the two names P. lowii and P. novo-guineensis. This taxonomy awaits provenance of flowers with well-preserved perianths of all but P. lowii and P. borneensis and capsules and seeds of P. philippinensis, but are unlikely to alter this treatment. Floral differences among most Patersonia species are small, except for the vestiture on tepals and tube visible in many of the available specimens, and for the most part involve only modest differences in size and color of the tepals.
10.2307/2399891|The phylogenetic relationships of taxa recently referred to the tribes Calycophylleae, Cinchoneae, and Hillieae were analyzed using cladistic methods. The analyses used morphological and micromorphological characters, and a selection of 60 species were used as terminal taxa. It was concluded that all three tribes are supported as monophyletic but must be altered somewhat in circumscription. The tribes Cinchoneae and Hillieae are sister groups, and these two in turn form the sister group of the Calycophylleae. The tribe Calycophylleae should comprise the genera Alseis, Calycophyllum, Capirona, Ferdinandusa, Macrocnemum, Wittmackanthus, and the new genus Semaphyllanthe L. Andersson here segregated from Calycophyllum. These genera are all supported as monophyletic, although the support is sometimes weak. The tribe Hillieae should comprise Balmea, Blepharidium, Cosmibuena, and Hillia. It was not tested whether or not these genera are monophyletic. The tribe Cinchoneae should comprise Cinchona, Joosia, Ladenbergia, Maguireocharis, Pimentelia, Remijia, Stilpnophyllum, and the new genus Cinchonopsis L. Andersson here erected for Cinchona amazonica. Dolicholobium occurs as a basal clade of the Cinchoneae but its position is unstable and it is possibly not related to this alliance at all. Cinchona is supported as monophyletic if C. amazonica and C. henleana are excluded, the latter one being transferred to Ladenbergia. Ladenbergia is supported as monophyletic in approximately the traditional sense. Remijia is supported as monophyletic if Cephalodendron is included. Joosia and Stilpnophyllum are supported as monophyletic, while the remaining genera are monotypic. Six new combinations are made: Semaphyllanthe intonsa (Steyerm.) L. Andersson, S. megistocaula (K. Krause) L. Andersson, S. merumensis (Steyerm.) L. Andersson, S. obovata (Ducke) L. Andersson, S. spectabilis (Steyerm.) L. Andersson, S. venezuelensis (Steyerm.) L. Andersson, and Cinchonopsis amazonica (Standley) L. Andersson.
10.2307/2399670|A phylogenetic analysis of the monocot family Haemodoraceae is presented to assess the classification and interrelationships of tribes, genera, and species complexes and to determine patterns of evolutionary and biogeographic change. Evidence is reviewed for the monophylesis of the family (as here delimited) and of some family genera. In order to assign character polarities, two families, Philydraceae and Pontederiaceae, were hypothesized as closest outgroups based on presumed synapomorphies shared with the Haemodoraceae, including: (1) unifacial leaves (Philydraceae) and (2) verrucate pollen wall sculpturing and non-tectate-columellate exine structure (Pontederiaceae). A detailed analysis of the selection, definition, and coding of characters and character states is presented. Computer parsimony algorithms were used to construct most parsimonious trees. Utilizing all characters, including several for which polarity could not be determined, two equally most parsimonious cladograms were derived, differing only in the relative placement of the genera Dilatris and Lachnanthes. A cladistic analysis restricted to only those characters for which polarity could be determined yielded the same two equally parsimonious topologies; one in which correlated characters were scaled yielded one of the two topologies. Cladistic analyses support the monophylesis of the (herein defined) tribes Haemodoreae and Conostylideae. However, of the fourteen genera in the family, Wachendorfia, Haemodorum, and Xiphidium could not be a priori established as monophyletic, and the genera Anigozanthos and Conostylis are paraphyletic. Evolutionary events, as portrayed in the cladograms, are reviewed with emphasis on evolution of trichome anatomy, ovary position, ovule morphology, seed morphology, and chromosome number. Possible biogeographic scenarios support a Gondwanan origin for the Haemodoraceae with one major vicariance event occurring by the continental separation of present Antarctica from South America-Africa. With regard to interfamilial relationships, the Haemodoraceae are hypothesized as the sister group of the family Pontederiaceae, with both families more distantly related to the Philydraceae. Relationships to the Typhales, Bromeliaceae, and Zingiberales are still ambiguous, but the possibility of a close relationship of the Haemodoraceae-Pontederiaceae to the Zingiberales is considered.
10.2307/2399630|The genetic differences observed among species contain historical information that is a function of their ancestry, mode of origin, and population structure over time. Studies of isozyme differentiation among the island species of Dubautia, Wilkesia, and Argyroxiphium, and among the mainland species of Layia are reviewed. Both groups provide examples of rapidly evolved progenitor-derivative species pairs as well as species showing gradual divergence as a function of their time of separation. A comparison of island and mainland taxa illustrates the effect of population structure on levels of genetic variability and the consequent effects on genetic differentiation among species. The colonization and speciation patterns within the Hawaiian archipelago can be inferred for some species pairs on the basis of shared unique alleles that are presumed to reflect a common ancestry. Gene duplications observed in the Madiinae suggest an ancient tetraploid origin for the Hawaiian species.
10.2307/2399814|Comparisons of a wide variety of vegetative, floral, and reproductive characters of Scoliopus reveal consistent differences between the Californian S. bigelovii and the Oregonian S. hallii, whose distributions are mapped. With leaf numbers greater than two reported, a spiral, rather than opposite, leaf arrangement is demonstrated. The floral morphology and geometry, which involve intricate pollination subunits, are related to an outbreeding pollination system. A pollination subunit is established by the terminally recurved stylar arms, the versatile, extrorse anthers, the unusual triangular gynoecium, and the nectariferous, petaloid outer tepals. The myrmecochorous dispersal patterns in Scoliopus based on subterranean stems, elongate twisting pedicels, capsules dehiscing in the upper duff layers, and elaiosomal seeds are discussed. The taxonomic relationship to Paris, Trillium, and Medeola is deemed remote.
10.2307/2399292|A complete embryological description of the four genera traditionally circumscribed as tribe Gynotrocheae (Carallia, Crossostylis, Gynotroches, and Pellacalyx) is presented. Most of the character states are consistent with those known for other genera of the family that have been studied, but several are not. In Crossostylis, Gynotroches, and Pellacalyx, microsporogenesis occurs by both simultaneous and successive meiotic cytokinesis, even in a single flower. This is apparently previously unreported in any angiosperm and suggests that meiosis in the anther may be under tapetal, not sporocytic, control. Dioecy in Gynotroches results from late-developmental phenomena: in female flowers sporopollenin pollen walls fail to form, and in male flowers late ovule development and megagametogenesis are abnormal. Embryological and other morphological data indicate that Gynotrocheae are paraphyletic and could be narrowed to only Gynotroches and Pellacalyx, which are distinct from all other Rhizophoraceae in having tenuinucellate ovules and outer integuments that remain biseriate throughout ovule and seed development. Crossostylis is intermediate between these two genera and the ancestral tribe Macarisieae, and Carallia is probably intermediate between all other inland genera and the mangrove tribe (Rhizophoreae).
10.2307/2394881|This preliminary study is an attempt to bring together the knowledge of Taxonomy, Morphology, Phylogeny and Pollination of the species preparatory to a formal revision of the genus. New information, gathered by population study in the natural habitats, appears to be highly significant to the understanding of this complex group. The distribution of the species is mapped. The phylogenetic relationships of the genus are considered and it is believed that Stanhopea is derived from plants similar to members of the genus Sievekingia. The development of the advanced and complex species from the simpler species is discussed and the origin of certain unique species such as S. tricornis is considered. Observations of pollination of S. tricornis by Eulaema meriana and of S. bucephalus by Eulaema bomboides are discussed and pollination relationships are indicated as the major means of genetic isolation of the two species. Two highly variable populations were studied in Ecuador. The advanced and variable complexes in Stanhopea are very successful both in area of range and density of population. It is felt that this population structure suppresses speciation as a process, though variability is maintained. Various nomenclatural problems are mentioned and a key to the species is included. A list of the recognized species is given with their synonyms, and a list is appended of poorly known species which cannot as yet be properly placed.
10.2307/2399015|The genus Sterigmapetalum consists of 7 species, with 4 newly described species (S. exappendiculatum, S. heterodoxum, S. resinosum, and S. tachirense), and 1 new subspecies (S. guianense subsp. ichunense). On the basis of the presence or absence of a resinous exudate, development or reduction of lateral flanges of the petals, and opposite or verticillate leaves, two subgenera are recognized: Sterigmapetalum and Balsamocaulon. On the basis of their hypogynous flowers and superior ovaries, Cassipourea and Sterigmapetalum are placed in a new tribe, Hypogyneae, within the Rhizophoraceae. A key to the species is provided, followed by a description of the species and their geographical distribution. Newly discovered anatomical evidence, which reveals the presence of a P-type sieve element in the Rhizophoraceae, indicates that the family should be excluded from the Myrtales and is additional evidence supporting the view provided by the gross morphological floral details that the family is atypical in the Myrtales, and should be removed from that order.
10.2307/2399517|Subfamily Barbacenioideae of the Velloziaceae is characterized by sessile anthers that are connected to a corona (or to the upper part of the hypanthium). Barbacenia spiralis L. B. Smith & Ayensu, however, displays a characteristic that distinguishes it clearly from the rest of the Barbacenioideae. It has stamens in which the filaments and anthers are totally independent of the corona lobes. This feature is considered important enough to justify the recognition of a new genus, based on this species.
10.2307/2666216|A phylogenetic analysis of the Bignoniaceae and related families was conducted using the DNA sequences of the chloroplast genes rbcL and ndhF. Trees were constructed using each gene separately and in a combined data set. The analysis suggested that the family is more derived within the order Lamiales sensu lato than once believed. Paulownia and Schlegelia previously have been placed in Bignoniaceae or Scrophulariaceae. However, the sequence data presented here do not support their placement in Bignoniaceae. Excluding Paulownia and Schlegelia, Bignoniaceae were found to be monophyletic. Tribes Bignonieae, Crescentieae, and Coleeae each forms a monophyletic group based on this analysis. Tribe Tecomeae is paraphyletic.
10.2307/2395333|Perhaps no other order of flowering plants of its size is as well investigated morphologically, ultrastructurally, and chemically as is the Centrospermae. The betalain pigment discoveries of the early 1960s were followed by the more recent discovery of unique protein depositions in the sieve-element plastids of members of this order. These and other molecular data, including DNA-RNA hybridization results, have permitted a circumscription of the order based on 11 core families, including all 9 betalain families: Aizoaceae, Amaranthaceae, Basellaceae, Cactaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Didiereaceae, Nyctaginaceae, Phytolaccaceae, and Portulacaceae, as well as two anthocyanin families: Caryophyllaceae and Molluginaceae. Several smaller betalain taxa (including Gisekia, Halophytum, Hectorella, and Dysphania) which are sometimes treated as independent families or as members of one of these 11 core families also clearly belong to the order. Other families such as the Bataceae, Gyrostemonaceae, Vivaniaceae, and Theligonaceae are excluded from the Centrospermae. The betalain evolutionary line of centrospermous families may have originated from a centrospermous ancestor which lost the ability to produce anthocyanins and then subsequently gained the two or three steps required to produce betalains. Pollen morphology of centrospermous taxa and the widespread occurrence of C
10.2307/2399867|A key and synopsis of the genus Salsola L. (Chenopodiaceae) in North America north of Mexico are presented, including the taxonomy and distribution of six recognized species. A new combination is proposed: Salsola kali L. subsp. pontica (Pallas) Mosyakin.
40732242|The genus Dracophyllum Labili. (Ericaceae) has a fragmented distribution in Australasia, but reaches the greatest level of species richness and morphological diversity in New Zealand. We investigated evolutionary processes that contribute to this disparity in species richness by comparing DNA sequences from members of Dracophyllum, its close relatives Richea Labili, and Sphenotoma R. Br. ex Sweet (together constituting tribe Richeeae Crayn & Quinn), along with more distant relatives in the Ericaceae. We created complementary data sets for the chloroplast-encoded genes matK and rbcL. Parsimony, Bayesian, and maximum likelihood analyses were conducted to assess the robustness of our phylogenetic inferences. The results were largely congruent and, when analyzed in combination, provided greater resolution. In our analyses, tribe Richeeae formed a monophyletic group that diverged during the Eocene (at least 33.3 million years ago [Ma]) with a crown radiation during the Early Miocene (at least 16.5 Ma) that resulted in two disjunct lineages. This date corresponds roughly to the onset of aridification in central Australia. The southern Western Australian genus Sphenotoma formed an isolated evolutionary lineage, while Dracophyllum and Richea together formed a second lineage restricted to eastern Australia, Lord Howe Island, New Caledonia, and New Zealand. The relationships of the Tasmanian endemic, D. milliganii Hook, f., remain an enigma. It was ambiguously placed as sister to Sphenotoma or to the Dracophyllum Richea clade. We recovered two distinct lineages, traditionally recognized as Richea sect. Cystanthe (R. Br.) Benth. and Richea sect. Dracophylloides Benth., which were nested within Dracophyllum. The Lord Howe Island endemic, D. fitzgeraldii F. MuelL, emerged as sister to an eastern Australian clade of Dracophyllum. Our evidence suggests that the New Caledonian and New Zealand species of Dracophyllum dispersed from Australia; we document two independent episodes of long-distance dispersal in the Late Miocene to Early Pliocene. Low levels of sequence divergence suggest a rapid and recent species radiation in these two island archipelagos largely within the last three to six million years. This radiation accompanied Pliocene uplift of the New Zealand Southern Alps and episodes of glaciation during the Pleistocene. Because Dracophyllum is paraphyletic and Richea is polyphyletic, the taxonomic circumscription of these genera requires revision.
10.2307/2399554|This study investigates the floral biology of 55 plant species from a shrub community in the Venezuelan Guayana Highland. Floral diameter varies significantly with color and type of pollination unit (flower, inflorescence, or both). Corolla length varies significantly with the pollination unit. Flower longevity is about 12 hours for 35 (63.6%) of the plant species. Flowers are oriented horizontally in 50.9% (N = 28) of the species, 40.0% (N = 22) upward, and 9.1% (N = 5) downward. Flowers with longitudinally dehiscent anthers (N = 36, 69.2%) are oriented upward or horizontally, whereas species with poricidal anthers (N = 16, 30.8%) are oriented horizontally or downward. From 49 plant species with biotic pollination, the main reward is nectar (N = 20, 40.8%); however, pollen is given as the secondary reward in 26.6% (N = 13) of the species. Pollen alone is offered in 26.6% (N = 13) of the species. The flowers of two species of Clusia produce resin. Flower lengths and diameters are not significantly correlated with lengths of insect pollinators. However, the length/diameter ratio of flowers correlates with average size of insect pollinators (N = 49; r = 0.53; P < 0.001). Cluster analysis on floral characteristics of 55 plant species showed five artificial groups at 37% similarity. At 90% similarity, there are some pairs or groups of species whose flowering periods overlap. Some pollinators can be shared while in other cases the pollinators differ. Plant groups could not be established when they were clustered using pollinator species as characters.
10.2307/2399900|Considerable progress has been made recently, based on classical morphological characters and newly described ultrastructural features, in understanding the phylogenetic relationships of the tracheophytes to the green algae and bryophytes. Recent technological advances in molecular biology, particularly the advent of the polymerase chain reaction (PCR), have allowed nucleotide sequence data relevant to such large-scale phylogenetic questions to accumulate, especially ribosomal RNA gene sequences (both the large and small subunits) from the nucleus and the chloroplast. We present synthetic cladistic analyses of the green plants that combine and compare available morphological and molecular data sets. Although the resulting phylogenies are poorly resolved in some areas at present, certain conclusions are supported: (1) The green plants are composed of two major monophyletic groups, one containing the "charophyte" green algae and the land plants (i.e., "bryophytes" plus tracheophytes), the other containing the bulk of the classically delimited "green algae" (chlorophytes, pleurastrophytes, and ulvophytes). (2) The land plants are a well-supported monophyletic group, but neither the specific outgroup for the land plants nor the precise relationships among basal lineages of land plants are clear. In many analyses (including the combined molecular and morphological analysis) the three major lineages (i.e., liverworts, hornworts, and mosses) appear to be paraphyletic with respect to the tracheophytes, with an indication that the mosses alone may be the sister group of the tracheophytes; however, in other analyses the "bryophytes" are supported as a monophyletic group. (3) The ulvophytes, chlorophytes, and pleurastrophytes are each supported as monophyletic (with the exception of a few taxa that may be misplaced in the current classification), with the topology: [ulvophytes [chlorophytes + pleurastrophytes]]. Combined analyses of molecular and morphological data offer the greatest potential for resolving these relationships.
10.2307/2399348|Ludwigia sect. Microcarpium, which consists of 14 species distributed mainly in the southeastern United States, is the second-largest section in the genus, the largest being the phylogenetically central sect. Myrtocarpus of South America. Plants of Ludwigia sect. Microcarpium are morphologically diverse; they form a polyploid complex of four diploids, eight tetraploids, two hexaploids, and one octoploid. They are facultatively autogamous herbaceous plants capable of reproducing both sexually and asexually (forming stolons late in the flowering season). Based on extensive crossing experiments as well as field and herbarium studies, the relationships among species of this section have been clarified. Internal genetic barriers between species are nonexistent, and natural hybridization is fairly common. Among the diploid species, L. linifolia and L. linearis have very narrow leaves, petaliferous flowers, and elongate capsules. The two species, however, differ chromosomally by one reciprocal translocation. F
10.2307/2666140|We used molecular sequence data from the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacers and from the intron and spacer of the trnL-trnF chloroplast region to study phylogenetic relationships within the large (ca. 2000 species), wide-ranging, and taxonomically difficult tribe Justicieae (Acanthaceae). The partition homogeneity test indicated that the data sets for the two loci were congruent, and separate analyses of the two gave similar results. Analysis of the combined data set provides a highly resolved hypothesis of relationships, much of it strongly supported. Justicieae are strongly supported as monophyletic; within the tribe, five lineages and one paraphyletic grade are related as follows: [Pseuderanthemum lineage (Isoglossinae {Tetramerium lineage [multiple elades of Old World "justicioids" (Diclipterinae + New World "justicioids")]})]. Many aspects of this phylogenetic hypothesis are supported by data from morphology and cytology, and some conform to earlier classifications of the group. There are, however, a number of novel aspects. Notably, the large genus Justicia (ca. 700 species) is not monophyletic; the Old World members form a grade and the New World members are monophyletic only if a number of other genera are included. The very strongly supported sister-group relationship between Diclipterinae and the New World "justicioid" lineage is novel, and we cannot identify non-molecular synapomorphies to confirm this relationship. Rhinacanthus, a "justicioid" (Justicia and morphologically similar genera) by all but phylogenetic criteria, is strongly supported as a basal member of Diclipterinae, and cytological evidence confirms this placement. The Pseuderanthemum lineage is only modestly supported as monophyletic and may, in fact, represent a series of basal lineages. These plants are marked by having four staminal elements (four stamens or two stamens plus two staminodes), a plesiomorphic condition for all Acanthaceae. Additional evidence (both taxa and characters) will be necessary to resolve this uncertainty, as well as to determine the phylogenetic status of Old World "justicioids." Our analysis does provide considerable resolution of relationships within monophyletic lineages, and these relationships are discussed in the context of non-molecular evidence and previous classifications.
10.2307/2398782|A full description is presented of the Juglandaceae and of the two subfamilies (Platycaryoideae, Juglandoideae), three tribes of the Juglandoideae (Juglandeae, Engelhardieae, Hicorieae), seven genera, with their subgenera and sections. Figures and tables are given to illustrate the evolution of the genera, the comparative classifications within the family, and the comparative interpretations of the parts of the floral envelopes. Diagrams are presented of the position of the carpels, the orientation and type of the stigmas, and the parts of the floral envelopes. A list is given of the 59 species, with the subspecies and varieties of each, including their distribution.
10.2307/2399344|Dianthoveus cremnophilus, a terrestrial Cyclanthaceae from southwestern Colombia to northern Ecuador, is described as a new genus and species. The cupules at the base of the stamens and the long, narrow, moderately flattened seeds are unique. Cladistic analysis supports the hypothesis that leaf idioblasts with randomly oriented styloids (leaves scabrous when dry), root styloids, sessile anthers, and inaperturate pollen are synapomorphies with the widespread, monospecific Evodianthus. The new genus differs fundamentally from Evodianthus by having a uniseriate staminate perianth and in seed shape and seed coat structure. Dianthoveus shares additional uncommon characters with Evodianthus (e.g., separate fruits, terminal inflorescences, symmetrical flowers) that are not unique in the family. With Schultesiophytum it shares some of these uncommon characters but uniquely shares only laminar anther appendages. Although Dianthoveus and Dicranopygium subgenus Gleasonianthus uniquely share staminate flowers with eglandular tepals, no other characters suggest a close relationship between them.
10.2307/2399835|Nine species of Acanthaceae are added to the known flora of Panama, including the newly described species Aphelandra kuna. Range extensions into Panama are reported for A. scolnikae, Justicia ephemera, Odontonema cuspidatum, O. rubrum, Sanchezia lutea, and S. parvibracteata. Revised keys to all Panamanian species of Aphelandra, Odontonema, and Sanchezia are provided. Two cultivated species, Pachystachys lutea and Justicia betonica, are also recorded from Panama for the first time.
10.2307/2395250| Lignites containing a diverse and well-preserved pollen and spore flora were obtained from the upper Miocene Paraje SoIo Formation near Coatzacoalcos, Veracruz, Mexico. Among modern communities reflected in the fossil microflora are Needle-Leaved Forests of bosque de oyamel, bosque de pino, and bosque de pino y encino; Broad-Leaved Forests of warm, temperate and evergreen oak communities; Deciduous Forest; Temperate and Saline Grasslands; Mangrove Swamps; Coastal Dune Vegetation; a restricted and modified Low Deciduous Selva; and possibly Paramo, Inland Swamp, and Aquatic Vegetation, Absent or poorly rep-resented are the Scale-Leaved Forests of bosque de cedro y tscate; High Evergreen Selva (tropical rain forest); High Semi-Evergreen Selva; Medium Semi-Evergreen Selva; Low Evergreen Selva; Low Semi-Evergreen Selva; Low Thorn Selva; Palm Stands; Savannas; Nolina-Hechtia-Agave Desert; and Thorn Scrub. The presence of pollen of Picea in the microflora suggests cooler temperatures during the upper Miocene and possibly greater and more uniformly distributed rainfall. This type of paleoenvironment would account for the poor representation of both the tropical rain forest and communities of arid aspect, and account for the prominence of the temperate Deciduous Forest in the upper Miocene paleocommunities. 
10.2307/2399224|Experiments are described showing that most artificial autopolyploids derived from native or introduced perennial grass species from California are far inferior in behavior under field conditions than their diploid ancestors. In a single species, Ehrharta erecta in two out of 22 localities, the autotetraploid maintained itself for, respectively, 19 and 39 years, but remained either in the exact locality of planting or in nearby localities having very similar ecological conditions. The control diploids, direct descendants of the progenitors of the autopolyploids, spread more widely and evolved more variation with respect to growth habit among each progeny. These results, along with other evidence derived from several literature sources, strengthen the hypothesis that successful polyploids among natural populations are usually or almost always the result of increased heterozygosity accompanying either interracial or interspecific hybridization. The hypothesis that polyploids succeed because of their greater tolerance of severe ecological or climatic conditions is again rejected, and that which postulates secondary contacts between previously isolated populations as the principal cause for their high frequencies in some groups of angiosperms is favored. The unusually high frequency of polyploids in the Gramineae is attributed to the probable fact that habitats to which they are best adapted have changed in extent and position repeatedly during the geological periods since the initial evolution of the family.
10.2307/2399041|The functional/phylogenetic relationship between the angiosperm flower and insects, combined with the correlation between insect pollination and many of the most diverse angiosperm families, suggest that insect pollination has had an important role in angiosperm success. Various advantages of insect pollination at the species level, especially those associated with bee and lepidopteran pollinators, are consistent with these correlations-furthermore, modern angiosperm diversity may be more directly related to insect pollination by the speciation-promoting characteristics of constant pollinators. Until the present time, paleontological data have mitigated against this possibility by illustrating that both advanced insect pollinators and their co-adapted angiosperm flowers evolved too late to have been of major significance in angiosperm radiation. Recent analyses of paleobotanical and biogeographical data together with paleobotanical data indicate that hymenopteran and lepidopteran pollinators, and angiosperm taxa having flowers adapted to them, existed at a time of major angiosperm radiation. Although angiosperm success cannot be confidently related to one feature, the importance of insect pollination in the diversification of the group can no longer be minimized in the context of the fossil record. Angiosperms are distinguished among the tracheophyta by their overwhelming diversity \lbrack250/300 families of vascular plants are angiosperms; 240,000/300,000 species of flowering plants are angiosperms (Burger, 1981)\rbrack. The angiosperms are also dominant in sheer numbers of individuals and are of extraordinary economic importance. Furthermore, angiosperms demonstrate stunning variation in vegetative and reproductive morphology, anatomy, and habit.
10.2307/2399317|Four new species of Passiflora from Ecuador are described, viz. P. montana, P. palenquensis, P. deltoifolia, and P. pergrandis.
10.2307/2399325|Orthrosanthus, a genus of some 9 species of Iridaceae-Sisyrinchieae, occurs in Australia and South and Mesoamerica. This review, arising out of research for floristic treatments for Flora Mesoamericana and Flora de Nicaragua, deals with the systematics and nomenclature of the New World species. We recognize five American species: O. acorifolius and O. occissapungus are endemic in South America; O. chimboracensis occurs in South and Mesoamerica; and O. monadelphus and O. exsertus are restricted to Mesoamerica and Mexico. The taxonomic history of Orthrosanthus in the New World is outlined followed by a key, and the nomenclature, brief descriptions, and distribution ranges for each species are provided.
10.2307/3298563|The scientific consensus is that human impacts are driving species to extinction hundreds to thousands of times faster than expected from the natural background rate. Critics challenge this. Perhaps giving them more credit than they deserve, I examine four concerns. First, that the extinction crisis is not real. It is and high rates of extinction are the rule, not the exception, within well-known taxa. The second criticism dismisses the problem as one restricted just to islands. It is not. Island species have special vulnerabilities, but they are far more locally abundant within their ranges than are continental species with the same range size. There are large numbers of locally rare, continental species with small geographic ranges that are threatened by human impacts. A third criticism notes the few species that became extinct following the clearing of forests from eastern North America in the 19th century, casting doubt upon the relationship between habitat loss and species loss. Analysis of this case history shows that exactly as many species of birds were lost as expected, for the region had very few species to lose. Extensions to species-rich areas such as Southeast Asia and the Atlantic coast of Brazil confirm the expected calibrations with an interesting caveat. Forest losses predict the number of threatened species-those on the verge of extinction-not the number of extinctions. This leads to the final criticism: that there have been too few recent extinctions. The reply is that in these regions the deforestation is more recent and species do not go extinct immediately. Some doomed species can linger for decades as did the now-extinct species in eastern North America.
41238131|Se describen 15 nuevas secciones del gnero Baccharis L. (Asteraceae, Astereae) de distribucin sudamericana, cuatro de ellas pertenecientes al subgnero Baccharis: Baccharis sect. Caespitosae Giuliano, Baccharis sect. Frenguellianae Giuliano, Baccharis sect. Spicatae Giuliano y Baccharis sect. Tucumanenses Giuliano; cinco pertenecientes al subgnero Molina (Pers.) Heering: Baccharis sect. Albidae Giuliano, Baccharis sect. Divaricatae Giuliano, Baccharis sect. Effusae Giuliano, Baccharis sect. Lilloanae Giuliano y Baccharis sect. Megapotamicae Giuliano; una perteneciente al subgnero Pteronioides Heering: Baccharis sect. Australes Giuliano; una perteneciente al subgnero Tarchonanthoides Heering: Baccharis sect. Coridifoliae Giuliano; y cuatro secciones no asignadas a subgnero alguno: Baccharis sect. Arenariae Giuliano, Baccharis sect. Rodriguezianae Giuliano, Baccharis sect. Tenellae Giuliano y Baccharis sect. Thymifoliae Giuliano. Se proponen tres nuevas combinaciones: Baccharis sect. Heterothalamus (Less.) Giuliano, Baccharis sect. lema (Phil.) Giuliano y Baccharis sect. Palenia (Phil.) Giuliano. Se designa un lectotipo para B. arenaria Baker. Fifteen new sections of genus Baccharis L. (Asteraceae, Astereae) from South America are described, four of them belonging to subgenus Baccharis: Baccharis sect. Caespitosae Giuliano, Baccharis sect. Frenguellianae Giuliano, Baccharis sect. Spicatae Giuliano, and Baccharis sect. Tucumanenses Giuliano; five belonging to subgenus Molina (Pers.) Heering: Baccharis sect. Albidae Giuliano, Baccharis sect. Divaricatae Giuliano, Baccharis sect. Effusae Giuliano, Baccharis sect. Lilloanae Giuliano, and Baccharis sect. Megapotamicae Giuliano; one belonging to subgenus Pteronioides Heering: Baccharis sect. Australes Giuliano; belonging to subgenus Tarchonanthoides Heering: Baccharis sect. Coridifoliae Giuliano; and four sections not assigned to any subgenus: Baccharis sect. Arenariae Giuliano, Baccharis sect. Rodrguezianae Giuliano, Baccharis sect. Tenellae Giuliano, Baccharis sect. Thymifoliae Giuliano. Three new combinations are proposed: Baccharis sect. Heterothalamus (Less.) Giuliano, Baccharis sect, lema (Phil.) Giuliano, and Baccharis sect. Palenia (Phil.) Giuliano. A lectotype is designated for B. arenaria Baker.
40033784|A review of South American herbarium specimens of Bourreria P. Browne (Boraginales, Ehretiaceae) indicates that five species are readily distinguished. Bourreria bolivarensis Gottschling & J. S. Mill. is described as new; B. baccata Raf., B. exsucca Jacq., and B. mollis Standl. have their nomenclature clarified; B. exsucca is epitypified; and a neotype has been designated for Rhamnus cumanensis Loefl. (= B. exsucca). Bourreria bolivarensis and B. exsucca are common species in the northern South American flora. Bourreria costaricensis (Standl.) A. H. Gentry and B. mollis are Central American species that have not been previously reported for South America. Bourreria baccata is a Caribbean species with the southern end of its distribution on Tobago, but it also occurs in a small, isolated population in the Netherlands Antilles and on the adjacent Venezuelan coast, perhaps resulting from a single long-distance dispersal event. Bourreria exsucca and the new species B. bolivarensis have their distribution restricted to South America and exhibit schizocarpous fruits. The other three species have drupaceous fruits. All five species have extent of occurrence above the threshold (> 2000 km) to be considered vulnerable based on the IUCN Red List categories, and none of the five species that occur in South America appear to be threatened when evaluated solely on their distributions.
10.2307/2399881|Sequences from chloroplast DNA and rDNA genes have proved useful in estimating phylogenetic relationships among plants. However, the coding regions of rDNA evolve slowly and are not useful at lower levels of analysis. There are chloroplast-encoded genes that evolve at a higher rate, but since chloroplast DNA is uniparentally inherited, nuclear markers are also needed when introgression or hybridization have occurred. There is then a need for additional nuclear genes that can be used in phylogenetic analysis. Nuclear genes have been largely unused in phylogenetic analysis for several reasons, including the difficulty of distinguishing orthologous from paralogous genes and the problems that can ensue from constructing phylogenetic trees from data matrices that contain both types of genes. This paper is an evaluation of the potential of the genes encoding the small heat shock proteins for phylogenetic analysis of plants. The small heat shock genes in plants are a super gene family composed of four gene families. In this paper I present restriction site analysis of the small heat shock genes from the Brassicaceae, and similarity, rate of evolution, and phylogenetic analysis of small heat shock gene sequences from monocots and dicots. I show that these genes possess the necessary genetic variation for phylogenetic analysis and that the gene families are easily distinguishable from each other, and that, in at least some of the gene families, orthologous and paralogous genes do not pose a problem for phylogenetic analysis.
10.2307/2666129|Epichloe species are fungal symbionts (endophytes) of grasses, many of which are benign or mutualistic and have a balance of horizontal (contagious) and vertical (seed-borne) transmission, whereas others mainly transmit horizontally and are more antagonistic. Over the past eight years several Epichloe species have been described based largely on the biological species concept. We conducted a multi-gene phylogenetic analysis to evaluate these endophytes as phylogenetic species, and thereby assess the relationship of phylogenetic and biological species. Variation mainly in introns of genes encoding -tubulin (tub2), translation elongation factor 1- (tef1), and actin (act1) provided robust phylogenetic signal distinguishing the described Epichloe species. Outgroup rooting split the genus into two major groups. One group included most species with balanced transmission strategy, and in this group the phylogenetic and biological species concepts corresponded well. In contrast, these species concepts poorly corresponded for the other group, the Epichloe typhina complex, with predominantly antagonistic, horizontally transmitted endophytes. We suggest that the balance of vertical and horizontal transmission may promote ecological (host) specialization and subsequent genetic isolation as mechanisms promoting speciation; whereas strict horizontal transmission may select for broader host ranges, slow the development of genetically isolated species, and thereby increase lineage sorting effects that cause conflicts between phylogenetic and biological species.
10.2307/2398784|A systematic treatment of the tropical American grass genus Lasiacis is presented. The gross morphology of Lasiacis is discussed. Lasiacis is panicoid in the form of its leaves, its roots, and its seedlings. Leaf anatomy was studied from cross-sections of blades and from the epidermis. Lasiacis has a typically non-Kranz (C
40035748|Phylogenetic relationships within Periplocoideae (Apocynaceae s.l.) were investigated using sequence data from nuclear ribosomal DNA and two plastid regions: trnD-trnT and trnT-trnF. We included 43 ingroup taxa, representing all but three of 32 currently recognized genera. In the ITS and total evidence analyses, Phyllanthera grayi (P. I. Forst.) Venter is supported as sister to the rest of the subfamily. We identified several well-supported clades, and three of six genera represented here by more than one species (Cryptolepis R. Br., Pentopetia Decne., and Periploca L.) are supported as monophyletic. Pollinial species appear in four distinct, well-defined clades, suggesting either three or four independent origins of pollinia within the subfamily. It is most parsimonious, therefore, to view pollinia in Periplocoideae as non-homologous with those of Secamonoideae and Asclepiadoideae, a hypothesis that is supported by their structural differences.
10.2307/2399080|North America-Eurasia and South America-Africa were certainly joined in the classic reconstruction of Pangaea by Middle Triassic time. The line of collision and suture included the Appalachian Quachita-Marathon orogenic trend in the United States extending southwestward into what is now northeastern and southeastern Mexico and into Guatemala. Widespread continentality prevailed and there was no Gulf of Mexico or Caribbean Sea. In Late Triassic time and continuing into Early Jurassic time this construct began to founder by initial rifting between South America-Africa and North America. No oceanic crust was formed, however, thus Africa-South America were still completely connected by land or shallow sea to North America until mid-Jurassic time. During this same uppermost Triassic to Middle Jurassic period a largely continental magmatic arc was draped across the Pacific margin of southwestern North America and apparently continued unbroken into northwestern South America. Sometime in the Middle Jurassic oceanic crust began to form by seafloor spreading in the central Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico as separation of South America-Africa from North America accelerated. Once this dense crust began to form the trailing margins of the continents subsided below sea-level and construction of the Atlantic and Gulf coast continental shelves began. Evidence is quite conclusive that this ocean floor spreading did not reach the Pacific Ocean, but was transformed from the southwestern corner of the newly opened Gulf of Mexico northwestward across Mexico via a complex left-slip transform fault system that reached the Pacific margin near Los Angeles. In Early Cretaceous time spreading continued in the central Atlantic but extended southward into the southern Atlantic. As the main axis of spreading extended into the south Atlantic, spreading ceased in the Gulf of Mexico. The south Atlantic spreading initiated separation of South America from Africa, but they probably remained in partial contact via ridge-ridge transform faults until Late Cretaceous time. South America must have finally completely separated from North America in Early Cretaceous time, probably via a rift along the eastern edge of Yucatan and the Nicaraguan rise. By Late Jurassic time the Pacific continental margin arc had waned and was replaced by a complex, largely oceanic, magmatic arc whose position relative to southwestern North America and northwestern South America is not known. What we do know is that by Late Cretaceous-Early Tertiary time it had accreted against the Pacific margins of both. Connections between the continents are also not known but could have included a largely submarine magmatic arc, parts of which may have subsequently dispersed eastward as the Greater Antilles. Much of what is now Middle America is apparently underlain by oceanic crust at least as young as Late Cretaceous in age. By Late Cretaceous time the Greater Antilles magmatic arc seems to have fully formed and subsequently moved northeastward as a northeast-facing subduction system during Late Cretaceous-Early Tertiary Laramide time. The Greater Antilles arc-trench system ceased activity in Late Eocene time as it collided with Florida and the Bahama platform and as Laramide orogeny waned throughout western North America. This was followed by a major plate reorganization in the Caribbean-Middle America region nearly 40 m.y. B.P. which established the Caribbean plate more or less as we know it today. The principal change was initiation of the Lesser Antilles magmatic arc as an east-facing subduction system that began to consume Atlantic ocean floor. Also, a west-facing subduction system may have formed about this time along a proto-Central American western margin of the Caribbean plate. However, much of what is now Central America may have initially been off southern Mexico. The northern and southern margins of the Caribbean plate evolved into complex transform and transpressive systems as North and South America moved westward past a nearly stationary Caribbean plate. These motions significantly fragmented the Greater Antilles into their present array. There is no evidence for any complete land connection between North and South America via the Greater and/or Lesser Antilles throughout later Mesozoic or Tertiary time. Nor is there any evidence for complete land connection via Central America and the Isthmus of Panama before Neogene time.
10.2307/2394842|Eleven new species of Hoffmannia (Rubiaceae) and diagnoses of nine previously described species from Panama are presented. A key to the species is included.
10.2307/3298602|Ocotea is the largest genus of Lauraceae in Mesoamerica (Central America and Southern Mexico, i.e., the area between the Isthmus of Tehuantepec in Mexico and the Panamanian-Colombian border) with 102 species recognized. The most recent treatment of Mesoamerican Ocotea was published by Carolyn Allen in 1945. It included 33 species and is now seriously outdated. A synopsis of the genus as it is currently known from Mesoamerica is presented here, consisting of a key to species, synonymy, type information, some brief notes on characters useful in their identification, and distribution by country and altitude.
10.2307/2398918|Five generic mergers in Bigoniaceae are proposed, largely as the result of palynological considerations. The proposed mergers are: Orthotheca with Xylophragma, Neves-Armondia with Pithecoctenium, Paradolichandra with Parabignonia, and both Hanburyophyton and Pachyptera with Mansoa. A new species, intermediate between Mansoa and Pachyptera, is described as M. ventricosa A. Gentry. New combinations required by the proposed mergers are: Xylophragma heterocalyx (Bur. & K. Schum.) A. Gentry, Mansoa lanceolata (DC.) A. Gentry, M. alliacea (Lam.) A. Gentry, M. erythraea (Dugand) A. Gentry, M. hymenaea (DC.) A. Gentry, M. kerere (Aubl.) A. Gentry, M. kerere var. incarnata (Aubl.) A. Gentry, M. parvifolia (A. Gentry) A. Gentry, M. standleyi (Steyerm.) A. Gentry, and Parabignonia chodatii (Hassler) A. Gentry. Transfer of Neves-Armondia cordifolia to Pithecoctenium necessitates a nomen novum, proposed as P. hatschbachii A. Gentry.
10.2307/2992104|Phytochemical data provide much useful information concerning relationships both within the Euphorbiaceae and between that family and putative relatives. Within the Euphorbiaceae, the presence of several groups of secondary metabolites support certain infrafamilial groupings, whereas data related to the biosynthesis and distribution of other secondary metabolites provide information concerning the relationship of the Euphorbiaceae to other families. Similarities in chemistry to both the Geraniales and Malvales are found, supporting the suggestion by Webster (1987) that the differences between the Dilliniidae and Rosidae may not be as great as previously thought, and that the Euphorbiaceae may have arisen from ancestors intermediate to those two groups.
10.2307/2399673|The Pandanaceae include three genera: Pandanus with 700 species and a large range, Freycinetia with 200 species and a smaller range, and Sararanga with two species and a very limited range. Using Cyclanthaceae, Araceae, and Arecaceae as outgroups, cladistic analysis of Pandanaceae suggests Pandanus and Sararanga to be more closely related to each other than either is to Freycinetia. Data concerning pollination biology and breeding systems are superimposed upon the consensus tree derived from this analysis. Vertebrate pollination and dioecism appear to be ancestral in Pandanaceae, with anemophily in Pandanus and entomophily in Sararanga to be independently derived conditions. Only a few changes in inflorescence morphology were necessary to facilitate these profound changes in pollination syndromes. Dioecism, while perhaps adaptive for vertebrate-pollinated Pandanaceae such as Freycinetia, may have been maladaptive for Pandanus and Sararanga. The ill-effects of dioecism on long-distance dispersal have been partially overcome in Freycinetia by the evolution of "leaky dioecy" and self-compatibility and largely overcome in Pandanus through the evolution of facultative apomixis. The deleterious effects of dioecism appear to be unmitigated in Sararanga and may lead to its eventual extinction. The interplay of pollination syndromes and breeding systems appears to have strongly influenced range expansion and speciation in the Pandanaceae.
10.2307/2398979|A diagrammatic illustration is used to explain the meridional shift of the constituents of the Chinese deciduous forests from one in Regions I and II with deciduous trees and few evergreen undershrubs to one in Region III with deciduous species forming the canopy and some evergreen undergrowth, and to one in Region IV with deciduous and evergreen trees mixed. Five samples from the temperate forests of Region III, IV, and VIII are selected to explain the altitudinal variation of the Chinese deciduous forests from eastern to western China, with their obvious limit in western Sichuan and the immediately adjacent portion of Yunnan. A list of the paired or closely related species dominant in the forests is provided to demonstrate the affinities of the deciduous forests of China and the United States. The exact nature of the floristic relationship is explained by distributional maps showing (1) disjunction of the species of Clintonia Raf. with centers of distribution in China, Japan, western United States and the eastern United States, (2) bicentric pattern of distribution of Diphylleia Michaux in eastern Asia and eastern United States, (3) bicentric distribution of Kelloggia Torrey ex Bentham & Hooker restricted to China (Yunnan) and the western United States.
40035656|Ourisia Comm. ex Juss. (Plantaginaceae; Scrophulariaceae s.l.) is a genus of herbaceous or suffruticose species that occur largely in high-elevation habitats of Andean South America, New Zealand, and Tasmania. Recent molecular phylogenetic data have clarified evolutionary relationships within Ourisia and provided high support for the recognition of two subgenera based primarily on habit, i.e., Ourisia subg. Ourisia (25 herbaceous species) and Ourisia subg. Suffruticosae Meudt (three suffruticose species). To investigate the utility of morphological data in comparison to molecular data for phylogeny and subgeneric taxonomy, phylogenetic hypotheses were generated using 20 morphological characters for all 33 taxa of Ourisia using Melosperma Benth. as an outgroup. Additional phylogenetic hypotheses were generated by combining the morphological data with molecular data for the 29 species (plus Melosperma) for which the latter were available. With respect to phylogeny, morphological data are congruent with molecular data but generally provide less resolution. Morphological data are informative regarding infrageneric taxonomy and show that at least six morphological characters in addition to habit support the delimitation of the two subgenera. Finally, morphological characters of interest were traced onto the molecular phylogeny. Evolution of these and other characters are discussed in light of the various phylogenetic results. /// Ourisia Comm. ex Juss. (Plantaginaceae; Scrophulariaceae s.l.) es un gnero de especies herbceas o sufruticosas que crecen predominantemente en hbitats de grandes altitudes de los Andes de Sudamrica, Nueva Zelandia y Tasmania. Datos filogenticos recientes han aclarado las relaciones evolucionarias dentro de Ourisia y han dado un gran respaldo al reconocimiento de dos subgneros basados principalmente en hbito, es decir, Ourisia subg. Ourisia (25 especies herbceas) y Ourisia subg. Suffruticosae Meudt (tres especies sufruticosas). A fin de investigar la utilidad de los datos morfolgicos en comparacin con los datos moleculares de filogenia y taxonoma subgenrica, se generaron hiptesis filognticas usando 20 caracteres morfolgicos para los 33 taxa de Ourisia, con Melosperma Benth. como grupo externo. Se generaron otras hiptesis filogenticas combinando los datos morfolgicos con los datos moleculares de las 29 especies (ms Melosperma) en las que se dispona de estos ltimos. Respecto de la filogenia, los datos morfolgicos son coherentes con los datos moleculares, pero por lo general ofrecen menos resolucin. Los datos morfolgicos son informativos respecto de la taxonoma infragenrica e indican que al menos seis caracteres morfolgicos, adems del hbito, respaldan la delimitacin de los dos subgneros. Por ltimo, se trazaron a la filogenia molecular caracteres que resultan de inters. Se analiza la evolucin de estos y otros caracteres a la luz de los diversos resultados filogenticos.
10.2307/2394975|Two new species of Chamaesyce S. F. Gray from Haiti are described, and a key provided to the genus in south Florida, the Bahamas, and the Greater and Lesser Antilles. Thirteen new combinations, eight of which involve a change of status, are also made.
10.2307/2398840|Based on observations in Panama, the male orchard oriole is shown to be the most effective pollinator of Erythrina fusca. It is hypothesized that the identical color of the male oriole's body plumage and the floral parts surrounding the nectar indicates a coevolved relationship.
10.2307/2398995|Quantitative and qualitative features are described for Circaea lutetiana subsp. canadensis, Fuchsia decidua, Lopezia suffrutescens, Oenothera deltoides subsp. howellii, and six species of Ludwigia. Comparison is made between secondary xylem of stem wood and that of tuberous roots for Fuchsia decidua; the roots have narrow, angular vessels with scalariform lateral wall pitting in a ground tissue of starch-rich parenchyma indistinguishable from ray cells. Succulent roots of Xylonagra show the same features. Wood anatomy for the species studied is interpreted in terms of habit and ecology; features relating to herbaceous modes of structure are discussed since all of the species studied can be termed subshrubs or small to large herbs. A discussion of the systematic distribution of vestured pits is presented. Allied phenomena (warty surfaces in conifer tracheids, warty surfaces in vessel elements some of which are intercontinuous with warts of vestured pits, grooves in vessel walls, and helical thickenings on vessel walls) are considered in conjunction with vestured pits. Experimental data available is minimal, so little evidence other than systematic distribution and occurrence within cell types can be adduced at present. These forms of wall relief seem to occur essentially only in conducting cells. Four hypotheses are entertained: (1), vestured pits as a means of preventing pit membrane rupture in pit aspiration; (2), wall relief as a means of lowering resistance to water flow; (3), wall relief as a mechanism for mending of air embolisms; and (4), wall relief as a means of increasing hydration (bonding of water to wall), thereby enabling high water tensions during drought or frost but lessening likelihood of cavitations. Although all hypotheses are considered possible in terms of today's limited knowledge, the fourth hypothesis is considered the most likely by virtue of systematic, ecological, and cell type occurrence of wall relief types.
10.2307/2398887|The taxon containing the arborescent species of Ipomoea is heterogeneous as it is presently recognized. A reclassification of the group has resulted in a taxon that can be characterized by several correlated features (involving habit, inflorescence type, sepal size, shape, texture, and pubescence, corolla color and pubescence, and seed pubescence) in contrast to its historical antecedent. The relationships of the ten constituent species are briefly discussed, and a detailed key and complete descriptions incorporate my conclusions concerning the limits of these species.
10.2307/2399856|A parsimony analysis of 46 rbcL sequences was performed to evaluate relationships among Cornus and putative relatives, as well as among subgroups within Cornus. Our results indicate that Alangium, nyssoids (Nyssa, Davidia, and Camptotheca), mastixioids (Diplopanax and Mastixia), Curtisia, and genera of Hydrangeaceae are the closest relatives of Cornus. These taxa, plus Cornus, constitute a "cornaceous clade," which differs from all previously proposed Cornus alliances. Within this cornaceous clade, four major lineages were identified; (i) Cornus-Alangium, (ii) nyssoids-mastixioids, (iii) Curtisia, and (iv) hydrangeoids. The relationships among the four major lineages within the cornaceous clade remain unresolved. Sequence data from rbcL also reveal that Corokia, Helwingia, Aucuba, Garrya, and Griselinia, previously placed in Cornaceae by some authors, are only distantly related to Cornus and other members of the cornaceous clade. Four major lineages were identified within Cornus by rbcL sequence data, but relationships among these groups are incompletely resolved.
10.2307/2399206|Based on our examination of samples representing seven sections, 11 species, and up to 40 characters, we describe the embryological characteristics of the genus Ludwigia (Onagraceae). Ludwigia represents a phylogenetic line separate from all other Onagraceae, so it occupies a key position in considerations of relationships within the family and between Onagraceae and other families of Myrtales. The typical distinctive 4-nucleate Oenothera-type embryo sac was present in all species studied, displaying no distinctive features. The embryo sacs of Myrtales, including Onagraceae and Lythraceae, lack antipodal cells at maturity. This character cannot therefore be used to demonstrate relationships between these families, as suggested by earlier embryologists. Two derived embryological features that are shared by Onagraceae and Lythraceae, however, and might indicate relationships between them are (1) the ubiquitous occurrence of starch grains in the nucellus; and (2) tracheidal exotegmens. Among the embryological features that we examined in Ludwigia, seed coat anatomy may be most useful in considering relationships within the genus. For example, the specialized endotestal structure of sect. Dantia is found only in members of sect. Microcarpium, thus supporting the hypothesis that the two sections are closely related.
10.2307/3298537|The shrubs and small trees of Amborella trichopoda are functionally unisexual and the populations are dioecious,male biased, and occur primarily in clumps. Floral size dimorphism reported for this species was confirmed by differences in floral biomass. At the level of the inflorescence, there were significantly greater numbers of male versus female flowers/inflorescence. No differences were observed between male and female plants in height, stem number, and diameter at the ground level. Male flowers bear 6 to 21 stamens and female flowers 3 to 6 spirally arranged carpels and staminodes that mimic the fertile androecia in male flowers. Flowering within a population was synchronous, and flowers of Amborella trichopoda are both insect-and wind-pollinated. A wide variety of insects ranging in size from ca.1 mm to 7 cm in length pollinate the flowers, indicating a generalist pollination system. Beetles involved in pollination dwell in the forest litter but also spend hours on the leaves, flowers, and branches feeding on pollen. Pollen is the reward for insects as there is an absence of detectable floral volatiles and nectars, and anthers lack secretions or food bodies. A free-flowing stigma secretion was occasionally present, but it was not consumed by pollinators. Structural studies indicate that the stigma is of the dry-type, and the pollinators probably visit female flowers because of the mimetic role of the staminodes. The combination of wind and insect pollination exhibited in A. trichopoda is rare in basal angiosperms. Gall midges, parasitoid wasps, and thrips utilize floral tissue as a breeding site, impeding reproduction. Two species of gall-inducing midges (Cecidomyiidae) insert egg(s) into the gynoecia of developing flower buds, converting one or more ovaries into galls. Parasitoid wasps (Chalcidae) lay eggs in the galls that develop into larvae that prey upon the midge maggots. The Cecidomyiidae expanded with the angiosperms, but the earliest fossils of gallinducing gall midges occur in the Miocene. Deceptive mechanisms involving numerous floral traits in small bisexual and unisexual flowers are common in the ANITA group and other basal angiosperms.
40390046|Galianthe subg. Galianthe Griseb. se caracteriza por el fruto de mericarpios dhiscentes, semillas rollizas o complanadas con bordes aliformes, inflorescencias generalmente amplias tirsoides o pleiotirsoides, flores heterostilas, hbito erecto generalmente con xilopodio y cromosomas x = 8. Est representada por 39 especies sudamrcanas que se agrupan en dos secciones: sect. Galianthe (30 especies) y una nueva sect. Laxae E. L. Cabrai (nueve especies y dos subespecies). Se acompanan claves para diferenciar las secciones y las especies de cada seccin, con resumen sinptico de las especies y mapas de distribucin. Se designan neotipos para cuatro nombres: Borreria angusti/olia Cham. & Schltdl. [= G. angusti/olia (Cham. & Schltdl.) E. L. Cabrai], B. equisetoides Cham. & Schltdl. [= G. equisetoides (Cham. & Schltdl.) E. L. Cabrai], B. thalictroides K. Schum. [= G. thalictroides (K. Schum.) E. L. Cabrai], B. valerianoides Cham. & Schltdl. [= G. valerianoides (Cham. & Schltdl.) E. L. Cabrai]. Se designan lectotipos para cinco nombres: B. centranthoides f. glabrior Chodat & Hassl. [= G. centranthoides (Cham. & Schltdl.) E. L. Cabrai], B. ericoides Cham. & Schltdl. [= Galianthe peruviana (Pers.) E. L Cabrai], B. leiophylla K. Schum. [= G. fastigiata Griseb.], G. hassleriana (Chodat) E. L. Cabrai y G. verbenoides (Cham. & Schltdl.) Griseb. /// The species of th genus Galianthe subg. Galianthe Griseb. are revised. The group comprises 39 species from South America and is characterized by its fruits of dhiscent mericarps, plump or complanate seeds with wing-like margins, usually wide, thyrsoid or pleiothyrsoid inflorescences, an erect habit generally with xylopodium, and a basic chromosome number x = 8. Two sections are recognized: section Galianthe (30 species) and th new section Laxae E. L. Cabrai (nine species, including two subspecies). A key to th sections and their species are provided. The species published recently are not described in this work. Neotypes are hre designated for four names: Borreria angusti/olia Cham. & Schltdl. [= G. angusti/olia (Cham. & Schltdl.) E. L. Cabrai], B. equisetoides Cham. & Schltdl. [= G. equisetoides (Cham. & Schltdl.) E. L. Cabrai], B. thalictroides K. Schum. [= G. thalictroides (K. Schum.) E. L. Cabrai], and B. valerianoides Cham. & Schltdl. [ G. valerianoides (Cham. & Schltdl.) E. L. Cabrai]. Lectotypes are designated hre for fi ve names: B. centranthoides f. glabrior Chodat & Hassl. [= G. centranthoides (Cham. & Schltdl.) E. L. Cabrai], B. ericoides Cham. & Schltdl. [= Galianthe peruviana (Pers.) E. L. Cabrai], B. leiophylla K. Schum. [= G. fastigiata Griseb.], G. hassleriana (Chodat) E. L. Cabrai, and G. verbenoides (Cham. & Schltdl.) Griseb.
10.2307/2399991|Micromorphological features of the lemma were investigated in the subtribe Eleusininae (Poaceae) using scanning electron microscopy. Ninety-two taxa were studied, which included 48 genera and all currently recognized species of Leptochloa s.l. All species of Leptochloa and a majority of genera in Eleusininae have cork cells, but silica cells are mostly absent in Leptochloa and most related genera in Eleusininae. Enneapogonoid-type microhairs are reported for Cladoraphis cyperoides and Psammagrostis wiseana, representing only the second report in Eleusininae. Although bicellular microhairs occur in most taxa, variations in microhair type, coupled with the occurrence of partitioning membranes, give them supra-specific phylogenetic utility. The occurrence of papillae on short and long cells varies within Leptochloa and between genera. Prickles are ubiquitous in Leptochloa and most related genera. Macrohairs are present in all species of Leptochloa but absent in some related genera. Clavicorniculate macrohairs are reported for one species each of Leptochloa and Coelachyrum, and a corniculate macrohair was observed in Cynodon. A crispate macrohair occurring in three species of Coelachyrum is described for the first time and probably represents a synapomorphy in that genus. The analysis of Leptochloa suggests that micromorphological characters vary little within a genus, and thus have the potential to serve as phylogenetic markers at the generic level. Uncertainty concerning the homologous relationships of papillae, hooks, prickles, and macrohairs is discussed in light of this study and previous literature.
10.2307/2399053|Observations were made on distribution, floral morphology, and pollination of four species of Dalechampia (Euphorbiaceae) in central Panama. The four species occur sympatrically in various combinations throughout Panama and are pollinated by resin-collecting euglossine bees, and resin-and/or pollen-collecting stingless bees and megachilid bees. With one exception, these plant species overlap very little in pollinators or time of pollination. Dalechampia heteromorpha is pollinated early in the day by Trigona and Hypanthidium whereas a sympatric congener, D. scandens, is pollinated by the same species of bees late in the day. A third sympatric species, D. dioscoreifolia, is pollinated by euglossine bees. Dalechampia heteromorpha also occurs sympatrically with D. tiliifolia; the latter is pollinated by euglossine bees. Individuals of Dalechampia dioscoreifolia and D. tiliifolia were observed occurring together at only one site; here they shared pollinators (euglossine bees) and were receptive to pollination at the same time of day. Interspecific pollen flow was substantial and may have resulted in depressed seedset in D. dioscoreifolia.
10.2307/2399057|Arguments are presented to support the thesis that leaves of lupines with a single blade are simple rather than unifoliolate. Three species in Argentina have all or some of their leaves simple. Lupinus guaraniticus and L. sellowianus have only simple leaves, whereas L. paraguariensis has simple leaves at the base of the plant and the first leaf of each lateral branch but the others are palmately compound. Three related species with palmately compound leaves are treated in this paper: L. albescens, L. aureonitens, and L. multiflorus.
10.2307/2399762|Any similarities between Phylloglossum and specific subgenera of Lycopodium sens. lat. have been difficult to determine, because the reduced sporophyte of Phylloglossum has few characters for comparison. Gametophytes can provide useful characters, but it is difficult to find Phylloglossum gametophytes in nature. These gametophytes have been grown in axenic culture for study. Spores of Phylloglossum germinate in the dark on a nutrient medium containing minerals and glucose. No germination occurs in the light. In early development, a globular gametophyte forms that later becomes cylindrical. The cylindrical gametophytes are negatively gravitropic and grow vertically away from the surface of the nutrient medium. As long as the gametophytes are cultured in the dark they remain cylindrical and nonphotosynthetic. Moving the gametophytes into light initiates chlorophyll development and brings about a new growth habit that is oriented more or less horizontally rather than vertically. Growth in the light is elongated but deltoid in cross section. Sexually mature, photosynthetic gametophytes have not yet been grown. Information from axenic culture helps to explain the habit of these gametophytes described from nature. It would appear that the spores have to be covered with soil before they germinate. The young gametophyte, which is mycorrhizal, becomes cylindrical and grows to the surface of the soil. Once exposed to light the mature habit develops. Germination in the dark, mycorrhizal young gametophytes, and other characters suggest that Phylloglossum is not as similar to the subgenus of Lycopodium (Lepidotis) having photosynthetic gametophytes as once thought.
10.2307/2399935|The flower of Lacandonia schismatica is bisexual. Three or sometimes four bilocular or trilocular anthers occupy the center of the flower inside the zone of carpels. The anther wall comprises four layers: epidermis; endothecium whose cells develop helical wall thickenings; one middle layer, which disappears early; a tapetum of the secretory type. The tapetal cells apparently form cytoplasmic bridges among themselves. The microspore tetrads are in an isobilateral arrangement, surrounded by a thick wall. The mature anther wall has only two cell layers: epidermis and endothecium. The pollen grain is three-celled by the time germination occurs. Anther dehiscence has not been observed and probably does not occur. Pollination of Lacandonia schismatica occurs in the unopened flower bud. The pollen grains germinate within the anthers, which do not dehisce, and the pollen tubes grow within the receptacle until they reach the ovules. The pollen tube enters the embryo sac through the micropyle and one synergid, and fertilization is completed by anthesis. This reproductive pattern conforms to Lord's definition of preanthesis cleistogamy.
40389953|A revision of the Neotropical genus Bonyunia M. R. Schomb. ex Progel (Loganiaceae, Antonieae) is provided, including a key to species, description, distribution, IUCN Red List status, and discussion. Bonyunia is morphologically and ecologically diverse with taxonomically informative characters that include habit, seed and leaf morphology, and the shape and indment of the calyx, bracts, and bracteoles. Bonyunia occurs in lowland regions of the Amazon River watershed (Brazil and Bolivia), the Orinoco River watershed (Colombia and Venezuela), tepuis of the Guayana region and outliers (Brazil, Guyana, Venezuela, and Colombia), and lowland regions of Amazon Basin-facing Andes in Peru, throughout on white sands. Ten species are recognized, including four established species: B. antoniifolia Progel, B. aquatica Ducke, B. minor N. E. Br. (including B. cinchonoides Gleason & StandL), and B. superba M. R. Schomb. ex Progel. Six species are newly described: B. excelsa J. R. Grant (Colombia), B. magnifica J. R. Grant (Brazil), B. nobilis J. R. Grant (Colombia), B. pulchra Ricketson, J. R. Grant & Liesner (Peru), B. spectabilis J. R. Grant (Guyana), and B. venusta J. R. Grant (Brazil).
40035757|Plant-pollinator interactions constitute one of the most widely recognized mutualisms, yet most investigations focus on single species or specialized pollinators. We used multiple measures to evaluate the efficiency and effectiveness of a diverse assemblage of pollinators on three co-flowering species: Asclepias syriaca L., A. incarnata L., and A. verticillata L. Hymenopterans exceeded other insects in their prevalence as major pollinators, but most did not vary significantly among plant species in the number of flowers visited or in visit duration per plant, except for native Bombus griseocollis. Significant variation in visit duration was also uncommon among insects foraging on a single taxon, except for Apis mellifera, which foraged longer on plants of A. syriaca than native hymenopterans and lepidopterans. Among the hymenoptera, bumblebees, carpenter bees, and wasps visited more plants per foraging bout, respectively, on A. syriaca, A. incarnata, and A. verticillata. Insect fidelity also varied seasonally and among plant species. Thus, honeybees, lepidopterans, and sphecid wasps foraged with greater relative constancy on A. syriaca, A. incarnata, and A. verticillata, respectively. All bees and wasps carried more pollinaria of A. incarnata and A. verticillata than of the larger-flowered A. syriaca, but most insects had higher inferred pollinium transfer rates on A. syriaca than on its congeners, especially sphecid wasps. Overall, the actions of pollinators were individualistic and indices of pollinator effectiveness based on pre-contact foraging versus vector pollinium loads were not strongly congruent. Our results highlight the need for new and creative approaches to studying the role of generalized pollination systems in the origin and maintenance of sympatrically flowering species.
10.2307/2399008|A combination of embryological characteristics clearly defines Myrtales as comprising Combretaceae, Lythraceae (including Punicaceae and Sonneratiaceae), Melastomataceae, Myrtaceae, Onagraceae, Oliniaceae, Penaeaceae, and Trapaceae, a circumscription that agrees with that of the "core" Myrtales given by Dahlgren and Thorne (1983). The ordinal characteristics are: 1) anther tapetum glandular, 2) ovule crassinucellate, 3) inner integument 2-layered (except in Syzygium), 4) micropyle formed by both integuments (except in Syzygium and Trapa), 5) antipodal cells ephemeral or absent, 6) endosperm formation Nuclear type and 7) seed exalbuminous. Haloragaceae, Lecythidaceae, and Thymelaeaceae definitely should be excluded from Myrtales on the basis of differences in three or more of these primary defining characteristics. On the other hand, embryological evidence does not contradict the possibility of a relatively close relationship between Elatinaceae and Myrtales, even though an overall consideration of their features seems to make such a relationship seem less likely. Embryological evidence indicates a considerable degree of heterogeneity in Rhizophoraceae, a family or group of families that is clearly not assignable to Myrtales.
10.2307/2399455|Ludwigia anastomosans, a tree to 10 m, is studied because it is unusual in the genus in its arborescent habit. It proves to have unusually wide vessels; it also has interxylary phloem, hitherto reported for only one species of the genus. Wood anatomy of Ludwigia peduncularis and L. torulosa shows that they may be more closely related than so far indicated. Vestigial bars on perforation plates of L. torulosa are the first observed in Onagraceae and are believed to represent an instance of paedomorphosis, but also retention of a primitive feature. Other indicators of paedomorphosis in Ludwigia are abundance of erect ray cells and notably long vessel elements. The hypothesis that degree of vessel grouping is related to ecology in taxa having fiber-tracheids or libriform fibers is validated by Ludwigia, which has the lowest degree of vessel grouping for the family and is essentially aquatic. Other anatomical features reflective of ecology, combined in the Mesomorphy ratio, present a not dissimilar pattern that can be integrated with that given by vessel grouping if one takes into account probable transpiration rates and temperature regimes as well as water availability.
10.2307/2399466|Hyperarid climates in western South America from 15
40035488|Surveys of local assemblages of plants and their pollinators are among the most useful ways to evaluate specialization in pollination and to discuss the patterns of plant-pollinator interactions among ecosystems. The high-altitude grasslands from southeastern Brazil constitute diminutive island-like formations surrounded by montane rainforests. We registered the floral traits of 124 species from the Serra da Bocaina grasslands (about 60% of the animal-pollinated species of this flora), and determined the pollinators of 106 of them. Asteraceae (40 species) and Melastomataceae (10 species) were prominent, while most families were represented by few species. The predominant floral traits were: dish or short-tubular shape; nectar as a reward; and greenish or violaceous colors. Pollinators were divided into eight functional groups (small bees, syrphids, other dipterans, etc.) and small bees, wasps, and large bees were the most important pollinators. Butterflies, beetles, and hummingbirds were poorly represented, and no bats, hawkmoths, or odor-collecting bees were detected. Plants were grouped in nine pollination systems, among which nectar-flowers pollinated by bees (28%), by wasps or wasps and flies (21%), or by several insect groups (19%) were the most representative. With regard to the degree of specialization, plant species were classified according to their number of pollinator groups. About 33% of the species were monophilous and 30% were oligophilous (i.e., pollinated by one or two functional groups, respectively). The remaining species were either polyphilous (17%) or holophilous (19%), a highly generalist system in which at least three groups act as indistinct pollinators. The general trends of the floral traits and plant-pollinator interactions at the Bocaina grasslands resemble those of biogeographic-connected ecosystems, such as the Venezuelan arbustal, and the Brazilian campo rupestre and cerrado. However, in the Bocaina grasslands, the mean number of pollinator types per plant was 2.09, one of the highest values obtained for worldwide floras. The origin of the high-altitude grasslands is linked to episodes of expansion and retraction due to glacial events. Such a situation may have favored species able to quickly occupy new habitats, including those that do not depend on a few highly specialized pollinators. The prevalence of Asteraceae may also be linked to more generalized pollination systems. Alternatively, some floral traits, such as spontaneous self-pollination and long-lived flowers, may be advantageous for species with more specialized systems in these grasslands with harsh climatic conditions and low rates of pollinator visitation.
41238114|The nuclear gene xanthine dehydrogenase (Xdh) was sequenced for 247 genera representing all major lineages of angiosperme and "gymnosperms," and the results were analyzed using likelihood and parsimony methods. The overall topology is mostly congruent with previously published trees based on chloroplast rbcL.atpB, and matK sequences. A total of 190 of the 253 nodes (71%) of the Xdh tree received bootstrap support greater than 50%. The likelihood tree was comparable in robustness to the matK topology, which exhibited 79% of the nodes with bootstrap support greater than 50%, and to the reported 7%-24% support observed for individual analyses of rbcL, atpB, and 18S ribosomal DNA clades. The number of parsimony-informative sites (1068, 69%) was similar to that of the matK (1083, 62%) study. The likelihood tree depicts angiosperms as monophyletic, with Ceratophyllum L. (Ceratophyllaceae) as sister to the rest of the flowering plants, followed successively by Amborellaceae, Nymphaeaceae, and Austrobaileyales clades as sisters to the remaining angiosperms. Acorus L. plus the remaining monocots, magnoliids, and Chloranthaceae diverge after the Austrobaileyales. Eudicots are supported and include a basal grade of Ranunculales-Proteaceae, Sabiaceae, Trochodendraceae, Buxaceae, Gunneraceae, and Dilleniaceae Santalaceae, which are subsequent sister to the remaining eudicots. The remaining eudicots are split into two clades. The first clade consists of the Ericales, Cornales, and euasterids I and II (lamids-campanulids). The second clade consists of the following orders: Saxifragales, Myrtales-Caryophyllales Cucurbitales, Crossosomatales, Geraniales, Rosales-Fabales-Fagales, Celastrales, Malpighiales, Brassicales-Malvales, Oxalidales, and Sapindales. Xdh data provided good support in the Caryophyllales, Ericales and Cornales, euasterids I (lamids), Magnoliales and Laurales, Malvales, Rutaceae, Oxalidales, Brassicales, and Sapindales. A future combined analysis of Xdh and other DNA data sets will have a strong potential to enhance resolution and internal support for angiosperm phylogenetics and provide insights into angiosperm evolution using biparental information.
10.2307/2399516|Phylogenetic relationships in the family Onagraceae were assessed using ribosomal DNA restriction site mapping. Sixty-five restriction sites were detected among 11 species of Onagraceae (one each of Circaea, Fuchsia, Hauya, Oenothera, and Ludwigia, and six species of Epilobium) using 20 restriction enzymes. Phylogenetic analysis of the data was performed using both Wagner and Dollo parsimony, and the resulting monophyletic groups were tested by the bootstrap method. The trees were rooted by using Ludwigia as a functional outgroup. Phenetic approaches (cluster analysis and principal coordinate analysis) were also applied to the data as a complement to the cladistic analysis. Wagner parsimony analysis generated four equally parsimonious trees (53 steps, consistency index 0.76), and Dollo parsimony analysis generated six equally parsimonious trees (59 steps, consistency index 0.67). In all trees the six species of Epilobium form a monophyletic group. Independent data on Onagraceae (morphological, cytological, anatomical, chemosystematic, and molecular) strongly support one of the six phylogenetic hypotheses generated by Dollo parsimony analysis, in which Circaea, Fuchsia, and Hauya form one branch with Circaea the sister group to Fuchsia-Hauya, and Oenothera and Epilobium form the other branch. Cluster analysis and principal component analysis do not agree with the phylogenetic analyses mainly in the position of Epilobium, suggesting the possibility of different rates of evolutionary change in different lines of the family.
10.2307/2394735|Field-grown plants of four representatives of three exotic kinds of maize were subjected to four different concentrations of gibberellic acid throughout the growing season. Internode diagrams of controls and treated plants demonstrated that increases in height were taking place in different internodes under different gibberellic acid (GA) concentrations, and that related maizes responded in similar fashion to like GA treatments. General reductions were noted in tiller number, tassel branch number and ear number. High concentrations of GA inhibited growth, eventually killing plants of one race. Degree of inbreeding seems closely associated with GA sensitivity. Male sterility and production of female florets in basal areas of tassels occurred. Brace roots were formed up to 80 cm. above ground. The question of effects of GA on internal mineral balance is discussed briefly. It is suggested that the poor vegetative growth shown by maize plants under excesses of GA may be attributed to a greatly increased rate of respiration. A note of caution is sounded concerning extrapolation to other plant forms of conclusions based on behavior under GA treatment by one cultivar. Norton H. Nickerson, Missouri Botanical Garden, 2315 Tower Grove Avenue, St. Louis 10, Missouri; Thomas N. Embler, Dennis-Yarmouth Regional High School, South Yarmouth, Massachusetts.
10.2307/2399246|Pollen assemblages of lower Miocene age from sediments in the southwestern Cape contain ancient Gondwana microfloras of considerable phytogeographic interest. The parent taxa, which are not represented in Africa today, indicate the existence of subtropical rain forest in these regions during the Tertiary. This microfossil record supports the hypothesis that a common South American-Antarctic-African-Madagascar flora existed in the Gondwana fragments during the Cretaceous. The final extermination of these elements in the southwestern Cape at the close of the Tertiary was probably related to the wide ranging effects of the glaciation of Antarctica. Sclerophyllous macchia has since become dominant and adapted to the present Mediterranean climate.
10.2307/2399490|A taxonomic revision of four species of the genus Mimosa L. from Austroamerica is presented. Mimosa pauperioides (Burk.) Fortun., stat. nov. is proposed as a species, and its affinity and taxonomic position are discussed. Synonyms of M. balansae M. Mich. and M. niederleinii Burk. are given. Mimosa petraea Chodat et Hassl. is restricted to the Paraguayan territory. All these taxa are briefly described and their geographic distributions are given.
10.2307/2398949|Finca La Selva is an intensively studied biological field station with a poorly known flora. Presently we can account for about 1,500 species of vascular plants but the flora may contain as many as 2,000. Although collecting has been nearly continuous since the beginning of the project in the summer of 1979, we are still finding novelties. Experience at La Selva has driven home the fact that certain genera of both bulky and inaccessible plants have been habitually ignored by botanical collectors in the tropics. The wet Caribbean lowlands of Central America have themselves been relatively inaccessible and ignored. General collecting throughout the region is urgently needed.
10.2307/2394734|The system providing strength to a maize stem is described as consisting of thick-walled, lignified cells located in three distinct stem tissues: hypodermis; peripheral bundle sheaths; and sclerified ground parenchyma. Striking changes occur in the disposition of these tissues from the base of a stem to the apex, which are directly related to the plant's mode of development. Inter-racial differences in amount and arrangement of sclerotic tissue are described, and contrasted with the strengthening systems of Euchlaena and Tripsacum. William H. Murdy, Emory University, Atlanta 22, Georgia.
10.2307/2394837|Twenty-four taxa (mostly species) are proposed as additions to the adventive flora of Missouri. Of these, 11 are native to the U.S. mostly originating in the South or West, four are European but are already known from the U.S., two are Asiatic, one is from Tropical America and six are escapes from cultivation.
40035057|Chromosome counts and karyotype information from 41 populations of 20 species and 6 varieties of Nicotianeae (Solanaceae) from South America belonging to Bouchetia Dunal (x = 8), Fabiana Ruiz & Pav. (x = 9), Leptoglossis Benth. (x = 10), Nierembergia Ruiz & Pav. (x = 8, 9), and Petunia Juss. (x = 7, 9) are given, including first reports from 14 taxa: F. densa Rmy, N. ericoides Miers, and P. patagonica (Speg.) Milln, with 2n = 2x = 18, and N browallioides Griseb., N. calycina Hook., N. graveolens A. St.-Hil., N. linariifolia Graham var. glabriuscula (Dunal) A. A. Cocucci & Hunz., var. pampeana (Milln) A. A. Cocucci & Hunz., and var. pinifolioides (Milln) A. A. Cocucci & Hunz., N. pulchella Miers var. pulchella and var. macrocalyx (Milln) A. A. Cocucci & Hunz., N. rivularis Miers, N. tucumanensis Milln, and N. veitchii Hook., with 2n = 2x = 16. All species studied are diploids, and most have 2n = 16. In addition, infraspecific polyploidy is recorded for the first time in N. rigida Miers (2n = 4x = 32) and confirmed in N. aristata D. Don (n = 3x = 24, 2n = 6x = 48). In general, karyotypes of the examined species are symmetrical and composed of comparatively small and uniformly sized chromosomes, mostly of the metacentric (m) type except in L. linifolia (Miers) Griseb., P. axillaris (Lam.) Britton, Stern & Poggenb., and P. patagonica, where submetacentric (sm) chromosomes are predominant. There are one or, rarely, two chromosomes bearing nucleolar organizing regions per basic complement. In Nierembergia, karyotype data reflect species grouping. Results suggest that Bouchetia is the closest taxon to Nierembergia, while Leptoglossis, Petunia, and Fabiana appear more distant. Possible chromosome number evolution in the tribe is speculated based on molecular phylogenetic studies by other authors. In Nierembergia, x = 9 is proposed to be derived from x = 8. Dysploid changes in chromosome number and conservation of chromosome morphology in the karyotypes appear as important evolutionary events in the tribe, while polyploidy is noteworthy only in Nicotiana L.
41238120|A majority of angiosperm species of vines and lianas use their stem apices for twining and adherence to support structures. Prior observations have suggested a strong predominance of twining orientation in a dextral (right-handed) direction. We present here the chirality of twining (handedness) for 60 taxa representing 21 families encountered in a terra firme Amazonian forest community in Peru. We surveyed 145 stems of climbers that represented one to eight individuals of a given taxon. We demonstrate that dextral chirality is phylogenetically widespread among angiosperm stem climbers and suggest that phylogenetic deviations from the dextral pattern represent independent evolutionary events. Phylogenetic constraint might be invoked to explain the dextral dominance among climbers, but dextral circumnutation is not ubiquitous in other angiosperm organs. Here we also clearly define climbing chirality because of the confusion in previous literature, and we compile published family-level reports of deviations from dextral orientation. This study underscores the need for approaching the twining chirality of plants from genetic, developmental, and physiologic perspectives to clarify the basis for the preferred twining orientation among angiosperm climbers. La mayora de las especies de lianas y enredaderas angiospermas utilizan los pices de sus tallos para enredar y adherirse a las estructuras que les sirven de soporte. Observaciones empricas muestran una marcada preferencia por una direccin de enrollamiento destral (hacia la derecha). Presentamos a continuacin la direccin de quiralidad preferida por 60 especies de 21 familias de plantas trepadoras encontradas en un bosque Amaznico de tierra firme en Per. Evaluamos 145 tallos de trepadoras que representaron entre uno y ocho individuos de cada morfotipo. Nos demostramos que la quiralidad destral est ampliamente distribuida filogenticamente entre las angiospermas trepadoras y sugerimos que desviaciones filogenticas del patrn destral representan eventos evolutivamente independientes. Las restricciones filogenticas pueden explicar la dominancia destral entre trepadoras, pero el quiralidad destral aparentemente no es omnipresente entre otros rganos de angiospermas. En este estudio tambin definimos claramente la quiralidad de trepar debido a la confusin en previos trabajos, y recopilamos reportes publicados a nivel de familias sobre desviaciones de la quiralidad destral. Este estudio resalta la necesidad de enfocar la direccin de enrollamiento de las plantas desde las perspectivas gentica, del desarrollo, y fisiolgica para aclarar el origen de la preferencia de direccin de enrollamiento en las angiospermas trepadoras.
41238113|The infrageneric classification of the cosmopolitan genus Lobelia L. (Campanulaceae) is revised via synthesis of diverse phenotypic data. The 415 species are divided among 18 sections (numbers of included species are given in parentheses): Lobelia sect. Delostemon (E. Wimm.) J. Murata (44); Lobelia sect. Holopogon Benth. (14); Lobelia sect. Colensoa (Hook, f.) J. Murata (1); Lobelia sect. Cryptostemon (E. Wimm.) J. Murata (10); Lobelia sect. Stenotium (C. Presl) Lammers (144); Lobelia sect. Lobelia (22); Lobelia sect. Hypsela (C. Presl) Lammers (43); Lobelia sect. Mezleriopsis Lammers, sect. nov. (7); Lobelia sect. Jasionopsis Lammers, sect. nov. (1); Lobelia sect. Tyhmium (C. Presl) Benth. (38); Lobelia sect. Homochilus A. DC. (5); Lobelia sect. Tupa (G. Don) Benth. (4); Lobelia sect. Turnens (C. Presi) A. DC. (1); Lobelia sect. Speirema (Hook. f. & Thomson) Lammers (5); Lobelia sect. Plagiobotrys Lammers (1); Lobelia sect. Rhynchopetalum (Fresen.) Benth. (61); Lobelia sect. Revolutella E. Wimm. (9); and Lobelia sect. Galeatella E. Wimm. (5). In addition, Monopsis Salisb. sect. Xanthomeria (C. Presl) Lammers, comb, nov., is validated to provide the correct name for Monopsis sect. Parastranthus (G. Don) E. Wimm.
3298646|The Hawaiian silversword alliance is a premier example of adaptive radiation, and serves as a model for exploring the genetic basis of morphological diversification in plants. Molecular analyses at macroevolutionary and microevolutionary scales suggest that rapid and extensive diversification in reproductive and vegetative form in the silversword alliance may be linked to alterations in the tempo and mode of regulatory gene evolution. Unfortunately, the silversword alliance also epitomizes the conservation challenges confronting the biotas of oceanic archipelagos, especially the threats posed by alien species. Taking action now to prevent extinction is key to further exploring adaptive radiation and its link to genome evolution.
40982865|We present a new generic classification of the largely Southern Hemisphere grass subfamily Danthonioideae. This classification is based on an almost completely sampled and well-resolved molecular phylogeny and on a complete morphological data set. We have attempted to delimit monophyletic genera (complicated by the presence of apparent intergeneric hybridization), which are diagnosable, as well as morphologically and ecogeographically coherent. We recognize 17 genera, including five new genera (Austroderia N. P. Barker & H. P. Linder, Capeochloa H. P. Linder & N. P. Barker, Chimaerochloa H. P. Linder, Geochloa H. P. Linder & N. P. Barker, and Tenaxia N. P. Barker & H. P. Linder), and two sections newly designated for Pentameris P. Beauv. (section Dracomontanum H. P. Linder & Galley and section Pentaschistis (Nees) H. P. Linder & Galley). Of the remaining 12 genera, the delimitations of seven are changed: Merxmuellera Conert is much reduced by the segregation of Geochloa, Capeochloa, and Tenaxia; Pentameris is expanded to include Prionanthium Desv. and Pentaschistis (Nees) Spach; Cortaderia Stapf is expanded by the inclusion of Lamprothyrsus Pilg., but reduced by the segregation of its New Zealand species into the new genus Austroderia; a large Rytidosperma Steud. is assembled out of Joycea H. P. Linder, Austrodanthonia H. P. Linder, Notodanthonia Zotov, Erythranthera Zotov, Pyrrhanthera Zotov, and Monostachya Merr.; and the species previously assigned to Karroochloa Conert & Trpe, Schismus P. Beauv., Urochlaena Nees, and Tribolium Desv. have been reassigned to only two genera. Finally, the Himalayan species of Danthonia DC. are transferred to Tenaxia and the remaining African species of Danthonia to Merxmuellera. The 281 species that we recognize in the subfamily are listed under their new genera, which are arranged in the phylogenetic sequence evident from the molecular phylogeny. The 100 necessary new combinations include: Merxmuellera grandiflora (Hochst, ex A. Rich.) H. P. Linder, Geochloa decora (Nees) N. P. Barker & H. P. Linder, G. lupulina (L. f.) N. P. Barker & H. P. Linder, G. rufa (Nees) N. P. Barker & H. P. Linder, Capeochloa arundinacea (P. J. Bergius) N. P. Barker & H. P. Linder, C. cincta (Nees) N. P. Barker & H. P. Linder, C. cincta subsp. sericea (N. P. Barker) N. P. Barker & H. P. Linder, C. setacea (N. P. Barker) N. P. Barker & H. P. Linder, Pentameris praecox (H. P. Linder) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. tysonii (Stapf) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. acinosa (Stapf) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. airoides Nees subsp. jugorum (Stapf) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. alticola (H. P. Linder) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. ampla (Nees) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. andringitrensis (A. Camus) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. argentea (Stapf) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. aristidoides (Thunb.) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. aristifolia (Schweick.) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. aspera (Thunb.) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. aurea (Steud.) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. aurea subsp. pilosogluma (McClean) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. bachmannii (McClean) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. barbota (Nees) Steud. subsp. orientalis (H. P. Linder) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. basutorum (Stapf) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. borussica (K. Schum.) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. calcicola (H. P. Linder) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. calcicola var. hirsuta (H. P. Linder) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. capensis (Nees) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. capillaris (Thunb.) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. caulescens (H. P. Linder) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. chippindalliae (H. P. Linder) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. chrysurus (K. Schum.) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. clavata (Galley) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. colorata (Steud.) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. dentata (L. f.) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. dolichochaeta (S. M. Phillips) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. ecklonii (Nees) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. exserta (H. P. Linder) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. galpinii (Stapf) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. holciformis (Nees) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. horrida (Galley) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. humbertii (A. Camus) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. insularis (Hemsl.) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. juncifolia (Stapf) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. longipes (Stapf) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. malouinensis (Steud.) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. microphylla (Nees) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. minor (Ballard & C E. Hubb.) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. montana (H. P. Linder) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. natalensis (Stapf) Galley & H. P. binder, P. oreodoxa (Schweick.) Galley & H. P. binder, P. pallida (Thunb.) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. pholiuroides (Stapf) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. pictigluma (Steud.) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. pictigluma var. gracilis (S. M. Phillips) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. pictigluma var. mannii (Stapf ex C. E. Hubb.) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. pseudopallescens (H. P. Linder) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. pungens (H. P. Linder) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. pusilla (Nees) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. pyrophila (H. P. Linder) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. reflexa (H. P. Linder) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. rigidissima (Pilg. ex H. P. Linder) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. rosea (H. P. Linder) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. rosea subsp. purpurascens (H. P. Linder) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. scandens (H. P. Linder) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. setifolia (Thunb.) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. tomentella (Stapf) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. trfida (Galley) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. triseta (Thunb.) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. trisetoides (Hochst, ex Steud.) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. velutina (H. P. Linder) Galley & H. P. Linder, P. veneta (H. P. Linder) Galley & H. P. Linder, Cortaderia hieronymi (Kuntze) N. P. Barker & H. P. Linder, C. peruvina (Hitche.) N.P. Barker & H. P. Linder, Austroderia fulvida (Buchanan) N. P. Barker & H. P. Linder, A. richardii (Endl.) N. P. Barker & H. P. Linder, A. splendens (Connor) N. P. Barker & H. P. Linder, A. toetoe (Zotov) N. P. Barker & H. P. Linder, A. turbara (Connor) N. P. Barker & H. P. Linder, Chimaerochloa archboldii (Hitchc.) Pirie & H. P. Linder, Tenaxia aureocephala (J. G. Anderson) N. P. Barker & H. P. Linder, T. cachemyriana (Jaub. & Spach) N. P. Barker & H. P. Linder, T. cumminsii (Hook, f.) N. P. Barker & H. P. Linder, T. disticha (Nees) N. P. Barker & H. P. Linder, T. dura (Stapf) N. P. Barker & H. P. Linder, T. guillarmodiae (Conert) N. P. Barker & H. P. Linder, T. stricta (Schrad.) N. P. Barker & H. P. Linder, T. subulata (A. Rich.) N. P. Barker & H. P. Linder, Schismus schismoides (Stapf ex Conert) Verboom & H. P. Linder, Tribolium curvum (Nees) Verboom & H. P. Linder, T. pleuropogon (Stapf) Verboom & H. P. Linder, T. purpureum (L. f.) Verboom & H. P. Linder, T. tenellum (Nees) Verboom & H. P. Linder, Rytidosperma bipartitum (Kunth) A. M. Humphreys & H. P. Linder, R. diemenicum (D. I. Morris) A. M. Humphreys & H. P. Linder, R. fulvum (Vickery) A. M. Humphreys & H. P. Linder, R. lepidopodum (N. G. Walsh) A. M. Humphreys & H. P. Linder, R. pallidum (R. Br.) A. M. Humphreys & H. P. Linder, R. popinensis (D. I. Morris) A. M. Humphreys & H. P. Linder, R. remotum (D. I. Morris) A. M. Humphreys & H. P. Linder. Typifications are designated for the following names: Achneria Munro ex Benth. & Hook, f., Avena aristidoides Thunb., A. elephantina Thunb., Danthonia crispa Nees var. trunculata Nees, Danthonia sect. Himantochaete Nees, D. zeyheriana Steud. var. trichostachya Stapf, Geochloa lupulina, Pentameris aristidoides, and P. holciformis.
10.2307/2399834|The genus Strephonema (Combretacea) comprises three species restricted to the wet tropical forests of West Africa (S. pseudocola) and Central Africa (S. mannii and S. sericeum). A possible fourth species from Central Africa cannot as yet be distinguished for want of flowers. The presence of a simple receptacle that cannot be divided into a distinct upper and lower part, and of a large fruit with the remnants of the flower located near the base rather than at the top, makes it possible to distinguish this genus from all other Combretaceae. Strephonema species are small to dominant fores-trees; S. mannii is only known from regular inundated forests. A key to the species is presented, along with brief descriptions and complete synonym. Several lectotypes are designated.
25488218|Field studies were conducted for 15 species of Iochroma Benth. and the nested genus Acnistus Schott to quantify the diversity of pollination systems and to assess the potential contribution of pollinator behavior to the persistence of closely related species in sympatry. We combined measures of pollinator visitation and pollen deposition to estimate the importance of major groups of pollinators for each species, and we calculated proportional similarity in the pollinator assemblage among species. We found that 12 species of Iochroma, encompassing a range of flower colors and sizes, were principally pollinated by hummingbirds and, in many cases, by the same hummingbird species. The remaining species were either pollinated by a mix of hummingbirds and insects (two species) or exclusively by insects (two species). Based on proportional similarity values, the overlap in pollinator assemblages was found to be higher for sympatric species than for allopatric ones, reflecting sharing of local pollinator fauna. However, observations of individual pollinator fidelity, perhaps related to territorial interactions among hummingbirds, suggested that pollinators may still contribute to the reproductive isolation of sympatric congeners. Nonetheless, because interspecific pollen flow does occur, the maintenance of species boundaries in sympatry probably requires postmating reproductive isolating mechanisms.
10.2307/2666135|The species of Bauhinia L. are variable in their habit, flower, pollen, and fruit morphology. This led several authors to adopt different criteria for the taxonomic delimitation of the genus. With the aid of brightfield, interference contrast, and scanning electron microscopy, the pollen of the 7 Argentinean species has been studied. This analysis has allowed the pollen to be grouped into different types and subtypes: Type 1: 3-zonocolporate, tectate, tectum microgranulate with supratectal spherical rugulate processes = B. microstachya (Raddi) Benth, var. microstachya. Type 2: 3-zonocolporate to porate, microreticulate, semitectum with spinose supratectal processes = B. uruguayensis Benth. Type 3: 4-6-zonocolpate, reticulate, semitectum with geminate supratectal processes; Subtype a: Colpi long and narrow = B. argentinensis Burkart var. argentinensis, B. argentinensis Burkart var. megasiphon (Burkart) Fortunato, and B. bauhinioides (Mart.) Macbr.: Subtype b: Colpi wide and short = B. mollis (Bong.) D. Dietr. var. notophila (Griseb.) Fortunato, B. forficata Link subsp. pruinosa (Vogel) Fortunato & Wunderlin, and B. affinis Vogel. At the same time, a correlation was confirmed between pollen morphology and the infrageneric divisions established by Wunderlin et al. in 1987.
10.2307/2398835|About half of the approximately 110 species of Erythrina (Fabaceae: Faboideae), comprising New World species of six sections of subgen. Erythrina, are characterized by tubular flowers in which the standard is elongated and the keel and wings are reduced. These species, which are pollinated predominantly by hummingbirds, have relatively low concentrations of amino acids and high sucrose/hexose ratios in their nectar. In the remaining 12 species that occur in the New World and all but two of those of the Old World, the flowers are more or less gaping, with the standard tending to be ovate or obovate and the keel and wings more or less conspicuously exserted. These species are pollinated predominantly by medium-sized passerine birds; their flowers have relatively high concentrations of amino acids and low sucrose/hexose ratios in their nectar. In the two species of the southern African sect. Humeanae of subgen. Erythrina, the floral morphology resembles that of the New World humingbird-pollinated species. They are pollinated by small sunbirds and white-eyes. Several and perhaps all species of Erythrina have a large gland at the apex of the calyx that secretes nectar; ants, attracted to this nectar, patrol the plants and help to protect them from herbivores. A report of short-styled flowers in E. leptorhiza is reviewed, and papers providing new information on the taxonomy, alkaloids, modes of propagation, and bruchids of Erythrina, included in this symposium, are mentioned.
10.2307/2395091|A new genus and species, Calderonella sylvatica (Gramineae), is described from the rain forests of Panama. Features of its spikelet morphology and leaf anatomy reveal that the affinities of Calderonella are with the centostecoid group of grasses, of which Zeugites appears to be the most closely related genus. A brief characterization of the centostecoid group is presented, as well as a key to the genera included in it, with commonts on each.
10.2307/2394822|Two species of Lisianthus L. from Panama are described as new: L. jefensis and L. scopulinus.
10.2307/2991999|The rare cedar-glade endemic Astragalus bibullatus (Fabaceae) has low levels of genetic variability both within and among populations. Within-population means across 15 isozyme loci resulted in estimates of 1.4 alleles per locus, 25.6% polymorphic loci, and 0.064 for observed heterozygosity. Populations are genetically very similar, with a low F
10.2307/2666131|The chemical diversity of the Apiaceae has made the family of particular significance in discussions of plant/insect interactions for close to a century. As forbs with distinctive chemistry and a specialized insect fauna, species in the Apiaceae and their associated herbivores represent an ideal system for examining competing hypotheses accounting for hostplant acquisition patterns. Comparisons of the phylogenetic history of colonization of Apiaceae across a number of taxa reveal that host shifts to the family originate in only a narrow range of taxa; chemical similarities among those taxa, rather than geographic proximity or phylogenetic relationships, are the most plausible basis for the observed host shifts. Similar ecologies among species in this narrow range of taxa, including similar herbivore faunas, may well account for similarities in overall chemical profiles. The patterns documented here are consistent with reciprocal coevolutionary interactions between herbivorous insects and their hostplants.
10.2307/2399545|Pellaea rufa is a sexually reproducing tetraploid species with a chromosome number of n = 58 II at meiosis. Unlike previously reported tetraploid ferns, sporophytes of P. rufa exhibit substantial intrapopulational electrophoretic variation for respective enzyme phenotypes, and many of their heterozygous phenotypes are segregating rather than fixed. Two hundred and twenty individual gametophytes from a tetraploid sporophyte heterozygous for four alleles at the PGI-2 locus were subjected to electrophoresis to determine whether inheritance is tetrasomic as expected in an autotetraploid or disomic as expected in an allotetraploid. Results reject the hypothesis of autotetraploidy but fit expectations under the hypothesis that P. rufa is an allotetraploid with fixed intergenomic heterozygosity and segregating intragenomic heterozygosity. Observed intragenomic heterozygosity is consistent with a direct hybrid origin of allotetraploid P. rufa via gametes from unreduced spores and with a more probable indirect origin involving unreduced spores. from intermediate allodiploids. Disomic inheritance of intragenomic heterozygosity generates electrophoretic variation in P. rufa that is less than that in autopolyploids with polysomic inheritance but greater than that previously reported in allopolyploids.
10.2307/2399249|The genus Osmorhiza comprises ten species and two subspecies of woodland umbellifers native to temperate Asia and the Americas. Quantitative evaluation of nine morphological characters supports the recognition of two distinct subgenera: Glycosma, with a single species, O. occidentalis, and Osmorhiza, with the remaining nine species. The typical subgenus is further divided into three sections, each with three species. A complete synonymy and detailed description is provided for each taxon, along with an analytical key to the subgenera, sections, species, and subspecies. Phytogeographic data indicate that western North America is the center of distribution and diversity, and possibly the center of origin for Osmorhiza, although members of the genus are found in eastern North America as well as Asia and Central and South America. The amphitropical disjunctions between North and South America observed in the ranges of O. chilensis and O. depauperata (both sect. Nudae) are most likely the result of long-distance dispersal by migratory birds. By contrast, the disjunct populations of these taxa that occur in the Great Lakes region and eastern North America probably represent remnants of a more widespread, pre-Pleistocene distribution. The three species comprising Osmorhiza sect. Osmorhiza (the North American O. claytonii and O. longistylis, and the Asian O. aristata) provide an example of the classical eastern North American-eastern Asian pattern of disjunction. Although these taxa are very similar morphologically, the populations probably represent members of a relatively stable floristic assemblage that has persisted in these areas for a long period; the possibility that there has been any recent contact between these disjunct taxa through Beringia seems remote. The members of Osmorhiza sect. Mexicanae (O. brachypoda, O. mexicana, and O. glabrata) exhibit a somewhat broken distribution from northern California to central Argentina, and possibly represent derivatives of a common ancestral taxon that migrated southward along a chain of mountain tops with suitable temperate climatic conditions at some time during the Pliocene or Pleistocene. Ethnobotanical evidence indicates that at least five species of Osmorhiza were used for medicinal purposes by native Indian peoples of North America. The roots and greens of two species were also consumed as food by both North and South American Indians.
40035755|The demonstration of postzygotic self-incompatibility in Asclepias L. prompted us to reconsider explanations for several unusual features of the Apocynaceae. With such late-acting self-incompatibility, mixed loads of self-and cross-pollen can be extremely wasteful by causing abortion of whole fruits and consequent wastage of both cross-pollen and cross-fertilized ovules. We contend that the evolution of pollinia and loss of carpel fusion in certain Apocynaceae represent adaptations to prevent or compensate for these negative effects of mixed pollen loads. Trends in the agglutination of pollen can be seen in the tetrads of Apocynum L., which are transported on sticky band-like translators; the masses of tetrads of Periplocoideae, which are deposited onto the sticky scoop portion of a spoon-like translator; the pollinia of Secamonoideae, which have a clip-like translator but no outer covering; and the pollinia of Asclepiadoideae, which are completely enclosed by a waxy outer covering. In many genera of the Rauvolfioideae, the ovary is syncarpous, but in most Apocynoideae and all Periplocoideae and Secamonoideae, the gynoecium consists of two carpels that are free in the ovule-bearing region but fused in the upper region to produce a compitum, which enables pollen placed on one stigmatic area to supply pollen tubes to both ovaries. In at least some Asclepiadoideae, however, a compitum is lacking, although postgenital fusion between the carpel apices still takes place. Parallel trends in pollen delivery and receipt also occur in taxa from other angiosperm families in which late-acting self-incompatibility systems have been implicated.
10.2307/2394924|Morphology of the intrastaminal floral glands in Tribulus has been thought to be species-specific. However, this specificity breaks down in the Galapagos Islands. It is hypothesized that the breakdown there is due to interspecific hybridization between T. cistoides and T. terrestris.
10.2307/2399628|Because the tarweeds (Madiinae) attracted the attention of early pioneers in the areas of genecology and biosystematics, this assemblage of plants has been studied more intensively than most comparably sized groups. The tarweeds comprise 127 species in 17 genera, with centers of diversity in California and Hawaii. The biological diversity of the tarweeds is extreme. The Hawaiian members alone include herbaceous mat-forming plants, cushion plants, monocarpic and polycarpic shrubs, trees, and lianas. Collectively, the group includes self-compatible and self-incompatible annuals and perennials. An extremely conspicuous component of the diversification of tarweeds has been chromosome evolution such that gametic numbers of n = 4-14, 16, 17, 24, and 34 are represented by one or more taxa. An analysis of this variation suggests that the ancestral chromosome number in the Madiinae is n = 7. The numerous infrageneric and nine intergeneric hybrid combinations known in the Madiinae are summarized. Among the latter hybrids, one indicates a close relationship between Raillardiopsis muirii and Madia bolanderi, and another establishes a genetic link between the mainland and Hawaiian representatives of the group.
10.2307/2399626|The ecological, morphological, and physiological diversity of species in the Hawaiian silversword alliance is exceptional. The 28 species, which belong to the endemic genera Argyroxiphium, Dubautia, and Wilkesia, have a wide variety of geographical distributions and elevational ranges within the archipelago. They grow in habitats as varied as dry scrub and woodland, wet scrub and forest, cinder and lava, and bog. Ecological diversity is also evident among sympatric species. At a site of sympatry on the island of Hawaii, for example, D. ciliolata and D. scabra are restricted to different lava flows, even though individuals of the two species may grow within a meter of one another. The 28 species have growth forms as varied as rosette shrubs, shrubs, trees, and lianas. They have a wide range of leaf sizes and shapes, with the Dubautia species exhibiting significant variation in leaf turgor maintenance capacities. Morphological and physiological diversity is also evident among sympatric species. At a site of sympatry on the island of Maui, for example, A. sandwicense and D. menziesii exhibit different suites of morphological and physiological traits enabling them to cope with the severe environmental conditions. The patterns of diversity and the genomic relationships among the 28 species suggest that a variety of factors may have played important roles in their adaptive radiation.
40035729|The combination of factors that account for present-day distributions of organisms is unique to individual lineages and varies over time. An observation relevant to some lineages at some point in their history is that hurricane frequency and intensity appears to be increasing with global warming. If so, then directional winds from Africa to the Caribbean region (the trade winds), from South America to Africa (the westerlies), the ocean currents they induce, and the transport of the floating islands they carry, were likely more intense during the generally warmer-than-present Tertiary Period and especially at peaks of exceptional warmth. These peaks occurred in the Paleocene/Eocene (65-45 Ma), in the early to middle Miocene (broadly between ~23-12 Ma), in the middle Pliocene (3-4 Ma), and probably extended slightly later in the lower latitudes. The Paleocene/Eocene interval includes the time when the distance between Africa and South America was one-half to two-thirds that of the present, and when the Greater Antilles island arc was first becoming emergent as increasing target areas for propagules. The second and third intervals of warming include the times when molecular evidence suggests divergence between several African and New World lineages. Thus, wind and ocean transport of organisms and propagules throughout the Tertiary, and especially at peaks of warmth, was likely a more important means of dispersal than would seem plausible under present conditions. /// La combinacin de factores que explican la distribucin actual de los organismos es nica a los linajes individuales y vara a travs del tiempo. Una observacin relevante para algunos linajes en un cierto punto en su historia es que la frecuencia y la intensidad de huracanes parecen aumentar con el calentamiento global. De ser as, entonces los vientos direccionales desde frica hacia la regin del Caribe (los vientos alisios), desde Amrica del Sur hacia frica (los vientos del oeste), las corrientes ocenicas que inducen y el transporte de las islas flotantes que llevan, fueron posiblemente ms intensos durante el perodo Terciario, generalmente ms caliente que el presente, y especialmente durante los picos excepcionales de calor. Estos picos ocurrieron en el Paleoceno/Eoceno (65-45 Ma), en el Mioceno temprano a medio (ampliamente entre ~23-12 Ma), en el Plioceno medio (3-4 Ma) y probablemente se extendieron levemente ms adelante a las latitudes ms bajas. El intervalo de Paleoceno/Eoceno incluye el tiempo en que la distancia entre frica y Amrica del Sur era la mitad a dos tercios de la actual, y cuando el arco de las Antillas Mayores recin empezaba a emerger como rea bianco para los propgulos. El segundo y el tercer intervalos de calentamiento incluyen los perodos en que la evidencia molecular sugiere divergencia entre varios linajes africanos y del Nuevo Mundo. As, el transporte de los organismos y propgulos por viento y ocano durante el Terciario, y especialmente durante los picos de calor, fue probablemente un medio ms importante de dispersion de que parecera plausible en condiciones actuales.
10.2307/2399123|Paleogene, Maastrichtian, and Miocene floras are reviewed. They are located on continental margins, where several sedimentary basins developed. The affinities of the fossil genera to living ones allow the recognition of three paleofloras: Neotropical, Mixed, and Antarctic. These could be the forerunners, respectively, of the presently more humid dominions in Neotropical Region (Caribbean, Amazonic, and Guayano), of the drier ones (Chaqueno and Andino-Patagonico), and of the Subantarctic Dominion of the Antarctic Region. The South American climate, as indicated by the fossil floras, showed a trend to higher temperatures during the Paleocene and Lower Eocene, and a deterioration through the Middle and Upper Eocene.
10.2307/2399475|Natural populations of Pancratium hirtum A. Chev. from different ecological niches show definable morphological variation. Samples were grown in an experimental garden and investigated karyotypically. Five morphological variants (morphotypes) were identified and were confirmed as showing karyotype differences. Karyotype differentiation involves at least: (1) chromosomal breakages, and (2) differences in the total length of chromatin material per nucleus. The chromosome basic number of x = 11 is confirmed for the species, while the presence of accessory chromosomes in one morphotype is reported for the first time in the genus. Population divergence is less pronounced than karyotypic divergence.
41238112|Molecular data support the recognition of three monophyletic families, Capparaceae s. str., Cleomaceae, and Brassicaceae, instead of an all-encompassing Brassicaceae or a paraphyletic Capparaceae s. l. This view is reinforced with many figures showing two basic and ubiquitous differences in cleomoid seed structure. First, the more or less strongly incurved seed, varying from reniform to horseshoe-shaped, coiled or conduplicate, uniformly and in all species, results in a deep invagination of the testa (the cleft) projecting into the interval between the two ends, or claws, of the embryo (this invagination is absent or rarely reduced and atavistic in Brassicaceae, and infrequent in Capparaceae s. str., i.e., in some Capparis L. species and Crateva L., sister genus to all remaining Capparaceae s. str.). Second, the uniformly semicylindric, strictly incumbent cotyledons are small and narrow, but are never foliaceous and interfolded, circinate or convoluted, or massive and thick, as in the often accumbent, rarely incumbent Capparaceae, or as variable as in Brassicaceae. An illustrated glossary of Cleomaceae seed morphology, as well as depictions of Capparaceae, Cleomaceae, and Brassicaceae seeds and their sectional views, and a key to all three families, are included.
10.2307/3298656|The New Zealand hebes (Scrophulariaceae) are members of a large Southern Hemisphere clade nested within Veronica. Analysis of ITS and rbcL sequences suggests that the New Zealand species are derived from a single common ancestor that arrived via long-distance dispersal. After the establishment of this initial founder population in New Zealand, the hebes have undergone at least two major episodes of diversification, giving rise to six clades. The great degree of morphological diversity in the New Zealand hebes contrasts with a corresponding low level of sequence divergence. New Zealand was a source of new emigrants to other regions in the South Pacific that were preadapted to high mountains or forest margins. Our results suggest that two instances of long-distance dispersal from New Zealand to South America, at least one instance from New Zealand to Australia, and one instance from New Zealand to New Guinea have occurred relatively recently. Shorter hops to the Chatham Islands and the subantarctic islands are also supported by the sequence data.
10.2307/2399369|A set of pollination postulates are proposed to unify vector identification in pollination biology. These postulates were used to test theoretical predictions concerning two-dimensional pollination systems in Halodule, Halophila, Ruppia, Lepilaena, and Amphibolis. The general syndrome of pollination on the water surface is illustrated by intertidal populations of Amphibolis antarctica, whose staminate flowers abscise during low spring fides and float to the surface where they dehisce, expelling a cottony mass of filamentous pollen. The pollen floats and forms search vehicles or pollen assemblages that collide with stigmas on the water surface. The search efficiency of large search vehicles was examined by video analysis of Ruppia spiralis pollination. Large search vehicles were found to be more likely to hit stigmas than small ones.
10.2307/2395119|The genera of Carboniferous Marattiaceae are reviewed with special reference to Scolecopteris, and two new species of Scolecopteris are described: S. monothrix and S. illinoensis. Scolecopteris monothrix is unique in the long multicellular hair borne by each sporangium, while S. illinoensis is characterized by having five or six sporangia per synangium, small spores and conspicuous multicellular hairs on the lower surfaces of the rachis and pinnules.
10.2307/2399849|DNA sequences for the plastid locus that encodes the large subunit of ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (rbcL) were determined for 18 species of monocotyledons in 15 families. These data were analyzed together with sequences for 60 other monocot species in a total of 52 families by the maximum likelihood method producing one, presumably optimal, topology. An additional 26 species were added (104 total monocot species) and analyzed by the parsimony method with an outgroup of 18 dicot species producing 109 trees of 3,932 steps. The rbcL data show at least moderate support for seven lineages corresponding to the following orders, superorders, or combinations: Arecanae; Asparagales (excluding Hypoxidaceae) plus Iridaceae; Cyclanthanae plus Pandananae; Dioscoreales; Orchidales; Typhales; and Zingiberanae. Six clades corresponding to families or genera are well supported, including: Agavaceae, Asphodelaceae, Bromeliaceae, Hypoxidaceae, Poaceae, and Tradescantia. The two, earliest diverging multispecies clades in our rbcL phylogenies, Alismatanae and Aranae, are only weakly supported, and Bromelianae, Commelinanae, and Lilianae are paraphyletic. In all analyses Acorus calamus is phylogenetically isolated as the sister species to the remaining species of monocotyledons.
10.2307/2398895|Haplomitrium subg. Haplomitrium is circumscribed to include the following four species: H. hookeri, H. ovalifolium, H. intermedium, and the newly described H. monoicum Engel. The last possesses a combination of unique features that taxonomically isolate it. Among these are: whitish antheridia with highly abbreviated stalks that gradually merge with the antheridial body; antheridia and archegonia 1-2 per bract; the monoecious condition; bordered leaves; lack of leaf slime papillae; and the striolate-papillose cuticle. Haplomutrium monoicum is placed in a new section, sect. Protohaplomitrium Engel and is endemic to New Caledonia.
10.2307/2399753|The comparative ecologies of Diaphorodendron, Lepidodendron, Lepidophloios, Paralycopodites (= Anabathra), and Sigillaria in Late Carboniferous coal swamps serve as a context for assessing life cycles and exploring possible structure-function relations. The distinctive aspects of the "lycopsid tree habit" in lepidodendrids are emphasized as part of the arborescent reproductive architecture of relatively short-lived (10-15 years) plants. These include: determinate apical growth of the aerial shoot system and the anchoring stigmarian system, which have marked homologies; limited amount of secondary xylem, lack of secondary phloem, and periderm as the major support tissue; differentiated gas-diffusion system associated with appendages, including lacunae and parichnos; abscission of appendages and lateral branches; retention of leaf cushions; and close relationships between mode and timing of branching, to cone-bearing and heterosporous reproductive biologies. Vegetative structure-functions explored include the possibility that lacunae and parichnos were involved in internal mediation of gas diffusion as opposed to aeration functions. The possibility exists that parts of the stigmarian system were involved in CO
25488208|Pyrostegia C. Presl is a genus of four species in the tribe Bignonieae. All the species are lianas with compound leaves with two leaflets and a terminal tendril, campanulate calyces, narrow corollas with lobes valvate basally in bud, four exserted stamens, compressed, linear capsules that dehisce parallel to the septum, and thin, bialate seeds. Three of the species are apparently hummingbird pollinated and have flowers that are very similar in appearance with red-orange (rarely yellow), narrow tubular-infundibular corollas. The fourth species, which is probably moth pollinated, has strongly fragrant, white, salverform corollas. All four species are native to South America. Pyrostegia venusta (Ker Gawl.) Miers, a popular ornamental, is cultivated throughout the tropics. Lectotypes are designated for Bignonia ignea Vell., B. tecomiflora Rusby, P. cinerea Bureau ex K. Schum., P. dichotoma Miers ex K. Schum., P. venusta var. villosa Hassl., and Tynanthus igneus Barb. Rodr. A key to the species, species descriptions, and a species distribution map are provided, and the relationships of the species are discussed.
10.2307/2666183|Comparisons of Tertiary floras of North America with those of Europe and Asia document a long history of floristic interchange. The stratigraphic and geographic ranges of selected conifer and angiosperm genera that are easily recognized in the fossil record provide a basis for discerning patterns in the routes and timings of intercontinental dispersals through the Tertiary.
10.2307/2394835|Information obtained from scanning electron microscopy of whole pollen grains of Zea and Iva indicates direct correlation with that gathered from light microscopy and electron microscopy of thin sections. This information helps clarify and support past analyses.
40732231|The Caribbean genus Ginoria Jacq. (Lythraceae) is revised for the first time since a monograph was completed in 1903. Studies of the wood anatomy, vegetative and floral morphology, pollen and seed morphology, and chromosome numbers are summarized for Ginoria and the putatively closely related genera Crenea Aubl., Haitia Urb., Lawsonia L, and Tetrataxis Hook, f. Flowers of G. lanceolata Schmidt are described for the first time. Ginoria is minimally paraphyletic and possibly polyphyletic. Either Ammannia L/Nesaea Comm. ex Kunth or Lawsonia is sister to Ginoria based on ITS data. Phylogenetic analysis based on morphology finds Ginoria monophyletic only when Haitia is included in the genus. Phylogenetic analysis based on ITS sequences produced a single tree in which G. jimenezii Alain, a rare species from the Dominican Republic, is sister to the rest of the genus and Tetrataxis is nested within Ginoria. The positions of Haitia and Crenea remain to be tested by molecular data. Haitia is placed in synonymy of Ginoria based on the strength of the morphological evidence. Further taxonomic changes are deferred until more complete gene sampling among the putatively related genera is possible. Thirteen species of Ginoria are recognized: one from Mexico, six from Cuba, five from Hispaniola, and one from Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. The taxonomic treatment includes a key to the species, taxonomic descriptions, illustrations, and distribution maps. Ginoria sect. Discospermum Koehne is typified by G. curvispina Koehne. Three new combinations, G. buchii (Urb.) S.A. Graham, G. pulchra (Ekman & O. C. Schmidt) S. A. Graham, and G. americana Jacq. var. spinosa (Griseb.) S. A. Graham, are made. Two species are brought into synonymy: G. spinosa Griseb. and G. davisii M. C. Johnst. Evolution of selected characters and biogeography of the genus are briefly examined in a phylogenetic context. The endemic nature and rarity of the majority of species make them highly vunerable to extinction.
42703716|The Missouri Botanical Garden (MBG) is supporting community-based conservation at 11 priority areas for plant conservation in Madagascar. Our strategy for conserving these sites integrates a range of activities that include research and monitoring, the creation and policing of local rules to enable the sustainable use of natural resources, environmental education, the provision of alternatives to the unsustainable over-exploitation of natural resources, poverty alleviation, and the restoration of degraded ecosystems. While this approach is successfully conserving biodiversity in the short term and at local scales, over a longer time period these reserves will become increasingly threatened by a rapidly growing human population whose livelihood is dependent on natural resources that will become increasingly rare outside of protected natural areas. Extensive ecological restoration of landscapes surrounding reserves is a prerequisite in Madagascar for the long-term conservation of these protected areas and will thus be an essential part of a national effort to achieve Target 4 of the Global Strategy for Plant Conservation (GSPC). Here, we describe our current restoration program, analyze its strengths and weaknesses, and consider the threats and opportunities relating to restoration in Madagascar. This information is used to identify key attributes for a proposed up-scaled restoration initiative that can serve to develop more sophisticated methods, strengthen expertise through training, and demonstrate the power of ecological restoration for achieving long-term, sustainable conservation outcomes, as called for by the GSPC.
10.2307/2395305|An optimality model based on the tradeoffs between seed set efficiency and outbreeding is presented that predicts under what conditions selfing should be favored over outcrossing. The model predicts that local density and distributional pattern, degree of environmental predictability, and adult and seed longevity are the independent variables that determine the shape of the marginal benefit curves for seed set and offspring heterogeneity. Some data supporting the model are presented derived from a study of species of the genus Leavenworthia (Cruciferae).
10.2307/2399346|A new family, genus, and species are described. The new family is placed in Triuridales. It differs from Triuridaceae by the unexpected and unknown elsewhere position of the gynoecium, which surrounds the androecium, and by the introrsely dehiscent anthers. This is the first record of the order for Mexico.
10.2307/2394838|The tribe is represented by 11 species in two genera, nine of which (eight species of Chamaesyce and the only Euphorbia) are endemic. A novelty, Chamaesyce abdita, is described, and a key furnished to the species of this genus.
10.2307/2399808|Commelinaceae flowers are visited mainly by a great variety of bees and syrphid flies. A buzz mechanism associated with poricidal anthers is the most specialized pollination system reported. From a distance, inflorescences and associated structures may attract pollinators visually. At close range, the corolla is almost always showy, and sometimes the calyx is also conspicuous. The androecium is attractive because it produces pollen, the only reward supplied by the flower. Yellow, nearly pollenless anthers, antherodes, hairs, and broad connectives may deceptively attract insects. Floral odors may also attract pollinators. They are taxonomically widespread but uncommon in the family. None have been investigated chemically and a role in pollination has not been demonstrated. Floral hairs related to pollination are largely confined to the androecium and occur widely in the family. Their function may include attracting insects to the flowers (either toward or away from the main source of pollen), providing footholds, retaining fallen pollen, and determining how insects behave on the flower, including how they collect pollen.
10.2307/2666172|Hyacinthaceae presently consist of approximately 70 genera and 1000 species. To investigate the monophyly of the family and the generic relationships, we sequenced the trnL intron and the trnL-trnF intergenic spacer region of chloroplast DNA for 105 taxa in Hyacinthaceae and 18 species of related families. By testing different outgroup compositions, we provide evidence for the monophyly of the family if the North American genera Camassia and Chlorogalum, which are more closely related to Agave and Hosta, are excluded from Hyacinthaceae sensu Dahlgren. Several generic implications can be deduced from the analysis, the most prominent one of which is the polyphyletic origin of the Linnaean genera Scilla, Ornithogalum, and Hyacinthus. Especially members of the genera Scilla and Hyacinthus are extensively intermixed with each other. According to the DNA sequence data, the only true Scilla species are found in the Mediterranean region and appear as a monophyletic clade. A tetrapartition of the family into (1) the monotypic subfamily Oziroeoideae Speta, accommodating the South American Hyacinthaceae; (2) the subfamily Urgineoideae Speta, housing relatives of the squills; (3) the subfamily Ornithogaloideae Speta, including the tribes Ornithogaleae Rouy and Dipeadieae Rouy; and (4) the largest and most advanced subfamily, Hyacinthoideae Link, consisting of the tribe Massonieae Baker (including species from Africa south of the Sahara and from India) and the Mediterranean/Asian tribe Hyacintheae Dumort., is proposed. Previously included in Hyacinthaceae sensu Dahlgren, the North American genera Chlorogalum and Camassia show affinities to Agavaceae and Funkiaceae and appear as a distinct clade together with Anthericaceae. Furthermore, the occurrence of taxa from southern Africa at basal positions in all subfamilies points to the origin of evolution of the Hyacinthaceae in this region.
10.2307/2399778|We present a cladistic analysis of 53 taxa from Asteraceae using 72 characters of mainly morphological data. Results reveal subfamily Cichorioideae is paraphyletic. The Mutisieae constitute a basal grade that contains monophyletic groups with Mutisia and Cardueae sensu lato. The Arctotideae, Liabeae, Vernonieae, and Lactuceae form a clade together with subfamily Asteroideae. Our results show some inconsistencies with those from cladistic analyses of molecular data.
10.2307/2666130|Insects that feed on plant sap depend on symbiotic bacteria for nutrients that are not present in the diet. These bacteria live within host cells and are transmitted from mother to offspring. The symbionts of aphids, in the genus Buchnera, are the best characterized of insect endosymbionts. They result from an ancient infection of a common ancestor of modern aphids, and they possess genes underlying pathways for production of essential amino acids that are rare in the phloem sap diet of aphids. Thus these bacteria appear to be highly coadapted with hosts and to have evolved as mutualists for millions of years. Nonetheless, Buchnera and other endosymbionts possess some genetic traits that appear to be deleterious to both hosts and, ultimately, the bacterial symbionts themselves. The most likely basis for these traits is the fixation of slightly deleterious mutations in the context of genetic drift in these bacterial populations, which possess small genetic population sizes relative to many free-living bacteria. Investigations during the next few years will reveal the extent of convergence among independently derived symbionts of different insect families and the extent to which symbionts are adapted to species-specific aspects of their host's ecology and nutrition.
10.2307/2399720|Panicum subg. Phanopyrum sect. Laxa is revised. Twelve American and one Asian species are treated in this work, in which exomorphological and anatomical characters are considered. Section Laxa is defined mainly as perennial plants of humid places, with membranous ligules, spikelets unilaterally disposed on the inflorescences, upper anthecia membranous to indurate, with silica bodies and simple papillae, a basic chromosome number of x = 10, and conspicuous fusoid cells in the leaves. Possible relationships of Laxa to other sections of subgenus Phanopyrum and subgenus Steinchisma, as well as with other genera of the Paniceae such as Homolepis and Hymenachne, are discussed. A key to the species as well as an anatomical description of the section and photomicrographs of six species, morphological descriptions of the species, and distribution maps are presented. The taxonomic position of Panicum scabridum and Panicum grande are also discussed.
10.2307/2666151|A systematic study, based primarily on morphology, suggests that patterns of variation in Sarcolaena Thouars, a member of the Malagasy endemic family Sarcolaenaceae, are best resolved by recognizing eight species. Keys for identification of the genera of Sarcolaenaceae and species of Sarcolaena are provided, as well as a discussion of the overall morphology of Sarcolaena and complete descriptions of its species. Two species, S. grandiflora and S. multiflora, are lectotypified in the present study.
10.2307/2394791|An unattached massive compact fructification, apparently a fertile pinna, of Anachoropteris is described. The outstanding features of the fructification include a distinctly anachoropterid xylary strand in the central axis, the sporangial aggregation and compact pinnate arrangement, the multiseriate annulus of the sporangium with a pseudoapical plate, and spores congeneric with Raistrickia. Comparisons are made with the massive, fertile pinnae and sporangia of Botryopteris globosa.
3298610|Aechmea (ca. 220 species) is the largest and most diverse genus in Bromelioideae (Bromeliaceae), and several dissimilar generic concepts and infrageneric classifications have been proposed, frequently involving other closely related Bromelioideae. A morphology-based phylogenetic analysis using parsimony was conducted with 86 taxa, including 52 Aechmea (7 of the 8 recognized subgenera represented) and 34 exemplars from 9 closely related genera as the ingroup. Two species of Cryptanthus were included as the outgroup. The main objectives were to assess the validity of the major infrageneric classification systems proposed for Aechmea and to elucidate the phylogenetic position of Aechmea and putatively related genera in subfamily Bromelioideae. The topology of the consensus tree suggests that Acanthostachys, Billbergia, Portea, and non-Brazilian Ronnbergia may be monophyletic. Hohenbergia, Streptocalyx, and Quesnelia are paraphyletic or polyphyletic, as are most subgenera of Aechmea, except for subgenera Chevaliera and Macrochordion, which appear monophyletic. Characters traditionally emphasized in classifications of Bromelioideae displayed high levels of homoplasy, and this may be a reason for the artificiality of the taxonomic systems proposed for these taxa. Due to weak internal support, we refrain from recognizing any new taxonomic rearrangements. These results do provide new insights into the relationships within a number of Bromelioideae genera and suggest directions for future studies.
10.2307/2395088|Light microscopic studies of the pollen of 51 genera and 151 species of Flacourtiaceae were made from KOH-acetolyzed specimens. The pollen is always found as single grains and is usually triaperturate with compound apertures, isopolar, and psilate to reticulate. Within the triaperturate type, the pollen of the family ranges from unspecialized to moderately specialized. Differences in pollen morphology do not often serve to delineate the taxonomic tribes. The Berberidopsideae and Oncobeae show a considerable range of size and sculpturing patterns. Scolopieae, Banareae, Homalieae, and Flacourtieae have pollen which can scarcely be distinguished. Pollen of Casearieae is similar to that of the preceding group of tribes but adds more specialized trends. Both Pangieae and Paropsieae are isolated in the family, and the Paropsieae should be assigned to the Passifloraceae. Comparisons with families of putatively related orders indicate that the relationships of the Flacourtiaceae based on pollen morphology accord well with Takhtajan's system.
3298652|Pedicularis L. (Scrophulariaceae) represents a classic example of floral morphological diversity for pollination biologists. In the species-rich areas of the Himalayas there have been few studies on the pollination syndromes of Pedicularis, especially of the long-tubed species. In the summer and fall of 2000, the pollination biology of four species of Pedicularis was studied in Zhongdian of northwestern Yunnan, China. The four species, foraged by three bumblebee species, possess two different corolla types: Pedicularis lutescens Franch. ex Maxim. subsp. lutescens and P. densispica Franch. ex Maxim. have a short-tubed, erostrate, and nectariferous corolla type and are pollinated exclusively by Bombus friseanus Skorikov and B. lucorum Latr. workers foraging flower nectar and pollinating nototribically; P. integrifolia Hook. f. and P. tricolor Hand.-Mazz. have long-tubed, rostrate, and nectarless corollas and are pollinated sternotribically by Bombus festivus Smith and B. friseanus workers hanging on the S-shaped beak or supported by the bowl-shaped lower lips. Cross-pollination by bumblebee workers is the most important reproductive mechanism observed for these Pedicularis in Yunnan. Nectar-foraging bumblebee queens and lepidopteran moths or butterflies were not found to pollinate any of these Pedicularis species. Otherwise, the interactions between Pedicularis and Bombus and pollination mechanisms in northwestern Yunnan are similar to those in Japan and North America. The present study provides new evidence that the Japanese species had evolved from Himalayan migrants in a pattern parallel to that of North American species.
10.2307/2399477|Recent expeditions in the Venezuelan Guayana to Cerro Yutaje, Murisipan-tepui, Camarcaibarai-tepui, and Cerro de la Neblina, have resulted in additional new taxa, especially in the Aquifoliaceae and Rubiaceae, of which the following are described: Paepalanthus holstii (Eriocaulaceae); Rapatea chimantensis, Stegolepis minor (Rapateaceae); Rauia subtruncata, Raveniopsis liesneri (Rutaceae); Ochthocosmus micranthus (Linaceae); Ilex abscondita, I. acutidenticulata, I. altiplana, I. attenuata, I. brevipedicellata, I. cardonae, I. ciliolata, I. davidsei, I. glabella, I. gransabanensis, I. guaiquinimae, I. holstii, I. ignicola, I. jauaensis, I. longipilosa, I. magnifructa var. minor, I. marahuacae, I. paujiensis, I. polita, I. spathulata, I. summa, I. wurdackiana (Aquifoliaceae); Allophylus parimensis (Sapindaceae); Coussarea evoluta, Faramea boomii, F. morilloi, F. paludicola, F. yavitensis, F. yutajensis, Ferdinandusa boomii, Morinda longipedunculata, Psychotria anartiothrix, P. edaphothrix, P. pectinata, P. steinii, P. thesceloantha, P. yutajensis, Rudgea corocoroensis, and Sabicea bariensis (Rubiaceae).
10.2307/2398814| Several new species from the Choco region of western Colombia and adjacent Ecuador and from Amazonian Peru are described--Aiphanes chocoensis A. Gentry (Palmae), Freziera dudleyi A. Gentry, F. jaramillot A. Gentry and F. sessiliflora A. Gentry (Theaceae), Schefflera megacarpa A. Gentry (Araliaceae), Bonafousia chocoensis A. Gentry and Mandevilla dodsonii A. Gentry (Apocynaceae), Memora juliae A. Gentry and M. pseudopatula A. Gentry (Bignoniaceae). The new combination Rauvolfia aphlebia (Standl.) A. Gentry is proposed for the plant previously known as Rauvolfia sarapiquensis Woods. and the species is reported for the first time from South America. 
10.2307/2395131|A key to and descriptions of the Panamanian taxa of Rondeletia are given; two new taxa are described.
10.2307/2399651|Five new species of Passiflora (Passifloraceae) are described: Passiflora solomonii from Bolivia; P. caatingae from Bahia, Brazil; P. sierrae from the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta of northeastern Colombia, and P. amazonica and P. pascoensis from Peru. Passiflora sierrae is placed in a new subgenus Porphyropathanthus. All are lianas or herbaceous climbers with axillary tendrils and simple leaves, found on roadsides or in recent clearings.
10.2307/3298592|The Cunonieae are the largest tribe in the flowering plant family Cunoniaceae and include the widespread genus Weinmannia. This study aims to understand phylogenetic relationships within Cunonieae by using DNA sequences in a parsimony-cladistic analysis. Sequenced loci included the internal transcribed spacers (ITS-1 and ITS-2) of nuclear ribosomal DNA, and the trnL intron and trnL-F spacer of chloroplast DNA. Primer and taxon-specific amplification of non-orthologous ITS-2 copies made it necessary to exclude the ITS-2 data, but otherwise the nuclear and chloroplast data sets were congruent. The results place Vesselowskya as the sister genus to other Cunonieae and support the monophyly of Pancheria, Cunonia, and all five sections of Weinmannia, but do not indicate how these groups are related. The monophyly of Weinmannia sect. Weinmannia is upheld, with W. trichosperma from temperate forests of South America and W. tinctoria from the Mascarene Islands placed basal to a large clade of tropical American species. Although morphological data maintain the monophyly of Weinmannia, this is neither verified nor statistically refuted by the molecular data. Likewise, Cunonia, with one isolated South African species, has only weak molecular support but clear morphological synapomorphies. Lack of support for relationships among major clades within Cunonieae makes it difficult to suggest patterns of morphological evolution. However, a well-supported phylogenetic hypothesis within Weinmannia sect. Leiospermum is used to discuss heterotopy in inflorescence architecture. Uniquely derived features of the inflorescence are found in the New Caledonian species Weinmannia dichotoma and in the New Zealand species W. silvicola and W. racemosa. These heterotopic changes involve alternate patterns in the fate of terminal meristems and the arrangement of metamers bearing racemes. In an appendix the correct orthographies and original publications of all five sections of Weinmannia are provided; types are also designated for Weinmannia sections Inspersae and Spicatae in order to validate them.
10.2307/2398864|Chromosome counts in Nyssa and Camptotheca indicate a base number of x = 22 for Nyssaceae. Davidia, the only genus of Davidiaceae, has x = 21. In Cornaceae, where x = 11 was thought basic, Mastixia has n = 13 and 11, while Curtisia, recently excluded from Cornaceae as Curtisiaceae, has n = 13. Nyssaceae and Davidiaceae appear more closely related to Cornaceae than previously recognized subfamilies and tribes of this family, and segregation of Helwingia, Mastixia and Curtisia from Cornaceae as proposed by other workers is supported on cytological grounds.
10.2307/2395306|Because pollen-ovule ratios (P/O's) reflect the predictability of pollinators in a habitat and the efficiency of pollination, large intraspecific differences in P/O's suggest differences in pollinator numbers and/or their efficiency. Plants of Heracleum lanatum, which is andromonoecious, from forests have larger percentages of male flowers than those outside of forests, hence a higher P/O. This difference is associated with differences in the kinds of flower visitors. I suggest the pollen removal by small bees that forage on Heracleum in but not outside the woods may be the selective force that accounts for the larger percentage of male flowers of woods plants. In andromonoecious Caesalpinia the percentage of hermaphroditic flowers in a population ranges from 8-83%, and appears to be ecotypically adapted to levels of pollinator, i.e., butterfly, activity. Nectar secretion is continuous and is the key to successful reproduction, especially in populations with low pollinator activity. Pollination is proportional to foraging time and a function of the pollen carried. The amount of nectar in the flowers reflects pollinator activity; thus in low activity populations there will be more nectar and visits will be longer, thus increasing the likelihood of pollination. Because there are large numbers of male flowers in such populations the pollinators presumably carry more pollen, which also increases the likelihood of pollination. In populations with high pollinator activity large numbers of visits balance the shortness of individual visits. A consequence of this balanced system is that the fecundity of hermaphroditic flowers in quite dissimilar populations is equivalent. Deviations from predicted levels of seed set and fruit set are consistent with below normal levels of pollinator activity. Nectar production in two populations of Calliandra anomala are quite different, with a high elevation population producing far less nectar than a lower elevation population. The low rate of nectar production in the high elevation population is undoubtedly an adaptation that forces the pollinators, i.e., hawkmoths, to visit large numbers of flowers to obtain sufficient nutrients, thus increasing fruit set and maximizing fecundity. The breeding system and pollination biology of Leonotis nepetaefolia are used to explain the distribution of this African plant in Mexico, where it is a roadside weed.
10.2307/2399363|Eichhornia is of New World origin and comprises eight species of freshwater aquatics in the monocotyledonous family Pontederiaceae. Eichhornia flowers display a broad range of morphological specializations associated with their pollination mechanisms and breeding systems. These range from large-flowered, outcrossing, tristylous populations to small-flowered, predominantly self-fertilizing, semi-homostylous populations. Two sources of evidence indicate that the major pathway of breeding system evolution in the genus involves the repeated breakdown of tristyly to give rise to selfing semi-homostylous populations: the occurrence of semi-homostylous forms in each of the primarily tristylous species (E. azurea, E. crassipes, E. paniculata) and the presence of residual heteromorphisms, associated with the tristylous syndrome, in the largely autogamous semihomostylous species (E. diversifolia, E. heterosperma, E. paradoxa). It is suggested that genetic bottlenecks associated with long-distance dispersal and colonization of aquatic habitats with uncertain moisture regimes play major roles in disrupting the maintenance of tristyly. This leads to the breakdown of the polymorphism and the evolution of semi-homostyly.
10.2307/2395121|The position of Poinsettia in the tribe Euphorbieae is discussed, and a key is given for the American genera. The name P. heterophylla is found to be applicable to a weedy tropical plant, and the distinctions between this and the North American P. cyathophora are tabulated. Gametic chromosome numbers of 14 and 28 are reported for both P. cyathophora and P. dentata, while P. heterophylla shows only n = 14. The geographic variation of the North American annual species is briefly discussed. A key is given for the 11 species recognized, of which two are described as new: P. coccinea and P. inornata, while new combinations are published in Poinsettia for P. colorata, P. pentadactyla and P. restiacea.
10.2307/2399998|The Last Species is an effort to examine the choices that confront us today that will determine where this nation will be in the year 3000. This presentation addresses the appropriate coordinating role for the National Biological Service, its formation and evolution, and its political liabilities. The latter receives special attention because it fits into the broader national political and environmental arena. A shift in the meaning of critical words and phrases will be singled out as a primary causal agent for the current distress within the scientific community. Some practical suggestions are made on how to engage and educate elected officials and the public at large.
10.2307/2400003|Palicourea Aublet comprises about 200 species of shrubs and small trees found throughout the moist and wet Neotropics. This genus is distinguished by characters of the corolla that apparently represent adaptations for pollination by hummingbirds and seems to be a member of a hummingbird-pollinated group closely related to Psychotria subg. Heteropsychotria, which is generally insect-pollinated. An infrageneric classification is proposed here for 188 species, based largely on characters of the stipules and fruits. This classification comprises two subgenera, one generally lowland, centered in Amazonia, and comprising 52 species in four sections, and the other generally middle to high elevation, centered in the northern Andes, and comprising 136 species in five sections. Several distinctive features shared by species that belong to different sections and in some cases different subgenera are noted. These patterns suggest that at least some features have been derived repeatedly in parallel within the genus. The relatively large number of species of Palicourea found at middle and high elevations may be due to the exploitation by this group of hummingbird pollination, together with habitat diversity, distyly, and variation among local populations leading to their reproductive isolation. The following new combinations are made: Palicourea sect. Corymbiferae (Mull. Arg.) C. M. Taylor, Palicourea subtomentosa (Ruiz. & Pav.) C. M. Taylor and P. subser. Subcymosae (Mull. Arg.) C. M. Taylor; the following new taxa are described: P. subg. Montanae, P. sect. Cephaeloides, P. sect. Grandiflorae, P. sect. Montanae, P. sect. Obovoideae, P. sect. Pseudoamethystinae, and P. sect. Psychotrioides; and the following new taxa are described, illustrated, and classified: P. anderssoniana, P. anianguana, P. asplundii, P. azurea, P. canarina, P. candida, P. chignul, P. condorica, P. corniculata, P. cornigera, P. deviae, P. gentryi, P. harlingii, P. jaramilloi, P. lugoana, P. luteonivea, P. prodiga, P. subalatoides, P. subtomentosa subsp. lojana, P. ulloana, and P. vulcanalis.
10.2307/2399138|In the Dead Sea Rift Valley of Israel, a northern tongue of penetration of Sudanian elements exists that has traditionally been regarded as composed of Miocene relicts. We postulate that most of these elements have penetrated the area since the end of the Pleistocene. The principal habitats harboring Sudanian elements in Israel are described, including the pseudo-savanna in wadi beds, cliffs and rock formation, oases and in the Dead Sea Rift as well as a variety of secondary habitats outside the Rift. In addition, a statistical analysis of the 116 species in the flora of Israel considered to be Sudanian elements is presented, covering growth form, phytogeographic distribution, dispersal mechanisms, and degree of endemism. Special attention is given to the arboreal elements, including 49 species of trees, shrubs, and perennial vines. A comparison is made between the habitats of these species in East Africa and in Israel: significant habitat shifts were found in some cases. Although paleo-macrofossils are almost non-existent in the area, other evidence, such as low degree of endemism, disjunctiveness, and adaptations to aridity and long-distance dispersal indicate that the great majority of the Sudanian elements in the Dead Sea Rift are of recent origin. The relationships between the typical evergreen Mediterranean elements with paleotropical origins and the extant Sudanian elements in Israel are discussed.
10.2307/2394916|Two well-preserved petrified stem specimens, with attached petioles are described and referred to Sutcliffia insignis Scott; these were obtained from the Carbondale formation, Middle Pennsylvanian, of Illinois and thus extend the known range of the genus beyond Great Britain. The diagnostic features of the genus seem to lie in: the profusely anastomosing nature of the vascular system with one or two central steles being larger than the others; a uniform ring of vascular bundles within the peripheral sclerotic zone (rind) of the petiole; the concentric nature of the vascular bundles in the petioles and especially their enclosing fiber rings. Our specimens are distinguished from the English ones chiefly by the presence of rather massive cortical emergences and they are, accordingly, given the name S. insignis var. tuberculata. Tom L. Phillips, Department of Botany, University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois; Henry N. Andrews, Henry, Shaw School of Botany, Washington University, St. Louis 30, Missouri.
10.2307/2992002|The floral ecology of Penstemon cobaea Nutt. var. cobaea, P. cobaea var. purpureus Pennell, P. digitalis Nutt. ex Sims, P. grandiflorus Nutt., P. pallidus Small, and P. tubaeflorus Nutt. was studied by sampling populations at nine prairie sites in Illinois, Kansas, and Missouri. All five species show protandry, but the receptive stigma lies only 2 mm away from the two pairs of fertile stamens. Bagging experiments on three Penstemon spp. show that only P. digitalis sets seed when insect visitors are excluded. Flowers of all five species exhibit a horizontal presentation of the corolla and emit a slightly discernible scent. However, the presumed pollination systems of Penstemon spp. correlate with corolla form and the size of the floral sinus. The tubular, white flowers of P. tubaeflorus appear to be pollinated by a combination of diurnal Lepidoptera and some native bees favoring a dorsal deposition of pollen on mouthparts and upper thoraces. The four remaining species have gullet- or bell-shaped corollas ornamented with violet-purple blotches or lines. These species appear to be pollinated primarily by polylectic/polyphagic bees (including six Bombus spp.), with P. digitalis and P. cobaea visited infrequently by the rare Penstemon wasp, Pseudomasaris occidentalis. Queens of Bombus pennsylvanicus subsp. pennsylvanicus forage primarily on the large, gullet flowers of P. grandiflorus and both varieties of P. cobaea. Queens of Bombus nevadensis subsp. auricomus prefer those P. digitalis and P. pallidus showing a reduced gullet or bell form. Bee pollination in four Penstemon spp. may operate within a two-tiered system. Large-bodied Bombus spp., Megachile brevis, and anthophorids (Synhalonia hamata and Anthophora terminalis) carry dorsal depositions of Penstemon pollen because they contact anthers and stigmas while they forage exclusively for nectar. In contrast, small-bodied members of the Anthophoridae (Ceratina), Colletidae (Hylaeus spp.), Halictidae (Augochlorella, Halictus, Lasioglossum), and Megachilidae (Hoplitis and Osmia) forage actively for Penstemon pollen encouraging repeated, ventral contact with the sexual organs of the flowers. Bombus queens were more prevalent at large Penstemon populations (especially P. cobaea). Bombus workers were collected primarily on restored sites. The importance of small bees as pollinators appeared to vary indirectly with Penstemon population size.
10.2307/2395202|Despite frequent long-range disjunctions among the angiosperms, geography can often have considerable suggestive value in discovering relationships among families and subfamilies and even higher categories. According to my classification and so far as currently known, 72 of 324 families and 78 of 281 additional subfamilies are restricted to one continental area or its oceanic equivalent for a total of 150 of 605 families and subfamilies. Representatives of a good many more families and subfamilies barely reach a second continent. Two small orders, Balanopales and Leitneriales, and six suborders are similarly restricted. Restricted either to the Old World (166) or the New World (71) are 103 families and 134 additional subfamilies for a total of 237 families and subfamilies. Four orders and two suborders are similarly restricted and one additional suborder largely so. Similarly, 90 families and subfamilies are restricted or largely so to the Southern and 74 to the Northern Hemisphere for a total of 164 of the 605 families and subfamilies. Since the circumscription of these families and subfamilies has largely been accomplished through study of the comparative anatomy and morphology of the constituent plants, it is rather obvious that there is often a marked correlation between classification and geography. Even the widely disjunct larger groups follow very definite patterns in their disjunctions. Thus, a careful study of plant geography can be most helpful in placing dubious taxa. Doubtful genera "out of place" geographically should be restudied with geography in mind. As one example, Oftia as the only genus of the largely Pacific Ocean Myoporaceae in mainland Africa seemed out of position geographically. A recent critical study showed it to belong not to the Myoporaceae but to a tribe of Scrophulariaceae well represented in south Africa. The Old World Pittosporales, as I have redefined the order with three suborders, Daphniphyllineae of southeastern Asia and Malesia, the Pittosporineae largely of Australasia, and the Brunineae of southern Africa and Madagascar, are considered in some detail as a relatively large order of 10 families in which geography offered the major clue to its recognition and circumscription. Other taxonomists have each treated the 10 families in five to seven widely separated orders involving a total of 16 different ordinal names.
10.2307/2398871|An updated listing is provided for Panamanian genera and species of Loranthaceae (Cladocolea, Gaiadendron, Oryctanthus, Phthirusa, Psittacanthus, Struthanthus, and possibly Ixocactus), Viscaceae (Dendrophthora, Phoradendron), and Eremolepidaceae (Antidaphne). Aside from certain nomenclatural changes, new records from Panama are: Cladocolea oligantha (Standley & Steyermark) Kuijt, possibly Ixocactus hutchisonii Kuijt, Phoradendron annulatum Oliver, P. crassifolium (Pohl) Eichler, P. dichotomum (Bertero) Krug & Urban, P. dipterum Eichler, P. quadrangulare (H.B.K.) Krug & Urban, P. robustissimum Eichler, Psittacanthus nodosus (Desr.) G. Don, Struthanthus quercicola (Cham. & Schlecht.) Blume, and S. aff. dichotrianthus Eichler. In addition, the following new species are described: Dendrophthora panamensis Kuijt, Psittacanthus hamulifer Kuijt, and P. pusillus Kuijt. Six further species are recognized but remain unnamed because of difficulties inherent in Phoradendron, raising the total number of Panamanian mistletoes to at least 45 species.
10.2307/2399304|Eight hundred ninety-two type specimens (in 62 families) representing 589 taxa described by George Engelmann have been located in the herbarium of the Missouri Botanical Garden. For each specimen the following are given: literature citation, kind of type, locality and date of collection, collector, and name it is currently filed under in the herbarium.
42703711|The Neotropical species that have been included in Psychotna L. comprise a heterogeneous group, morphologically and systematically. Carapichea Aubl. (Rubiaceae, Psychotrieae) was separated from Psychotna based on molecular analyses to include C. affinis (Standl.) L. Andersson, C. guianensis Aubl., and C. ipecacuanha (Brot.) L. Andersson; two more species were later included based on morphological characters, C. ligularis (Rudge) Delprete and C. lucida J. G. Jardim & Zappi. Here Carapichea is reviewed morphologically and circumscribed to include 23 Neotropical species found from Nicaragua to southeastern Brazil that share characters of the stipules and inflorescence arrangement. The genus is diagnosed mainly by its distinctive stipules, while pyrene characters, previously considered characteristic for the genus, actually vary widely. A revised morphological description of the genus includes more variation than previously documented, which is outlined in the key to species. Seven informal species groups are separated and characterized, and the following new nomenclatural combinations are made here: Carapichea adinantha (Standl.) C. M. Taylor, based on Retiniphyllum adinanthum Standl. and the sole species of Stachyococcus Standl., which fully synonymizes Stachyococcus with Carapichea; Carapichea altsonii (Sandwith) C. M. Taylor, based on Cephaelis altsonii Sandwith; Carapichea araguariensis (Steyerm.) CM. Taylor, based on P. araguariensis Steyerm.; Carapichea crebnnervia (Standl.) C. M. Taylor, based on Cephaelis crebnnervia Standl.; Carapichea fimbriflora (Steyerm.) C. M. Taylor, based on P. fimbriflora Steyerm.; Carapichea franquevilleana (Mll. Arg.) C. M. Taylor, based on P. franquevilleana Mll. Arg.; Carapichea klugii (Standl.) C. M. Taylor, based on P. klugii Standl.; Carapichea maturacensis (Steyerm.) C. M. Taylor, based on P. maturacensu Steyerm.; Carapichea necopinata (Standl.) C. M. Taylor, based on P. necopinata Standl.; Carapichea nivea (Sandwith) C. M. Taylor, based on Cephaelis nivea Sandwith; Carapichea pacimonica (Mll. Arg.) C. M. Taylor, based on P. pacimonica Mll. Arg.; Carapichea panurensis (Mll. Arg.) C. M. Taylor, based on Mapoura panurensis Mll. Arg.; Carapichea sandwithiana (Steyerm.) C. M. Taylor, based on CephaelL  sandwithiana Steyerm.; Carapichea tillettii (Steyerm.) C. M. Taylor, based on P. tillettii Steyerm.; Carapichea urniformis (Steyerm.) C. M. Taylor, based on P. urniformis Steyerm.; and Carapichea vasivensis (Mll. Arg.) CM. Taylor, based on Mapouria vasivensu Mll. Arg. Newly described here is Carapichea verrucosa C M. Taylor of Amazonian Peru, Colombia, and Brazil, which is notable for its relatively large, abaxially (i.e., dorsally) verrucose pyrenes.
10.2307/2399783|Biology and other scientific enterprises have generated an astonishing amount of information through the traditional techniques of experiment and observation. Little effort has been spent on the analysis or synthesis of the accumulated information, and there is both need and opportunity to do so. Some segment of future biologists must be trained in the emerging technologies for assessing literature and synthesizing information. The techniques of historiography may provide a model.
10.2307/2398799| Complex life cycles and alternation of generations are characteristic of many plants, a diploid sporophyte typically alternating with a haploid gametophyte. The prominence of each generation varies greatly among taxa. Purely phylogenetic or morphogenetic explanations of these differences are unsatisfying, as are those based solely on population fitness. Existing adaptational explanations seek selective advantages in diploidy and in sexual reproduction, but these explanations leave much to be explained--i.e., the existence of asexuality and of haploid organisms. Much of the existing variation in life cycles can be explained by selection on reproductive rates to meet the ecological problems of dispersal, colonization, niche preemption and exploitation, and mate competition. Placement of complex life cycles of plants in an ecological framework will, I hope, encourage specific studies exploring possible adaptive aspects and limitations on the evolution of life cycles in plants with different life histories. 
10.2307/2991992|How are tree species within tropical rainforests distributed at the landscape scale? One research site, the La Selva Biological Station in Costa Rica, offers exceptional tools for addressing this question: a documented flora, soil and topographic maps, a reserve-wide grid, and a Geographical Information System (GIS). My colleagues and I have combined these tools with highly replicated systematic sampling over 600 ha of old growth to investigate patterns of forest composition within this lowland tropical wet forest. This approach has revealed features of within-forest heterogeneity that had remained "invisible" during extensive fieldwork by many researchers at La Selva. Examples are: a doubling in density of the guild of subcanopy and canopy palms between flat terrain and increasingly steep topography; strong shifts in density of many palm and tree species over La Selva's limited gradients of soils and topography; evidence of human harvesting of one palm species from old-growth forest; and evidence suggesting indigenous human activity deep within the reserve (the co-occurrence of a previously unrecognized zone of alluvial soil, buried charcoal, and an avocado tree). These studies have also added 15 tree species to the known flora of this intensively researched forest. Although La Selva's support for such landscape-scale studies is exceptional, even in remote tropical forests it is now possible to systematically sample and geo-reference information on site variation and species distributions using newly available Global Positioning Systems. Findings can then be cross-referenced with current and future site data, using a GIS. Although such efforts, especially the development of a GIS, require considerable investments of time and expertise, the payoff can be a more robust understanding of the distribution of tree diversity and species abundances over tropical rainforest landscapes.
42703710|We review the patterns of fruit maturation, dispersal, germination, seed bank formation, and seedling establishment of the Melastomataceae in two Neotropical biodiversity hotspots, the Brazilian cerrado and the Atlantic rainforest. Studies on seed biology of the Melastomataceae are relevant because this family is ubiquitous, species-rich, and dominant in these two hotspots, and its increased relative importance is anticipated under the current scenario of habitat loss and forest fragmentation. The lifehistory traits of this pioneer-dominated family are quite variable in terms of fruiting phenology and seedling establishment, but less so for dispersal ecology and seed germination. Our knowledge of this seed biology is used to infer on the predicted impacts of global change and forest fragmentation for tropical forest and cerrado melastomes. Species in the Melastomataceae may be key in restoration ecology, and we discuss how seed-and seedling-based restoration techniques can assist ecosystem recovery. Revisamos los patrones de maturacin de frutos, dispersin, germinacin, banco de semillas y establecimiento de plantas de Melastomataceae en dos hotspots debiodiversdad, el cerrado y la Mata Atlntica. Estudios de semillas de Melastomataceae son importantes porque la familia presenta alta diversidad y es dominante en un gran rango de habitats. Adems, resulta que la familia tiene prevista su importancia aumentada en escenarios de fragmentacin de bosques. Las caractersticas de historia de vida de esta familia de plantas pioneras es muy variable con respecto a la fenologa reproductiva y establecimiento de plntulas, pero no tanto con respecto a la ecologa de dispersin de semillas y germinacin. La biologa de semillas embasa la discusin sobre los impactos de los cambios globales y fragmentacin de bosques en Melastomataceae de sabanas y bosques tropicales. Especies de Melastomataceae pueden ser claves para la ecologa de la restauracin y discutimos como las tcnicas de restauracin basadas en semillas y plntulas pueden ayudar en la restauracin.
10.2307/2399721|This work is the first part of a treatment of New World Xyridaceae, exclusive of Xyris, and is focused on the other four genera that make up this family, namely Abolboda (21 species), Achlyphila (one species), Aratitiyopea (one species), and Orectanthe (two species). The treatment is conventional, providing (1) a general description, (2) a key to the genera, (3) detailed descriptions of each of the four genera and keys to their species where needed, and (4) illustrations of species and varieties together with synonymy and geographic distribution. Some realignment of taxa is presented. Two new species, Abolboda dunstervillei and A. scabrida, and one new variety, Abolboda acaulis var. scaposa, are proposed.
10.2307/2399854|Nucleotide sequences for the chloroplast rbcL gene were obtained from representatives of 11 of the 15 plant families known to produce glucosinolates (mustard oil glucosides). Parsimony analyses indicate that these constitute two widely separated groups and thus imply two independent origins of the mustard oil/myrosin cell syndrome. A strongly supported, major group comprises the mustard family Brassicaceae and its near relatives Capparaceae, Resedaceae, and Tovariaceae along with such morphologically diverse taxa as Bataceae, Bretschneideraceae, Caricaceae, Limnanthaceae, Moringaceae, and Tropaeolaceae. The second mustard oil group is restricted to the euphorbiaceous genus Drypetes. Akania, the subject of an independent rbcL analysis, pairs with Bretschneidera, and these are collateral with Tropaeolum at the base of the major mustard oil clade. Gyrostemonaceae, Pentadiplandra, and Salvadoraceae have not been analyzed for rbcL sequences. The gene data corroborate many aspects of Rodman's recent cladistic analysis based predominantly on morphological characters; together the molecular and morphological evidence support Dahlgren's radical classification of an expanded order Capparales.
