23726634|Schistidium halinae Ochyra (Grimmiaceae, Bryopsida) is described as a new species based on ten collections from the maritime West Antarctic. It differs from the congeners in (1) its piliferous upper leaves giving the plants a hoary appearance, (2) sharply spinulose-denticulate, hyaline, broad, flattened and membraneous hair-points, 0.2 1.0 mm long on the upper leaves, (3) narrowly recurved and partially bistratose margins in the upper half leaf, (4) presence of a large central strand, (5) short-rectangular and sinuose laminal cells in the lower middle, and (6) long-rectangular basal juxtacostal cells with straight incrassate walls and quadrate to short-rectangular basal marginal cells forming a band 46 cells wide. Additionally, the capsules are deeply immersed in the ovate perichaetial leaves with a plane or narrowly recurved margin on one side below the apex and terminated with a long, hyaline hair-point (0.61.4 mm). The exothecial cells are mostly isodiametric to oblong, thin-walled with distinct corner thickenings and the peristome teeth are erect, lanceolate, perforate to irregularly cracked. The new species is fully described and illustrated and its affinities are discussed. Schistidium halinae is currently known from King George and Livingston Islands in the South Shetland Islands and from Vega and James Ross Islands near Trinity Peninsula on the NE coast of the Antarctic Peninsula. The distribution is mapped.
23727774|Tacca ampliplacenta L. Zhang & Q.-J. Li sp. nova (Taccaceae) is described and illustrated from Yunnan province, China. It is distinguished by the following characters: the petioles, peduncles, and flowers are red wine-coloured instead of dark purple; the bracts are very similar to T. chantrieri, but the fruits have different intumescent placentas, which fill the fruit cavity; and the stalk of the infructescence is rich in flexible fibre and very tough. Its flowering period (JulyAugust) is rather late as compared with that of the sympatric T. chantrieri (AprilJune). This phenological difference may play an important role in reproductive isolation between the two species.
23727733|Viola nanlingensis J.S. Zhou & F.W. Xing sp. nova (Violaceae), a new species from Guangdong province in southern China is described and illustrated. It is compared with the morphologically similar species V. nagasawai and V. diffusa.
23726834|Charcoal particle and pollen influx values in the annually laminated sediment of a boreal forest lake surrounded mostly by mesic soils were used to reconstruct the history of forest fires in Eastern Finland for a 600-year period between 100 BC and AD 500, prior to any significant human influence. Six to seven local fires were detected during this period, at an average interval of 90115 years. The corresponding fire rotation time is estimated to be 180230 years. The local fire interval and Picea pollen percentages at the site were of the same magnitude as those recorded at two sites with dry soils in eastern Finland, suggesting that the average fire return interval may have been similar at dry and mesic sites. The intensity of fires was estimated from the declines in influxes of spruce and pine pollen. Pine can survive surficial fires of low intensity, but spruce trees are killed by virtually all fires. The contemporary declines in spruce and pine pollen influxes suggest that about half of the fires were strong ones, causing stand replacement.
23727767|Dynamics of mycorrhizal colonization of two orchid species, rhizomatous Cephalanthera longifolia and tuberous Dactylorhiza majalis, was studied during two growing seasons, with special emphasis on the occurrence of collapsed pelotons. No complete lysis of pelotons in digestion cells was found. Mycorrhizal colonization of subterranean organs of both species was observed to take place even before aerial shoots developed, indicating that colonization is not restricted to leafy season, and was constantly present throughout the growing seasons with no distinct coincidence with flowering or fruiting time. Mycorrhizal colonization of C. longifolia was patchy and of low degree (mean = 4.4%, SE = 0.3%). It occurred mostly in the distal parts of main roots, lateral roots and/or in isolated root parts. Intensity of mycorrhizal colonization of D. majalis was generally higher (mean = 12.1%, SE = 0.7%). Tubers lacked colonization except in the root-like extensions.
23726550|The semi-natural grasslands were inventoried in the province of South Karelia (Finland) in 1992, 1993 and 1996. Altogether 89 different sites were found, covering a total area of 97 hectares. The sites were classified into five different biotopes, which comprised a total of 115 grasslands. Three-quarters of all sites (68, 76%), covering an area of 65 hectares (67% of total), were assessed as being in danger of losing their value because of either poor management or lack of management. The results indicate that the area of semi-natural grasslands in the province is now about 250 times smaller (0.4%) than at the beginning of the 20th century. The status of these environments in South Karelia is alarming.
23728240|Helianthemum motae Snchez-Gmez, J.F. Jimnez & J.B. Vera (Cistaceae) is described as a new species from southeastern Spain. It belongs to the section Lavandulaceum and appears to be close to H. syriacum. The diagnostic characters, a phylogenetic study as well as a full description, a dichotomic key, and illustrations are provided. Both macromorphological and micromorphological characters are discussed and compared with the morphologically related species. The conservational status of H. motae is discussed.
23725452|Splachnum turbinatum Brid. is conspecific with Haplodontium megalocarpum (Arnott) Jaeg., and Tayloria henryae Dix. with Funaria hygrometrica Hedw.
23726433|Six new species are described, which were collected in Albania in 1983 and later cultivated in Finland. Four of them, T. aestuans Sonck, spec. nova, T. botanicorum Sonck, spec. nova, T. pseudogracilens Sonck, spec. nova and T. respersum Sonck, spec. nova, belong to sect. Erythrosperma, and the remaining two, T. meyeri Sonck, spec. nova and T. shqipericum Sonck, spec. nova, to sect. Vulgaria sensu Dahlst. T. interveniens Hagl., also belonging to Vulgaria, is reported as new for Albania.
23726595|Thalli of the lichens Parmotrema austrosinense (Zahlbr.) Hale and P. conferendum Hale were taken from a non-polluted area and transplanted within this area, and to a downtown site in Crdoba, Argentina. Pigments, malondialdehyde, hydroperoxy-conjugated dienes and sulphur were measured after various exposure periods. Changes in the quantified compound concentrations were observed throughout the exposure period in both species and in both sites. In the urban site, however, chlorophyll concentration was lower and, in P. conferendum, malondialdehyde concentration was significatively higher. These results can be attributed to the effect of atmospheric pollutants on the transplanted lichens.
23725208|The occurrence of 50 woody plant species of the temperate zone was studied at 10 fixed localities along an almost 1000-km-long section of the Lower Amur Basin from the southwest to the northeast. The northern limits of distribution of these nemoral species were found to form four distinct concentrations, which corresponded to boundaries of the bioclimatic vegetation zones suggested for East Asia by L. Hmet-Ahti and her coworkers in earlier Finnish investigations. The present work gives a detailed description of these boundary areas and a proposal for the delimitation of the northern temperate, hemiboreal, and southern boreal subzones in the Lower Amur Basin. To a great extent, the boundaries of the vegetation zones seem to coincide with mountain ranges surrounding the river basin. The present study suggests that more attention should be directed to preserving the now endangered northernmost nemoral associations. For conservation purposes two new nature parks of the zapovednik category are needed.
23724202|The germination rate of wheat powdery mildew (Erysiphe graminis f. sp. tritici) conidia was examined by means of an apparatus which permitted continuous observation of the germination of each sample throughout the experiment. Germination experiments were conducted at constant RH and at temperatures ranging from +5 to +30 with intervals of 2.5. Germination was fastest at +20 and +22.5 C. The highest germination percentage was obtained at +17.5 C.
23727853|Anoectochilus malipoensis W.H. Chen & Y.M. Shui sp. nova (Orchidaceae) from Yunnan, China, is described and illustrated. It is similar to A. emeiensis but differs by having a narrow membranaceous rim in the anther cap, obovate epichile lobes with acuminate apex and crenulate margins, a narrow rim inside hypochile lobes, two 11.2 mm long cornua on the end of the spur, and broadly cupulate calli in the spur. These differences in flower morphology were observed in the holotype specimens. We also revise some characteristics of A. emeiensis based on examination of its holotype. The relationship between A. malipoensis and A. papillosus is discussed. Furthermore, a new identification key to the fourteen species of Anoectochilus (excluding Odontochilus) from China and Vietnam is given here.
23726427|Colonization by diatoms of ceramic and glass panels was studied for 8 weeks in early summer in the hydrolittoral (0.3 m) and sublittoral (2.5 and 5 m) of a brackish-water archipelago at Tvrminne in the northern Baltic Sea. The structure of the diatom community was described with several diversity and evenness indices, species abundance distributions, ranked-abundance and k-dominance curves, and multivariate ordination methods. Altogether 99 diatom species occurred on the panels, while the maximum number of species on a panel at any time was 46. In spite of major differences in abundance, the development of the diatom community at all three depths and on the two substrata showed a similar pattern, passing from the strong dominance of a single species towards the more even distribution of more numerous species. In the sublittoral, there were no consistent differences between the substrata, but in the hydrolittoral the diatom community on glass had higher dominance early in the study period. The diversity ordering of the diatom associations at the end of the study period showed the lowest diversity and highest dominance in the hydrolittoral. The simplest and most efficient description of changes in the structure of the diatom community was obtained with the number of species observed in samples of standardized size together with ranked-abundance or k-dominance curves. The spatial and temporal patterns of diatom colonization were successfully described by principal coordinates analysis with Williamson's modification for calculating distances and correspondence analysis.
23727900|Liparis cheniana X.H. Jin sp. nova (Orchidaceae), is described and illustrated from southwestern Xizang (Tibet), China. It is restricted to the alpine region of the Gaoligongshan Mountains at an elevation of about 3700 m. Liparis cheniana is similar to L. rostrata in having two calli at the base of the column, but differs from it by having a lanceolate and acuminate lip with a ridge ranging from the base to the tip.
23727168|The field garlic Allium oleraceum is reproducing by subterraneous bulbs, and above ground by bulbils and seed. Two chromosome numbers, tetraploid (2n = 32) and pentaploid (2n = 40) have been found in Finland and Sweden. The seed production was studied in some population of A. oleraceum mainly in south Finland. The fruits mature only if visited by insects and the seed ripen only in favourable, that is warm and not too dry, summers. Several insect species of the orders Hymenoptera, Diptera and Lepidoptera were found to visit flowers of Allium oleraceum. The most frequent visitors were Bombus lapidarius (Apidae), Dolichovespula norwegica and D. saxonica (Vespidae), Eumenes spp. (Eumenidae), Volucella spp. and Syrphus spp. (Syrphidae), Pieris napi (Pieridae) and Autographa gamma (Noctuidae). Wasps of the family Vespidae are very regular visitors in the flowers of Allium oleraceum. Thus we suggest that Allium oleraceum is a species which has "wasp blossoms". Both tetraploid and pentaploid plants are visited by insects and they both produce viable seed. The seed is described. In germination tests most of the seeds of both ploidy levels germinated well.
23726720|Agaricus nebularis Batsch : Fr. is approved as the lectotype of the genus Clitocybe (Fr.) Staude (Agaricales: Tricholomataceae). Lepista (Fr.) W.G. Smith is a younger taxonomic synonym. Diagnostic characters of Clitocybe are discussed; among the less known ones are: (i) a proportion of the detached spores adhere in tetrads in microscopic mounts, (ii) the spore wall is cyanophilic, and (iii) the mycelium is capable of reducing nitrate. Three new nomenclatural combinations in Clitocybe are made. The new genus Infundibulicybe Harmaja, with Agaricus gibbus Pers. : Fr. as the type, is segregated for the core group of those species of Clitocybe s. lato that do not fit to the genus as defined here. Infundibulicybe mainly differs from Clitocybe in that: (i) the spores do not adhere in tetrads, (ii) all or a proportion of the spores have confluent bases, (iii) all or most of the spores are lacrymoid in shape, (iv) the spore wall is cyanophobic, and (v) the mycelium is incapable of reducing nitrate. Thirteen new nomenclatural combinations in Infundibulicybe are made. Two new nomenclatural combinations are made in Ampulloclitocybe Redhead, Lutzoni, Moncalvo & Vilgalys (syn. Clavicybe Harmaja), a recent segregate of Clitocybe.
43922325|The study includes the following accepted species: Cladortia ciliata Stirt., C. portentosa (Duf.) Zahlbr., C. uncialis (L.) Wigg., C. metacorallifera Asah., C. sulpharina (Michx.) Fr., C. polydactyla (Flrke) Spreng., C. rangiformis Hoffm., C. crispata (Ach.) Flot., C. squamosa (Scop.) Hoffm., C. stricta (Nyl.) Nyl., C. ecmocyna Leight., C. maxima (Asah.) Ahti, C. gracilis (L.) Willd., C. macroceras (Flrke) Ahti, and C. firma (Nyl.) Nyl. New taxa are Cladortia portentosa subsp. pacifica f. decolorans Ahti and Cladonia stricta var. uliginosa Ahti. New combinations are Cladonia portentosa f. subimpexa (Duvign.) Ahti, Cladonia portentosa subsp. pacifica (Ahti) Ahti Cladonia rangiformis var. gracillima (Mont.) Ahti, Cladonia maxima (Asah.) Ahti, and Cladonia macroceras (Flrke) Ahti. The epithets reduced to synonymy include: Cladonia leucophaea des Abb. ( = C. ciliata var. ciliata), C. tenuis (Flrke) Harm. ( = C. ciliata var. tenuis), C. impexa Harm. ( = C. portentosa), C. gonecha (Ach.) Asah. ( = C. sulphurina), C. flabelliformis Vain. ( = C. polydactyla), C. uncialis subsp. dicraea (Ach.) D. Hawksw. ( = C. uncialis subsp. biuncialis), C. crispata var. subcrispata Hennipm. (nom. illeg., but no correct name proposed), C. squamosa var. allosquamosa Hennipm. ( = C. squamosa var. subsquamosa), C. cerasphora Vain. ( = C. stricta var. stricta), C. lepidota (Ach.) Nyl. ( = a nomenclatural synonym of C. phyllophora, but generally applied for C. stricta coll.), C. gracilescens (Flrke) Vain. ( = a nomenclatural synonym of C. phyllophora, but generally applied for C. stricta var. uliginosa), C. nylanderi P. Cout. [ = C.firma (Nyl.) Nyl.], C. firma (Laur.) Kremp. (nom. illeg., but no correct name proposed). C. maxima and C. metacorallifera var. reagens Asah. are reported, as new to Europe, while C. elongata (Jacq.) Hoffm. is excluded from the European flora. New reports on chemistry: C. portentosa subsp. pacifica f, decolorans (perlatolic acid constant, ursolic acid as accessory; no usnic acid), C. stricta var. uliginosa (fumarprotocetraric acid, atranorin), C. maxima (fumarprotocetraric acid constant, atranorin accessory) and C. macroceras (fumarprotocetraric acid).
23725752|The relationshops of fire history to forest type and topography were examined on 75 sample plots in Muddus National Park (50 000 ha; northern Sweden). A correlation matrix was constructed for 13 variables. During the last 600 years, most fires appear to have occurred on steep slopes, on continuous uplands and at low altitudes. These areas are at present dominated by Pinus sylvestris, dwarf-shrubs (e.g. Empetrum hermaphroditum) and lichens (e.g. Cladonia spp.). Mires have functioned as fire-breaks, resulting in Picea abies forests (with Vaccinium myrtillus and Gymnocarpium dryopteris) in which traces of fire are absent or extremely rare. Fire frequency was not correlated to aspect. Repeated surface fires seem to have promoted the longevity of Pinus sylvestris (>700 years old), and to have maintained the lichen-dominated forest type.
23727715|Rhododendron yunyianum X.F. Jin & B.Y. Ding (Ericaceae), sp. nova of subgen. Tsutsusi is described and illustrated from Fujian, China. It is morphologically similar to R. taipaoense and R. simsii, but differs from them mainly in having young shoots with both setose and strigose hairs, conspicuous calyx lobes, narrowly funnelform corollas, and 710 stamens.
23725305|Eight new species belonging to Taraxacum sect. Erythrosperma Lindb. fil. are described: T. acutiusculum Sonck, T. divinum Sonck, T. fibratum Sonck, T. fragosum Sonck, T. herae Sonck, T. lingulilobum Sonck, T. olympicola Sonck and T. terenodes Sonck, and one, T. dialeptum Sonck, which belongs to sect. Erythrocarpa H.-M.
23726290|The purpose was to determine the extent to which the relatively sparse lichen flora on the trunks of Scots pines (Pinus sylvestris L.) can serve as an indicator of air purity. The percentage cover and condition of the lichens were recorded in sample plots from which lichens (Hypogymnia physodes) and pine needles were collected for chemical analysis. Clear differences in pollution tolerance were found between the species, Platismatia glauca and H. tubulosa being the most sensitive of the macrolichens and H. physodes and Parmeliopsis ambigua the most tolerant. With decreasing distance from the city centre the numbers of macrolichen species and their size and percentage cover diminished, changes in their external appearance became more marked and the concentrations of impurities in the lichens and pine needles increased. Pendulous lichens of the genus Bryoria occurred on fairly polluted plots, but their maximum lengths remained small. No actual 'lichen desert' could be discerned, however. The interaction of air pollutants with other environmental factors is discussed.
23727161|The structure of the bryophyte communities of herb-rich forests has been studied relatively little in northern Europe. In this study, the bryophyte flora of herb-rich forests in eastern Finland was analysed and classified. Altogether 101 sample plots were studied. The species and sample plots were classified with TWINSPAN and ordinated with Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA) by using (1) bryophytes (n = 100), (2) vascular plants and bryophytes (n = 265) and (3) vascular plants (n = 165). The results indicated that bryophytes reflected different environmental factors than vascular plants. When classification was based on bryophytes, TWINSPAN clusters corresponded better to topography and stand structure than to 'a priori' site types. When classification was based on vascular plants and bryophytes or on vascular plants, TWINSPAN clusters corresponded quite well to 'a priori' site types. In all classifications, paludified herb-rich forests formed an own group, which might present a transition type between moist fern-rich forests and eutrophic paludified spruce forests. Bryophytes seemed to play a minor role in the classification of herb-rich forests. However, bryophytes improved the classification providing additional information of the site. The most accurate classification was obtained when both vascular plants and bryophytes were used to distinguish different vegetation types simultaneously.
23726635|Phylogenetic analyses were carried out on 23 samples representing 10 cetrarioid taxa from Europe and North America, representing 10 cetrarioid taxa; they were compared in parsimony analyses. The study is focused on ITS sequences of the ribosomal DNA. Intervening sequences, most likely representing group I introns, were found in four taxa. The results from the phylogenetic analysis are congruent with species delimitations derived from morphological characters, regardless of the geographic origin of the material. ITS and group I intron sequences from populations within the same species usually differ at very few base positions. The inclusion of Cetraria aculeata (Schreb.) Fr. in Cetraria Ach. and the exclusion of Melanelia hepatizon (Ach.) A. Thell, Tuckermannopsis chlorophylla (Willd.) Hale, and the genera Cetrelia W. L. Culb. & C. F. Culb., Flavocetraria Krnefelt & A. Thell, and Platismatia W. L. Culb. & C. F. Culb. from Cetraria is supported by the analyses, if the genus Vulpicida J.-E. Mattsson and M. J. Lai is maintained in this grouping.
23725224|The planktonic/littoral diatom ratios from a shallow prairie lake and a deep lake in the coniferous-deciduous forest region of Minnesota, U.S.A., were compared with the mean and maximum depths and the Secchi disc transparencies. The results indicate that the ratios of P/L and the mean and maximum depths and transparency, correspondingly, may be significantly higher for a shallow lake than for a deep lake.
23725238|The length growth rates, production and biomass of two reindeer lichens, Cladonia arbuscula (Wallr.) Rabenh., and Cladonia rangiferina (L.) Wigg., were measured in the raised bog Laaviosuo, Lammi, southern Finland. The cover, biomass and production of C. rangiferina were higher than those of C. arbuscula in all the habitats studied (high hummocks, low hummocks, upper hollows). When the proportions of all the different habitats were considered in the calculations, the combined biomass of the two lichens in Laaviosuo was estimated at 19.1 g m-2 and their total mean annual production at 2.8 g m-2. When the hollows were excluded from the calculations the corresponding values were 23.1 g m-2 and 3.4 g m-2. The linear growth rate (measured by dividing the length of the living podetium by the number of internodes in it) was 5.9  0.1 mm a year (x  S.E.) for C. rangiferina, with a total variation of 3.9-7.7 mm. For C. arbuscula the corresponding values were 6.0  0.1 mm a year and 4.6-7.5 mm. These values are of the same magnitude or possibly a little higher than those obtained in earlier studies.
23724638|The ecology, especially the macro-ecology, of rust fungi, and the distribution of the species was studied in Lammi commune; the species numbered 108. The distance between the hosts of some rusts was studied. The phenology of the rusts shows a relation to the macroclimate at the community level and to the microclimate at the species level. Factors affecting the phenology are discussed; every species has its own phenological code. Occurrence in different habitats was studied. Man has clearly influenced the distribution by his agricultural and silvicultural activities. Some rust species are most abundant on roadsides, others in shady places. The rusts are classified in relation to the influence of man. The factors affecting the occurrence of rusts in some manmade habitats are discussed. The macro-ecology of the rust fungi is outlined and their ecological amplitudes are discussed.
23726802|In this paper five Hieracium s. lato species are shifted into Pilosella and one subspecies is raised to species level in Hieracium s. stricto. These new combinations bring the number of Hieracium and Pilosella species in Turkey to 113 and 42, respectively.
23727658|A new moss species, Orthomnion wui T.J. Kop. (Mniaceae) is described. It differs from its morphologically nearest relative O. yunnanense T.J. Kop., X.J. Li & M. Zang in being synoicous and lacking decurrent leaf bases, and from most of the other congeners by its stereidal cells in costa and serrate leaf margin. It is known only from the type specimens collected in the Hubei Province of China.
23727998|Two new species of Dichoropetalum (Apiaceae) are described and illustrated from Turkey. Dichoropetalum anatolicum Pimenov & Kljuykov sp. nova grows on stony slopes and cliffs in Elmali Da (C2 Antalya province) and Honaz Da (C2 Denizli province), and is related to D. platycarpum and D. scoparium. Dichoropetalum bupleuroides Pimenov & Kljuykov sp. nova is distributed in the Hakkari province (Cilo Da). A new combination, D. longibracteolatum (Parolly & Nordt) Pimenov & Kljuykov is proposed for a recently described species, Peucedanum longibracteolatum from the Taurus Mountains in the Antalya and Iel provinces. After this contribution Dichoropetalum contains a total of 29 species, 14 of which occur in Turkey.
23727730|Anoectochilus hainanensis H.Z. Tian, F.W. Xing & L. Li sp. nova (Orchidaceae) is described from Hainan, China, and illustrated. It can be distinguished from the morphologically similar A. reinwardtii by the leaves, which have much denser and exquisitely golden-shiny reticulations on the upper surface, and by the column wings which have a broadly ligulate anterior part and appressed inner margins, and a saddle-like lamelliform posterior part connected with the anterior part at an acute angle.
23727258|The original herbarium vouchers for six species of Rosa (Rosaceae) described by S. G. Dimitrov from Bulgaria are taxonomically evaluated. Two species (R. balcanica, R. orphei) are considered hybrids, four other names (R. bulgarica, R. parilica, R. pontica and R. rhodopaea) are taxonomic synonyms of widespread taxa.
23728078|Lectotypes for Lonicera periclymenum L., L. pyrenaica L. and L. xylosteum L. are designated from original material conserved in BM (Clifford Herbarium), LINN (Linnaean Herbarium) and UPS-BURSER (Joachim Burser Herbarium).
23727242|Carex pallidula Harmaja, nom. nov., must replace C. pallens (Fristedt) Harmaja 1986, which is an illegitimate name as a younger homonym of C. pallens Z.P. Wang 1962.
23725475|The aquatic vegetation in the water area of representative waterfowl wetland, Koijrvi (6058'N, 2344'E), was mapped with the aid of aerial photographs in 1979, 1982, 1984 and 1986, in order to study the response of the vegetation to the changed water level (about 1015 cm lower than in the late 1970s). In the shallow homogeneous lake basin with soft mud bottoms, the aquatic vegetation is abundant, but the species number low. The largest plant community is floating-leaved vegetation dominated by Potamogeton natans, Nuphar lutea and Sparganium emersum, with a considerable admixture of submerged plants (Potamogeton obtusifolius, Utricularia vulgaris, Sparganium minimum). Equisetum fluviatile also forms large dense stands. The vegetation maps revealed clear expansion of helophyte and floating-leaved vegetation. The area of the Equisetum stands had increased three-fold (from 1 to 2.7 hectares) in 7 years. Typha latifolia had also invaded shallow water locations. Short-term succession caused by muskrats (Ondatra zibethica) increased the plant diversity in the closed Equisetum stands. The swamp margins bordering the water area revealed many small local changes due to the action of ice, wind and muskrats. Spread of vegetation from the lakeward margins to the water area was usually limited, and successful only in places where the plants could become rooted in the bottom.
23726619|A new species, Drepanolejeunea longii Grolle & R.L. Zhu, is described and illustrated from Bhutan. It is similar to D. pulla (Mitt.) Grolle, but differs in its falcate leaves with serrate margins, absence of gynoecial innovations, and 2(-3) uniseriate cells of the underleaf lobe apex.
23726759|The vegetation of four grazed and five ungrazed shore grasslands was studied in seashore and in delta on the southwestern coast of Finland. Ordinations and classifications separated delta plots from seashore plots, which were further divided into reed stand plots, epilittoral plots and geo- and hydrolittoral plots. The partitions reflected flooding stress, moisture conditions, grazing and properties of parent material. Elevation explained the data best. The primary factor in producing the vegetation zonation pattern in these Baltic coastal grasslands is the short-term fluctuation in sea-level. Although grazing was not the most important factor for explaining the variability in the data, its impact on the vegetation was considerable. Phragmites australis was much more common in ungrazed than in grazed plots. It dominated the hydrolittoral, was abundant in geolittoral and existed even in transition zone of the ungrazed transects. In grazed transects Agrostis stolonifera and Eleocharis uniglumis dominated the hydrolittoral. The lower geolittoral was dominated by perennial graminoids. In the middle and upper geolittoral, forbs were more frequent and abundant. In the grazed seashore transects, the lower geolittoral was dominated by Juncus gerardii, while in the ungrazed transects Calamagrostis stricta, Agrostis stolonifera and Juncus gerardii formed the zone together with Phragmites australis. The transition zone in the grazed transects was a narrow drift wall, in the ungrazed transects, however, it was much broader and dominated by tall growing plants. On fine-grained substrate, the epilittoral was dominated by Agrostis capillaris, Carex nigra and Deschampsia cespitosa and on till by Deschampsia flexuosa and Galium verum.
23726436|Hymenodon reggaeus Kartt. & S. Bck is described as new, and distinguished from the southern Brazilian H. aeruginosus (Hook. f. & Wils.) C. Mll. It occurs in Jamaica, Cuba, and in the Dominican Republic. H. sericeus (Dozy & Molk.) C. Mll. and H. tenellus Broth. & Par. are reduced to subspecies of H. pilifer Hook. f. & Wils. Other species of Hymenodon are also evaluated, and the genus is divided into two sections: sect. Hymenodon and sect. Polystichella.
23726967|Six new taxa are described and illustrated from Turkey as new to science: Arenaria yunus-emrei Ayta & H. Duman, A. mcneillii Ayta & H. Duman, Minuartia dianthifolia (Boiss.) Hand.-Mazz. subsp. elmalia Ayta, Dianthus crinitus Sm. var. argaeus Ayta & H. Duman, Bolanthus mevlanaea Ayta, and Silene caramanica Boiss. & Heldr. var. ilarslani Ayta & Dural. Their taxonomic positions are discussed and they are compared with the closely related taxa.
43922099|The type specimen of Bryomnium solitarium Card, actually belongs to Tayloria subgen. Orthodon. A new combination, Tayloria solitaria (Card.) Kop. & W. A. Weber, is introduced. There are five other African species of Tayloria: T. isleana (Besch.) Broth., T. jamesonii (Tayl.) C. Mll., T. kilimandscharica Broth., T. orthodonta (P. Beauv.) Demar. and T. thomeana (Broth.) Broth. A key for the African species of Tayloria is given and their diagnostic characters are discussed and figured. The taxonomic status of T. bequaertii Thr. & Naveau, T. boryana var. brevipes Thr., T. cameruniae (Dus.) Broth., T. pobeguinii Broth. & Par., T. imerinensis Card, and T. subintegra Demar. & P. Varde is evaluated. A preliminary report on the taxonomy and distribution of Tayloria subgen. Orthodon is given.
23725194|In 19771979 the total plant biomass and production were studied in three raised bog sites in Lammi, southern Finland: 1) virgin ombrotrophic hummock and hollow pine bog, 2) a drained part of the same bog (drainage in 1966), and 3) a drained and fertilized part of the same bog (N, P and K applied in 1970). The total biomass of the virgin site was 1170 g m-2, the proportion of the above-ground biomass being 61 %. Trees and shrubs contributed ca. 40 % of the total biomass, 40 % was contributed by the field layer and the remaining 20 % by the ground layer. The ground layer was very productive, accounting for 35 % of the total annual production (377 g m-2), but the field layer contributed 54 %. After drainage the total biomass decreased by 8 %, due to decrease of the ground layer biomass. The total biomass of the trees and the above-ground biomass of the field layer were slightly greater than in the virgin bog. The total annual production was 56 % of that in the virgin bog, the difference being mainly due to the lower ground layer production. Nine years after application of fertilizer the total biomass was slightly more than twofold (2580 g m-2) and the total annual production a little less than twofold (619 g m-2) that in the virgin bog. The contributions of the vegetation layers had changed; trees and shrubs made up 65 %, the field layer 32 % and the ground layer only 3 % of the total biomass. The corresponding values for the total annual production were 46, 51 and 3 %. Although the biomass and annual production of trees and shrubs had increased markedly in the fertilized bog, their distribution between the different parts of the trees had not changed much. The above-ground stems made up 25 % of the total tree biomass in the virgin site and 28 % in the fertilized site. The corresponding figures for the annual production were 15 and 16 %. This, together with the need for regular cleaning of the ditches and reapplication of fertilizer (ditches deteriorating and effect of fertilizer declining) indicates that this kind of ombrotrophic site does not repay attempts at forest amelioration.
43922329|The effect on mushroom yields of fertilization with urea, saltpetre and crude phosphate was studied in 19731975 in heath forests in northern Finland. Urea increased the yield for a short time, particularly in the poor forests types. The mushroom yields in the saltpetre and saltpetre + phosphate study plots frequently remained below the yields for the control plots, though Lactarius rufus and Paxillus involutus appeared to benefit from fertilizer.
23724161|Chaerophyllum bulbosum ssp. bulbosum has been collected as a naturalized plant only in the cities of Helsinki and Turku. Ssp. prescottii is widely distributed and well established in N. Finland, with scattered casual localities in the south. It seems to be exclusively an old weed of Russian origin, rather than indigenous.
23727797|The genetic diversity within and among 17 populations of Carex loliacea from Estonia, Finland, Sweden, Poland and southcentral Alaska was evaluated by isozyme analysis. An extremely low allozyme variation was found. Fourteen populations were monomorphic at all 18 isozymes. Only three Estonian populations studied showed limited variation of one isozyme, malate dehydrogenase MDH-A, with two allozymes. Almost all allozyme variation was observed as homozygous variants. Of 400 individuals analyzed, only six revealed heterozygous morphs. The high level of inbreeding (F = 0.91) clearly shows that C. loliacea is a predominantly selfing species. The variation of MDH-A showed some geographic distribution. Finnish, Swedish and Alaskan populations form one group, and Polish and Estonian populations form another. The pattern of intraspecific geographic differentiation may reflect the postglacial recolonization routes.
23728264|The name Senecio arnautorum Velen. is lectotypified with a herbarium specimen kept at PR. In most taxonomic works the taxon was considered synonymous with Senecio pancicii Degen or treated at infraspecific rank under the latter species. Careful examination of Velenovsk's material revealed that S. arnautorum differs from S. pancicii and is identical to Jacobaea subalpina (W.D.J. Koch) Pelser & Veldk. (Senecio subalpinus W.D.J. Koch).
23726261|Karyological and distributional data about Cardamine amara L. (Brassicaceae) in Bulgaria and Greece, together with the description of a new subspecies and a short review of the history of taxonomic treatment of this species in the area studied is presented. Cardamine amara subsp. balcanica Marhold, Anev & Kit Tan, distributed in SW Bulgaria and NE Greece, is characterised by a densely hairy stem and (15) 1734 (37) cauline leaves with (2) 34 (5) pairs of lateral leaflets.
23727841|Elatostema cataractum L.D. Duan & Q. Lin (Urticaceae), a new species from Libo county, Guizhou province, China, is described and illustrated. The relationship among this species and its morphological siblings are discussed.
23727131|A new species of Myriophyllum from southern China, M. exasperatum D. Wang, D. Yu & Z.Y. Li, is described and illustrated. Features that distinguish the new species are: stems robust, submerged leaves pectinate with 913 filiform pinnae; floral bracts mostly spathulate, with 24 short teeth on each margin in distal half and obtuse tips; bracteoles simple, broadly lanceolate to ovate, with 46 short teeth on each margin and acute tips; flowers uniformly hermaphrodite, sepals orbicular 0.10.2 mm long and wide, petals spreading but not recurved-circinate 1.51.8 mm long, stamens 8, anthers truncate 1.31.4 mm long; and fruits quadrangular, 1.81.9 mm long and 1.92.0 mm wide, each mericarp laterally flattened with a sharp longitudinally ridge on dorsal surface, finely tuberculate on both ridges and furrows. The new species is most similar to M. tuberculatum from India, Pakistan and Malaysia, to a lesser extent to both M. muricatum from Australia and New Zealand, and M. indicum from Ceylon and south Deccan.
23727281|The endemic Turkish taxon Linum mucronatum Bertol. subsp. gypsicola P.H. Davis var. papilliferum (Hub.-Mor. & Reese) P.H. Davis is transferred to the endemic species L. pamphylicum Boiss. & Heldr. ex Planch. as L. pamphylicum subsp. papilliferum (Hub.-Mor. & Reese) Ylmaz & Kaynak comb. & stat. nov. It is characterised by flowering stems with scabrid ridges, spathulate basal leaves and linear or linear-oblanceolate, papillose or puberulent cauline leaves.
23725464|The typological method of W. Troll and F. Weberling is applied to a few further examples of the inflorescence structure encountered in the family Cyperaceae. The new examples include representatives from groups III (Becquerelia cymosa) and IV (Coleochloa setifera), as defined by L. T. Eiten, but attention is focused on the variation in parts of the inflorescences and on the terms applied in the descriptions. The inflorescence structure of Blysmus compressus is reconsidered; it is confirmed that a flower may also occur in the axil of a bract, and pointed out that the most distal flowers may be functionally pistillate. Sympodial branching, claimed by early and also later authors to occur in the tribe Rhynchosporeae, is discussed in connection with the inflorescence structure of Schoenus ferrugineus. The inflorescence of Rhynchospora brownii is characterized by repeated branching, in which feature it differs from R. fusca, discussed previously. The structures encountered in Coleochloa setifera and Becquerelia cymosa add to the range of variation observed by the author so far. Finally, the mode of branching is discussed, and the terms bract, prophyll and glume are reconsidered and defined.
23728012|Corydalis meyori Lidn, R. Mili & B. Saikia (sect. Trachycarpae) and C. pterygopetala subsp. macrocarpa Lidn, R. Mili & B. Saikia (sect. Davidianae) are described as new to science. Both were collected close to Myanmar (Burma) in East Arunachal Pradesh, an area whose flora is almost unknown.
23728142|Primulina fengshanensis Fang Wen & Yue Wang, a new species of Gesneriaceae from Guangxi, is described and illustrated. The new species is compared with the similar P. linearifolia and P. longgangensis.
23726620|We have built a reliable ring-width chronology of Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) in northern Lapland, starting from the year 50 AD and covering the last two millennia. The chronology is built from 68 living trees and 274 dead trees, collected between 6870 N and 2130E. The bulk of the data from dead trees has been published previously. In these earlier works the chronology was built without standardizing the series. We have now rebuilt the chronology using proper analytical tools. Thus the interpretations have also been revised. Periods of enhanced and suppressed pine growth in the northern timberline region during the last two millennia are presented. A comparison is also made between the northern chronology and a millennial chronology from southeastern Finland. Moreover we apply means of measuring the strength of the common 'signal' in tree-ring chronologies and chronology reliability as a function of time.
23725411|Since deposition of sulphur is decreasing and deposition of nitrogen and some other potential plant nutrients is increasing, it is possible that epiphytic lichens, mainly Hypogymnia physodes, are currently on the increase or may increase in future in the background areas in Finland. Tests for a possible increase were made using a local pollution gradient in a pure area around a fertilizer factory in Finland. A dome model defining a unimodal trend surface for lichen abundance was found to be applicable. An alternative model, which would define a crater-like trend surface with the pollution source in the centre was inadequate. The top of the dome was estimated to be ca. 8.2 km NNE of the factory. The confidence region for the location of the top of the dome was evaluated by a quasi-deviance profile method. It excluded the factory and associated apatite strip mine, but included one of the dumping sites for wastes from quarrying and processing. As the lichen biomasses varied greatly between adjacent sites, local small-scale factors were probably important. Possible reasons for an increase of lichens were considered and it was concluded that it could be caused by slightly elevated nitrogen concentrations in precipitation or changes in the condition of the trees. Although these factors were operating in the study area, no conclusive evidence of a lichen increase was obtained.
23728013|Aristolochia mulunensis Y.S. Huang & Yan Liu, a new species of Aristolochiaceae from Guangxi, China, is described and illustrated. It is similar to A. kwangsiensis, but differs from it by its calyx limb that is discoid-orbicular, nearly quadrilateral, and has an entire margin; by its protuberance that is adaxially densely verrucose, abaxially purple; and by its purple throat, plus 3-lobed gynostemium with mammillate lobes and a glabrous margin.
23726165|The phytoplankton composition, pigments and biomasses in a pond warmed by cooling water were studied in central Finland. The pond was covered by ice for only 8 weeks in winter 19781979, whereas the normal ice-covered period in this region is 5 months. The spring maximum of phytoplankton started as early as February, when the remains of the thin ice cover disappeared and the incident subsurface radiation available for photosynthesis had increased to ca. 100 J cm-2 d-1 (23 cal cm-2 d-1). The growth rate maximum was observed in late February for many species (' = 0.06 - 0.21 d-1) and also for the total biomass (' = 0.17 d-1). Green algae, mainly chlorococcals, were the dominant group according to the number of species (on average 49% of the total number). Other typical groups were chrysophytes (mainly diatoms; avg. 23 % of species) and euglenophytes (avg. 14 % of species). Cryptomonads sometimes formed a dominant proportion of the biomass. The biomass maxima of the various algal groups occurred earlier than in normal ice-covered ponds: the maxima of volvocals, diatoms (mainly Asterionella gracillima) and cryptomonads occurred in March, the maximum of chlorococcals in April and May, and the maximum of chrysophytes and the second maximum of cryptomonads in May. From midwinter till March the factor controlling phytoplankton growth was light; in April it was nutrients. Later in spring the phytoplankton was regulated by a complex of factors, including nutrients, temperature and turbulence.
23726496|Significantly more fungal species colonized leaves in summer, spring and autumn during the first week of submersion than in winter. Higher amounts of dry leaf mass were lost in summer, spring and autumn than in winter. Rapid loss of dry mass was accompanied by rapid development of a fungal community. Colonization and sporulation rates varied with each fungal species. Maximum frequency of occurrence of fungal species were reached earlier (34 weeks) in summer and spring communities than in communities of autumn (4 weeks) and winter (6 weeks). More conidia were produced per milligram plant material in winter and autumn than in summer and spring. Flagellospora curvula dominated the communities in autumn, winter and spring while Lunulospora curvula dominated the summer community. The occurrence of rich fungal communities on leaves in four seasons is due to the availability of deciduous substrata contributed by the riparian vegetation, supplemented with seasonal addition of wheat and rice straw and enrichment of the canal water with phosphates and nitrates washed down from the bordering fields.
23724994|An amended description of Phellinus tremulae (Bond.) Bond. & Borisov is given, covering its morphology, anatomy, and cultural characters. P. tremulae is readily distinguished from Phellinus igniarius (L. ex Fr.) Qul. by its parallel tramal hyphae and slower growing, sweet-smelling cultures. The parallel orientation and septation of the hyphae and the structure of the basidia and basidioles, which form a hymenium of the honeycomb type, were studied by scanning electron microscopy. A detailed account is given of the distribution in North Europe, and the world distribution is outlined. The species is rare in southernmost Sweden, but common elsewhere in Fennoscandia, including the coastal regions, though it is absent from maritime areas in the other parts of Europe. A lectotype is selected for P. tremulae (Fomes igniarius f. tremulae Bondarcev). Fomes igniarius var. populinus (Neuman) Campbell is regarded as conspecific with it. Fomes arctostaphyli Long and Polyporus novae-angliae Berk. & Curt. are excluded from the P. igniarius group.
23727596|A lectotype for Hieracium diaphanum Fr. (1819) is designated and it is compared with similar species from southern Sweden, i.e. H. pseudodiaphanum (Dahlst.) Johanss., H. jonsbergense T. Tyler, H. hemidiaphanum (Dahlst.) Brenner, H. dalicum Johanss. and H. subglaucovirens Zahn ex Johanss. & Sam. It is concluded that the name H. diaphanum (s. stricto) does belong to a very rare species hitherto only known from two sites in the province of Smland (S Sweden) whereas the correct name for the most widespread Nordic species of this group is H. pseudodiaphanum (Dahlst.) Johanss.
43922169|A new species, Tayloria rubicaulis A. Kop., is described. Its costa and stem are markedly red as in T. octoblepharwn (Hook.) Mitt, and in T. scabriseta (Hook.) Mitt., but it differs from these species in both gametophytic and sporophytic characters. T. rubicaulis has been found in the Andes of Colombia and Venezuela at high elevations on soil or mixed with other mosses.
23726671|The fine-scale genetic structure in a hybrid population (35  55-m area) between the herbaceous perennials Aconitum japonicum Thunb. ex Murray subsp. napiforme (Lv. & Vaniot) and A. jaluense Komarov (Ranunculaceae) was analyzed using spatial autocorrelation statistics. Although individuals of the population have protandrous flowers, the population is highly structured. Individual genotypes exhibited significant spatial autocorrelation on a scale of 4 m due to the limited seed and pollen dispersal, which is consistent with a neighborhood size of about 25. Such neighborhood sizes are about one-fourth of the entire population.
23728194|A new species Aspidistra nankunshanensis Yan Liu & C.R. Lin (Asparagaceae) from Guangdong province, China, is described and illustrated. It resembles A. punctatoides in the shape and size of the flowers, but differs in its adaxially yellow perianth, yellow pistil, and stigma upper surface with four inconspicuous radial lines in the center.
23724958|The vegetation of frost ground sites (bare mineral soil areas) occurring in the northern parts of eastern Lapland is illustrated by quadrat analyses and transect charts. Four types of frost ground site are distinguished on the basis of the topography and the vegetation. The pH, conductivity, and chemical and physical properties of flat moist frost ground sites are examined for the purpose of explaining the occurrence of basophilous plants. A survey is made of the distribution of frost phenomena in the coniferous regions of Fennoscandia. A meadow type is described which is dominated by Molinia coerulea and connected with frost phenomena in the district of Raututunturit  Saariselk. Attention is paid to the significance of frost phenomena and surface seepage for plant distribution.
23724654|Scapania kaurinii is reported as new for Finland. This oroarctic and, according to present knowledge, northern amphi-Atlantic species has been collected several times in Finland in the last 15 years, mostly in the Cambro-Silurian fjelds of northernmost Enonteki Lapland, but also once in the area of pre-Cambrian rocks. At least in Finland the species does not appear to prefer calcareous sites. Perianths commonly occur in Finnish material. The distribution of the species in NW. Europe is mapped on the basis of 102 studied samples.
43922184|Descriptive terms applied in a treatment of the family Cyperaceae for Flora Iranica are defined. Special emphasis is laid on the terms of the inflorescences and flowers. The common practice of using the terms of determinate inflorescences, e.g. anthela, panicle, umbel, for cyperaceous plants is discouraged.
23725158|A generic rearrangement and preliminary conspectus of the species included in the genera Calliergon (Sull.) Kindb., Drepanocladus (C. Mll.) G. Roth, Limprichtia Loeske, Loeskypnum Paul, Sanionia Loeske, Sarmentypnum Tuom. & T. Kop., gen. nov., Scorpidium (Schimp.) Limpr. and Warnstorfia Loeske is presented. In the new scheme (35 species) special emphasis is given to the characters of rhizoid topography and the type of branching of the stem. A naturally delimited group of genera (subfamily Galliergonoideae Kanda, emend.) consists of Warnstorfia, Calliergon, Sarmentypnum and Loeskypnum. A second main group (subfamily Drepanocladoideae Kanda, emend.) comprises the genera Scorpidium, Limprichtia, Drepanocladus s.str. and Sanionia. The genera Acrocladium Mitt. and Calliergonella Loeske are removed from this group being probably referable to other families. Neither is the genus Calliergidium Grout recognized. New nomenclatural combinations: Calliergon subg. Straminea (C. Jens.) Tuom. & T. Kop, stat. & comb..nov., Sarmentypnum sarmentosum (Wahlenb.) Tuom. & T. Kop., Scorpidium lapponicum (Norrl.) Tuom. & T. Kop., Warnstorfia pseudostraminea (C. Mll.) Tuom. & T. Kop., Warnstorfia exannulata (B.S.G.) Loeske var. purpurascens (Schimp.) Tuom. & T. Kop., Warnstorfia pseudosarmentosa (Card. & Thr.) Tuom. & T. Kop., Warnstorfia trichophylla (Warnst.) Tuom. & T. Kop.  Drepanocladus simplicissimus Warnst. is recognized as a distinct species, with Calliergidium bakeri (Ren.) Grout as a synonym. Calliergonella conardii Lawt. is included in Fontinalis hypnoides Hartm.
23724303|Quantitative analyses of protein, crude fibre, ash, phosphorus, sulphur, boron, manganese, calcium, magnesium, potassium and sodium have been performed in 45 Norwegian lichen species. The results show that most of the species contain little protein. The species Xanthoria parietina, Anaptychia fusca, Lobaria pulmonaria and L. scrobiculata are exceptional in containing relatively large amounts of protein. Species of the genera Cladonia, Xanthoria, Anaptychia, Ochrolechia, Siphula, Stereocaulon, Lobaria and Parmeliopsis show a very high crude fibre content. The high manganese content in the species Usnea longissima, U. dasypoga, Evernia prunastri and Cladonia deformis is remarkable. The results of the analyses are in accord with values that other scientists have found in lichens from Canada, Finland and Russia.
43922206|Seeds of the polycarpic perennial Lychnis flos-cuculi L. (Caryophyllaceae) buried in soil were exhumed and tested for germinability in light and darkness over a 25-month period. The viability of buried seeds of this wet-grassland plant decreased only slightly during the 25-month burial period, showing that L. flos-cuculi has the potential to accumulate a persistent soil seed bank. Exhumed seeds germinated to 94-100% in light, throughout the study. In darkness, however, the germinability showed an annual cyclicity; 60-100% of the seeds germinated in the winter and spring while ca. 20% germinated in the summer. Induction of a secondary dark-dormancy in seeds in the summer could partly explain why this species forms a persistent seed bank.
23728010|Impatiens unguiculata K. M. Liu & Y. Y. Cong, sp. nova (Balsaminaceae), is described and illustrated. It was found in moist places along rivers in the Yaluzangbu Grand Valley Nature Reserve in Xizang, China. Diagnostic morphological characteristics that distinguish I. unguiculata from the morphologically similar I. drepanophora are discussed.
23726867|Four examples from Mediterranean Spain are used to show that records of non-pollen palynomorphs (algal and fungal spores and cysts, charophytes and other microfossils of unknown biological origin) are worthwhile in addition to pollen analysis for studies of palaeoecological reconstruction. In the lacustrine sequence of Caada de la Cruz, the stratigraphy of palaeolimnological indicators is compatible with climatic control of vegetation stages at the response scales of decades to centuries. The sequence of Navarrs provides evidence of millennial-scale change in the trophic conditions of a peat-forming basin, which parallels local and vegetation changes since the last glacial to the Holocene under the influence of fire events, climate change and human activity. The sequence of Villaverde shows out-of-phase relationships of vegetational and limnological developments. The sequence of San Rafael offers an example of synchronous variation of xerophytic pollen and microfossils indicative of temporary marsh desiccation, in concordance with regional evidence of aridification since the mid-Holocene.
23724625|Descriptions of pollen grains of the genus Hippopha are given on the basis of light microscopic studies and compared with the results obtained with scanning electron micrographs. Besides the grains of the previously known taxa, viz. H. rhamnoides L. ssp. rhamnoides, ssp. fluviatilis v. Soest, H. salicifolia Don, and H. tibetana Schlecht., the grains of seven new subspecies of H. rhamnoides, recognized by Rousi (in Ann. Bot. Fennici 8, 1971), are also described: H. rhamnoides L. ssp. carpatica Rousi, ssp. caucasica Rousi, ssp. turkestanica Rousi, ssp. mongolica Rousi, ssp. sinensis Rousi, ssp. yunnanensis Rousi, and ssp. gyantsensis Rousi. Although no diagnostically useful morphological differences could be noted in the exine relief of the pollen grains, some statistical features of the grains investigated were found to support the new division of H. rhamnoides presented by Rousi.
23724275|1. The distribution of Rhodobryum roseum in Finland and adjacent districts was mapped by Linkola's frequency method (Fig. 2). The map was compared with Kujala's line survey map (Fig. 1). 2. Rhodobryum is a member of the flora of grass-herb forests. In the northernmost part of the country it is obviously more demanding than in the southern part. 3. Rhodobryum is distributed all over Finland, but in the northern half of the country and in places in the south, too, it is rare. Its distribution is primarily dependent on eutrophic conditions. The areas where it is of frequent occurrence coincide with the areas with fertile soils, and it is rarer in less fertile districts. 4. The line survey and frequency methods give similar pictures of the distribution and frequency relations of Rhodobryum in the southern part of Finland. In the northern part of Finland, on the contrary, the line survey method gave practically no records, even from the districts where Rhodobryum is locally scattered or frequent. 5. Linkola's frequency method is easier to use than the line survey method and it would give rather good results providing that there were sufficiently abundant studies on local moss floras.
23725279|A comparison was made between both percentage and pollen influx diagrams of the raised bog Varrassuo and the adjoining lake, Tytjrvi, on Salpausselk west of Lahti with the help of a number of radiocarbon dates. In addition, the diatoms and Cladocera were studied in the lake deposits. The peats in Varrassuo and the muds in Tytjrvi represent almost the whole Flandrian history. The dating of the rational limits for Pinus, Alnus and Picea gave almost identical results from both profiles, being about 89009000 B.P., 8600 B.P. and 4200 B.P. respectively. The rate of sedimentation in the lake was rather uniform but the diatoms and Cladocera show that the lake level was low until about 8000 B.P. and then rose. At the beginning of the Subatlantic Chronozone eutrophication of the lake started, probably at least partly as a result of the activities of the Iron Age settlement in the area. Varrassuo started as a minerotrophic mire but ombrotrophic peat started to form at about 8000 B.P. at a relatively dry phase. Later the rate of peat growth increased but was interrupted by retardations or standstills in peat growth. The pollen diagrams from Tytjrvi are more suitable for studies of the vegetational history than those from Varrassuo where there is a strong influence from the local vegetation as well as fluctuations in pollen concentration.
23727887|Hieracium renatae Szelg (Asteraceae), distinguished by its glabrous involucral bracts, is described from the alpine belt of the Jakupica Mountains in Macedonia. It is the first known diploid in Hieracium sect. Naegeliana.
23727944|Trigonella coerulescens (Bieb.) Hal. subsp. kemerensis R.S. Gktrk subsp. nova (Fabaceae) is described from SW Anatolia, Turkey and illustrated. It grows on sandy seashores in Olimpos-ral (Kemer) and Adrasan (Kumluca) beaches. It is closely related to subsp. coerulescens, an endemic taxon confined to Olimpos-Beydalar National Park. Diagnostic morphological characters of subsp. kemerensis and subsp. coerulescens are discussed.
23726316|Three new species, Schoenoplectus rechingeri Kukkonen, Cyperus celans Kukkonen, and C. eremicus, and one new subspecies, Eleocharis palustris (L.) Roem. & Schultes subsp. iranica Kukkonen, are described. Five new combinations, Blysmus compressus (L.) Panzer ex Link subsp. brevifolius (Decne.) Kukkonen, Cyperus conglomeratus Rottb. subsp. curvulus (Boeck.) Kukkonen, C. odoratus L. subsp. transcaucasicus (Palla) Kukkonen, Cyperus subg. Micheliani (C. B. Clarke) Kukkonen and Kyllinga sect. Brevifolii (Kk.) Kukkonen are made. Cyperus subg. Diclidium (Schrad.) C. B. Clarke and Cyperus sect. Arenarii (Boeck.) Jaub. & Spach are discussed. The name Cyperus conglomeratus subsp. curvulus is lectotypified.
23727623|A new species of Gesneriaceae, Ancylostemon hekouensis Y.M. Shui & W.H. Chen, is described and illustrated from Yunnanm China. The new species is similar to A. notochlaenus (H. Lveill & Vaniot) Craib in the leaves and flower shape, but differs by its longer calyx lobes and longer corolla lobes.
23725456|Fossil fungi of the form genus Notothyrites Cookson ( Ascomycetes: Microthyriales) are reported in gyttja underlying glacial till at Tervola, northern Finland. Although secondary in the Tervola deposit, they are presumably of either interglacial or Tertiary origin.
23727948|Salvia marashica A. lim, F. Celep & Doan sp. nova (Lamiaceae) is described from Turkey and illustrated. It is confined to C6 Kahramanmara in South Anatolia where it flowers early in the year and grows on rocky mountain slopes. The diagnostic morphological characteristics from closely similar species are discussed. Notes are also presented on its ecology and pollen characteristics along with scanning electron micrographs of the calyx hairs. A distribution map of the new and the similar species is also provided.
23727939|Species-rich alvar forests represent a rare vegetation type in northern Europe. They grow locally on shallow soils formed on calcareous parent material. The aim of this study was to compare cryptogam species richness and composition on various substrata in alvar forests of different age and management rate. Altogether 101 bryophyte and 54 lichen species were recorded. Substratum explained species variance more than did the stand age or management intensity. Younger and older forests had a different bryophyte and lichen species composition. Decaying wood was the richest as cryptogam species substratum. It had quite a unique bryophyte composition, including a high amount of hepatics. Juniperus communis appeared to be an important substratum for cryptogam species diversity in alvar forests. Bryophyte species composition appeared to be similar on the bases of Pinus sylvestris, Betula pendula and Picea abies and different on J. communis. Most of the recorded threatened bryophyte species grew in old subnatural forests on stones or decaying wood.
23726494|A new species is described from South Anatolia: Cephalaria ekimiana R. S. Gktrk & H. Smbl (Dipsacaceae). The closest species to this one is Cephalaria lycica Matthews. The main features that differentiate Cephalaria ekimiana from C. lycica are that all bracts are dark brown margined, the involucral bracts are orbicular and the involucel has eight equal or subequal teeth (not 4 long and 4 short teeth) and the stem is much taller.
23727631|Corydalis panda M. Lidn & Y.W. Wang (Fumariaceae) is described as a new species and compared with its relatives. It belongs to sect. Elatae according to the following characters: roots numerous, rhizome monopodial, often with a fleshy hibernation bud at the apex, and stigma subquadrangular with four apical papillae and two lateral pairs on each side.
23726143|Four Finnish barley cultivars (Hordeum vulgare L. cvs. Hankkija-673, Pokko, Kustaa, and No. 59) and Carex rostrata Stokes were grown in sand culture in flooded conditions. When the flooding had lasted 0, 5, 10 and 15 days, root samples were taken for measurements of alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6-PDH) activity, and leaves for chlorophyll determinations. In all the barley cultivars the ADH activity was higher in the flooded plants than in the controls. In C. rostrata no changes occurred in ADH activity. The G6-PDH activity remained at the same level in the barley cultivars throughout the flooding period. The flooded barley seedlings rapidly developed chlorosis; in contrast the chlorophyll content of the oldest leaves of C. rostrata increased somewhat during the experiment in both the flooded and control plants. The results agree with Crawford's metabolic theory on flooding tolerance. The reasons for chlorosis in the leaves and flooding injury in the roots are discussed.
23728024|This study provides preliminary evidence of morphometric variation within and among species of the Antirrhinum section Streptosepalum (Plantaginaceae) that allows further development of hypotheses concerning species boundaries. Multivariate statistical analyses of the measurements of ten morphological characters suggest that the Antirrhinum occurring on the serpentine outcrops in the province of Trs-os-Montes, NE Portugal, is a species different from A. braun-blanquetii and A. meonanthum. Its ecological preferences are also different. Antirrhinum rothmaleri (Pinto da Silva) Amich, Bernardos & Garca-Barriuso comb. & stat. nov. is described and illustrated. Notes on its distribution, ecology, karyology, and taxonomic relationships are presented. The diagnostic differences among A. rothmaleri, A. braun-blanquetii and A. meonanthum are provided.
23728136|Briggsia damingshanensis L. Wu & B. Pan is described and illustrated as a new species of Gesneriaceae from Guangxi, China. It is similar to B. dongxingensis, but differs in its densely glandular-pubescent ovary, inconspicuous or absent bracts, pendulous and very slender peduncle, and sparsely pubescent stem and petiole.
23728085|Ochyrella ortiziana Szlach., Lamczyk & Baranow sp. nova (Orchidaceae, Spiranthoideae) is described and illustrated from Colombia, implying the first record of the genus for the country. Notes concerning the morphologically closest siblings of O. ortiziana are provided. A key for determination of all species in the genus is presented.
23728023|Stachys vuralii Yldz, Dirmenci & Akiek (Lamiaceae), a new species of the section Eriostomum is described from north Anatolia, Turkey. Detailed illustrations and taxonomic comments are provided along with a table listing the differential characters to the closely related S. byzantina and S. thirkei. Delimitations towards S. byzantina and S. thirkei and existence of putative hybrids are discussed. A phylogenetic analysis using ITS of nuclear ribosomal DNA confirmed the status of S. vuralii as a distinct species. The geographical location of S. vuralii is also presented.
23728260|We assessed genetic diversity and structure in the outcrossing orchid Goodyera rosulacea, endemic to limestone regions in Korea. Using allozymes as genetic markers, standard genetic diversity measures within and among populations as well as genetic structure were estimated. In addition, a regression analysis between pairwise genetic and geographical distances and correlation analyses between population sizes and estimates of genetic variation within populations were conducted to gain insights into the past evolutionary processes. Moderate levels of genetic variation were found in the species (%Ps = 31.6%, As = 1.37, Hes = 0.126); at the population level, slightly lower levels were estimated (%Pp = 27.8%, Ap = 1.31, Hep = 0.100). Overall fixation index was not significantly different from zero (FIS = 0.160). As compared with that in most terrestrial orchids, the measure of genetic differentiation among populations was also moderate (FST = 0.150). At the regional scale, a weak linear regression between pairwise genetic and geographical distances was found, suggesting that populations are not at equilibrium between gene flow and genetic drift (i.e., little evidence of isolation-by-distance effect). A significant correlation between population size and mean number of alleles per locus was detected (p = 0.006). These results suggest that genetic drift, coupled with limited seed dispersal, has played an increasing role in the genetic dynamics of small populations, though outcrossing breeding system might have in part counterbalanced against these negative effects. Threats to the species are considered to be anthropogenic. In situ and ex situ conservation strategies are suggested to preserve the genetic variation in the rare G. rosulacea.
23725717|Three species of the genus Cladonia Hill ex Browne sect. Helopodium (Ach.) Stenr., comb. nova, two of sect. Perviae (Fries) Mattick and sixteen of sect. Cladonia are recognized from Melanesia. Eleven species are reported for the first time from the area. Sixteen earlier reported species are excluded from the flora of the region. C. melanocaulis Stenr., sp. nova is described from Papua New Guinea. A new combination is C. phyllopoda (Vainio) Stenr. The epithets reduced to synonymy include C. novoguineensis Zahlbr. (=C. corymbescens), C. squamosissima (Mll. Arg.) Ahti (=C. fenestralis), C. subpityrea Sandst. (=C. fruticulosa), C. malayana Nuno (=C. fruticulosa) and C. degenerans var. ramosa Nyl. (=C. poeciloclada). A lectotype is selected for C. crispata (Ach.) Flotow, C. corymbescens Nyl. ex Leighton and C. degenerans var. ramosa Nyl. A key to the species is presented and the major phenolic compounds of each taxon are reported.
23726797|The chromosome numbers of five collections of Viola riviniana (Violaceae) from South Finland were examined from mitoses in root tip cells. The collections consist of one plant each and originate from five different localities. The plants were subjected to cytological study as they appeared slightly deviating from typical V. riviniana (mostly 2n = 40) by possessing some traits (fairly pale, narrow petals and short calyx appendages) reminding of the closely related V. reichenbachiana (2n = 20). Four of the plants unexpectedly turned out to have 2n = 30 while one had the expected number 2n = 40. 2n = 30 is an unknown somatic number at least in this group of violets but would suggest F1 generation hybrids between V. reichenbachiana and V. riviniana. However, (i) the 2n = 30 plants of the present study are fertile though the hybrid mentioned is known to be highly infertile, (ii) their stipules are not intermediate (but of a kind of their own), and (iii) V. reichenbachiana is unknown in the study area. As a conclusion: the plants that deviate from typical V. riviniana both morphologically and cytologically may in some way result from hybridisation between V. reichenbachiana and V. riviniana or they may represent an unknown (almost) cryptic taxon. Previously, fertile plants of this group with 2n = 30 have once been reported from Germany; they were supposed to represent the hybrid between the two species mentioned. A mention is also made about the ploidy level of the 2n = 30 genome: according to current view it represents the triploid level but there is a possibility that the hexaploid level is concerned instead.
23728263|Verbascum turcicum B. Bani, Adgzel & Karavel. sp. nova (Scrophulariaceae), collected from B6 Adana province in South Anatolia, Turkey, is described and illustrated. The diagnostic morphological characters of the new species and the closely similar V. leianthoides and V. leiocarpum are discussed. A distribution map of V. turcicum and the two other species are provided.
23725442|The study comprises analyses of samples taken in 19731977 from a watercourse polluted by a sulphite cellulose factory, in central Finland. The quality of the water varied between the years, depending on the discharge of the watercourse and the degree of dilution of the factory effluents. In June the phytoplankton biomasses were less than 200 mg m-3 almost throughout the study area. In late summer (July and August) clear zonation was evident from the phytoplankton biomasses and communities: an inhibition zone extending 15 km downstream from the factories (biomasses < 200 mg m-3) was followed by a 10-km eutrophicated zone (biomasses 20005000 mg m-3). In areas only slightly affected by the effluents the biomasses were higher than in unpolluted waters, but the species composition was almost the same. Euglenophytes and colourless flagellates were typical of the most polluted area, while cryptomonads and in some summers also some species of diatoms and chrysomonadins were very abundant in the eutrophicated area. Blue-green algae were almost absent from the polluted waters. Near the factories the indices of Shannon diversity and evenness were high, but in the eutrophicated area, where only a few species were dominant, the indices were usually very low. The pollution zonation in the watercourse was also reflected in the measurements of primary productivity, the chlorophyll analyses and the microscopical biomass determinations.
23727198|Colocasia yunnanensis C.L. Long & X.Z. Cai sp. nova from China (Yunnan Province, Yingjiang County) is described and illustrated. Diagnostic morphological characters that distinguish it from the morphologically fairly similar C. bicolor are presented. The clearest differences are that C. yunnanensis permanently has leaves with 59 pairs of big purple spots, a sterile zone with white hairs in the inflorescence, and a spadix without appendix. Chromosome number (2n = 28) was observed in the plants cultivated in the Kunming Botanical Garden.
23725041|Pjrvi is a mesohumic, oligotrophic lake in Lammi and Koski communes, in southern Finland. Its ecosystem has been extensively studied since autumn 1970 in a long-term research project supported by the Academy of Finland. This ecological study covers all the trophic levels of the lake. Some basic characteristics of Pjrvi are presented in this paper, especially the hydrography and water chemistry and the morphology of the lake basin. The ecological studies in progress are also reviewed.
23727671|Onobrychis assadii Ranjbar, Tolui & Amirabadizadeh sp. nova (Fabaceae) from Iran is described and illustrated. It is confined to the northeastern part of Iran (Khorassan Province) and known from only single locality. The new species differs from the other Iranian Onobrychis species mainly by the glabrous pods.
23726686|The effects of different concentrations of various macroelements on growth and endogenous ABA (absisic acid) levels in root, stem, leaf and flower tissue of maize (Zea mays) were studied. Plants were cultivated in sand and supplied twice a week with a nutrient solution containing optimum, excessive or deficient concentrations of nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, calcium, magnesium, sulphur and iron. Plants were harvested at three different stages: vegetative (45 leaves), flowering, and fruiting. Fresh weight, leaf and stem size, leaf number and ABA concentrations differed remarkably between plants cultured in abnormal concentrations of macroelements compared to the controls. In general, deprivation of macroelements caused an increase in ABA levels. Deficiency of N, P, K, S and Fe in the nutrient solution resulted in marked increases in the levels of ABA extracted from root, leaf, stem and flower at the three developmental stages. Excessive concentrations of these macroelements resulted in a decrease in ABA levels in all parts of plants at all three stages as compared with their respective controls. ABA levels in roots, stems, and leaves were elevated from 3% to 159% in N, P, K, and S limited plants whereas the levels of ABA in these same organs were reduced from 1% to 98% in the presence of excessive levels of N, K, P and S.
23725638|The types of Sphagnum annulatum H. Lindb. ex Warnst., S. jensenii H. Lindb. and S. propinquum H. Lindb. ex Warnst. are described and the taxonomic status of the taxa designated by these names is re-evaluated. Sphagnum annulatum (in the wide sense including S. propinquum) and S. jensenii are found to differ at the species level. The crispate and pauciporose plants usually identified as S. annulatum (in the narrow sense and as typified) are considered to constitute occasional genetic aberrations in populations of S. annulatum (in the sense of S. propinquum), and scarcely deserve any formal taxonomic status. Sphagnum annulatum and S. jensenii are given amended descriptions, and interspecific relationships are discussed, including those of S. balticum (Russ.) C. Jens and S. majus (Russ.) C. Jens.
23725787|The paper reports the results of analyses for Ca, Mg, Fe, Mn, Zn, Pb and Cu made on Sphagnum samples collected from bog hummocks in Finland (40 sites), the adjacent USSR (1 site), Norway (5 sites), W Germany (2 sites) and Great Britain (4 sites). In the Finnish material of Sphagnum fuscum, the Pb, Fe and Zn concentrations were most distinctly elevated in the southern part of the country, while Ca and Mg generally showed higher levels in the north. Monitoring of S. fuscum in five southern Finnish bogs indicated decreasing concentrations of Pb, Fe and Zn during the late 1970s. Comparative analyses from other countries showed relatively high concentrations of Ca, Fe, Zn and Cu in a Sphagnum sample from Zelenogorsk (Leningrad region), elevated levels of Zn, Pb and Cu in Niedersachsen (N Germany), locally elevated Zn and Pb in Wales, a high Mg content in Norwegian and Scottish samples, and an apparent south-north decrease in Pb along coastal Norway. The metal levels in S. fuscum were consistently higher than in the Cladonia lichens growing in the same bog hummocks. Significant positive correlations between the concentrations in Sphagnum and Cladonia were found for all the metals studied, except Mn, which suggests that both lichens and mosses are suitable for monitoring atmospheric metal deposition.
23727272|The general aims of the current study were (i) to continue analyses of the aquatic macrophyte vegetation in the Estonian watercourses, (ii) to develop a classification of the plant communities of the watercourses connected with the two largest lakes in Estonia, Peipsi and Vrtsjrv, (iii) to distinguish the main ecological variables which determine the occurrence of the dominating species and discriminate between the community types and, (iv) to establish a classification of the river reaches (habitats) and to identify the parameters distinguishing them. The data were clustered into 29 vegetation types of which 23 were dominated by vascular plant species, while six clusters included communities of cryptogams. Total N content in water, river width, current velocity and riverbed material proved to be the variables separating the clusters most reliably. The river reaches clustered into three habitat types and were significantly separated by river width and riverbed substrate. In comparison with the drainage basin of the Gulf of Finland several differences arise between the composition of the vegetation types. Comparison of the physical environmental parameters significantly influencing the occurrence of dominating species in the two drainage basins reveals a clear discrepancy as well: bottom coverage with fine sediments and water turbidity are important for the species of the drainage basin of the Gulf of Finland, while the river width, character of the riverbed substrate, and current velocity are significant for the species of the PeipsiVrtsjrv drainage basin. The rivers of the PeipsiVrtsjrv drainage basin have much wider variation in width (5.222.1 m) than those of the Gulf of Finland drainage basin (8.116.1 m) and in the current study the width of the watercourses is the main parameter discriminating the habitat types. For both drainage basins, current velocity and bottom substrate are of equal significance. For the vegetation types of the Gulf of Finland drainage basin, water BOD5 also appeared to be important, while for the vegetation types of the PeipsiVrtsjrv drainage basin, instead of this parameter total N content in water played a significant role.
23725306|The usefulness of electric particle counting in studies of natural mixed phytoplankton populations was examined in two polyhumic, and one oligo-mesohumic lake. Total particle number (TPN), total particle volume (TPV) and particle-size distribution were determined on three dates in summer. In the oligo-mesohumic lake the TPN values were about 5-fold the phytoplankton cell numbers (PCN), but in the polyhumic lakes the TPN/PCN ratio varied greatly between samples. The correlation between TPV and phytoplankton total volume (PTV) was significant in the polyhumic lakes, however, though not in the oligo-mesohumic one. The mean PTV was ca. 60% of TPV in the polyhumic lakes, and 40% in the oligo-mesohumic lake. The general agreement of electronic particle counting with microscpic determinations was rather poor.
23726980|Anacyclus anatolicus L. Behet & S. Almanar from the city of Mu, E Anatolia, Turkey, is described as a new species, illustrated and compared with its presumed closest relatives A. nigellifolius, A. latealatus and A. clavatus.
23726694|Pseudoliparis section Oistochilus (Orchidaceae, Malaxidinae) is revised taxonomically. A new nomenclatural combination at the species level is proposed and a lectotype is designated for Pseudoliparis graminifolia (Schltr.) Szlach. & Marg.
23728061|Atraphaxis radkanensis Tavakkoli, Kaz. Osaloo & Mozaff. (Polygonaceae) is described and illustrated as a new species from NE Iran. Atraphaxis radkanensis is very similar to A. seravschanica, and both of them are placed in the section Tragopyrum. Atraphaxis radkanensis is characterized by oblong-ovate leaves, a puberulent indumentum on both surfaces of the leaves and twigs, a mostly terminal inflorescence, as well as by small-sized achenes.
23726508|Four species, Porella bolanderi (Aust.) Pears., P. cordaeana (Hb.) Moore, P. navicularis (Lehm. & Lindenb.) Lindb., and P. roellii Steph. (Hepaticae) occur in California. All of them except P. cordaeana are endemic to Western North America. Porella platyphylla (L.) Pfeiff. and P. platyphylloidea (Schwein.) Lindb. do not occur in California. A key to the species, table of characters, and illustrations, descriptions and distribution maps are provided for every species.
23725893|The volatiles of the setae, and the hypophysis with the capsule of Aplodon wormskioldii (Hornem.) Brown, Splachnum sphaericum Hedw. and S. vasculosum Hedw. were identified by using gas liquid chromatography and mass fragmentography techniques. Eight volatile octane derivatives and 10 volatile organic acids were identified from the hypophysis and capsule of Aplodon wormskioldii, Splachnum sphaericum and S. hypophysis In the setae of the same species no volatile octane derivatives and only several volatile organic acids were identified. The presumed role of the volatiles is to attract flies which carry the spores. Since in the setae of the same species no volatile octane derivatives were found they possibly are produced in the hypophysis.
23727934|Two new species, Rhododendron pudiense Xiang Chen & Jiayong Huang and R. jiulongshanense Xiang Chen & Jiayong Huang, and one new variety, R. delavayi var. adenostylum Xiang Chen & X. Chen (Ericaceae), from Guizhou Province, China are described and illustrated. Rhododendron pudiense is close to R. paradoxum and R. denudatum, from which it differs by having oblanceolate or elliptic leaves with a two-layered indumentum, a more floriferous inflorescence, a glandular and tomentose pedicel and calyx, a pinkish white corolla, fewer stamens, and a densely white shiny pubescent ovary. Rhododendron jiulongshanense differs from the most morphologically similar species R. glanduliferum and R. magniflorum by having usually glabrous branchlets, oblong-elliptic or long obovate leaves, a more floriferous inflorescence, a much smaller calyx, and a mid-sized narrowly tubular-campanulate corolla. Rhododendron delavayi var. adenostylum differs from R. delavayi var. delavayi by having a glandular style.
23724664|The taxonomy, distribution and ecology of the species of Plagiomnium sect. Rosulata are studied. In the taxonomic part the characters used in delimiting the species are discussed and figured. Analytic keys to the sections of Plagiomnium and to the species of the section Rosulata are given. A list of synonyms and a description are given for each of the seven species and the one subspecies, P. affine, P. tezukae, P. ciliare, P. elatum, P. insigne, P. medium ssp. medium and ssp. curvatulum, and P. rugicum. Type specimens are selected whenever original material is available. The taxonomy and phytogeography of the taxa are treated and distribution maps are given, the dot method being mostly employed. The ecology of the species is shortly discussed. Lists are given of exsiccate specimens seen and specimens studied (cf. p. 307). In conclusion, the interrelationships of the taxa are examined and their distribution patterns are discussed in connection with some hypotheses of the history of the circumpolar flora.
23724119|The aim of the study has been to elucidate the age and origin of the present vegetation types in Kuusamo. As the main objects, the spruce forests of thick moss type and the hill-slope fens were chosen whilst soil from the other forest types and from the orohemiarctic region of the fjelds (tunturit) was also examined. Special attention is given to the methodically interesting study of soil pollen. The analyses performed show that by this means a time span of approximately 400  500 years could be covered. Material from the soil of thick moss forests reveals that the spruce forests were generally of a better type before the spread of Finnish settlers into the area. The period of burning-over cultivation between about 1650  1850 A.D. has left its mark on the pollen diagrams. The spruce forests of to-day can be regarded as of relatively recent origin. Regarding the dry forest types, not many details of their history could be found out. There are, however, some signs of a moister period (tentatively correlated with the time of the Little Ice Age) to be seen in the lower parts of the pollen diagrams. The best forests of the grass-herb forest group proved an unrewarding object for this kind of study, as was, indeed, to be expected. The orohemiarctic vegetation, as seen to-day, was found to be of quite recent origin. In order to establish a minimum age for the podzolization process, some samples taken from the B horizon were dated by the C14 method. The results agreed well with those obtained earlier from Sweden. They did not, however, contribute much to the special problem they were intended to elucidate. The origin of the hill-slope fens was studied through three fen complexes chosen as examples. It was found that in Kuusamo the paludification process, in the form of topogenous fens, began on a large scale during the Lower Mesoholocene. The hill-slopes, however, did not generally become covered with peat until the Neoholocene period. C14 datings suggest that the Neoholocene in Kuusamo should not be divided into subphases but be treated as a single entity.
23728180|A specimen from the Linnaean Herbarium (no. 996.61, LINN) is designated as the lectotype of the name Senecio doria.
23728278|Raphiocarpus maguanensis Y.M. Shui & W.H. Chen, a new species of Gesneriaceae from Yunnan Province, China, is described and illustrated. The new species is compared to the fairly similar R. longipedunculatus.
23728134|Polystichum perpusillum L.B. Zhang & H. He, a new fern species of Polystichum sect. Haplopotystichum (Dryopteridaceae), is described and illustrated from the entrance to a karst cave in southern Guizhou, China. A phylogenetic analysis based on the chloroplast trnL-F sequences shows that it is phylogenetically isolated in the section with no close relatives. Morphologically, it is similar to P. minutissimum, but P. perpusillum has an acute lamina apex. up to 12 pairs of pinnae per lamina, and deltoid-ovate or ovate-lanceolate rachis scales, while P. minutissimum has a round lamina apex, 58 pairs of pinnae per lamina, and subulate or linear rachis scales. Polystichum perpusillum has a granulate sculpture with verrucae on its perispore, a sculpture rare in the genus. The species is considered to be critically endangered.
23725282|The following compounds were identified in concentrated extracts obtained from the sporophytes of some species of Splachnaceae: 1-octen-3-o1, 1-octen-3-one, 3-octanone, 3-octanol, 2-octen-1-o1, trans-2-octenal, octanal, octanol, acetic acid, propionic acid and butyric acid. Splachnum luteum Hedw. contains more volatiles than S. ampullaceum Hedw. and S. vasculosum Hedw. Tetraplodon mnioides (Hedw.) B.S.G. contains the same volatile compounds as Tayloria tenuis (With.) Schimp. and Splachnum vasculosum. Tayloria tenuis is richer in volatiles than T. lingulata (Dicks.) Lindb. The number and amounts of these compounds accord with the observations of entomophily in these mosses.
23726306|One new section, one new subsection, one new nothosection, and four new combinations at the sectional level are validated within Amaranthus L. (Amaranthaceae). The present state of infrageneric classification of the genus is discussed.
23725320|The primitive synflorescence of Kobresia laxa Nees (tribe Cariceae) possesses three basic types of branches, which can be identified by their nodes: compound bisexual branches, simple bisexual branches and female branches. The structure of the synflorescence can be described in detail by giving the order, ordinal number and type of each branch. It can be demonstrated by comparative morphology and anatomy that all the branches are homologous in their basal parts and that the compound bisexual branches cannot be divided into spikelet-like subunits. A reduction series from compound bisexual branches via simple bisexual branches to female branches is apparent. The female branches also tend to become reduced towards the peripheries. The extreme of this reduction is the female flower located directly in the axil of a glume-like bract, which is occasionally found above the female branches. This lends support to the opinion that the male flowers of the Cariceae are situated on a very reduced branch. Comparative studies of the vascular system did not, however, support the explanation that the male flower is a condensation of three unistaminate flowers. The hypogynous lateral hyaline scales found in most female flowers and the occasional abnormal bisexual-looking flowers support the conclusion that the flowers in the tribe Cariceae are derived from a true bisexual flower with a perianth.
23728249|Elatostema xanthotrichum W.T. Wang & Y.G. Wei sp. nova and E. bamaense W.T. Wang & Y.G. Wei sp. nova (Urticaceae) from Guangxi Province, China, are described and illustrated. Elatostema xanthotrichum most closely resembles E. rupestre but differs in its appressed, yellow-pubescent and 1-branched stems, auriculate leaf base at the broad side of the leaf, 5-paired secondary nerves, 68 staminate bracts, and obovate to spatulate-linear staminate bracteoles, which are ciliolate at apex. Elatostema bamaense most closely resembles E. nanchuanense but differs in its glabrous stems and leaves, narrowly lanceolate and non-corniculate pistillate bracts, and verruculose, non-ribbed achenes.
23726283|The diel pattern of the cell cycle of a population of Cryptomonas sp. in a hypereutrophic tarn in northwest England was studied using an epifluorescence microscope connected to a photometer. Also investigated were the growth and vertical distribution of the population and the main characteristics of the tarn. Throughout the period of study, in late spring, the population of Cryptomonas sp. was declining due to loss processes and impaired growth potential. However, the population had maintained the ability to migrate and showed a pattern of evening descent and morning ascent. In the depth profile, cells appeared capable of surviving in the anoxic hypolimnion. Microfluorometry and DAPI staining proved suitable for measurements of relative DNA contents of Cryptomonas cells in situ, but because of the peculiarities of this particular cell cycle, results could not be used for calculations of species-specific growth rate. Cells in all phases were found throughout the 24-hour sampling cycle, and most of the time the majority of cells were in S phase. The number of cells in the G2 + M phase was maximum at 19.30 GMT and 03.00 GMT, indicating that mitosis of this Cryptomonas sp. took place just before sunset and sunrise.
23728279|Arisaema linearifolium G. Gusman & J.T. Yin, a member of the section Sinarisaema, is described as a new species native to northern Yunnan, China. Its morphological characters are discussed and compared with those of morphologically similar species.
23726735|Helianthemum assadii F. Ghahremani. & Gholamian sp. nova (Cistaceae) is described and illustrated from Iran. It is related to H. salicifolium but differs from it mainly in the pedicels, capsules, and stigma characteristics.
23728035|Historical and contemporary records of 81 vascular plant species of shores from 412 islands in the archipelago of SW Finland are compared to visualise changes in distribution patterns over time, and to identify environmental variables that exert influence on the distribution and on the colonisations and extinctions of species. The environmental variables were measured using GIS. A logistic regression analysis was used to find variables that exert influence on the probability of species occurrences. The total number of species occurrences has increased by 22.7%. On the surveyed islands, frequencies of 60 species have increased or remained unchanged, and those of 21 species have decreased. More species have spread towards less maritime than towards more maritime conditions. Syntheses, including distribution maps, are presented for the species. The decrease in grazing pressure and the eutrophication of the Baltic Sea are probable reasons for the observed changes. Some species have changed their distribution patterns in relation to the environment in unpredictable manners. It is thus concluded that it is worthwhile to analyse the species separately in long term studies when possible.
23726065|Recently developed analytical methods were applied to 51 surface pollen spectra and corresponding 'forest spectra' derived from the second forest inventory (1936 38) and representing average volume percentages of Pinus, Betula, Picea and Alnus for 16 and 25 km radii around each lake. Methods used were: maximum likelihood estimation of R-values (pollen %/forest %) from groups of sites; cluster/principal components analysis of R-value spectra; and maximum likelihood fitting and residuals mapping in a model where each taxon has a characteristic background pollen percentage (z) as well as a productivity factor (). R-values estimated for S. Finland were close to those obtained by Donner from independent data. Estimates for N. Finland were similar; only north of the spruce forest limit does Pinus become increasingly well represented relative to Betula, because of the dispersal effect first noted by L. Aario. There are however anomalies as well as regularities. For example, although the background model yields plausible z value estimates for Pinus (high) and Picea (low), those for Betula and Alnus seem excessive. In S. Finland high deciduous tree abundances in land and the central lake region are not matched in the pollen spectra. Some mechanism is causing spatial smoothing: perhaps local input from lakeside or streamside vegetation, maybe in combination with some long-distance transport. Another anomaly  excess Picea representation in E. Finland  may be caused by heavy flowering in early successional stands. The new methods make it possible to detect and quantify such anomalies and to assess the limits to vegetational reconstruction via R-values.
23726329|Psoroma saccharatum Scutari & Calvelo (Pannariaceae, lichenized Ascomycotina), from Tierra del Fuego (Argentina), is described as new. It is characterized by the small, areolate, subendolithic thallus extending by means of a stolon-like prothallus, the sugary, fissured upperside, the stratified cortex with well developed epinecral layer, the basal, lateral to overlapping cephalodia, and the rounded spores with roughened epispore. The new species is the host of a parasitic species of Caloplaca Th. Fr.
23725384|The effects of deicing salt (NaCl and CaCl2) on the needles of roadside Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) were studied in eastern Finland. The symptoms visible in first-year needles were recorded, the concentrations of Na, Cl and Ca were determined, and injury to the cell membranes was assessed by measuring leakage of K and total electrolytes. The symptoms observed along the salted roads were of moderate severity. This was evidently due to an exceptionally mild and rainy late winter and early spring. In February, the Na and Cl concentrations (mg dw) of first-year needles were already substantially higher along the salted roads (0.72.2 mg Na/g, 2.23.6 mg Cl/g) than along the control roads (0.10.6 mg Na/g, 0.21.0 mg Cl/g). In May, the differences were statistically significant (2.54.4 mg Na/g, 2.53.7 mg Cl/g and 0.10.3 mg Na/g, 0.20.9 mg Cl/g, respectively). When the distance from the road margin was increased to 1520 m, the Na and Cl concentrations of needles decreased to the same level as at the control sites. There were no differences in Ca concentrations between the salted and the control roads. The K leakage values for the salted roads were significantly higher in February, but not in May. No significant effects could be found by the total conductivity method. Consequently, there was no positive correlation between K and total electrolyte leakage. The results suggested that the use of deicing salt adversely affected trees very close to the road margin, but not trees growing slightly further away.
23726966|Astragalus ovabaghensis Akan & Ayta sp. nova (Fabaceae) from Turkey is described and illustrated. It is closely related to A. erythrotaenius and tentatively placed in section Alopecuroidei.
23725089|Euglena mutabilis Schmitz has been found to occur mostly in the communities of acid mud substrates. It tolerates wide ranges of moisture, light and temperature. It has been observed to become colourless when kept in darkness for a long time. It is an inhabitant of ombrotrophic mires and requires decomposed organic matter.
23726497|The 39 species of Dicranodontium which are currently included in the genus are critically revised and reduced to 7. Dicranodontium fleischerianum Schultze-Motel could not be separated from D. uncinatum (Harv.) Jaeg. and is regarded as synonymous with the latter. Dicranodontium dimorphum Mitt. has proven to be synonymous with D. didictyon (Mitt.) Jaeg., D. meridionale Bartr. with D. pulchroalare Broth., D. ceylonense Fleisch., D. subasperum Williams and D. perviride Dix. & P. Varde are synonymous with D. denudatum (Brid.) Britt., D. subintegrifolium Broth., D. attenuatum (Mitt.) Wils., D. caespitosum (Mitt.) Par. and D. decipiens (Mitt.) Mitt. ex Broth. are synonymous with D. didymodon (Griff.) Par., D. blindioides (Besch.) Broth., D. sparsum Dix. are synonymous with D. uncinatum (Harv.) Jaeg. Dicranodontium sinense (C. Mll.) Par. is identical with Campylopus japonicus Broth. and recognized as Campylopus sinensis (C. Mll.) J.-P. Frahm comb. nov. Dicranodontium falcatum Broth. (described as endemic from Hawaii) is synonymous with D. porodictyon Card. & Thr. from China, D. tanganyikae J. Tayl. & P. Varde is identical with Campylopus flexuosus (Hedw.) Brid. var. incacorralis (Herz.) J.-P. Frahm, D. humilis P. Varde is a species of Blindia, D. interruptum P. Varde is identical with Bryohumbertia filifolia (Hornsch.) J.-P. Frahm, D. horricuspis Card. and D. capillifolium (Dix.) Takaki are synonymous with D. asperulum (Mitt.) Broth. Dicranodontium brasiliense Herz. is placed as subspecies in D. pulchroalare. Dicranodontium intermedium Allen is placed into Atractylocarpus and recognized as A. intermedius (Allen) J.-P. Frahm comb. nov. Dicranodontium insularum Bartr. and D. tristaniense Dix. & Thr. belong to Dicranoloma. Dicranodontium tenii Broth. described from China is identical with Dicranum hamulosum Mitt. from Japan. Dicranodontium tenuinerve Dix. & Sak. described from Japan is identical with Bryohumbertia subcomosa (Dix.) J.-P. Frahm. Dicranodontium filifolium Broth. seems not to belong to this genus, but its systematic position is dubious. Dicranodontium subporodictyon Broth. is transferred to the genus Dicranum Hedw. and recognized as D. subporodictyon (Broth.) Gao. The types of Dicranodontium tapes (C. Mll.) Par. and D. papillifolium Gao were not available, but it is very unlikely that these species belong to this genus.
43922217|Eleven species of the lichen genus Lepraria are reported from Finland. These are Lepraria borealis Lohtander & Tnsberg (sp. nova; type from Norway), L. caesioalba (de Lesd.) J.R. Laundon, L. eburnea J.R. Laundon, L. elobata Tnsberg, L. frigida J.R. Laundon, L. incana (L.) Ach., L. jackii Tnsberg, L. lesdainii (Hue) R.C. Harris, L. lobificans Nyl., L. neglecta (Nyl.) Erichsen and L. rigidula (de Lesd.) Tnsberg. Only L. incana, L. lobificans and L. neglecta have been reported from Finland before. Finnish distribution of all the species is mapped. L. borealis, L. caesioalba, L. elobata, L. frigida and L. rigidula are also reported for the first time from Russia.
23726623|Two new Taraxacum L. species, T. cariciphilum Sonck & H. llg. and T. rangiferinum Sonck & H. llg., both belonging to the indigenous sect. Taraxacum (Crocea M. P. Chr.), are described, and a survey of localities is given. The importance of cultivation as a tool to understand the morphological variability of the species in this section is demonstrated.
23725171|A stratified sampling method is presented for estimating the above-ground biomass of reedbeds. The method involves measuring the shoot height distribution of the population. Shoot height is transformed to shoot dryweight by means of an empirical model. Summing the converted dry weight of all the shoots gives an approximation of the yield. The method appeared to give more accurate results than did an earlier method in which the average shoot dry weight given by a random sample is multiplied by stand density. The greater accuracy of the present method was particularly evident when small samples were used, consisting of 320 shoots.
23726796|Polypores (Basidiomycota) from Hunan Province, south-central China, were investigated during 19992002. Based on nearly 600 collections, 102 poroid species were identified from the study area; some species identifications are given as tentative. Sixty-two species are new to Hunan, including ten species new to China. In addition, three new species, Cyclomyces lamellatus Y.C. Dai & Niemel, Phellinus collinus Y.C. Dai & Niemel and Polyporus pumilus Y.C. Dai & Niemel are described and illustrated. The first one differs from the other species in the genus Cyclomyces by having imbricate basidiocarps, radially lamellate hymenophore and prominent setae. Phellinus collinus is characterized by a perennial habit, shining pore surface, very thin context, and the lack of setae; it has oblong-ellipsoid, golden yellow and often collapsed basidiospores. Polyporus pumilus is very characteristic in the genus because it has extremely small, pendent basidiocarps; its pores are smaller than in general in Polyporus. Distribution patterns of the species are discussed, in particular the occurrence of northern (temperate/boreal) and southern (subtropical/tropical) elements in the area.
23725379|Two new species are described, which were collected in Lapland in 1984 and 1990 and later cultivated in Denmark and Finland. One of them, Taraxacum harpagoides Sonck et H. llg. spec. nova, belongs to sect. Borea, the other species, T. samicum Sonck et H. llg. spec. nova, belongs to sect. Taraxacum.
23726147|The confused history and nomenclature of Zygodon rupestris are discussed in detail. Z. rupestris Schimp. ex Lor., based on Z. viridissimus var. saxicola Mol. & Lor. in Lor. 1864 (non Z. v. var. saxicola Mol. in Mol. & Dess. 1862 = Z. gracilis Wils. 1861), is the correct name of the species recently called Z. baumgartneri Malta or Z. vulgaris Nyh. (nom. inval.). Z. rupestris (Lindb. ex C. Hartm.) Norrl. (Z. viridissimus var. rupestris Lindb. ex C. Hartm.) is a further taxonomic synonym. Lectotypes are selected for the three varietal names concerned. The combination Z. dentatus (Breidl. ex Limpr.) Kartt. is validated (basionym Z. viridissimus var. dentatus Breidl. ex Limpr.) and typified.
23724162|An annotated list of about 259 species of mosses of southern and central British Columbia, based on about 1 000 specimens, is presented. Among them at least Dicranum leioneuron is new to the province. One new nomenclatural combination is published, viz. Tomentypnum falcifolium (Ren. ex Nichols) Tuomik. A considerable number of oceanic and other western species are found in the main study area, Wells Gray Provincial Park, which is situated in the Cariboo Mountains, east-central British Columbia.
23725004|An electron probe X-ray microanalyser was used to determine the calcium distribution in the cell walls around healing wounds in young Vicia faba internodes. Samples were collected at specific intervals for 96 hours after wounding. The results indicated that in an area round the wound first an increase and then a decrease in the relative calcium content took place. The reaction reached farther along the vertical axis of the internode than radially, being most rapid in the conducting tissue, and slowest in the cortex.
23725160|The taxonomy is emended and a new combination is made for Chenopodium exsuccum (C. Loscos) Uotila (Chenopodiaceae) from the Iberian Peninsula and northern Africa. Though infrequent, it is fairly widespread, and the only species of the C. foliosum aggregate in most of that area. C. foliosum Ascherson s.str. has been recorded from the southeastern mountains of Spain, from the Pyrenees, and from several localities in the north and west of that country. There is also one record from Algeria. In Spain, C. exsuccum mostly grows at lower altitudes than C. foliosum s.str. Blitum virgatum L. var. minus Vahl is lectotypified.
23725718|Syrrhopodon curticancellinatus Norris, Reese & T. Koponen is described. It is related to S. ciliatus (Hook.) Schwaegr. and differs from it in having larger plants, leaves essentially entire and lackin marginal cilia, brown rather than red rhizoids, proportionally shorter cancellinae and in bearing gemmae dorsally and ventrally on the tips of unmodified leaves rather than on narrow, tubular highly specialized leaves as in S. ciliatus. The type, collected in the West Sepik Province of Papua New Guinea, is the only known specimen of this new taxon.
23726935|Seven species in the moss genus Cryphaea Mohr (Cryphaeaceae) are recognized for Asia. Cryphaea clandestina Enroth, C. lanceolata P. Rao & Enroth, C. obovatocarpa Okam., and C. songpanensis Enroth & T. J. Kop. are restricted to southeast Asia, C. omeiensis Rao sp. nova is described from Sichuan Province of China, C. amurensis Ignatov occurs in the far east of Russia, and C. heteromalla Mohr, a largely European species, is in Israel and Turkey. A key to the species and a distribution map of all species except C. heteromalla are given. Cryphaea sinensis Bartr. is transferred to the genus Sphaerotheciella Fleisch. as S. sinensis (Bartr.) P. Rao comb. nova.
23725495|Two species of the genus Cladia Nyl., four of Cladina (Nyl.) Nyl., one of Calathaspis M. Lamb & W. Weber, and one of Thysanothecium Mont. & Berk., are recognized in Melanesia. Cladina transindica (Ahti) Ahti, and C. halei Ahti, are reported for the first time from the area. The major phenolic compounds in each taxon are reported.
23724231|Samples of the weed vegetation taken from flower beds in sixteen gardens and in five irrigated cultivations of broad bean, gladiolus, pea, strawberry and Trigonella in Cairo and some other provinces in the Southern Nile Delta region in Egypt are given in the table on p. 167. The sampling was done in January  February (1965) and represents the winter aspect of the vegetation. No classification was made, but the vegetation seems to be close to the Mediterranean associations of the Eragrostidion. The record of Oxalis violacea L. is new for Egypt.
23727377|Depending on the literature source, the number of existing Anthyllis species differs almost three-fold. In addition to the well-defined species, there are many cryptic ones. Statistical analysis (general linear models, discriminant analysis) of the morphological variation of eight Anthyllis taxa (for simplification classified as species) resulted in three groups of species: Vulneraria (A. vulneraria, A. maritima, A. arenaria and A.  baltica), Macrocephala (A. macrocephala, A.  colorata, and A.  polyphylloides), and Coccinea (A. coccinea). Distinguishing features of these groups were calyx colour, corolla colour, hairiness of stems and petioles, and plant height.
23725334|Four species of Parmelia Ach. and one species of Punctelia Krog are reported from Tierra del Fuego (Chile and Argentina) and their local distribution is mapped. Parmelia saxatilis (L.) Ach., P. sulcata Taylor and Punctelia stictica (Del. ex Duby) Krog have an essentially bipolar distribution pattern, while the range of Parmelia cunninghamii Crombie and P. protosulcata Hale is austral. In Tierra del Fuego P. sulcata chiefly occupies the drier regions in the central and northeastern parts of the area, while its close relative P. protosulcata is confined to the wettest forests on the southwestern coast. P. kerguelensis Wilson is reduced to synonymy with P. saxatilis (L.) Ach.
23724591|The paper deals with the pollen morphology of 27 taxa belonging to the genus Thymus L. (Labiatae), distributed in Europe, North Africa and the central and southern parts of Asia. In addition to the size, shape and apocolpium diameter, the minor exine characters of the pollen grains in the species involved have been studied and the results are discussed in the light of the taxonomy and phylogeny of the genus. According to their reticulum features, the species studied can be roughly divided into a West-European and an Asian group, with a broad boundary zone with mixed types in the Balkan Peninsula and East Europe between them.
23725159|28 species of Cladonia, three of Cladina and one of Cladia are reported from Taiwan, China. Ten species and two varieties are new to the area. Fifteen species previously reported from Taiwan are excluded from the flora or listed as doubtful or synonyms. The following new nomenclatural combinations are made: Cladina ciliata var. tenuis (Flrke) Ahti & Lai and Cladina rangiferina subsp. grisea (Ahti) Ahti & Lai. Cladonia tenuiformis Ahti is reduced to synonymy with Cladina ciliata var. tenuis and Cladonia esorediata (Asah.) Yoshim. is recognized as distinct from C. pleurota (Ach.) Schaer. C. ceratophyllina (Nyl.) Vain. is excluded from the flora of East Asia; the reports of this species have been based on C. alinii Trass.
23728008|To determine the growth strategies of the clonal wetland sedge Carex brevicuspis under different conditions, we measured the ramet density and biomass; numbers of total rhizomes (TR), long rhizomes (LR), and short rhizomes (SR); and environmental factors along a small-scale elevation gradient (2326 m) in Dongting Lake wetlands, China. Ramet density and biomass were higher at low elevations as compared with those at intermediate and high elevations. There was no significant difference in the number of SR per ramet among the three elevations. However, the number of LR per ramet was higher at high and intermediate elevations as compared with that at low elevation. These results indicate that C. brevicuspis can adapt to increasing environmental stress (i.e., decreasing soil moisture contents) along an elevation gradient by producing more long rhizomes. Plasticity of the C. brevicuspis clonal growth through the modification of its meristem allocation patterns may allow for wide distribution of the species.
23728128|The variability of Polypodium vulgare s. lato (Polypodiaceae) in the Nordic countries was studied. An unpublished herbarium record of P. interjectum from Sweden (province Scania) was confirmed. The respective specimen, originally classified as P. vulgare, was later re-identified as P. interjectum but that remained unnoticed in the literature. Here, the first find of the species in Sweden is reported. Another Swedish specimen with a similar identification history was found to be originally correctly identified. Field work and screening of herbarium material did not yield specimens of P. interjectum from Finland. Instead, the Finnish P. vulgare displayed unexpectedly much previously unknown variability, including four types of rhizome taste and the presence, even of two kinds, of sporangiasters in part of the material. Sensory observations also suggest that the rhizome of P. vulgare emits the volatile compound 2-nonenal. As some of the variability noted is often diagnostic at the species level in the P. vulgare aggregate elsewhere, the existence of cryptic species within the Nordic P. vulgare cannot be totally ruled out. No hybrid plants with heterogeneous spores were detected.
23725818|The ultrastructure of the phycobionts in the epiphytic lichens Bryoria capillaris (Ach.) Brodo & Hawksw. and Hypogymnia physodes (L.) Nyl. is typical of Trebouxia. New information was obtained on the features in autumn and winter. The main changes observed to take place in the phycobiont cells in autumn are deeper lobation of the chloroplast, decrease in the size of the cytoplasmic storage bodies and pyrenoglobuli, and lighter appearance of the cytoplasm. The fungal cytoplasmic storage bodies show a similar reduction in size in autumn and winter. The ultrastructural changes are considered in relation to the climate and to seasonal changes in the metabolism.
23724963|Watersamples from one southfinnish lake (Hiidenvesi) and three smaller rivers next to Helsinki were measured daily about their change in $\mathrm{N}{\mathrm{H}}_{4}^{+}$ and $\mathrm{N}{\mathrm{O}}_{2}^{-}$ -concentration, after adding a special Nitrosomonas-ammonium-medium.
23727901|Parasenecio dissectus Y.S. Chen, sp. nova (Asteraceae) from Hubei province (China) is described and illustrated. It is similar to P. sinicus, but differs from it by its much larger leaves usually with more lobes, smaller capitula, five phyllaries and florets, longer florets, shorter achenes and white pappus. Parasenecio levingii (C.B. Clarke) Y.S. Chen, comb. nova is proposed based on Senecio levingii from west Himalayan region.
23727868|The infrageneric classification of Hybanthus subgen. Ionidium (Violaceae) is unclear and needs to be redefined. In the present study, it is proposed to be separated into five clearly distinct sections, based on the leaf micromorphology, according to the presence or absence of different trichomes and papillae. Scanning electron microscopy provided evidence supporting changes in the systematics of Hybanthus subgen. Ionidium. Five well-defined leaf micromorphological types were identified for the South American species studied. Additionally, three new sections are established in this study: Hybanthus sect. Ionidium, Hybanthus sect. Parviflorae and Hybanthus sect. Pombaliae. Hybanthus atropurpureus is designated as the lectotype of Hybanthus sect. Micranthae.
23726540|Structure of vascular cambium and its derivatives in Boerhaavia diffusa L., B. verticillata Poir. and B. rependa Willd. (Nyctaginaceae) was studied by anatomical methods. The stem revealed anomalous secondary growth characterised by the development of successive rings of xylem and phloem. The cambium was exclusively composed of fusiform initials giving rise to rayless secondary vascular tissues. While undergoing periclinal divisions cambium appeared nonstoried but remained storied when the divisions ceased. Each successive ring of cambium was originated from the outermost phloem parenchyma cells. The cambial ring was functionally segmented into fascicular and interfascicular regions, the former mainly producing conducting elements of xylem and phloem and the latter giving rise to parenchyma cells. The parenchyma cells on the xylem side developed into conjunctive tissue following thickening and lignification of cell walls. However, in B. verticillata and B. rependa the parenchyma cells on the pholem side also became lignified. In B. diffusa parenchyma cells did not undergo lignification. As a result, alternate bands of lignified and parenchyma bands became distinct in the stem. Vessel elements were short with simple perforation plate on slightly oblique to transverse endwall. Sieve tube members were slightly shorter as compared to the fusiform cambial cells.
23727972|Based on extensive field surveys and studies of numerous herbarium collections, a taxonomic revision on the tree ferns (Cyatheaceae) from Hainan Island, South China is made. Some formerly used diagnostic characters are critically reassessed, while others with taxonomic value are introduced for the first time. As a result, two genera and six species are recognized for the island. Alsophila denticulata is a new record for Hainan. Alsophila gigantea var. polynervata and Cyathea hainanensis are reduced to synonymy. A lectotype is designated for Alsophila podophylla. The habitat and geographical distribution of the Hainan tree ferns are briefly discussed. Their distribution patterns indicate affinities either to the fern flora of Malesia, the eastern Himalayas, or southern Japan.
23725643|The effects of seasonal changes and exposure to wave action on the chlorophyll a content of Fucus vesiculosus L. (Fucophyceae, Fucales) were studied at a sheltered and an exposed locality in the outer archipelago of NW land, N Baltic Sea, in 19831984. The lowest contents of chlorophyll a were measured in springearly summer and the highest in late autumnwinter. In the apical parts of the fronds the variation was 1.52 6.23 mgg-1 dry wt at the sheltered and 1.484.90 mgg-1 dry wt at the exposed site. In the basal parts the fluctuations were small, 1.002.32 and 0.811.80 mgg-1, respectively. At the sheltered site the differences between middle-part fronds with and without epiphytes were greatest in MayJune and at the exposed site in AugustSeptember.
23725785|Macronutrients (N, K, P, Ca, Mg) and trace metals (Fe, Mn, Zn, Pb, Cu) were determined on reindeer lichens (Cladonia, subgenus Cladina) from 23 bogs. Cladonia arbuscula was sampled from 20 localities, C. stellaris (= C. alpestris) from 12 and C. mitis from two. The concentrations of N, Fe, Zn, Pb and Cu in Cladonia decreased towards the inland and northern sites, probably reflecting similar regional differences in the atmospheric fallout. A detailed comparison was made between samples of C. arbuscula and C. stellaris collected from S Finnish (S boreal) treeless raised bogs, where the mean annual dry-matter production of these species in closed lichen carpets was estimated at 60.5 and 52.5 g m-2, respectively. In the same sites the levels of N, Fe and Pb were higher in C. stellaris than in C. arbuscula, but those of Ca and Mg were lower. The production rates and element concentrations were used to estimate the annual retention rates of the chemical elements in lichen carpets. Calculated on the basis of the total atmospheric fallout in the same region, the annual retention percentages in the Cladonia carpets were 124 % for P, 58 % for N and 41 % for K, but only 12 % for Mg and 3 % for Ca (means of C. arbuscula and C. stellaris). This suggests that there is significant active uptake of the macronutrients P, N and K, while Ca is primarily bound passively at the cation exchange sites and is only very weakly retained by Cladonia. In vertical profiles of C. arbuscula, the following ranking of elements was obtained for the live/ dead concentration ratio: K > N > P > Mg > Zn > Cu > Mn > Ca > Pb > Fe, i.e. iron and lead are concentrated in the dead basal parts, but potassium, nitrogen and phosphorus are chiefly accumulated in the living top part.
23726647|A taxonomic and nomenclatural history of Platydictya Berk. is outlined and the genus is considered to be a member of the Hypnaceae. Platydictya densissima (Card.) Robins., a species originally described from the Antarctic as Amblystegium densissimum Card. and considered to be endemic to this region, is briefly evaluated. It is shown that this species is identical to the holarctic P. jungermannioides (Brid.) Crum which is now established as a bipolar disjunct and is the only representative of the genus Platydictya in the Southern Hemisphere. Platydictya jungermannioides is very rare in Tierra del Fuego and on South Georgia, whereas in the maritime Antarctic it is locally frequent, extending from the South Orkney Islands to Alexander Island. The austral plants of P. jungermannioides are described and illustrated and the regional and global distributions of the species are mapped. The ecological requirements of the species in Antarctica are also described.
23727684|A re-investigation of Alinlampi  known previously to have a complete stratigraphic succession from Younger Dryas (> 10 640 B.P.) to mid-Holocene ("Atlantic")  was made using pollen, macrosubfossil and diatom analyses. The palynological and macrofossil analyses give a detailed picture of the vegetational succession consisting of three Late Weichselian and three Holocene stages. The first two phases represent pioneer vegetation before the development of forests. The NAP flora is very rich with many exotic elements, i.a. Dryas octopetala. Birches have been present from the beginning, first as solitary copses but by the end of the Late Weichselian as light forests. Betula nana characterizes the intermediate phase between open vegetation and forest. The Holocene forests have been dominated by pine and birches. The diatom succession reflects a development from cold, slightly alkaline conditions to warmer ones with increased alkalinity, and again to a colder and less alkaline state.
23728021|An updated checklist of the liverworts (Marchantiophyta) and hornworts (Anthocerotophyta) of Taiwan is presented. Based on published records, the present checklist includes 512 species of liverworts belonging to 116 genera in 52 families and 19 species of hornworts belonging to six genera in three families. Lejeuneaceae with 121 spp. in 24 genera is the largest family, containing ca. 23% of the total number of species. Genera with more than ten species are Frullania (49 spp.), Cololejeunea (41 spp.), Plagiochila (36 spp.), Radula (26 spp.), Lejeunea (25 spp.), Bazzania (18 spp.), Scapania (18 spp.), Solenostoma (17 spp.), Riccardia (15 spp.), Porella (12 spp.) and Heteroscyphus (11 spp.). Twenty-five taxa are hitherto known only from Taiwan. Forty-seven formerly recorded species are dubious and excluded from this checklist. Chiloscyphus engelii R.L. Zhu & M.J. Lai nom. nov. as well as Folioceros verruculosus (J. Haseg.) R.L. Zhu & M.J. Lai comb. nova, Lejeunea barbata (Herzog) R.L. Zhu & M.J. Lai, comb. nova and Lejeunea luzonensis (Steph.) R.L. Zhu & M.J. Lai, comb. nova are proposed. Cololejeunea peraffinis fo. corticola (Benedix ex Herzog) S.H. Lin is treated as a new synonym of Cololejeunea peraffinis (Schiffn.) Schiffn.
23728188|Capparis daknongensis D.T. Sy, G.C. Tucker, Cornejo & Joongku Lee, a new species of Capparaceae from Dak Nong province, Vietnam, is described and illustrated. It is morphologically similar to C. khuamak, but differs in having pruinose twigs, fewer stamens, longer filaments and gynophore, and a different fruit morphology.
23724287|1. The aim of the present study was to find out whether there is noticeable morphological or cytological variation in Hippopha rhamnoides. This was done in order to evaluate the breeding possibilities of this species and to obtain information about the evolutionary history of the species. 2. Somatic chromosome numbers were determined in 32 seed samples of Hippopha rhamnoides collected from various localities in Europe and Asia. The chromosome number was 2n = 24 in all of them. Three pairs of relatively long metacentric chromosomes could usually be distinguished in the metaphase plates. No differences were observed in the chromosome morphology of different strains. It is suggested that 2n = 24 is a diploid chromosome number, the basic number of the genus being x = 12 instead of x = 6, as supposed in the earlier literature. 3. Five characters of young seedlings were measured in 24 seedling samples, sown at the same time in pots and grown in conditions as uniform as possible. Two characters of seeds were measured in these and some other seed samples. Figs. 3 and 4 show means and standard errors of some of these measurements, the population samples being divided into four groups according to their areas of origin. 4. Among the populations, those from the Alps and those from the Baltic Sea formed two rather distinct groups, which represented two extremes in some of the characters. In most characters, one of them occupied an extreme position on the scale. On the whole, the East European populations and the Asiatic populations varied more and tended to occupy an intermediate position between the groups of the Alps and the Baltic Sea. This is visualized in the pictorialized scatter diagram in Fig. 5, where seven characters are compared at one time, each symbol being based on the means of these characters in a population sample. 5. Other observations made on the seedling samples, as well as a comparison carried out with 17 small population samples grown in a uniform plot for more than two years, confirmed the view that the populations from the Baltic Sea and those from the region of the Alps form two distinct races. Obviously they represent the two recognized subspecies ssp. maritima v. S. and ssp. fluviatilis v. S. From Southeastern Europe and Asia, one or more additional subspecies should probably be recognized. 6. It is suggested that the two European races, which represent two extremes in the material, arose in response to an unusually severe selection pressure when the large Late-glacial populations of Hippopha rhamnoides in Europe were driven by forests to two different kinds of habitats, viz. seashores and river valleys in the Alps. 7. The conspicuous way in which Hippopha rhamnoides has responded to selection is attributed to a strong variation in the Late-glacial populations in Europe, possibly including some racial differentiation already existing between the northern and southern parts of their range at that time. The obligate outbreeding mechanism is considered significant in preserving a reserve of variability. The close adaptation to local seasonal conditions within the area of the Baltic Sea (Fig. 11, p. 14) is considered to be an effect of strong selection combined with a great potential variability even in populations of a relic nature. 8. To release enough variability for breeding work, it is suggested that Asiatic material should be used or crosses between the two European races should be made.
23726144|A key is provided to the three genera of subfam. Zoopsoideae of the family Lepidoziaceae occurring in New Guinea, and to the Zoopsis species recorded from Asia. Within Zoopsis subgen. Zoopsis the sections Zoopsis (2 species) and Setulosae Grolle & Piippo, sectio nova (2 species), are distinguished. Descriptions and figures are given of the species of Zoopsoideae known from the Huon Peninsula. Neotype of Z. setigera Goebel is proposed. The New Caledonian type of Z. rigida Pears, is figured. It is treated as syn. nov. of Z. setulosa, which was hitherto known only from Australasia. Records of Z. setulosa from Asia are wrong. Comments are given on the priority of the Australasian Z. leitgebiana (Carring. & Pears.) Bastow. Description and figures are provided for Schiffneria hyalina Steph., which is newly recorded from Western Melanesia. Map is given of its total range.
23728192|Psilochilus antioquiensis, a new orchid species from Colombia, is described and illustrated. The differences between P. antioquiensis and some similar species are discussed, and a key to the Colombian species of Psilochilus is provided. Information about the ecology and distribution of the new species is also given.
23726282|A new and unispecific genus, Curvicladium Enroth (Neckeraceae, Musci), is described. The single species is C. kurzii (Kindb.) Enroth, comb. nov. (basionym Thamnium kurzii Kindb., here lectotypified). Thamnium siamense Horik. & Ando is synonymized with Curvicladium kurzii. The new genus is closely related to Pinnatella Fleisch., but differs in (1) the usually arcuate stems and branches, (2) the consistent absence of pseudoparaphyllia, (3) the large, composite teeth in the leaf apices, (4) the post-fertilization growth of the inner perichaetial leaves, (5) the 811 mm long, reddish brown, slightly twisted seta, and (6) the frequent presence of reduced cilia between the endostome segments. Curvicladium is also compared with Thamnobryum Nieuwl., Porothamnium Fleisch., Porotrichum (Brid.) Hampe, Homaliodendron Fleisch., and Noguchiodendron Ninh & Pcs. Illustrations of Curvicladium kurzii are provided and its total distribution area is presented on a map. The species is recorded for the first time for China.
23727257|Cheilolejeunea trapezia (Nees) Kachroo & R.M. Schust. is the correct name for species commonly known as C. imbricata (Nees) S. Hatt. A lectotype is designated for C. inaequitexta Schiffn. ex Steph., which is synonymized with Lejeunea micholitzii Mizut.
23727783|Three species of Pterygoneurum are present in China: P. ovatum (Hedw.) Dix., P. subsessile (Brid.) Jur. and P. kozlovii Laz. Pterygoneurum ovatum has exserted, stegocarpous capsules, while those of P. subsessile are immersed, although also stegocarpous. Pterygoneurum kozlovii is reported for the first time from Inner Mongolia Province of China. It is distinguished from the other species by the cleistocarpous capsules. Detailed descriptions, illustrations and distribution maps are given for the species and a key to the Chinese species is provided. The spore morphology of the three species was examined by SEM.
23726157|Six genera and 29 species of the Mniaceae occur in Europe, 3 genera and 5 or 6 species in Macaronesia, 3 genera and 8 species in NW Africa and 4 genera and 15 species in the Near East. The distributions are given for each of 31 species and 1 subspecies by listing the countries or subdivisions of countries in which they occur. Illustrated keys to genera and species are given. The type specimens and original collections are indicated, and the nomenclature and taxonomy discussed. In all, 158 epithets are dealt with. Lectotypes are selected for 31 taxa, and 32 names are presented as new synonyms. The specimens distributed in exsiccata are listed.
23728164|Celastrus yuloensis X.Y. Mu, a new species of Celastraceae from the seasonal rainforest of southern Yunnan Province, China, is described and illustrated. The new species is morphologically similar to C. hirsutus, but differs in the prominent spine-like bud scales, elliptic-oblong leaves pubescent only on the veins, axillary long panicle inflorescences, and upper half articulation on stalks.
23726693|Surface water chemistry was monitored in three fens through one growing season by weekly sampling in the southern aapa mire zone, middle boreal Finland. The fens included a soligenous moderately rich fen, a soligenous extremely poor fen, and a topogenous extremely poor fen. The chemical variables most clearly related to the poorrich gradient were pH, alkalinity, Ca, Mg, and Na concentrations. The soligenous and topogenous extremely poor fens differed in DOC, Al, Fe, Si, and S concentrations. The main chemical gradients were related to the season. In early summer (June to July) the chemical gradients were variable and weakly definable. In late summer (August to September) the gradients were more stable and separated the three fens clearly. Late summer is suggested optimal for comparable sampling of surface water in boreal fens.
23727199|Stachys yildirimlii M. Din sp. nova (Lamiaceae) from Turkey is described and illustrated in line drawings. It belongs in subgen. Stachys sect. Ambleia and resembles S. cydni, from which it differs mainly in its crenate, oblong, obtuse and concolorous leaves, brown nutlets, and greenish indumentum. A distribution map of the new species is given. Nutlet coat surface of S. yildirimlii and S. cydni are displayed in SEM-photographs.
23728011|A new species, Neooreophilus sibundoyensis Kolan. (Orchidaceae), is described and illustrated. So far it is known only from the montane humid forest in the Colombian department of Putumayo. The differences between N. sibundoyensis and some similar species are discussed and a key to the Neooreophilus species with reduced petals is provided.
23727729|Ononis catalinae Reyes-Betancort & Scholz sp. nova (Ononideae, Fabaceae) is proposed as a new species with a distribution restricted to the eastern Canary Islands of Lanzarote and Fuerteventura. Its morphological, biogeographical and ecological features are discussed, together with its relationship to, and differences from, the other species of Ononis subsect. Biflorae.
23727725|Potassium antimonite was used to locate calcium in the anthers of Torenia fournieri (Linderniaceae). Abundant calcium precipitates accumulate in the microsporocyte cytoplasm. After meiosis, calcium precipitates are abundant on the microspore wall, as well as the callosic wall of each tetraspore. A large number of calcium precipitates also occur on the outer membranes of the tapetal cells, and in the intercellular spaces of the endothecium and middle layer. The quantity of calcium precipitates in the cytoplasm and nucleus increases at the early microspore stage, then gradually deceases until pollen maturation. Calcium precipitates on the pollen wall gradually increase from the early microspore stage until pollen maturation. Numerous calcium precipitates are observed around the Ubisch bodies. The relation between the distribution of calcium and mitosis, nuclear displacement, the formation of the pollen cell wall, as well as the possible functions of anther walls and Ubisch bodies in the transportation of calcium to the mature pollen are discussed.
23726044|Eight species found in Enonteki Lapland are reported as new for Finland or Eastern Fennoscandia: Cephaloziella elegans (Heeg) Schiffn., Eremonotus myriocarpus (Carringt.) Lindb. & Kaal., Lophozia elongata Steph., L. longiflora (Nees) Schiffn., Moerckia blyttii (Moerck) Brockm., Scapania obcordata (Berggr.) S. Arn., S. praetervisa Meyl., and Sphenolobus cavifolius (Buch & S. Arn.) K. Mll. Their distribution in Finland is mapped.
23725767|Mnium ambiguum H. Mll. is recorded for Iceland, M. arizonicum Amann for the Yukon, Plagiomnium ciliare (C. Mll.) T. Kop. for Arizona, P. medium (B.S.G.) T. Kop. for Mexico, and P. rostratum (Schrad.) T. Kop. for the NW Territories of Canada, Colorado and Mexico. The distribution of P. rostratum in North America is mapped.
43922121|It is shown that methanol can extract chlorophyll a from phytoplankton more efficiently than acetone. The extent of this difference is dependent on the type of algae present and is pronounced with blue-green algae but not with diatoms. Failure to make a correction for the presence of phaeophytin does not always cause large errors.
23728235|This study examined the Lotus tenuis seedling emergence from natural and artificial soil seed banks covered with cattle dung of different thicknesses. We tested the hypothesis that seedling emergence from soil seed banks covered with fresh cattle dung depended on seed weight, its dormancy and dung thickness. Two seed dormancy categories (low and high seed-coat impermeability to water) were obtained from a sample of hard seeds with and without scarification with sandpaper. Natural and artificial soil seed banks of Lotus tenuis were covered with 0.5, 2, 4 and 6 cm thick fresh dung pats; control seed banks were not covered. The results of this study showed that increasing dung thickness affected negatively the seedling emergence in different ways: (1) Seeds germinated under dung pats but seedling emergence was impeded with increasing dung thickness. Seedling emergence from heavy seeds was higher than from the light ones. (2) Moisture contained in the fresh dung was enough to trigger the germination of seeds on dry soil. Seedlings died because of dung desiccation. Seed dormancy prevented the germination under fresh dung. The amount of seeds recovered alive decreased with dung thickness. Seeds with high dormancy categories were more numerous than those with low dormancy categories. Cattle dung deposition on the soil seed bank of L. tenuis can negatively affect the seed survival and seedling emergence.
23726716|In the NW part of Slovenia, at the southern border of the Sphagnum-mire area in Europe, the plant species diversity and vegetation structure of mires (sedge fen, spruce mire and dwarf-pine bog) and spruce forests were investigated using ordination techniques (detrended correspondence analysis, DCA). The mires studied occur at around 1200 metres above sea level. The correlation between plant distribution patterns and ecology, with particular reference to soil variables, was examined. Based on DCA ordination, the sedge fens were clearly distinguished from the dwarf-pine bogs and the spruce mires, as well as from the spruce forests on the mineral soils. A significant correlation between the first DCA axis and the plant species diversity was found. The Shannon diversity index and the species richness were highest in the sedge fen and on the mire-forest border zone. The first DCA axis was interpreted as a reflection of the gradients of the soil pH, the amount of calcium and the base saturation level. The first axis clearly differentiated the Sphagnum species (e.g. S. girgensohnii, S. magellanicum, S. russowii, S. flexuosum, S. capillifolium) from the moss species belonging mostly to Amblystegiaceae (e.g. Drepanocladus cossonii, Campylium stellatum, Calliergon cordifolium, Cratoneuron decipiens). The second DCA axis was interpreted in terms of the soil water content, total carbon content, C/N ratio and peat depth. It evidently differentiated the spruce forest on the mineral soil from the various mire ecosystems.
23726564|We measured the persistence of fallen epiphytic macrolichen litter as a part of developing a method for estimating epiphyte abundance from biomass of lichen litter. Annual mass loss in two pendulous, fruticose (alectorioid) lichens and three foliose lichens was determined with litterbags in an old Picea abies forest in north-eastern Sweden. Disturbance by animals caused high mass loss in alectorioid lichens during winter. Alectorioid lichens lost weight significantly faster than foliose species. In both Alectoria sarmentosa and Bryoria fuscescens, 17% of the original mass remained after one year (intact samples) compared to 39% in Lobaria pulmonaria, 44% in Hypogymnia physodes and 58% in Platismatia glauca. Half lives of epiphyte litter ranged from four months in Alectoria and Bryoria to 14 months in P. glauca. It is concluded that both growth form and extent of animal disturbance strongly influence the persistence of epiphyte lichen litter on the ground.
23727241|Salvia anatolica Hamzaolu & A. Duran sp. nova (Lamiaceae) is described and illustrated from East Anatolia, Turkey. It is closely related to S. bracteata, an endemic also confined to East Anatolia. Diagnostic morphological characters of S. anatolica from closely similar taxa are discussed. The pollen characteristics of S. anatolica and S. bracteata are presented in photographs.
23727837|The genus Diphyscium (Diphysciaceae, Bryophyta) has three species in the Hunan Province of China: D. fulvifolium Mitt., D. mucronifolium Mitt. and D. chiapense D.H. Norris subsp. unipapillosum (Deguchi) T.-Y. Chiang & S.-H. Lin. Diphyscium fulvifolium is clearly the most common species. The other two taxa are reported for the first time from Hunan, and D. chiapense subsp. unipapillosum also from Jiangxi; in China, it was previously known only from Taiwan. The three species are illustrated in line drawings. A previous record of D. foliosum (Hedw.) Mohr was based on a misidentified specimen and the species is thus excluded from the flora of Hunan.
23726570|Infraspecific variation of Estonian Potentilla erecta (L.) Rusch. was studied with different morphometrical methods. Both P. erecta ssp. erecta and ssp. strictissima (Zimm.) A. J. Richards were identified with ssp. strictissima prevailing; however, several specimens are morphologically of an intermediate type. Representatives of the two taxa have no geographical or ecological preference in Estonia, and since it was not possible to statistically delimit them, we preferred to treat these taxa as varieties: P. erecta var. erecta and P. erecta var. strictissima (Zimm.) Hegi.
23728163|Eriobotrya fulvicoma W.Y. Chun ex W.B. Liao, F.F. Li & D.F. Cui, a new species endemic to Xinyi, Guangdong Province, China, is described and illustrated. It differs from the morphologically close E. deflexa by having papery leaves (vs. leathery in E. deflexa), leaf margin shallowly but sharply serrate and not revolute (vs. coarsely obtusely serrate and revolute), 12 cm long petioles (vs. 26 cm), 810.5 mm long petals (vs. 5 mm), and ca. 4.56 mm long styles (vs. 23 mm).
23725207|The ultrastructure of mesophyll cells of needles of Norway spruce was studied on material taken near a pulp mill and a fertilizer factory in central Finland. The observations were made during the second year of the needles, from summer 1976 to summer 1977. In summer 1976, the injuries in the needles from the two areas were the same. Early in 1977 injured cells became more frequent and in spring healthy cells were rare. From January 1977 the injuries differed with the origin of the material: 1) In needles taken near the pulp mill, which mainly emits SO2, the chloroplasts were rounded and the grana reduced. Later in spring the chloroplast envelopes broke, the lamellae swoll, the cytoplasm was destroyed and the whole cell finally collapsed. From April a second type of injury appeared : lipid-like droplets seen between the chloroplasts later fused together and filled all the spaces between the chloroplasts, the cell organelles becoming indistinct. 2) In needles taken near the fertilizer plant, whose emissions included SO2 and fluorides, the chloroplast envelopes became stretched and the lamellae swoll or curled; the two types of injury seen near the pulp mill also occurred but were rare. No evidence of the true recovery of single cells could be found during the study period.
23725042|The electronic Coulter CounterR was used in phytoplanktonic studies performed in connection with the Pjrvi project. Attention was paid to the suitability of the instrument for measuring the biomass of natural mixed phytoplankton populations. The vertical distribution of suspended particles and their size distribution were examined during the ice-free period in the lakes Pjrvi, Ormajrvi and Lovojrvi, southern Finland. The relation of total particulate volume (T.P.V.) to the biomass of the phytoplankton population calculated from microscope counts was studied as well as the relation of T.P.V. to the primary production. Some observations were made on the relation of T.P.V. to the species composition. The relation of T.P.V. to the total number of suspended particles in a sample (T.N.P.) was examined with a view to facilitating the use of electronic particle counting.
23727695|The bark anatomy of 32 Neotropical genera of Annonaceae was studied. A family description based on Neotropical genera and a discussion of individual bark components are presented. Selected character states at the family and genus levels are surveyed for identification purposes. This is followed by a discussion on the taxonomical and phylogenetic relevance of bark characters according to a phylogram in preparation based on molecular characters. Although the value of many bark anatomical characters turned out to be insignificant in systematic studies of the family, some features lend support to recent phylogenetic results based on morphological and molecular data sets. The taxonomically most informative features of the bark anatomy are sclerification of phellem cells, shape of fibre groups and occurrence of crystals in bark components.
23725412|The variation of the extractable endospermal proteins in Leersia oryzoides was studied electrophoretically on SDS-PAGE. The material consisted of samples from three domestic and three foreign populations of L. oryzoides, and a sample of each of the related species L. virginica, Zizania aquatica and Oryza sativa. The variation in the protein pattern between the four species was found to be rather narrow. The Finnish L. oryzoides samples did not differ in their protein patterns, and these were the same as in the sample from France. The North American L. oryzoides samples displayed some differences. Prolamins of L. oryzoides extractable from waterimmersed but ungerminated caryopses resembled those extracted from desiccated rice caryopses in their molar mass distribution. Though the seed production was found to be satisfactory in the marginal Finnish populations, the vegetative performance of L. oryzoides in its Finnish habitats seems to have deteriorated from that described during the early half of the century. This may be ascribable to changes in the environment, e.g. impaired quality of the river water. The present habitats are threatened by various human activities.
23728259|Narrowly (neo)endemic species often attract special attention in conservation contexts, because their restricted distributions render them more vulnerable than most widespread species. However, little attention is given to the question whether time since speciation is the (only) factor responsible for the narrow ranges of neoendemics, or if biological or ecological factors are (also) involved. The Southeast Asian orchid genus Sirindhornia comprises three terrestrial species. In Thailand, we compared demographic and reproductive characteristics between the local endemics S. mirabilis and S. pulchella and the widespread S. monophylla. The three species had similar demographic characteristics, but different reproductive attributes. In most contexts where they differed, the local endemics were more reproductively restricted than the widespread S. monophylla. Thus, the latter exhibited higher relative fruit set, higher seed production per inflorescence and more equal individual contributions of progeny. However, recruitment appeared to be more efficient in S. pulchella than in the other two species.
23727659|The mitotic chromosome numbers of 40 accessions of 33 species of vascular plants collected in the Balearic Islands are presented. The triploid cytotype of Allium commutatum (2n = 24), the tetraploid cytotype of Scilla autumnalis (2n = 28), and the hexaploid (2n = 36) and octoploid (2n = 48) cytotypes of Tuberaria guttata are reported here for the first time in the Balearic archipelago. The tetraploid cytotype of Dactylis glomerata subsp. hispanica was not previously known from the Western Balearics, where it grows sympatrically with the diploid endemic D. glomerata subsp. ibizensis. The divergent chromosome number 2n = 26 is confirmed for Micromeria inodora. A new chromosome number (2n = 44) was determined for the restricted endemic Rubia balearica subsp. caespitosa. The existence of several infraspecific cytotypes bear phytogeographical significance.
23725289|Squamarina (sect. Petroplaca) poeltii Vnsk. sp. nova (lichen-forming fungi. Lecanorales) is described from Novaya Zemlya, U.S.S.R. Usnic acid and traces of unidentified fatty acids are reported as its chemical constituents.
23726263|The anatomical variation of Peltigera canina (L.) Willd., P. membranacea (Ach.) Nyl. and P. praetextata (Sommerf.) Zopf of the P. canina group was studied using statistical methods (PCA, DA, ANOVA). Forty four samples were analyzed in order to clarify possible taxonomic implications of spore size, thallus thickness, and of width and height of veins. The thallus thickness between veins and the vein height are the main characters to separate the three species. The relationships in the anatomical characters are closest between P. canina and P. praetextata.
23724626|The description, distribution, and ecological and cultural characters of a perennial polypore, Haploporus odorus, are given. A scanning electron micrograph was taken to eludicate the spore surface topography. The nomenclature of the species is discussed and the selection of a neotype is reported.
23726159|Aseptic germination of 27 North European and 2 North American orchids was tested on ZAK medium, which contains coconut liquid and sucrose, CHANG medium, based on fish protein hydrolysate, and two mineral media: FAST's medium for Cypripedium and Burgeff's Eg 1. The two latter media gave good germination and growth, Eg1 proving better for tuberous species. Of the 29 taxa tested, 25 germinated, the four nongerminating species belonging to the rhizomatous genera Cephalanthera and Epipactis. Immature seeds, when used, gave better germination than mature dried seeds. The time needed for germination to start, 210 weeks, was clearly species specific. Cold treatment was not required even in the case of such boreal or alpine species as Calypso bulbosa, Cypripedium passerinum and Chamorchis alpina. The effect of disinfection and the significance of the stage of maturation of the seed are discussed. The extremely juvenile condition of the embryo at seed capsule dehiscence and the heterotrophic stage preceding emergence above the ground may partly explain why the germination behaviour of a species does not change with the latitude or environmental conditions.
43922149|Carex buxbaumii Wahlenb. subsp. mutica (Hartm.) Isoviita, basionym C. buxbaumii var. mutica Hartm. Synonyms: C. polygama Schkuhr subsp. mutica (Hartm.) A. Caj. 1934, C. polygama subsp. alpina (Hartm.) A. Caj. 1935, C. buxbaumii subsp. alpina (Hartm.) Liro 1938, C. adelostoma V. Krecz. 1935.
23726690|We conducted two hand-pollination experiments in the nectarless orchid Dactylorhiza incarnata to test two hypotheses explaining the evolution of deceptive pollination in orchids. In the first experiment testing the "outcrossing" hypothesis, we pollinated flowers with pollinia from different crossing distances, and with interspecific pollinia (Dactylorhiza maculata). In the second experiment testing the "pollinia" hypothesis, we used only conspecific pollinia, but varied the number of pollinia received per stigma. Pollen source (self-pollination, cross-pollination within population, cross-pollination between populations, and interspesific pollination) did not affect female reproductive success of flowers. Increase in the number of pollinia received per stigma had a positive effect on reproductive success. Thus, a plant could benefit from repeated pollinator visits. Our results suggest that pollinator visitation rates may be more important for reproductive success than the pollinia source, and that neither the "outcrossing" nor the "pollinia" hypothesis was clearly supported.
23726483|The effects of monochloroacetic acid (MCA) and trichloroacetic acid (TCA) exposures on Scots pine seedlings were studied. The exposures, with two dose levels for TCA and one for MCA, were done simultaneously via the roots and the foliage during two consecutive simulated growing seasons. An increase in potassium concentration in current-year needles exposed to lower TCA dose after the first exposure season, and an increase in the nitrogen concentration, as well as a decrease in the transpiration rate and in the total chloroplast area, were noted in the current-year needles exposed to MCA after the second exposure season and these changes were statistically different from the control. These results may be due to charge compensation and hormonal changes induced by subtoxic levels of TCA and MCA.
23725233|The name Isothecium myurum Brid. is illegitimate and the replacement proposed for it is I. alopecuroides (Lam. ex Dubois) Isov., comb. nova; basionym: Hypnum alopecuroides Lam. ex Dubois. The nomenclatural output of F. N. A. Dubois' neglected flora (1803) is briefly discussed. Lectotypes are selected for H. alopecuroides and the conspecific H. myosuroides Schreb. ex Hedw. and H. tumidiusculum Lam. ex DC. Isothecium myosuroides Brid. is the correct designation for the species called I. eumyosuroides Dix. by many American authors. Hypnum alopecuroides Hook. is a later homonym. When transferred to Pinnatella, this species should be cited as P. alopecuroides (Mitt.) Fleisch.
23727229|Hieracium coldei Szelg, a new triploid (2n = 27) species in Hieracium sect. Cernua R. Uechtr. from the Eastern Carpathians in Romania, is described, illustrated and compared with morphologically similar taxa. It grows in relict habitats in crevices of andesite rock in Bile Tunad in the Hargitha Mountains, and is morphologically similar to H. tubulare Nyr. from the Retezat Mountains. Based on morphological characteristics, H. sparsum subsp. tubulare [var.] pseudoporphyriticum Nyr. & Zahn, H. sparsum subsp. chlorocaesioides Nyr. & Zahn, H. sparsum subsp. tubulare f. latifolium Zahn and H. sparsum subsp. tubulare f. subevolutum Zahn were found to be conspecific with H. tubulare s. stricto and are reduced to synonymy. Lectotypes for the names H. tubulare, H. sparsum subsp. chlorocaesioides and H. sparsum subsp. tubulare [var.] pseudoporphyriticum are designated.
23725193|The concentrations of eight elements (Cu, Zn, Fe, Mn, Ca, Mg, K, Na) were determined on the tissues of four species of Sphagnum mosses collected from the ombrotrophic raised bog Kurjenrahka and from the chiefly minerotrophic bog-fen complex Karevanrahka in southwestern Finland. The material included two species occupying dry hummocks, S. fuscum (Schimp.) Klinggr. and S. rubellum Wils. One species, S. magellanicum Brid., was collected from moist "intermediate" microhabitats, and one, S. cuspidatum Hoffm., from permanently wet hollows. The average concentrations of the elements were higher in the minerotrophic water and moss samples than in the ombrotrophic material. The variation in the levels of the individual elements was greatest in the hollow species S. cuspidatum, being smaller in the hummock Sphagna. The intraspecific variation in the ombrotrophic material significantly exceeded the variation in the minerotrophic samples. Highly significant differences existed between the hollow species S. cuspidatum and the other three taxa. For both mire types, the greatest interspecific variation was recorded between the hummock taxa (S. fuscum and S. rubellum). This indicates that the mineral element contents of Sphagnum mosses depend principally on the moss species.
23726232|The great advantage of using open-air exposure systems instead of closed or semi-closed chambers to study the effects of air pollutants on plants is that the microclimate (temperature, light, air movement) around the plants will remain natural. In the computer-controlled, chamberless openair system described in this paper, ozone is released from perforated tubes surrounding the plants under study. Fumigation was carried out day and night to simulate the diurnal fluctuation of the ozone concentration. The ozone concentration was monitored continuously at the centre of the exposure area and at four additional measuring points at the edges of the area. The system was good at maintaining the desired elevated ozone concentration (twice as high as the ambient level) at the centre of the exposure area. At the edges of the area, the long-term mean was also close to that targeted, but the hourly concentrations showed more fluctuation, depending on the wind direction. However, no very high, acutely toxic peak concentrations were detected. Larger ozone generators are recommended to ensure still more uniform and controllable distribution of the gas.
23727132|Based on morphological, anatomical, and ontogenetical data, the systematics of Asterothyrium, Psorotheciopsis, and Gyalidea (including Solorinella) is revised. The three genera form a natural group for which the name Asterothyriaceae is retained; they share hemiangiocarpous apothecia, true paraphyses, non-amyloid, "annelascaceous" asci, euseptate ascospores, and a chlorococcoid phycobiont. Apothecial ontogeny is characterized by the formation of a covering layer which ruptures during development. Apothecia are sessile (most species of Gyalidea, Psorotheciopsis) or immersederumpent with overarching or recurved teeth formed by the covering layer (some species of Gyalidea, Asterothyrium). Flask-shaped, immersed pycnidia (type I) occur in all three genera. Squad-conical pycnidia adnate to the margin of the thallus (type II) were found in Psorotheciopsis and Asterothyrium, while applanate pycnidia immersed in the thallus centre (type III) are restricted to Asterothyrium. All pycnidial types produce conidia of variable size, shape and septation. Several characters shared by Psorotheciopsis and Asterothyrium, i.e. corticate, whitish thalli, pigmented and/or immersederumpent apothecia, large and thick-walled ascospores, and frequent formation of pycnidia, are possibly adaptations to their preferred habitat: canopy leaves in the tropical rain forests. The closest relative of the Asterothyriaceae is Gyalideopsis in the Gomphillaceae. It agrees in most aspects with Gyalidea, but differs by its anastomosing paraphysoids and hyphophorous conidiomata. Both families are placed in Ostropales, sharing hemiangiocarpous apothecia, non-amyloid asci, and "annelascaceous" ascus type, with the Stictidaceae, Odontotremataceae, Thelotremataceae, and Graphidaceae.
23728122|Two new species of the genus Borreria, B. carajasensis E.L. Cabral & L.M. Miguel and B. elaiosulcata E.L. Cabral & L.M. Miguel, are described and illustrated, based on material collected from iron outcrops in the Serra dos Carajs region, Par State, Brazil. A key to morphologically similar species is provided; these species can be recognized by their transversally sulcate seeds. Borreria cupularis and B. multiflora are reported for the first time from the Par State.
23726535|Two abandoned and two mown adjacently situated semi-natural meadow patches were compared for species richness, evenness and soil nutrient values. The differences in flora and vegetation cover between the sites were examined using canonical correspondence analysis (CCA). The physical conditions between the habitats were compared by categorizing the species with two competitive theories for plant strategies: the MacArthur-Fretwell scheme and Grime's CSR model. Both calculated richness indices and direct species counts indicate that diversity is higher in the abandoned meadow patches than in the corresponding managed meadows. The evenness values imply that the species dominance pattern is similar under both types of management. According to the CCA ordination, the differences in nutrient concentration between the sites significantly influenced the occurrence of species. The method of evaluating the succession stage of a habitat by combining diversity measures and counting plant strategy shares, especially with regard to competitive species, may help the manager to decide on the urgency of restoration. As the MacArthur-Fretwell scheme showed the prevailing physical conditions using species life history strategies more illustratively, it can be recommended for studies in which it is important to define the succession stage that might be fatal to high species diversity. This will facilitate the decision-making on management practices.
23726090|The genera Orthomnion Wils. and Orthomniopsis Broth. are united in a single genus, Orthomnion, which consists of nine species: O. bryoides (W. Griff.) Norkett, O. dilatatum (Mitt.) Chen, O. elimbatum (Nog.) T. Kop., comb. nova, O. handelii (Broth.) T. Kop., comb. nova, O. javense (Fleisch.) T. Kop., comb. nova, O. loheri Broth., O. noguchii T. Kop., spec. nova, O. piliferum T. Kop., spec. nova and O. nudum Bartr. The other novelties include: Orthomnion sect. Handeliomnion T. Kop. sect. nova, Orthomnion subsect. Orthomniopsis (Broth.) T. Kop. comb. nova, Orthomnion subsect. Oligodon T. Kop., subsect. nova and Orthomnion loheri Broth. var. semilimbatum J. Frhl., syn. nova (= O. dilatatum). Lectotypes are selected for Orthomnion Wils., Mnium crispum Mitt., M. javense Fleisch., M. sikkimense Ren. & Card., Orthomnion loheri Broth. and Orthomniopsis japonica Broth. The genus, sections and species are described, and the synonymies given. A key to the species is presented and the distributions are mapped. Orthomnion bryoides and O. dilatatum have fairly large ranges in SE Asia, but the others are rather local endemics in SE Asia or Australasia.
43922229|The orchid genus Gomphichis, which belongs to the subtribe Prescottiinae, includes approximately 30 species in the Neotropics. The present paper describes and illustrates three new species in the genus: G. schneideri Szlach., S. Nowak & Paluchowska, G. epiphytica Szlach., S. Nowak & Paluchowska and G. renziana Szlach., S. Nowak & Paluchowska. A distribution map of the new species is included along with notes on their habitats. A dichotomous identification key to all Gomphicis species in northern South America is provided. It seems that the new species are endemic in the Cordillera Oriental in the Colombian Andes. The specimens were collected in the Department of Cundinamarca, which includes the Tropical Andes biodiversity hotspot.
23726660|Pholidota niana Y.T.Liu, R.Li & C.L.Long, a new species of the Orchidaceae (Orchidoideae) from southeastern Yunnan Province, China, is described and illustrated. The differences and similarities between P. niana and the closely related P. longipes S.C.Chen & Z.H.Tsi are discussed.
23726704|The effects of different levels of watering, nutrients and defoliation on two-year-old Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris) seedlings were examined. Two indicators of stress, chlorophyll fluorescence and morphological asymmetry, were also compared. Reduced watering and low levels of nutrients increased relative biomass and the length of the current year shoot, respectively, while both decreased current year needle biomass. In the defoliation gradient, an extensive defoliation resulted in reduced root biomass. Chlorophyll fluorescence was highest with the highest level of nutrients. In the moisture and defoliation experiments, different parts of the seedlings (current year leader vs. lateral shoot) showed significantly different fluorescence; there was no significant trend along the gradients. Both fluctuating (FA) and directional (DA) asymmetry in needle length increased significantly with increasing nutrient levels. In the defoliation experiment, both FA and DA increased with an increased percentage of defoliation. In the moisture gradient, no significant trend was found. Although the defoliation experiment confirmed that FA and DA correlate with stress intensity, the results on nutrient levels were contradictory: FA and DA increased with nutrient levels while chlorophyll fluorescence indicated no stress.
23725440|The morphology of the galls caused by Physoderma myriophylli (Rostr.) Vestergr. and their occurrence on different parts of the host are described from living material from southern Finland, as is also the ecology of the gall-bearing host plants there. Inspection of herbarium specimens of the host plant has added greatly to the knowledge of the distribution area of the fungus gall, now extended northwards to Jmtland in Sweden and Oulunsalo, Liminganlahti (64 54 N) in Finland, eastwards to Luhanka (25 40 E) in Finland and southwards to Ragaz in the Upper Rhine valley in Switzerland. The oldest known collection is from 1811, from Uppland, Sweden.
23727186|Taxonomy of species in Cyperus section Arenarii was investigated as a part of ongoing phylogenetic study. Morphological characters revealed that seven new species need to be described, three annuals, Cyperus ephemerus, C. forskalianus and C. sahelii, and four perennials, C. algeriensis, C. gubanii, C. mauretaniensis and C. pseuderemicus. Their relationships with closely related taxa are discussed and their distribution is presented. Annuals are not known previously in the section Arenarii. A new combination, C. subtilis (Kk.) Kukkonen & Vre is made. The name is typified.
43922219|The epiphytic lichen flora and diversity on basal trunks of large Populus tremula trees was studied on 22 sample plots in 11 forest areas in southern and middle boreal Finland. The sample plots were divided into four main groups according to the location and human impact on the stand: (A) middle boreal (7 plots), (B) southern boreal old-growth (7), (C) southern boreal slightly managed (5) and (D) southern boreal strongly managed plots (3). The mean values of both the total number of lichen species (31) and the average number of lichen species per tree (13.4) were relatively low on P. tremula, but the composition of the flora was more unique than on other forest trees. The dominance of crustose lichens and bryophytes, as well as the abundance of cyanobacterial lichens, such as Lobaria pulmonaria, Nephroma spp. and Peltigera spp., were the most distinct features of the flora. The proportion of habitat specialists was high on Populus, whereas widespread foliose lichens, such as Hypogymnia physodes and Platismatia glauca, were sparse. The low lichen species numbers could best be explained by the abundance of bryophytes, the dominance of strong competitor species, the high average bark pH that favours few lichens and small variation in the microhabitat structure of the basal trunk. Several differences could be detected in the epiphyte flora between the four sample plot groups, although they were not completely separated by NMDS-ordination. Most of the middle boreal plots formed a distinct group, whereas the other plots were more scattered in the ordination space. The flora of the middle boreal plots was strongly dominated by the crustose lichens Biatora carneoalbida and B. epixanthoides. The southern boreal plots had higher species richness and diversity than the middle boreal ones. The flora of the southern boreal old-growth plots was mostly dominated by bryophytes (Ptilidium pulcherrimum, Sanionia uncinata), whereas the crustose lichen Phlyctis argena was most common on most of the managed plots. The contribution of Populus tremula to the total epiphyte diversity of boreal forests proved to be most significant.
23726679|Two new species of the Australasian genus Crepidium Bl. (Orchidaceae, Malaxidinae) are described as new and illustrated in line drawings.
23727741|The paper deals with 18 species of the lichen genus Cladonia, including eight species new to Bolivia: C. cf. borbonica, C. coccifera, C. confragosa, C. dactylota, C. granulosa, C. kriegeri, C. merochlorophaea, and C. squamosa. Furthermore, C. kriegeri is recorded here from its second and third localities in the world. Also five lichenicolous fungi are reported; among them Arthrorhaphis aeruginosa, Polycoccum microcarpum and Sphaerellothecium cladoniae are new to the southern hemisphere, and Roselliniella cladoniae and Tremella cladoniae are new to Bolivia. Additionally, Polycoccum microcarpum is reported for the first time from Slovakia and Ukraine. Cladonia confragosa is reported as a new host for Sphaerellothecium cladoniae and Tremella cladoniae.
23727768|Michelia concinna H. Jiang & E.D. Liu, a new species of Magnoliaceae from SE Yunnan, China is described and illustrated. The morphological characteristics of the new species and two morphologically similar species are compared.
23727201|Hedysarum johartchii Ranjbar sp. nova (Fabaceae) is described and illustrated from Iran. It is compared with the morphologically similar H. jaxarticum and H. iliense. Hedysarum macranthum and H. singarense are reported from Iran for the first time.
23727252|Herbertus aduncus (Dicks.) Gray subsp. aduncus and H. dicranus (Taylor ex Gottsche et al.) Trevis. are reported as new to Hunan Province of China. Descriptions and discussion on the extensive variability of the species, illustrations, and distribution maps are provided. Herbertus lonchobasis H.A. Mill. and H. wichurae Steph. are synonymized with H. dicranus. Herbertus aduncus subsp. aduncus is rare in Hunan and was not present in man-made habitats. Herbertus dicranus is rather rare, but in primeval sites it is moderately common. Herbertus aduncus subsp. aduncus is preferably epilithic, while H. dicranus grows on many substrates, which partly explains the difference in their occurrence. In Hunan, both species grow both in warm temperate and orotemperate zones which is in accordance with their global distribution.
23728100|Stipa kotuchovii M. Nobis, nom. nov., must replace S. monticola Kotuch. 1998, which is an illegitimate name as a younger homonym of S. monticola H. Scholz 1993.
23726538|Three species of Taraxacum Weber new to science are reported from the region of Lago di Garda in northern Italy. Taraxacum amplexum Sonck, related to the Subalpinum group of the sect. Palustria, was found on the mountain La Rocca near Garda and on the slopes of Monte Baldo near Malcesine. Two species, T. rigidipes Sonck and T. bidentilobum Sonck, of the sect. Ruderalia, were collected from Malcesine.
23725026|Within Cladonia subsect. Unciales there is a distinct group of species whose podetia contain greater or lesser amounts of fibrous skeletal tissue and produce abundant minute needle-like crystals (diterpene?) at their tips after a few months' preservation in herbaria. This 'Cladonia boryi group' comprises nine species, viz. Cladonia boryi Tuck., C. subreticulata Ahti (n. sp.; northern South America), C. nipponica Asah., C. pachycladodes Vain., C. substellata Vain., C. zopfii Vain., C. dimorphoclada Robb., C. kanewskii Oxner, and C. caroliniana Tuck. The morphology, chemistry, nomenclature, and distribution of each species are discussed. The following taxa are also briefly discussed but excluded from the Cladonia boryi group: C. alaskana Evans, C. boryi var. albida Mll. Arg., C. hokkaidensis Asah., C. southlandica Martin, C. sublacunosa Vain., C. subsetacea Robb. ex Evans, C. uncialis (L.) Wigg. var. paradoxa Sav. & Elenk., and C. wainii Sav. Cladonia destricta (Nyl.) Fischer-Benzon is definitely a synonym of C. amaurocraea (Frke) Schaer., although generally misapplied for C. zopfii.
23728244|Dianthus goekayi Kaynak, Ylmaz & Dakn sp. nova (Caryophyllaceae) is described and illustrated from northwest Anatolia, Turkey. It resembles especially D. erinaceus, but differs it by its longer stems, inflorescence with 27 flowers, and papillose calyx tube. The stem and calyx of both species were examined and compared using scanning electron microscopy. The geographical distribution of D. goekayi is mapped.
23727918|This study reports a new hybrid combination Ophrys  circlarium Pellegrino, hybr. nov., which derives from two highly divergent species, O. lutea (O. fusca-lutea complex) and O. tarentina (O. sphegodes complex). These two species grow sympatrically in the north of Calabria region (southern Italy), in a stand where two potential hybrid individuals were found during a floristic investigation. Two of the 16 morphometric characters analyzed were intermediate relative to those of the potential parental species. PCR-RFLP analysis of nuclear ribosomal DNA Internal Transcribed Spacer sequences (rDNA ITS) confirmed that the two specimens are hybrids of the two cooccurring Ophrys species.
23727603|Stereophyllum linisii Enroth & B.C.Tan, sp. nova, is a confirmed generic record for the Philippine moss flora. The new species is described and illustrated in line drawings. It differs from the single widely distributed species in the genus, S. radiculosum (Hook.) Mitt., mainly in the completely smooth laminal cells and especially the distinct marginal limbidium in the leaves, consisting of elongate cells.
23725378|The genus Marchantia is represented in Western Melanesia by 11 species, nine of which occur on the Huon Peninsula. Three subgenera are recognized, Subg. Marchantia with two species, Subg. Chlamidium (Corda) Bischl. with three sections and four species, and Subg. Protomarchantia Schust. with two sections and five species. The records of four taxa formerly reported from Western Melanesia are regarded as doubtful: M. emarginata subsp. lecordiana (Steph.) Bischl., M. geminata Reinw. et al., M. linearis Lehm. & Lindenb. and M. vitiensis Steph. None of the 11 species are endemic to Western Melanesia. Seven species are restricted to Asia 4 and/or Oceania (mainly Solomon Islands), three have a wider range, and M. polymorpha L. is subcosmopolitan. A key is presented for the Western Melanesian species. All the species are figured; the subgenera, sections and species are described, and their taxonomy, distribution and ecology are given.
23726437|In Western Melanesia as well as on the Huon Peninsula Targioniaceae is represented by Cyathodium foetidissimum Schiffn., Wiesnerellaceae by Dumortiera hirsuta (Sw.) Nees and Wiesnerella denudata (Mitt.) Steph., Aytoniaceae by Asterella khasyana (Griff.) Pand et al. and Reboulia hemisphaerica (L.) Raddi and Ricciaceae by Riccia novohannoverana Schiffn. Descriptions, ecological and distributional data, illustrations and altitudinal figures are given for every species.
23726122|The effects of industrial air pollution on Bryoria capillaris (Ach.) Brodo & Hawksw. and Hypogymnia physodes (L.) Nyl. were studied at light and electron microscopic level in material sampled in the surroundings of a fertilizer plant and a pulp mill. The changes observed at light and electron microscopic level were very similar in the two industrial environments. Light microscopy revealed an increase in the number of algal cells in both species, and a decrease in the thickness of the cortex layer in H. physodes. At electron microscopic level changes could be seen in both visibly damaged and undamaged thalli. The chloroplast of Trebouxia phycobionts had a rounded appearance, instead of the normal lobate shape, and showed changes in the thylakoid arrangement. The pyrenoglobuli and cytoplasmic storage droplets in algal cells remained small throughout the year compared with those in the controls. The algal cells of the polluted lichens frequently contained dark vacuolar bodies, which were only occasionally seen in the controls. In the mycobiont cells abnormally strong vacuolization occurred, and their cytoplasmic storage droplets were smaller than those in the controls, or absent, throughout the year. The fungal vacuoles often contained dark accumulations which were never seen in control lichens. It is concluded that both symbionts are affected during long-term atmospheric pollution stress. The ultrastructural changes observed are attributed mainly to SO2 and nitrogen compounds.
23726787|Ploidy levels of 71 specimens of Empetrum sampled at 32 localities in Sweden, Norway and Denmark were determined by flow cytometry. Diploid E. nigrum was found at ten localities mostly in the southern parts of the area. Tetraploid E. hermaphroditum was recorded from 24 localities between 6130'N and 6830'N. The diploids and the tetraploids co-occurred in three areas in Sweden and Norway; mixed populations were found in Dovrefjel National Park. A new DNA ploidy level, triploids of probably hybrid origin, was discovered in Jotunsheimen NP in Norway. 2C values were 1.29 pg, 1.94 pg and 2.56 pg for the 2x, 3x and 4x levels, respectively, and no reliable evidence for DNA content variation within a given ploidy level was found. These data represent the first estimations of nuclear DNA content in the family Empetraceae.
23727200|Acalypha chuniana H.G. Ye, Y.S. Ye, X.S. Qin & F.W. Xing sp. nova (Euphorbiaceae), a new species from Hainan Province, China, is described and illustrated. It is compared with the morphologically close A. siamensis.
23724650|100 counts on Chenopodium album L. and a related taxon, here called C. suecicum Murr, are reported from Finland and NE Sweden. Counts from C. album show n = 27 (hexaploid), and from C. suecicum n = 9 (diploid). No intermediates were observed.
23728272|Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers were used to measure the levels of genetic variation and patterns of the population structure within and among the five remaining populations of Ceratopteris pteridoides, an endangered aquatic fern in China. Fourteen RAPD primers amplified 101 reproducible bands, with 34 (33.66%) of them being polymorphic, indicating low levels of genetic diversity at the species level. The level of genetic diversity within the populations was considerably lower, with the percentage of polymorphic bands (PPB) ranging from 16.83% to 24.75%. AMOVA analysis revealed a low level of genetic variation (30.92%) among the populations. The UPGMA cluster of 72 samples detected that individuals from the same population did not form one distinct group, indicating high levels of gene flow between the populations. A Mantel test showed no significant relationship between genetic distance and geographic distance (r = 0.2166). Our results were similar to those obtained in an earlier ISSR analysis. Thus both RAPD and ISSR markers have comparable sensitivity, and could be employed to assess the partition of genetic diversity within and among populations. Several factors including clonal growth, inbreeding, high spore dispersal and the extensive hydrologic connectivity among populations which facilitate long-distance gene flow, might have played an important role in maintaining the genetic structure of the populations. In view of the genetic information currently available, we recommend establishing as many in situ conservation spots as possible and the cross transplanting of plants between populations in order to increase gene flow and preserve the genetic resources of the species.
23724608|1. Four sorediate species of the genus Physconia Poelt occur in Eastern Fennoscandia: P. grisea, P. enteroxantha, P. detersa and P. farrea. 2. Data on their ecology, distribution and role in plant communities are presented. The status of certain varieties formerly described from Finnish material are discussed. 3. P. grisea s. str. is very rare, only once found as an epiphyte in southwestern Finland. 4. P. enteroxantha is quite common in South Finland as an epiphyte near human settlements. In North Finland it grows, like P. detersa and P. farrea, only on rocks. 5. P. detersa is less common, and its range is more eastern and continental. It more often grows on rock faces than P. enteroxantha. 6. The nomenclature of P. farrea has proved uncertain. The species is widespread in Finland, with distribution like P. enteroxantha, but rarer. Ecologically, it is closer to P. detersa, and often grows on mossy rock faces.
23726649|True primeval forests in Estonia generally occur as isolated small patches while only a few larger forest stands still remain, mainly in some protected areas. All the surviving primeval forests have many characteristics in common, e.g., the abundance of hemerophobic vascular plant, lichen, bryophyte and fungus species, the high diversity of the biota in general, and the abundance of coarse woody debris. In 1994 we started to study primeval forests of Estonia and developed a ten point scale to estimate the status of a forest to decide whether it can be classified as a primeval forest or rather as another category of forest stand. Of the surviving primeval forests all the larger stands and some of the smaller ones must be protected if they still support sufficiently large numbers of rare species and hemerophobic species specific to primeval forests.
23728028|The natural hybrid Ophrys  capoliverii Iamonico, Forbicioni & Frangini, hybr. nat. nov. (O. fusca subsp. lucifera  O. speculum) from the Elba Island (Toscana region, central Italy) is described. The flowers have intermediate characters between the putative parents (sepal and petal dimensions, petal colour and hairiness of the lip marginal zone). The new nothospecies is close to O. fusca subsp. lucifera in the ovate basal leaves, green-yellowish colour of the sepals and 2-lobed central lobe of the lip, while it is similar to O. speculum in the number of basal leaves (67), sub-patent position of lateral sepals and petals, red-brownish colour of the lip marginal zone and hairiness of the speculum. Four characters are distinctive in the hybrid: maximum ratio lip length/width (1.8), and speculum shape (entire), colour (black-bluish and orange-yellowish in the marginal zone) and colour pattern (two central grey-bluish parallel lines.
23728094|Using a computer-aided imaging system, the seed morphometric and colorimetric features of Astragalus terraccianoi, A. tegulensis and A. thermensis  all belonging to Astragalus sect. Melanocercis  were measured and analysed. The results confirmed differences between A. terraccianoi and A. tegulensis, as well as the validity of A. tegulensis. Differences between the Corsican and Sardinian populations of A. terraccianoi were also found.
23725061|Reciprocal crosses were performed with Fennoscandian material of Epilobium anagallidifolium, E. lactiflorum, E. hornemannii, E. alsinifolium, E. davuricum, E. palustre, "E. lapponicum" and "E. 113", in order to investigate the interspecific barriers formed by the inhibition of vegetative growth in the hybrids. Eleven kinds of inhibition were noted, each of them caused by a few (often one) complementary nuclear chromosomal factors. Some of them have their own restricted geographical distribution. Most of the species comprise races that differ with regard to the dwarfing factors.
43922147|A new combination, Chenopodium strictum Roth subsp. striatiforme (Murr) Uotila, is made for the taxon generally called C. album L. var. microphyllum Boenninghausen, and its nomenclature discussed. Comparison of its morphology (especially colour, branching habit, leaf shape, pollen and seed characters) with those of C. album and C. strictum shows that the taxon is related to C. strictum rather than to C. album. Details are presented of the distribution of subsp. striatiforme, and of its history in the Baltic Sea area.
23726886|Astragalus zoshkensis (Fabaceae) from Khorassan province of Iran is described as a new species and illustrated. It is characterized by a long (2.55 cm) beak of pod, free stipules, long woody marcescent petioles, and short stems. The new species belongs to Astragalus section Dissitiflori and is related to A. sumbari and A. tolgorensis.
23726428|Pollen, macrofossil and phosphorus analyses were carried out at the Neolithic dwelling place at Niuskala, Turku, SW Finland, dated by the archaeological finds to the period of the Kiukainen Culture. Abundant charred cereal grains, including grains of Hordeum vulgare var. nudum, were dispersed over the former soil surface, now represented by a horizontal soil layer. The accelerator age of the original grain find (3200170 B.P.), corresponding to 36203260 cal BP, and confirmed by the presence of Cerealia pollen grains of the Hordeum type, makes it the oldest grain indicating cultivation so far found in Finland.
23724605|1. Stages of developing smut spores of Anthracoidea aspera were studied in electron micrographs. 2. The spore initials are at first embedded in a superficially homogeneous mucous matrix produced by gelatinization of the sporogenous hyphae. 3. The spore initials then rapidly grow in size, during which time the mucous wall is stretched considerably. 4. At a stage when the spores are about half their final diameter there appear numerous pores (or pits) in the mucous walls. Three possible functions can be suggested for them: a) They may aid in the uptake of nutrients. b) They allow the growing spore an additional possibility for expansion after the beginning of the formation of the final spore wall. c) They may aid in the secretion of some extracellular enzymes. 5. It may be significant that karyogamy occurs at about the time when the pores are formed and when the formation of the final spore wall begins, viz. at the time when the growing spores have reached about half their final diameter. 6. Because the deposition of the spore wall material starts within the pores, their form is preserved and they are visible on the outer surface of the mature spores. It is concluded that the sculpture of the spore wall, most important from the taxonomic point of view, is an expression of the activities of the developing smut spore itself.
23725552|Chromosome numbers of 25 species belonging to 13 genera of Caryophyllaceae, Polygonaceae, Fabaceae, Apiaceae, Cuscutaceae, Plantaginaceae, Asteraceae, Cichoriaceae and Liliaceae were reported on Finnish plant material. The count of Cuscuta europaea L. subsp. halophyta (Fries) Hartman (2n = 14) has not been reported previously. B-chromosomes were found in three species: Crepis tectorum L. subsp. tectorum, Allium schoenoprasum L. and Leontodon autumnalis L.; they have not been earlier reported on L. autumnalis.
23727897|Helichrysum unicapitatum S.G. enol, . Semen & B. ztrk (Asteraceae) is described and illustrated from the SW province of Anatolia, Turkey. It grows on crystalline calcareous rocks between Evran Tepe and Karababa Tepe (18002300 m), situated within the Denizli Babada (Cadmus) Mountain Range. Helichrysum compactum seems to be its closest relative and their affinities are discussed based on morphological data and DNA sequences (nrDNA ITS and ETS).
23724308|1. A mixed stand of Mnium affine Funck and M. medium B. S. G. was studied by biometrical methods. 2. The two taxa in the mixed stand were shown to differ in most of the characters which were studied, and the differences were statistically significant. The most significant differences proved to be the structure of the teeth of the leaf margin, the width of the costa, the shape of the cells of the lamina and leaves, and the length of the decurrent base of the leaves. 3. M. affine and M. medium are two markedly differing taxa, and they ought to be treated as species rather than varieties of a single species.
23726799|Similarity matrices obtained using a null model and nine similarity coefficients based on an exhaustive and hypothetical set of presence/absence data matrices are generated and compared. Likewise, the biogeographic classifications obtained from an empirical set of data (the genera of Asteraceae of Mexico) and from the application of the same nine similarity coefficients and three cluster methods are compared. It is concluded that differences in the classifications generated from different similarity coefficients can be of almost 50% with the set of hypothetical matrices and more than 70% with the empirical data. The kind of clustering method (single, complete, or average) also generates differences in the classification topologies, even when using the same similarity coefficient. The empirical data produced similar topologies in 51% to 85% of the cases. Due to the dependence among the similarity coefficients, the cluster method used, and the generated classifications, it is concluded that classifications obtained through the use of different similarity coefficients or cluster methods are not comparable. The most similar classification topologies were obtained from the use of the Jaccard and Sorensen-Dice similarity coefficients. They also showed the lowest number of poorly informative structures.
23725037|Altogether 340 species of mosses (excl. Sphagnum) are reported from the island of Newfoundland, Canada. About 80 species are new to Newfoundland; one species, Thuidium tamariscinum (Hedw.) B.S.G., is new to North America. The voucher specimens of many old literature records are revised and about 50 species recorded from Newfoundland are excluded from the flora, or the records are considered to be doubtful. Most of the species have a holarctic, circumpolar distribution. Four main distribution groups are recognised on the basis of the distribution in Newfoundland: (1) ubiquitous species, more or less common throughout the island; (2) northern species occurring mainly on Northern Peninsula; (3) southern species which are absent from Northern Peninsula; and (4) species occurring mainly in the inland areas. Although Newfoundland is an island with a coastal climate, the oceanic moss element is not well represented. However, many species regarded as suboceanic are widespread, especially on the south coast. The list of species includes many taxonomic, nomenclatural, ecological, and phytogeographical A separate list is given of the type specimens studied in connection with this investigation.
23727619|Carex duriuscula subsp. stenophylloides is a sedge species in alpine grassland ecosystems on the Tibetan Plateau. Here we examine its physiological and growth responses to variation in simulated rainfall in a growing season. Compared with the present local rainfall, increased rainfall had no effect on any measured trait except for long-term water use efficiency, and decreased rainfall significantly reduced total leaf area and biomass production, while only severe limitation of rainfall decreased net photosynthetic rate, stomatal conductance, transpiration rate, and apparent carboxylation efficiency. Net photosynthetic rate was significantly correlated with stomatal conductance, transpiration rate, apparent carboxylation efficiency, and leaf water potential. Total plant dry weight was significantly correlated with net photosynthetic rate, total leaf area, and leaf area ratio. These findings suggest that stomatal limitation and degraded activity of mesophyll cells result in a decrease in net photosynthesis, and that decreased net photosynthesis and total leaf area lead to a decrease in plant production. Based on our measurements, sedge-dominated ecosystems of the Tibetan Plateau are more likely to be impacted by decreases in growing season rainfall than by increases.
23725556|The effects of acid deposition on forest ecosystems have increased the need for determinations of the sulphur content of conifer needles and other plant material. The paper is mainly based on analyses of pine needles from Finnish rural and urban forests. The background values of the needle sulphur contents recorded during the wintertime in different analyses ranged from 528 ppm to 925 ppm. The urban sulphur contents of needles are highest in February-March, and the dispersion area is also greatest at that time. The paper presents the variation of needle sulphur contents in the Finnish towns Oulu, Kemi, Valkeakoski and Pori. In this study the sulphur contents of pine needles and spruce needles were approximately same. The sulphur content of birch leaves was higher than that of the conifer needles; in urban areas levels of 1600 to over 2800 ppm were obtained and the background values varied from 1458 to 1489 ppm. The wintertime sulphur contents of needles are recommended for use as biological indices of air pollution.
23725155|Vegetation units of transitional peatlands are described. Basic draining, and fertilization with urea and NPK increased the total mushroom yield to over 500 kg/ha. The Lactarius rufus yield was over 85 % of the total dry weight and it was more than 20 times the yield of a virgin dwarf-shrub pine bog. Paxillus involutus benefitted from the same fertilizers. The fruit bodies of the saprophytic fungi formed only 1.4 % of the dry weight of the total yield, but quantitatively they formed 34.7 % of all fruit bodies collected. Omphalina ericetorum, the algae and fungus partners in association, appeared to benefit from urea and NPK-fertilizers for a short time. In all, 107 species of fungi were found in 19751976 on drained, fertilized and virgin peatlands in Central Finland.
23725388|In the summit region of the Lozenska Planina (Mts.), Sofia, Bulgaria, seven species, hybrids and biotypes of Luzula sect. Luzula were found coexisting at a single locality. It was possible to identify Luzula divulgata Kirschner, a new record for Bulgaria, L. campestris (L.) DC. subsp. campestris and L. multiflora (Ehrh.) Lej. subsp. snogerupii Kirschner, subsp. nov. (with the chromosome constitution of 2n = 12AL+24BL, related to L. pallidula), L. campestris s.str.  L. fallax Kirschner, L. divulgata  L. multiflora subsp. snogerupii, and two presumable derivatives of L. fallax Kirschner (with 2n = 24BL and 2n = 30BL etc.). A morphological and karyological analysis of Luzula sect. Luzula at the locality is provided.
23727718|The name Hieracium largum Fr., formerly misinterpreted as a synonym of H. robustum Fr., is reduced to the synonymy of H. umbellatum L. The holotype citation for H. largum is provided.
23725501|In metabolically active heterocysts, TTC (2,3,5-triphenyl-2-tetrazolium chloride) is reduced to insoluble crystals, observable by light microscopy. The method proved to be applicable to Baltic Sea samples in methodological and bag experiments. The samples showed a fairly constant proportion of active heterocysts (6884%), which suggested that heterocystic bluegreen algae control their nitrogen fixation by regulating the number of heterocysts rather than the proportion of active heterocysts.
23728121|Ferrocalamus fibrillosus H.N. Nguyen & V.T. Tran sp. nova (Poaceae: Bambusoideae) is described and illustrated from Vietnam. It is similar to F. strictus and F. rimosivaginus but differs by the culm sheaths having erect and ca. 0.40.3 cm long auricles, and setae ca. 0.4 cm long. There are 10 or 12 white cylindrical fibrils inside the internodes and connecting two diaphragms.
23725008|The Finnish Biological Expedition to Nubia in 1962 has yielded records of 345 species of vascular plants (29 only cultivated) for the Northern and Kassala Provinces, Republic of the Sudan. The flora of the essentially rainless Wadi Halfa reach of the Nile, which is now completely inundated by Lake Nasser, consisted of ca. 194 species (25 only cultivated). No endemic taxa are reported from the Wadi Halfa area, and about 70 per cent of the wild flora is estimated to be anthropochorous. The list of species includes many taxonomic, nomenclatural and ecological notes. New to the Sudan are Becium sp. nova (undescribed) aff. B. filamentosum (Forsk.) Chiov., Caralluma speciosa (N. E. Brown) N. E. Brown, Cymbopogon sp. (evidently undescribed), Imperata cylindrica (L.) P. Beauv. var. cylindrica, Indigofera linnaei Ali, Launaea nudicaulis (L.) Hook. fil., Paspalum vaginatum Swartz, and Scirpus litoralis Schrad. A number of other species are new to the Northern and Kassala Provinces.
23727266|Oxytropis lhasaensis X. Y. Zhu sp. nova (Fabaceae) from Xizang in China is described and illustrated. It belongs to Oxytropis sect. Sericopetala and is related to O. sericopetala and O. parasericopetala. Supplementary taxonomic notes on this section are provided.
23725897|An account is given of the amounts of nutrients present in the mineral soil, raw humus and litter as well as the various vegetation layers of a 250-year-old virtually natural spruce forest (Picea abies (L.) Karst.). Separate figures are given for soluble nutrients and total nutrients in the soil, for the nutrients in the various parts of the trees and the ground vegetation and for nutrient concentrations in the vegetation at different stages during the summer. Data on decomposition of the humus layer are also given. The dry matter contained in the raw humus after removing the roots amounted to approx. 35 t/ha, and the nutrients present varied between 20 % (K) and 50 % (N) of the amounts found in the tree layer, ground vegetation, litter and humus combined. The amounts of total nutrients in the surface layer of the mineral soil (approx. 40 cm thick) were similarly large, although the proportions of soluble nutrients were usually low, below 1 % of the total figure in the case of nitrogen, for instance. The new growth in both the ground vegetation and the tree layer usually contained higher concentrations of nutrients than the older parts, and variations were also found in the course of the summer, the concentrations in the new parts normally declining towards the autumn, and those in the older parts of certain species doing the same. The results suggest that considerable amounts of nutrients are transferred from one part of the plant to another in the course of time. This seems to be inevitable in the case of nitrogen, in view of the low soluble nitrogen content of the soil. It should also be remembered that the plants may obtain some of their nitrogen direct from the atmosphere. A certain amount of decomposition is shown to take place in the raw humus even in winter, the ground remaining unfrozen or gaining only a thin frost layer on account of the depth of the snow cover. On the whole, litter decomposition is nevertheless slow in this forest, and this is the principal reason for the existence of such a thick raw humus layer in old forests of this type.
23725470|A new species, Taraxacum subolivaceum Sonck (sect. Palustria, is described. This species was collected in Epirus in 1983, 1984 and 1985, from several localities in the district of Ioannina. A new name, T. vexatum Sonck, is proposed for T. lacistophylloides Sonck (sect. Erythrosperma), which, unfortunately, was a homonym (used earlier by H. Dahlstedt).
23726680|Pseudoperistylus aethiopicus Szlach. & Olsz. sp. nova (Orchidaceae, Roeperocharidinae) is described, illustrated and its taxonomic position is briefly discussed. Two new combinations within the genus are proposed: P. lefebureanus (A. Rich.) Szlach. & Olsz. and P. montolivaea (Kraenzl. ex Engl.) Szlach. & Olsz.
23725594|Fissidens dubius P. Beauv. is lectotypified and its taxonomy and history are examined. F. cristatus Wils. ex Mitt., F. decipiens De Not. and F rupestris Wils. ex Jaeg. are assigned to its synonymy and their typification and history are discussed.
23726304|Fire scars on living Scots pines (Pinus sylvestris L.) and pine stumps dated by dendro-chronology were used as evidence for fire history, the chronology of which was established for a period of 582 years, 14121994. A total of 36 different fire years were identified, the average incidence of fires in the area being once every 11.2 years. The mean fire interval was 36.7 years on the upper part of the hill and 58.6 years on the lower part. Forest fires increased in the 17th century and decreased at the end of the 19th century.
23726186|Nine species of lichens of the genus Cladonia (Ascomycotina: Lecanorales) sect. Cocciferae are reported from the Venezuelan Andes, mainly from the pramos. Three species are described as new, viz. Cladonia leprocephala Ahti & Stenr. (Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru), C. meridensis Ahti & Stenr. (Venezuela, Colombia, Peru, Bolivia), and C. microscypha Ahti & Stenr. (Venezuela, Colombia). C. symphoriza Nyl. and C. erythromelaena Mll. Arg. are included in C. miniata G. Meyer, and C. jamaicensis G. K. Merrill ex Vareschi (nom. nud.) in C. bacillaris. The taxonomic problems posed by C. coccifera (L.) Willd. s. lat., C. didyma (Fe) Vainio s. lat., and C. macilenta Hoffm. s. lat. are discussed. The major phenolic constituents of each species are reported.
23726904|Lecanorchis seidenfadeni Szlach. & Myt. sp. nova (Orchidaceae, Vanilloideae) from Malaya is described, illustrated in line drawings and compared with two allied species, L. malaccensis Ridl. and L. multiflora J. J. Sm.
23726852|Species-rich, semi-natural meadows in Finland are threatened. During the last century most of them have either been abandoned or changed into cultivated fields. This has resulted in a collapse of species and habitat diversity of the Finnish agricultural landscape. In this study, we tried to define the present state of inland semi-natural meadows on mineral soil in North Ostrobothnia and in immediate vicinity. We compared the material gathered in national inventory of traditional rural biotopes in Finland with two data sets from the beginning of the last century to find out how does the detected species composition correspond to vegetation types established by two early researchers, A. K. Cajander and K. Tersvuori. The studied meadows' species composition differs markedly from the meadow types described earlier. Present-day meadows are characterized by several nitrophilous species indicating that modern type of management, where supplementary forage is provided for grazing animals, causes eutrophication. Because the open meadows in North Ostrobothnia are in such a poor condition,  eutrophication and resulting low species diversity  the protection of semi-natural habitats more typical of the coastal areas, e.g. seashore meadows, in particular, should be emphasized.
23725080|Callus from a leaf of Lathyrus niger (L.) Bernh. and callus from a stem of L. japonicus Willd. were grown nearly one year on complex agar medium (basal medium of Murashige and Skoog) supplemented with 10 % coconut milk, 2.0 mg/l 2,4-D and 0.05 mg/l kinetin. The ploidy level of the mitoses was followed through nine transfers in both callus cultures. Both tissues showed a strong tendency to polyploidy in long-term culture. The change to polyploidy was more rapid in the stem callus than in the leaf callus. This may be due to somatic polyploidy in the original stem explant. Both tissues changed mainly to tetraploidy, although mitosis was also observed at the diploid and higher ploidy levels. Tracheary elements were formed in the primary callus cultures and in all the subcultures. The secondary wall pattern varied, the thickenings being mainly reticulate.
23725273|Nemoreus and nemorosus are orthographic variants but two correctly formed adjectives. Hence, Linnaeus' change of the name Jungermannia nemorea L. 1759 to J. nemorosa L. 1763 was illegitimate, and this liverwort species is to be called Scapania nemorea (L.) Grolle (and not S. nemorosa (L.) Dum.).
23727622|Caragana qingheensis Z.Y. Chang, L.R. Xu & F.C. Shi sp. nova (Fabaceae) is described and illustrated from Xinjiang, China. It is similar to C. camilli-schnederi Kom. by sharing the hairy leaflets and pods, but differs in its much smaller leaflets and flowers, calyx teeth 1/2 to 2/3 the length of tube, and longer wing auricle. It belongs to Caragana ser. Frutescentes and is only known from its type locality to date.
23727739|Sixteen species of Tremella Pers. are currently known from Finland. Fifteen of them are illustrated and described, and a key to all Finnish species is given. Tremella cetrariicola Diederich & Coppins, T. cladoniae Diederich & M.S. Christ., T. giraffa Chee J. Chen, T. globispora D.A. Reid, T. phaeophysciae Diederich & M.S. Christ., T. polyporina D.A. Reid and T. ramalinae Diederich are reported as new to Finland.
23726055|Three new subspecies of Ranunculus auricomus L. are described, viz. R. auricomus L. subsp. calvescens H.Sm. ex Fagerstr. & Kvist, subsp. arctophilus Markl. ex Fagerstr. & Kvist, and subsp. kevonsis Fagerstr. & Kvist. In addition, one new combination [R. auricomus L. subsp. alpestris (Laest.) Fagerstr. & Kvist] is made and discussed.
23727930|Antimonite precipitation was used to detect Ca2+ in the stigmas and styles of lettuce (Lactuca sativa) before and after pollination. Abundant calcium precipitates were detected in the papillae walls on the receptive surface of the stigma both before and after pollination. Meanwhile, few calcium granules were observed in the wall of epidermal cells on the non-receptive surface. Before pollination, calcium formed a gradient from the top to the base of the style in the transmitting tissue and parenchyma cells. After pollination, calcium levels increased in the transmitting tissue, and the gradient distribution became stronger. The calcium gradient was also observed in the tracheae of the vascular bundle of the style. These results indicate that a calcium gradient exists in the lettuce style, and that pollination induces an increase in stylar calcium levels.
23726662|Surface water chemistry of two mires was studied in an area with siliceous bedrock and consequently dilute fen waters. Range of variation from moderately rich fen to ombrotrophic bog vegetation was found. Rich fen vegetation was found in Ca concentrations similar to bogs and poor fens, found in many other studies. The poor-rich gradient was related most distinctly to pH, alkalinity, conductivity and the concentrations of Mg and Na. Contrary to the vertical isolation theory of development from fen to bog, in our study the poorrich gradient was found in an inverse vertical sequence. In the case of weakly buffered waters, downstream spatial succession of water chemistry, including accumulation of organic acidity, is suggested to play a part in the development of the poorrich gradient. The variation of Al, Fe, Mn and S was found to form a partly independent chemical gradient, related to surface water flow from a podzolic catchment.
23725385|The material subjected to pollen and macrofossil analyses was deposited directly on the remains of a wooden floor in the castle of Kkisalmi, and was dated approximately to the 16th18th centuries. The period of the 13th16th centuries was investigated in more detail. The high pollen frequencies of Cerealia and natural Poaceae most probably indicate storage of food and fodder inside the castle, rather than the proximity of cultivated fields. These main pollen indicators were accompanied by high frequencies of, for example, Cichoriaceae, Chenopodiaceae and pollen of Centaurea cyanus. Among cultivated plants Fagopyrum and Linum were also represented. Macrofossil analysis was used to facilitate identification of the species involved in the pollen spectra.
23725549|Descriptions are given for Peltigera kristinssonii Vitik., spec. nova, P. pacifica Vitik., spec. nova and P. retifoveta Vitik., spec. nova (lichenized Ascomycetes: Peltigerales). P. kristinssonii, previously incorrectly known as P. occidentalis (Dahl) Krist., is an incompletely circumboreal species occurring in boreal and arctic Eurasia and North America. P. pacifica is known only from western North America, where it shows oceanic tendencies. P. retifoveata apparently has a very scarce occurrence in Eurasia, being more frequent in the boreal forests of western North America. Unlike its related species in the P. canina group, it contains a constant set of triterpenoid hopanes and the depsides tenuiorin and methyl gyrophorate.
23725213|The new combination Plagiomnium subelimbatum (Dix.) T. Kop. (= Mnium rotundifolium Bartr. var. limbatum Zant., syn. nov.) is made. The species is endemic in New Guinea and is distinguished from other members of Plagiomnium sect. Rostrata by several unique characters.
23724590|The taxonomy of Macaronesian perennial Cerastia has been revised, especially considering some material not examined by earlier authors. The morphological scrutiny performed indicates that three different species exist within the Macaronesian area, each group of islands (the Canary Islands, Madeira, and the Azores) possessing a taxon of its own. The Canarian plant, restricted to the island of La Palma only, has been described as Cerastium sventenii Jalas, nova spec. It has previously been identified as C. arvense L., differing from it, however, in its erect pedicels and peculiarities of capsule wall anatomy. From the Madeiran and Azorian taxa it differs in the leaf and capsule wall anatomy, as well as seed characters. The Madeiran and Azorian taxa, although undoubtedly morphologically close to each other, have been treated as two different species, C. vagans Lowe and C. azoricum Hochst. ex Seub. Differential characteristics include shape of leaves and inflorescence, and seed size.
23725395|The paper discusses the status of four species of the genus Cladonia from Madagascar and Runion: C. abbatiana Stenroos (described here as new), C. valida (des Abb.) Stenroos (a new combination), C. insignis Nyl. and C. perplexa des Abb. C. insignis was found to contain hypothamnolic acid, which is uncommon in the family Cladoniaceae. New synonyms are C. delessertii var. subdivaricata Vainio, Coralloides furcata Bory ex Flrke and Patellaria foliacea var. boryana Wallroth (= C. perplexa). C. perplexa des Abb. is lectotypified.
23725441|The errors in estimations of phytoplankton primary productivity and chlorophyll a concentration on a single day were analyzed from the data collected at Lake Pijnne, central Finland, on July 25 (site 570) and July 27 (site 810), 1977. Ristiselk (site 570) is considered to be mesotrophic and Asikkalanselk (site 810) oligotrophic. Errors in seasonal means of the same parameters were estimated from the data collected in 19751977 at Tehinselk (site 750) and Asikkalanselk. The collected data were analyzed with the nested analysis of variance to compute the components of variance, their relative magnitude and the relative accuracy of the obtained primary productivity and chlorophyll a estimates on a single day. The coefficient of variation of a single measurement of primary productivity on a single day was 15.9 % at site 570 and 17.8 % at site 810. The corresponding values of chlorophyll a were 15.4 % and 11.5 %, respectively. The analytical error of primary productivity comprised 64.8 % of the total variance at site 570 and 50.6 % at site 810 on the daily level. For chlorophyll a these values were 23.3 % and 34.0 %, respectively. Spatial and diurnal variations were shown to be relatively unimportant compared with the temporal variability in the estimation of seasonal means. For primary productivity the time component was 426 fold the space component, representing from 81 to 96 % of the total variance on the seasonal level. For chlorophyll a the time component comprised from 63 to 91 % of the total variance being 210 fold the space component. The potential sources of bias in present determination methods were elucidated and conclusions drawn on the design of sampling arrangements.
23724964|A study was made of the pollution by pulp factory effluents of the waters below Mntt (the lower part of Lake Kuorevesi) in the Finnish Lake District. The methods employed were those generally used in water analyses. The results indicated the extent of the polluted area and the different degrees of pollution in the years 1963  1968. Attention was paid to the relation of the hydrophytes and the phytoplankton to the pollution. Maps were made showing the distribution and abundance of the hydrophytic species, account being taken of changes occurring during the study period. Information was thus obtained on their capacity to tolerate different degrees of pollution. Some species were found to benefit by pollution and some to suffer from it, while others were more or less indifferent to it. Pollution caused changes in the zonation of the hydrophytes, and tended to reduce the size of the leaves of some of the floating-leaved species. The quantity and species composition of the phytoplankton were found to alter with the degree of pollution. An attempt was made to define the changes occasioned by pollution within the framework of the classification of lake types, hydrophytic and phytoplanktonic species being used as indicators. The special nature of the pollution made it difficult to determine the trophic status of the waters. Their pollutional status was also examined with reference to various Saprobiensystems.
23726566|Cololejeunea astyla Mizut., previously known only from North Borneo, is proposed as a synonym of C. platyneura (Spruce) A. Evans, which was known from Africa, South America and Vietnam and is here reported for the first time for China (Yunnan). The taxonomy of C. platyneura and related species is discussed and a distribution map of it is provided.
23726120|The article deals with vascular, bryophyte and lichen synusiae. The total species richness (alpha diversity) of lichens is 63 % of the total mean. Alpha diversity increases towards higher potential evapotranspiration (PE) and higher continentality (Conrad's index; CI). The rate of change (beta diversity) along the PE and CI gradients is greatest for bryophytes and smallest for vascular plants; PE is more important than CI. Moisture (Thornthwaite's index) is less important for the cryptogamic synusiae, but for vascular plants it is the most important gradient. The alpha and beta diversities do not correlate. Estimates of gradient lengths in half-changes are strongly dependent on the choice of similarity index.
23725852|Fruit-bodies of two mycorrhizal fungus species, Lactarius rufus (Fr.) Fr. and Suillus variegatus (Fr.) O. Kuntze, were collected from four heath forests in the region of Oulu, N. Finland. They were divided into three size classes and analyses for Mg, Mn, Fe, Cu and Zn were carried out separately on the pilei and the stipes. Samples of humus from the substrates were analysed for Mg, Mn, Fe and Zn. The Mg concentrations in both species were low compared with those in many other fungus species. The Mn level in S. variegatus was generally low, while that in L. rufus was average. Average values were also obtained for Fe in L. rufus, and Cu and Zn in both species. S. variegatus proved to be an efficient bioconcentrator of Fe, the levels ranging from 700 to 4600 mg/kg d.wt. The mineral concentrations were higher in the pilei than in the stipes, except for Mn in both species and Fe in L. rufus. The concentrations of exchangeable Mg and Mn in the humus seemed to be positively correlated with the Mg and Mn levels in S. variegatus. In S. variegatus the Mg, Cu and Zn levels were clearly higher in the small fruit-bodies than in the middle-sized and large ones. The Mn and Fe concentrations were generally also highest in the small fruit-bodies. No clear differences were found between the size classes in L. rufus. The reason why the two species differ in this respect may be that in S. variegatus the growth rate is about twice as high as in L. rufus. The high growth rate may also explain why especially many positive correlations were noted between the elements in S. variegatus.
23727965|Arundinaria baviensis Balansa was found to have short-necked pachymorph rhizomes and culms with nodal rings of root thorns, especially dense at lower nodes. This is in accordance with the characteristics of Chimonocalamus, and therefore a new combination, Chimonocalamus baviensis (Balansa) N.H. Xia, V.L. Le & Y.F. Deng, is proposed.
23726344|Description of a new species of Taraxacum, belonging to section Palustria, T. fennobalticum Sonck & Y. Mkinen, found on a stony seashore meadow at Strmfors in Nyland, Finland. This species was earlier known chiefly from Esthonia, but misinterpreted as T. lissocarpum Dahlst.
43922188|The biofungicide strain K61 of Streptomyces griseoviridis, isolated from light coloured Sphagnum peat was found to produce the auxin indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). The amount of IAA produced on solid media was of the same order of magnitude as the concentration of exogenously supplied IAA that has been reported to induce root elongation and cell division in meristematic tissues. Therefore, when Streptomyces griseoviridis is used as a biological control agent, it may serve as a supplier of exogenous growth promoter and thereby explain the earlier observed increases in the yield of cucumbers, that resulted from spraying the surface of the substrate with a spore suspension or a powdery preparation prepared by fermentation and freeze-drying of Streptomyces griseoviridis.
23727602|A field expedition to study wood-inhabiting fungi in eastern Xizang Autonomous Region (Tibet), western China, was made in summer of 2004, and based on materials collected during the expedition and some herbarium specimens 154 poroid aphyllophoraceous fungi were identified. This paper gives a checklist of our results, and most of the species are here reported for the first time from Xizang. Substrates and collecting data of each species are supplied in the checklist. Ceriporiopsis egula C.J. Yu & Y.C. Dai, Heterobasidion linzhiense Y.C. Dai & Korhonen and Polyporus subvarius C.J. Yu & Y.C. Dai are new to science, and illustrated in line drawings. Species diversity of polypores in eastern Xizang is very high. The major component of the eastern Xizang polypore flora is widely distributed circumpolar, temperate and boreal species.
23727226|Suillosporium caricis Kotir. & Saaren. sp. nova is described from Estonia. It grows at bases of living and dying Carex species intermixed with Epithele typhae (Fr.) Pat. The new species is relatively thin, smooth with some hyphal pegs, pale cream-coloured. The hyphal system is monomitic, and cystidial organs are clamped, multi-celled and spores narrowly fusiform, ca. 1417  3.54 m.
23727999|Astragalus gilvanensis Ranjbar & Nouri sp. nova (Fabaceae) is described and illustrated. It belongs to Astragalus sect. Incani and is endemic to Iran. Its morphological characters, meiotic chromosome number and meiotic behavior were studied. It is a mixoploid plant with the ploidy levels 2n = 2x = 16 and 2n = 4x = 32, consistent with the proposed base number of x = 8. Although the species displayed regular bivalent pairing and chromosome segregation at meiosis, some meiotic abnormalities were observed. The meiotic irregularities included the occurrence of varied degrees of sticky chromosomes in diakinesis to metaphase, laggard chromosomes in anaphase, cytomixis in prophase to telophase, asynchronous nuclei, and binuclear cells.
23726847|Corydalis pinnatibracteata Y.W. Wang et al. sp. nova (Fumariaceae) is described from Qinghai, China. It is compared with the related C. sibirica (L. f.) Pers. and C. pseudoimpatiens Fedde and an identification key to the three species is presented.
43922203|The presence of Microspongium globosum Reinke in Finnish coastal waters is reported. Cultures established at Liverpool and Copenhagen show typical development at low temperatures (4-5C). Thalli, 1-2 mm in diameter, consist of branched upright filaments and hairs arising from a base of procumbent filaments. Reproduction is entirely asexual by means of zoospores from linear plurilocular sporangia.
23726812|Pachykytospora nanospora A. David & Rajchenb., originally described from Gabon (West Africa), is transferred to the genus Haploporus as H. nanosporus (A. David & Rajchenb.) M. Pitek, comb. nova. The species is for the first time recorded for Cameroon and Papua New Guinea, and its world distribution is reviewed and presented on a map. A sectional subdivision of the genus Haploporus is proposed, with two sections: sect. Haploporus and sect. Pachykytospora (Kotl. & Pouzar) M. Pitek, stat. & comb. nova.
23728177|Reseda minoica Martn-Bravo & Jim. Mejas (Resedaceae), a new species from the eastern Mediterranean region, is described and illustrated. It is distributed in Crete (Gavdos Island), Cyprus and S Anatolia (Mersin), where it grows mostly on basic, occasionally schistose, substrates near the coast. It is included in Reseda sect. Phyteuma, a taxonomically complex group mostly containing narrow endemics from the western or eastern Mediterranean region. Reseda minoica has been confused with R. odorata, R. orientalis and R. balansae in Crete, Cyprus and Turkey. It can be distinguished from those by the lower number of stamens, seed size, colour of petals and indumentum. An identification key to the eastern Mediterranean taxa of Reseda sect. Phyteuma is provided.
23726175|Moss bags (Sphagnum) were used to collect airborne heavy metals in the surroundings of copper and nickel smelters and a chemical plant in summer 1981 and winter 1981  1982. The accumulation of cadmium, copper and nickel was greater than that measured earlier from Finland by the same method. The copper and nickel pollution must also be considered great in comparison with foreign reports. The metal accumulation was greater in the winter than in the summer, mainly due to the summer holiday breaks. The spatial distribution of the metals was chiefly influenced by the wind but also by the topography. The accumulation of all the metals increased with decreasing distance from the factories. When the moss bag method is used, it is important to standardize the size and density of the bags. The method provides a rapid and inexpensive way of monitoring the intensity and distribution of heavy metal pollution.
23725222|A data set consisting of 56 site types and 300 species representative of central and northern boreal mire vegetation was analysed with two eigenvector techniques, factor analysis (FA) and reciprocal averaging (RA). A six-factor Varimax solution of FA (resulting from a correlation matrix between sites) provided an ecologically interpretable multidimensional framework for the analysis of the relationships between site types. Both FA and RA produced satisfactory two-dimensional ordinations, while RA was found superior for arranging the species along two major gradients, according to mire-margin effect and trophic status.
23727376|This paper is the first part of a taxonomic revision of the type section of the genus Pseudoliparis (Orchidaceae, Malaxidinae). One new species is described. Lectotypes are selected for Pseudoliparis laevis (Schltr.) Szlach. & Marg. and Pseudoliparis undulata (Schltr.) Szlach. & Marg.
23727187|Lithocarpus yangchunensis H.G. Ye & F.G. Wang (Fagaceae) is described and illustrated. It is restricted to the evergreen broad-leaved forest on Mount Hewei, Yangchun County, Guangdong Province, China. It is most similar to L. attenuatus, but differs in its long-caudate leaf blade, androgynous inflorescences, pallid cupules that enclose 3/44/5 of the nuts, and in the smaller nuts. A key is provided to distinguish the morphologically most similar taxa.
23726153|The revision of the genus Carex for Flora iranica requires four new subspecies to be described: C. decaulescens V. Krecz. subsp. brunneola Kukk., C. demissa Hornem. subsp. iranica Kukk., C. pseudofoetida Kkenthal subsp. afghanica Kukk. and C. remota L. subsp. stewartii Kukk. The following five taxa previously described as distinct species have been accorded the rank of subspecies: C. decaulescens V. Krecz. subsp. alsia (Raymond) Kukk., C. orbicularis Boott subsp. kotschyana (Boiss. & Hohenack.) Kukk., C. physodes Bieb. subsp. subphysodes (M. Popov ex V. Krecz.) Kukk., C. pseudofoetida Kkenthal subsp. acrifolia (V. Krecz.) Kukk. and C. serotina Mrat subsp. philocrena (V. Krecz.) Kukk.
23725016|A new combination, Tayloria squarrosa (Hook.) Koponen, is proposed.
23726562|The importance of the seed bank as a regenerative strategy in disturbed mires and the viability of seeds and spores in peat stratigraphy on two drained mires were studied prior to restoration. Most of the seedlings developed from the surface sample but still viable seeds occurred in the deepest layer sampled (50 cm). Germination from seeds, however, remained low. Six species of vascular plants: Betula pubescens Ehrh., Eriophorum vaginatum L., Rubus chamaemorus L., Vaccinium myrtillus L., V. uliginosum L., and Andromeda polifolia L. with a maximum of 367 seedlings per m2 germinated. The regenerative strategy of these plants seems to be vegetative expansion from adventitious roots and buried propagules rather than germination from seeds. It was found, however, that some seeds in the peat profile may preserve their viability for centuries.
23728219|Two new species of Elatostema from Guangxi, China are described and illustrated. They are E. sexcostatum W.T. Wang, C.X. He & L.F. Fu, which is morphologically most similar to E. balansae, and E. oligophlebium W.T. Wang, Y.G. Wei & L.F. Fu, which is morphologically most similar to E. obtusum and E. crassiusculum.
23726584|On the basis of phylogenetic analysis, the family Scapaniaceae Mig. is emended to include only the genus Scapania (Dumort.) Dumort. emend. Potemkin. The genus Macrodiplophyllum (H. Buch) Perss. is recognized as a subgenus in Scapania. The new combinations Scapania subgenus Macrodiplophyllum (H. Buch) Potemkin and Scapania plicata (Lindb.) Potemkin are provided. A new family, Diplophyllaceae Potemkin, with two genera, Diplophyllum (Dumort.) Dumort. and Douinia H. Buch, is segregated from the Scapaniaceae as a group of different origins resulting in a different morphology. Douinia is distinguished as a genus derived from Diplophyllum and its rank as a subfamily is rejected. The distinctive characters of Delavayella Steph. are discussed. Segregation of Delavayellaceae R.M. Schust. and Blepharidophyllaceae (R.M. Schust.) R.M. Schust. from the Scapaniaceae is supported.
23725054|The concentrations of chlorophyll a, b, c and phaeopigments in Lovojrvi were studied from 25. IV. 1974 to 6. I. 1975. Attention was paid to the seasonal variation and vertical distribution of the pigments. Both the equations of Parsons & Strickland and those of Lorenzen were used in the calculations, and the differences between the results reached by the two methods were examined. Both glass-fibre and membrane filters were used in the filtrations; the differences between the results obtained with the two filter types were small. Lovojrvi has long been eutrophicated, and the stratification in summer is very stable. The lake shows meromictic features. In 1974 the vigorous blooms of Cyanophyta observed in earlier years did not occur, because the summer was cooler than usual. However, the pigment concentrations were high in July, and a maximum chlorophyll a value of 94 mg/m2 was recorded in the thin (03.5 m) trophogenic layer.
23727722|In order to reveal some of the germination requirements of the boreal-alpine terrestrial orchid Dactylorhiza lapponica, several experiments were carried out on seeds collected from the Slendet nature reserve, central Norway. Seeds were sown in seed packets made of nylon cloth and deployed in situ vertically in the peat in order to study the temporal pattern of seed germination and determine if the seeds became part of the soil seed bank. In vitro germination experiments were carried out varying the growth media, fungal partner and chilling treatment, in order to study the effect of a fungal symbiont on germination and early protocorm development, and the possibility of a physiological seed dormancy. A high rate of germination a short time after sowing in the in vitro experiments together with a very low survival after deployment in the in situ experiments (0.2% after three years) indicate that D. lapponica seeds are not part of a long-lived soil seed bank. In vitro experiments also demonstrated that a fungal symbiont was not required for germination. Seeds sown in situ had very low germination rate (11%12%) and lack of available nutrients is suggested as a possible explanation. Presence of a fungal symbiont clearly enhanced the early development of protocorms in vitro, and is probably necessary for the seedling to grow beyond the earliest protocorm stages under natural conditions. The results indicate that recruitment is highly variable and very low relative to population size, indicating that survival of established plants is crucial to the fate of a population.
23725348|The province of Buenos Aires is situated on the eastern side of central Argentina. Its area is 307 563 km2 and it extends westward from the coast of the Atlantic Ocean for ca. 600 km. The topography mainly consists of pampa, which today is in agricultural use. During four journeys lasting altogether ca. six months in 1967, 1974, 1978 and 1983, I had the opportunity to study the flora of Argentina, of which alien immigrants form a considerable part, particularly in the capital Buenos Aires and its surroundings. This paper lists after the continent of origin all the alien species reported in the floras evidenced as found in the province of Buenos Aires. These number 404, making up 23.4% of the total 1 730 species of the province. Europe has contributed 337 species (83.5% of the aliens), Africa 23 (5.7%), Asia 21 (5.2%), North America 20 (5.0%) and Australia and New Zealand 3 (0.7%). The frequency of the aliens in the province is estimated on a scale from 1 to 5. All the 29 species in the highest category 5 are of European origin, and only four of the 66 species in category 4 are from outside Europe. The aliens have often proved superior to the indigenous species in a cultivated environment, and many of them have intruded into more or less natural vegetation, too, e.g. pastureland, marshes, coastal dunes and the forest belt along the Atlantic shore. The role of horses and cattle in dissemination and the status of aliens is discussed.
23725045|Perforated polycarbonate membranes were found to be superior to cellulose ester membranes in separating bacteria and phytoplankton. They had considerably lower retention of bacteria but retained practically all the phytoplankton.
23724641|These hybrids were found in Helsinki in the period 1966  1972.
23725633|A new species, Taraxacum indonesicum Sonck, different from the earlier known T. javanicum v.Soest, is described from Sindanglaya, Bogor, West Java.
23724612|Der Verfasser hat den Versuch gemacht, die frher wenig bekannte Entwicklung der Hochmoore Binnenfinnlands auf Grund von fnf hauptschlich mit Linienprofilbohrungen untersuchten mittelfinnischen Hochmooren zu beleuchten. Unabhngig von Alter oder Entstehungsweise sind alle Hochmoore dieses Gebietes ber einem minerotrophen, d.h. in diesem Falle ber einem Aapamoor entstanden. Die Datierungen der palohydrologischen Mineralbodenwassergrenze, die aus den selben Schichtenfolgen wie die mikroskopischen Torf- und Rhizopodenanalysen gemacht wurden, zeigten, dass der Beginn der ombrotrophen Phase im ganzen Untersuchungsgebiet in die Zonen (VI) VIIVIII fllt, und dass er offenbar im Sden frher eingesetzt hat als im Norden. Die natrliche Entwicklung von eutrophen und feuchten (z.B. von Smpfen der Initialmoorvegetation) zu mehr und mehr oligotrophen und trockenen Typen (z.B. zu Calluna  Sphagnum fuscum -Reisermooren und normalem Reisermoor) ist ein wesentlicher Charakterzug in der Moorgeschichte. In manchen Mooren, die im Atlantikum bewaldet waren, sind spter vielleicht zufolge der postglazialen Klimaabkhlung  dicke Schichten von schwach zersetztem Sphagnum fuscum -Torf entstanden, und sie sind in fast baumlose Hochmoore umgewandelt.
23726476|Three new Taraxacum species, T. glabricaule Sonck (sect. Palustria), T. olympophilum Sonck (sect. Erythrocarpa) and T. viale Sonck (sect. Erythrosperma), are described on the basis of type collections in Greece and cultivated offspring in Finland.
23726464|The phloroglucinol compositions of Dryopteris pulvinulifera (Beddome) Kuntze and D. subtriangularis (C. Hope) C. Chr. from North India have been investigated. D. pulvinulifera contains virtually only pulvinuliferin-VV (33-VV), a new two-ring phloroglucinol derivative, the structure of which could be elucidated by degradation, NMR and mass spectrometry. In D. subtriangularis two new phloroglucinol derivatives were found; i.e. albaspidin-iBiB (10-iBiB), so far known only as a synthetic compound and subtriangularin-iB (34-iB), the structure of which could be partly solved by NMR and high resolution mass spectrometry.
23728062|A new species, Gastrodia takeshimensis Suetsugu (Orchidaceae: Epidendroideae, Gastrodieae) from Takeshima Island, Kagoshima Prefecture, Japan, is described and illustrated. Its elongated corolla tube suggests a close affinity to G. nipponica, but it is easily distinguished from G. nipponica by its narrower and enclosed perianth tube, a lip that is joined with the perianth tube without any appendage, and a taller inflorescence during the flowering period.
23728193|Primulina huaijiensis Z.L. Ning & J. Wang sp. nova (Gesneriaceae) from Guangdong, China is described and illustrated. It is similar to P. renifolia, but differs from P. renifolia in several morphological characters, both vegetative and reproductive as well as in having a different flowering period (OctoberDecember).
23728258|Numbers of flowers and their arrangement in time and space greatly influence levels of pollination and fruit set in natural populations of flowering plants. We examined relations between flowering phenology, floral display and reproductive success in the nectar-producing orchids Sirindhornia mirabilis, S. monophylla and S. pulchella in Thailand. We found each species to be self-compatible and dependent on insects for pollination. Sirindhornia mirabilis exhibited prolonged longevity of individual flowers and produced more flowers per inflorescence  features that may have evolved in response to low visitation rates. Patterns of reproductive success in relation to floral display suggest selection for increased inflorescence size in S. mirabilis and S. monophylla, but this may be counterbalanced by selection for a sustainable annual fruit set. In all three species, the female (and in S. mirabilis also the male) reproductive success decreased from the basal to the apical part of the inflorescence. Against this background, we propose a hypothesis for explaining differential fruit set in polinator-rewarding orchid species.
23725350|Two species are recognized in the genus Salicornia L. in North Europe, viz. S. europaea L. and S. dolichostachya Moss., the latter containing three subspecies: subsp. dolichostachya, subsp. strictissima (K. Gram) P.W. Ball and subsp. pojarkovae (N. Semen.) Piirainen, comb. nov. The reasons for recognizing these species are given. S. herbacea L. is synonymized with S. europaea and the following are included in the latter species: S. herbacea subvar. brachystachya G.F.W. Meyer, S. brachystachya (G.F.W. Meyer) Knig and S. ramosissima Woods. S. herbacea var. stricta G.F.W. Meyer and S. stricta (G.F.W. Meyer) Knig are synonymized with S. dolichostachya subsp. strictissima and S. leiosperma K. Gram is included in that subspecies. Lectotypifications are made for S. europaea, S. dolichostachya, S. herbacea subvar. brachystachya, S. herbacea var. stricta, S. leiosperma and S. strictissima. In addition, the names S. intermedia Woods, S. pusilla Woods and S. ramosissima appear to be invalid.
23724996|The widespread Japanese lichen Cladonia theiophila Asah. 1939 should be included in C. vulcani Sav. 1914, previously regarded as endemic to Kamchatka. The status of C. vulcani as a distinct species is substantiated. In East Asia it grows almost exclusively around hot springs.
23727170|A comparison of morphology, anatomy and chemistry of the two closely related lichens Pseudocyphellaria endochrysa and P. vaccina is presented. The presence of a scabrid-areolate upper surface in P. vaccina and a minutely pubescent, non-scabrid upper surface in P. endochrysa have been used as key characters for distinguishing the two species. However, the present study shows that in exposed habitats, such as in alpine habitats of southern South America and in low antarctic tundra on South Georgia, P. endochrysa also has a scabrid-areolate upper surface, almost without any hairs. In more protected sites, the upper surface of P. endochrysa is more pubescent and not scabrid. Previous reports of P. vaccina from the treeless zones in southernmost South America and the South Atlantic islands are referable to P. endochrysa. This conclusion is also supported by anatomical and chemical characters. Analyses by HPLC and TLC showed that pseudocyphellarins A and B, calycin, pulvinic dilactone and pulvinic acid are the principal lichen substances in P. endochrysa. In P. vaccina, pseudocyphellarin A is generally in minor amounts only, and pseudocyphellarin B was not detected. The three pulvinic acid derivatives are present in yellow-medullary thalli of P. vaccina. Distribution maps are presented. While P. endochrysa is very rare north of 50 southern latitude, P. vaccina is common north to 37S.
23726336|The seed bank and seedlings emerging in (i) undisturbed vegetation, (ii) after removal of the top soil and (iii) after replacing the existing soil with seed-free soil were studied in a wet semi-natural grassland in central Sweden. The treatments were applied in the spring and the seedlings counted 3 months later. Very few seedlings emerged in undisturbed grassland vegetation, which indicates the importance of gaps for seed regeneration. The seed rain (replacement with seed-free soil) contributed very little to the seedling flora. The great majority of seedlings emerging after top soil removal were recruited from the soil seed bank. However, despite a species-rich seed bank, few species emerged after disturbance and the seedlings contributed little to the revegetation.
23726272|We validate the name Taraxacum haematicum G. Hagl., incorrectly introduced as a name substitution, by giving a complete diagnosis and assigning a holotype. This name has been used for many years for one of the most distinct species of Taraxacum sect. Ruderalia Kirschner, H. llg. & tpnek (Taraxacum sect. Vulgaria Dahlst., nom. illeg.). Taraxacum haematicum and the related T. rubrisquameum M. P. Christiansen show a certain affinity to Taraxacum sect. Celtica A. J. Richards s. lat., and we discuss briefly the reasons for grouping them in Taraxacum sect. Ruderalia. Taraxacum haematicum occurs in a large part of northwestern and central Europe, and a list of representative specimens is given from eight countries.
23727892|We used matrix population models to analyse spatial and temporal variation in the demography of the Siberian primrose (Primula nutans ssp. finmarchica var. jokelae), an early successional species of seashore meadows in the Gulf of Bothnia. We compared the dynamics of populations in habitats that were partially overgrown by woody shrubs with those in open ones. The major threat to the populations was the invasion of the habitat by woody plants, as population growth was very sensitive to a change in the transition from a sterile rosette to a flowering one and this transition occurred less frequently in overgrown meadows. This transition also had the greatest contribution to the differences in population growth rates between habitats. Although the invasion of shrubs negatively influenced population growth rate, most populations are still expected to persist and only two small populations out of eleven examined populations were expected to disappear within 50 years. However, with proper habitat management the problem of coarse-scale interactions, such as asymmetric competition for light with shrubs, can be substantially alleviated.
23726932|We studied a soil seed bank composition using the germination method in three clearly polluted bogs, and in one bog farther away from the pollution source, in SW Finland. Total number of seedlings that emerged from the surface (05 cm deep) soil samples was significantly smaller in the farthest site (5.9 km, 939 seedlings m-2) as compared with sites situated 2.1 or 3.2 km (2 882 and 3 687 seedlings m-2, respectively) from the pollution source. The most common taxa in the seed banks were Calluna vulgaris and Betula spp. Only 18%31% of the spermatophyte species were common to both seed bank and vegetation. The monodominance of Calluna was smallest, and the number of emergent seedlings of other mire species was highest in the farthest site. The high numbers of emergent seedlings show that seeds of some species can persist viable in the soil in polluted bogs.
23727899|Based on morphological observations and phytogeographical considerations, two new combinations are provided in Stipa section Smirnovia (Poaceae), a group of taxa mainly distributed in central Asia: Stipa lingua Junge subsp. lipskyi (Roshev.) R. Gonzalo comb. & stat. nov. and Stipa lingua subsp. magnifica (A. Junge) R. Gonzalo comb. & stat. nov. Stipa ovczinnikovii Roshev. is recognized as a taxonomic synonym of S. lingua. A key to the subspecies of S. lingua is provided.
23725007|Luzula arcuata (Wahlenb.) Sw. ssp. unalaschkensis (Buchenau) Hult. is reported to occur in Japan and Korea, L. parviflora (Ehrh.) Desv. ssp. fastigiata (E. Meyer) Hmet-Ahti in southern Kamchatka and the Kuril Islands, and L. piperi (Cov.) M. E. Jones in Hokkaido. L. wahlenbergii Rupr. should be excluded from the flora of Japan and Korea and L. arcuata ssp. arcuata from that of Alaska and northeastern Asia. L. kamtschadalorum (Sam.) Gorodk. and L. beringensis Tolm. are included in L. arcuata ssp. unalaschkensis.
23725362|Great variability was shown by preliminary studies on the morphology, phenology, cytology and seed germination on a swamp in SW Finland (19761978). This swamp was chosen as the main research area and yielded most of the material for this study. Runners and a few plants raised from seeds were grown for over five years on raw peat on an experimental plot in Turku, Ruissalo. The only characteristics which could be used for distinguishing diploids from polyploids were flower pedicel pubescence and leaf dimensions. These characteristics did not serve to distinguish polyploids from each other. The meiosis was normal in the diploids, and fairly normal in at least some of the polyploids. Self-pollination is most likely the rule in the polyploids.
23727743|Inonotus plorans, previously known only from Algeria and Morocco, is now reported from NW Iran. The known southern distribution of Inocutis rheades is extended to southern Iran, and Mensularia nodulosa is reported as new to Iran. A key to ten species of Inonotus s. lato occurring in Iran is provided. Most of the species are illustrated and their spore and setal dimensions are given. The earlier reports of I. radiatus and Mensularia hastifera from Iran turned out to be misidentifications. Keys to the accepted species of Inocutis and Mensularia are provided.
23724187|1. The chromosome number of Finnish Mentha arvensis L. is 2n = 72. The material consists of 11 strains from different parts of the country and from different habitats, and includes the whole range of morphological variation in Finland. 2n = 72 agrees well with previous counts from the species in other countries. 2. With the aid of cultivation experiments on 70 strains the correlations between morphological (etc.) characters have been studied, as well as the persistence of the characters and, on the other hand, the effect of environment on them. 3. On the maps and in the tables are to be seen some vegetative and floral characters with their geographical distribution and relationships to habitat, especially to natural and man-made ones. 4. Within the species Mentha arvensis L. in Finland four infraspecific units have been separated, linked almost continuously with each other through numerous intermediates. The characters, distribution, and ecology of these units have been described. However, these units have no taxonomic names or taxonomic status so far. Nevertheless, previous names have been mentioned when they are regarded as corresponding well with the units above. In my opinion it would be best to treat these four infraspecific units as varieties. 5. Some obvious weed clones have been found, with rather extensive distribution as a result of vegetative propagation by rhizomes transferred with garden trees and bushes and perennial plants, and some others are suspected. One (or a group) of these, in northern Finland, is clearly an old but nowadays neglected cultivated plant relic, being a northern vicariant for the earlier known nothomorphs of Mentha  gentilis L. and for M.  dalmatica Tausch. This northern M. arvensis has recently been included in the cultivation experiment.
23726517|The morphology and chemistry of the lichen species Usnea hirta (L.) F.H. Wigg. (Parmeliaceae) are described, and the distribution in eastern Fennoscandia is given. The nomenclature and taxonomy is revised including some taxa outside the study area, and one taxon is lectotypified. Usnea glaucescens Vain., U. hirta subsp. comiformis (Motyka ex Rsnen) Motyka, U. hirta subsp. minutissima (Mereschk.) Motyka, U. hirta subsp. pallescens Motyka, U. hirta var. subrugulosa Rsnen, U. hirta subsp. villosa (Ach.) Motyka, incl. var. laevior Motyka ex Rsnen and U. pulvinata Motyka ex Rsnen are regarded as synonyms of U. hirta. The Central European U. hirta subsp. helvetica Motyka is recognized as a possibly distinct taxon. Usnea hirta var. dentata Rsnen and U. hirta var. romanica Rsnen are synonyms of U. lapponica Vain. Usnea hirta var. baicalensis Rsnen represents an unidentified papillose taxon. Usnea foveata Vain., earlier regarded as a synonym of U. hirta, was found to represent U. barbata (L.) F.H. Wigg. s.lat. Most of the eastern Fennoscandian specimens contain usnic acid with fatty acids of the murolic acid complex, rarely usnic acid only. A strain containing usnic acid with norstictic acid and  murolic acids is also rather frequent in the study area.
23727702|We describe six new species of Taraxacum from the Nordic countries, in sect. Borea T. rhusiolepium and T. scalare, and in sect. Ruderalia T. carptum, T. erici, T. laudabile, and T. spissum. We include a comparison of respective morphologically related species, and a survey of their known distribution.
23727828|A new species, Thrixspermum odoratum X.Q. Song, Q.W. Meng & Y.B. Luo from Hainan Island, south China, is described and illustrated. It belongs in sect. Thrixspermum and is closely related to T. tsii, but differs by having dense and distichous bracts, an irregularly-shaped clump or an erect lamellum at the base of lip, longer midlobe of lip, and fragrant flowers. A key to the five species of sect. Thrixspermum in China is presented. Thrixspermum odoratum is a host-specific epiphyte, being found only on one tree species.
23724297|As was shown earlier by the senior author (Jalas 1958), the species called Carex elata All. by Fennoscandian authors consists of two different taxa, C. elata All. s.str., and C. omskiana Meinsh., which differ from each other, above all, ecologically and in their ranges. In order to find supporting characteristics for their proper identification and to unravel their distributional relations the leaf anatomy of 42 mainly Finnish herbarium specimens (in H) was examined and compared with data on external morphology. In the light of the results obtained, C. elata s.str. and C. omskiana Meinsh. are treated as two subspecies under C. elata All., subsp. elata and subsp. omskiana (Meinsh.) Jalas, comb, nov., respectively. Subsp. omskiana differs from subsp. elata, in addition to the shape and colour of the perigynia (p. 51), especially in the thickened outer walls of the upper leaf epidermis and in the lower and more roundish papillae of the leaf epidermis below. It is an East European  Siberian plant as regards distribution and prefers oligotrophic to mesotrophic conditions. The major part of the Finnish C. elata belongs here. Subsp. elata, on the other hand, is a somewhat more southern plant with clearly oceanic tendencies. It prefers mesotrophic to eutrophic habitats. In Finland it is a rare plant of the southernmost parts of the country. In the material examined, in addition, 10 specimens were found which are clearly the hybrid C. elata  nigra All. (C.  turfosa Fr.). The infraspecific taxa of C. elata and C. nigra involved in a particular specimen can hardly be determined with full certainty. The variability, as well as the partial seed fertility of C.  turfosa may be considered as evidence suggestive of the possibility of intercrossing and backcrossing of the primary hybrids. Some gene exchange may occur between the parental species, as well.
23726952|Hylander treated 144 species of Hieracium sect. Hieracium found in Scandinavian parks, 132 of which were described for the first time. However, he did not supply any determination key, only a few species were illustrated and hints about the differences between species were few. In addition, the species concept of Hylander was obviously much narrower than what has been agreed upon by those working with native Scandinavian species of this group. The species treated have all been introduced to northern Europe, presumably from southern Germany or France, during the latter half of the 19th century as contamination of commercial grass-seed, but the majority of the species is still not known from any native occurrences. In the present paper, all these "park-Hieracia" are described in a standardized manner, and illustrations as well as a determination key to all species are provided. The types are indicated for all species and six taxa are lectotypified. The number of species have been reduced to 95 by merging those species that were found to be identical or unacceptably closely similar. A way of constructing a numerical description taking into consideration 33 different characters is described. The numerical description was used to calculate an overall similarity index for all pairs of species and thereby identify synonymous names. In addition, the numerical description was found to be of great help when constructing the determination key.
23727649|Forty-one names of species and varieties of Hieracium sect. Hieracium, H. sect. Vulgata and H. sect. Bifida originally described from the province of Vrmland, western central Sweden, are lectotypified.
23728129|Many characteristic dry alvar grassland species disappear after cessation of livestock grazing as a result of encroachment by Juniperus communis. We studied the re-establishment of these species after scrub clearance with and without the removal of the layer of litter and mosses in long-term (14 years) permanent plots. Most of the species belonging to the community species pool of dry alvar grassland species before clearance were found in permanent plots between 2 and 14 years after the clearance. A large part originated from vegetative spread of already occurring species in the established vegetation in the surroundings. Only a small part of the long-term persistent soil seed bank resulted in the re-establishment of alvar species. There was no significant difference in the traits soil seed bank, seed weight and long-distance dispersal by wind, dung or fur of animals of established and non-established species. Removal of litter and mosses positively affected the re-establishment of alvar species.
23727133|Three tropical islands  Trinidad, Dominica and St. Lucia  in the British Caribbean were surveyed for location of coastal herbaceous halophytic plant communities native to upper, intertidal sandy beaches. Comparisons of earlier and later drawn topographical maps displayed marked urban expansion indicating the disappearance of native beach vegetation. Hierarchial cluster analysis revealed marked similarities among sites on these islands. Studies of alpha and gamma diversity of the few, viable communities located along back beaches revealed that, like temperate sandy communities, these communities were generally characterized by a small number of perennial halophytic species. At most locations, the community was dominated by only one species  Ipomea pes-caprae  accompanied by a few sub-dominant species. Governments of these islands should consider preserving the few remaining native beach plant communities for future scientific studies.
23725900|Forty-eight species of ferns representing 12 families (26 genera) of the Filicopsida were investigated for their contents of phloroglucinols (filicin). The results were compared with those of previous works. Phloroglucinol derivatives of the structure investigated appear to occur exclusively in the family Aspidiaceae (subfamilies Dryopterioideae and Tectarioideae) always in connection with typical unicellular internal or external secretory glands. Most species of Dryopteris and Arachniodes contain phloroglucinols, whereas Ctenitis and Lastreopsis are variable in this respect. These compounds have also been found in two Japanese species of Polystichum, in Acrophorus, Pleocnemia and Rumohra, and are now detected in Polybotrya. The boundaries and taxonomic relationships of the Aspleniaceae, Athyriaceae and Aspidiaceae are discussed in the light of our results.
23727955|Elatine orthosperma Dben, E. spathulata Gorski, Elatine hydropiper L. subsp. gyrosperma Fr. and E. triandra Schkuhr var. callitrichoides Nyl. are lectotypified, and an epitype is selected for the lectotype of E. spathulata. The synonymizing of E. spathulata with E. hydropiper is supported.  Flora Nordica Notes 36.
23728105|Hoya sapaensis T.B. Tran & Rodda sp. nova (Apocynaceae) from Vietnam is described, illustrated and compared with the morphologically similar H. carnosa and H. bonii. Hoya sapaensis distinctly differs in the length of the pollinium and corpusculum, number of flowers per inflorescence, and the shape of the corolla.
23726695|European populations of Senecio paludosus can be classified into three subspecies: subsp. paludosus, subsp. angustifolius and subsp. lanatus. They differ in the indument of cauline leaves and achenes as well as in the shape of cauline leaves. Taxonomic conspectus and full synonymy is provided for each subspecies, including information on type specimens. Lectotypes are designated for ten names.
23724291|1. The overwintering and spore germination of several Anthracoidea species was studied, although only comprehensively in A. aspera and A. limosa. 2. When Anthracoidea spores were preserved at a constant temperature and constant relative humidity, almost all the spores were able to germinate after a certain rest period. For this, temperatures below zero were not necessary. 3. When preserved in some other way, such good results were not obtained, except when the spores were kept outdoors in an open garden frame, where the overwintering conditions, at least to some degree, thus resembled those in the natural habitats of the species studied. 4. The spores germinated best when kept afloat on water. In a relative humidity of 100 % or less they germinated poorly, if at all. 5. Germination of the immature spores was stimulated by treatment with water, but with mature spores the treatment had an inhibiting effect. 6. When the electron micrographs of sections through a dry spore of Anthracoidea limosa and a spore soaked in water are compared, it is evident that the water is taken up into the cytoplasm. 7. Light was needed for spore germination. The optimum intensities were between 1 500 and 2 500 lux. 8. It is concluded that spore germination during the same season when the spores are produced is probably prevented by some physiological mechanism. 9. The different behaviour of different species in the preservation as well as in the germination experiments may be explained, at least partly, as due to the spores being in different stages of maturation in different samples.
23728160|A new species of Camellia (Theaceae), C. cherryana Orel, endemic to the Sichuan-Yunnan border region, the People's Republic of China, is described and illustrated. It has variably sized, slightly coriaceous, elliptic to lanceolate leaves with a strongly acuminate apex and cuneate base; the adaxial leaf surface is glabrous and slightly pitted, mid-green and shiny, the abaxial leaf surface is sparsely pubescent, light green and shiny; the flowers are solitary, pedicellate, 57 cm in diam.; the corolla is two-whorled, white and the petals are soft, opaque to translucent, orbicular or almost orbicular, widely reflexed with undulate margins; the filaments are glabrous, up to 1.5 cm long, but mostly shorter; the styles are three, brown, densely pubescent, 11.2 cm long, basally joined but otherwise free; and the stigma is of the same colour, indistinct. The morphological evidence supports a placement in Camellia sect. Heterogena.
23725291|Erigeron acer L. subsp. acer and subsp. decoloratus (H. Lindb.) Hiitonen, both 2n = 18; Hieracium umbellatum L., 2n = 18 and 2n = 27 (one population each; within the colony of triploids one diploid specimen morphologically approaching H. laevigatum Willd. aggr.); Pilosella officinarum F.W. Schultz & Schultz Bip., 2n = 36, 45 (both tetraploids and pentaploids in all six samples from three different populations); P. peleterana (Mrat) F.W. Schultz & Schultz Bip., 2n = 18 (two populations from Finnish Lapland, N. of the Arctic Circle); Sonchus arvensis L. var. arvensis, 2n = c. 36 (S. Finland), 2n = 54 (W. Norway), var. glabrescens Wimmer & Grab., 2n = 36 (two populations), var. maritimus Wahlenb. (non S. maritimus L.), 2n = c. 54.
23727849|The final concentrations of non-axenic outdoor mass cultures of Dunaliella sp. grown for two or three days in f/2 and 2f media were found to be dependent on the initial cell concentration, since the cultures started with 80  103 cells ml-1 gave better yields than those started with 40  103 cells ml-1. There was a correlation between nutrient availability and cell yields: the two and three days-old cultures started with 40  103 cells ml-1 and grown in medium f/2 had lower concentrations than those grown in 2f medium, whereas in cultures with 80  103 cells ml-1 inoculum the yield was significantly higher only after three days. The lowest dry biomass yields after two and three days were with the inoculum of 40  103 cells ml-1 and medium f/2.
23727642|We examined 18 populations of the endangered Euphrasia rostkoviana ssp. fennica situated in managed semi-natural grasslands or gravelled road verges in ten extant localities in south-eastern Sweden. The major threat to the subspecies is the steady decrease in habitat area and quality. In each population, abundance and fecundity of individuals were examined. Local factors (soil pH, litter-layer depth and vascular species richness) and isolation were also measured. We specifically wanted to examine if there was a positive relationship between abundance (population size and density) and fecundity in the investigated taxon. Larger populations of E. rostkoviana ssp. fennica were found to be denser. Population size and density were both significantly positively related to fecundity. A higher variability in seed production was also detected for individuals in sparse populations. An Allee effect, i.e. a reduced fecundity in small and sparse populations, could thus be demonstrated for the already strongly threatened subspecies.
23728262|This paper presents a karyological and cytogenetic characterisation of Artemisia absinthium var. absinthium and A. absinthium var. calcigena (Asteraceae, Anthemideae). Genome size (assessed as nuclear DNA amount), chromosome number, karyotype parameters, fluorochrome banding and fluorescent in situ hybridisation (FISH) of 18S-5.8S-26S and 5S rDNA were studied in Polish specimens of both varieties whose phylogenetic relationships were also established based on their molecular structure. The present study is the first with a focus on A. absinthium var. calcigena. The results basically agree with those previously reported from other A. absinthium populations and show no essential genome organization differences between the varieties.
23728226|Dendrocalamus nianhei V.T. Nguyen & V.L. Le sp. nova (Poaceae: Bambusoideae) is described and illustrated. It resembles D. sinicus, but differs mainly by its shorter pseudospikelets, 1216 mm long; shorter lemma, 9.714.9 mm long; glabrous culm internodes; undulate and bristly culm sheath auricles; and entire leaf sheath ligule.
23727958|Lectotypes are designated for 83 names of species of Hieracium sect. Hieracium, H. sect. Vulgata and H. sect. Bifida described by Swedish authors based on material from the provinces Gstrikland, Hlsingland and Medelpad of central Sweden. Whenever needed, the affinities and taxonomic value of the lectotypified taxa and the taxonomic implications of the lectotypifications are discussed. One new combination  H. luculentorum T. Tyler nom. et stat. nov.  is proposed to accomplish the taxon previously described as H. chordosum var. luculentum Johanss.
23726610|Tabularia waernii Snoeijs is a common epiphyte in the Baltic Sea. We have studied its distribution in 313 samples of epiphytic diatoms collected along the SW coast of Finland. T. waernii is abundant in the upper sublittoral of the outer archipelago zone and the sea zone. In the most exposed localities it was present throughout the year, with maximum abundance in JuneJuly. T. waernii was an epiphyte on all filamentous macroalgae examined, however, it clearly preferred Pilayella littoralis as a host alga. It appears to be a slow colonizer, since it was rarely found on the young thalli of any host.
23728214|Four new Colombian species of Cleistes (Orchidaceae, Vanilloideae) are described and illustrated: C. uribei Szlach. & Baranow, C. risaraldensis Szlach. & Baranow, C. munchiquensis Szlach. & Baranow and C. idroboi Szlach. & Baranow. Notes concerning their morphological distinctions, habitat, and distribution are provided. A key for determination of the Colombian species of Cleistes is included.
23724153|The aquatic vegetation and flora of the River Teuronjoki (province of South Hme) is analysed on the basis of cover and frequency percentages obtained from a number of test areas. The river is divided into three sections according to its main ecological features. The relation of plant species to water velocity is studied in detail. Special attention is paid to the current tolerance of the species and their cover values in different water velocity areas.
23728156|Generative reproduction traits of the perennial Polygonatum multiflorum (Asparagaceae) were studied in seven populations in 20002010. The frequencies of typical hermaphrodite flowers and functionally male flowers with short or atrophied carpels were 76%, 17% and 7%, respectively. Most hermaphrodite flowers occurred in the lower and middle positions on the ramets. The final fruit/flower ratio per ramet amounted to 25% and its variation was higher among populations than among years. The initial fruit set was on an average twice as high as the final fruit set. The mean number of seeds per fruit was 3.2, and the distribution was skewed to the right. At the inter-population level, the seed number and mass of fruits were negatively correlated with each other. Seed size/number trade off was significant for shoots and for fruits. The seedling emergence was 65%82% and it was positively correlated with the seed size as well as the survival of seedlings. In the garden conditions, a few individuals flowered in the seventh year of development.
23728206|Richard Henry Beddome (18301911) is best known to botanists for his research on the ferns of India. However his contribution to angiosperm taxonomy was also significant, particularly through his Flora Sylvatica for Southern India and Icones Plantarum Indiae Orientalis. These works were published serially. The composition and publication dates of the parts of these works are reviewed here. A listing is presented of all angiosperm taxa described by Beddome and all new names and combinations he published. This includes some names not currently included in IPNI, or included in IPNI but with different authors or places of publication and later publication dates. An immediate nomenclatural repercussion of the research is confirmation that the recently published avowed substitute Eugenia neogracilis Mazine & Sobral for the Brazilian Eugenia gracilis O. Berg is superfluous as Berg's original publication predated that of Eugenia gracilis Bedd.
23727278|Manglietia oblonga Law, R.Z. Zhou & X.S. Qin sp. nova from China is described and illustrated in line drawings. It is most similar to M. forrestii and M. yuyuanensis, from which it differs in its buds, petioles, upper and lower surfaces of leaves and peduncles being golden appressed-pilose, and in its tepals with horizontally undulate striae.
23727699|Mire surface levels reflecting the water table depth are known to be an important vegetation gradient in boreal peatlands. We classified the vegetation by TWINSPAN, interpreted the vegetation gradients by ordination (Non-metric Multidimensional Scaling) and analysed the peat thickness for the TWINSPAN communities and species (Indicator Species Analysis) from small-sized sample plots over extremely thin-peated to medium thick-peated, minerotrophic mire expanse vegetation from an aapa-mire complex Hirvisuo, Northern Ostrobothnia, Finland. The TWINSPAN communities and the ordination-result could be interpreted in relation to the mire surface levels and additionally in relation to the stability of the water regime on the basis of water level measurements made from the same habitat types in an earlier research. Peat thickness correlated with the stability of the water regime so that communities with an unstable water regime on sand were thin-peated (030 cm), while communities with a stable water regime were more thick-peated. We conclude here that the mire-ecological water-table gradient was dissected into two vegetation gradients in Hirvisuo: the gradient formed by mire surface levels reflecting the mean water table level and the stability of the water regime, which represents a gradient of local importance over boreal Fennoscandia. Peat procuding ability of the bottom layer in mires seems to be much dependent on it.
23727995|This paper is the first taxonomic revision of Euphorbia subgenus Chamaesyce in Iran since the publication of Flora Iranica in 1964. We provide a key, descriptions, and illustrations for the eight species of the subgenus occurring in Iran. Euphorbia nutans is reported as a new record for the flora of Iran, E. humifusa is recognized to have two forms, pilose and glabrous; the pilose form is a first report for Flora Iranica, and E. granulata var. turcomanica is reported as a synonym of E. granulata. The following information is given for each species: accepted name, synonymy, habitat, ecology, and geographical distribution.
23727208|The morphological variation of 65 samples of the exclusively lichenicolous ascomycete genus Abrothallus was studied by means of multivariate statistical approach (discriminant analysis). The samples were analysed in order to estimate the possible taxonomic implications of the characters frequently mentioned in literature. Colour of the epihymenium and hypothecium, shape of the ascomata, pruinosity of the ascomata, and Lugol reaction of the hyphae appeared to be the most distinguishing features for group recognition.
23726675|Dianthus aydogduii Y. Menemen & E. Hamzaoglu from Salt Lake, Central Anatolia, Turkey, is described as a species new to science and illustrated.
23725754|The vernal phytoplankton development and its regulation by meteorological, hydrographical and chemical factors were investigated by means of frequent sampling in March May. The total phytoplankton community, measured as chlorophyll a and biomass, and the dominant taxa were monitored, together with the hydrographical and nutrient conditions. Besides a flagellate bloom below the ice in March, the vernal high production stage included seven different peaks of diatoms and dinoflagellates, the first in connection with the break-up of the ice and strong turbulence in mid April, and the last ones in late May, caused by outflow of oligohaline surface water rich in nutrients from Pojo Bay. The study area in the outer archipelago has a strongly fluctuating environment, in which upwelling, mixing and outflow of surface water from Pojo Bay contributed the nutrients enabling several successive phytoplankton peaks, composed of a mixture of autochthonous and allochthonous assemblages at different successional stages. After the break-up of the ice, the microphytoplankton chiefly consisted of Arctic, marine diatoms and Gonyaulax catenata. The outflow of oligohaline surface water in May was associated with the dominance of Diatoma elongatum, euryhaline marine diatoms, and in addition several freshwater diatoms. Nanoflagellates and picoplankton (Nannochloropsis sp.) were abundant during the whole study period, although their contribution to the total biomass was small during the diatom peaks. The proportion of colourless nanoflagellates increased markedly when the phytoplankton assemblage declined in late May. In comparison with the conditions in 1969 and 1970, the nutrient level of the Baltic surface water had increased markedly in 1984. The silicate level, which in 1969/70 decreased in May to ca. 150 g SiO4Sil-1 now decreased to the detection limit. This points to raised nitrate and phosphate levels, and increased diatom production.
23725861|Ultrastructural changes were observed by transmission electron microscopy in the epiphytic lichens Bryoria capillaris (Ach.) Brodo & D. Hawksw. and Hypogymnia physodes (L.) Nyl. growing naturally or transplanted in four urban or industrial environments in Finland (Tammisaari, Valkeakoski, Kuopio, Oulu). Light microscopy was performed on the samples from two localities (Tammisaari, Valkeakoski). The main type of ultrastructural symptoms was similar in all the environments studied, and is considered to be attributable to the effects of SO2 and nitrogen compounds. In the algal cells the symptoms of this type were rounded chloroplasts, a more or less reduced number of thylakoids, swelling of mitochondria, decreased size of cytoplasmic storage droplets and pyrenoglobuli, and presence of electron-opaque accumulations in the vesicle complexes. The fungal cells were highly vacuolated and often contained electron-opaque vacuolar accumulations. The intensity of these symptoms was related to the distance from the main pollution sources, and the symptoms were still observable in the areas where no changes in the lichens were visible to the naked eye. B. capillaris usually showed more severe symptoms than H. physodes. In one environment (Tammisaari), where fluoride pollution is known to exist, another type of injury was observed in the algal cells, especially in the lichens transplanted to the close vicinity of the ceramic factory. This type was characterized by granulation and breakdown of thylakoids, appearance of plastoglobuli between thylakoids and presence of pseudocrystalline structures in the chloroplast and cytoplasm. Light microscopy revealed an increased percentage of dead algal cells only in association with visible bleaching of the thalli. The value of these ultrastructural changes as indicators of the effects of air pollutants is discussed.
23724627|The diffusion of caesium-137 and strontium-90 in the thallus of Cladonia alpestris was studied using column techniques in order to eliminate the effect of the branched structure of the morphologically intact thallus. The change in techniques, however, did not affect earlier results; rather the observed differences between the ions became more evident. The concentration-distance curve of Cs ions fits the classical Fick's law with a constant diffusion coefficient. In contrast, the Sr curves possess a characteristic convexity pointing to variability of the effective diffusion coefficient. The form of the Sr curves can be explained partly by the competition between Sr and hydrogenium ions for the same binding sites, pK 3.3, and partly by the difference in the strength of the mutual interaction between Sr and Cs ions and the fixed binding sites of the thallus. Further, the significance of diffusion and cation exchange in the biology of the lichen thallus has been discussed. Because of the lack of more detailed experimental results, this is only a semiquantitative approach to the diffusion process of metal cations in the lichen thallus, intended to serve as a basis for further discussion.
23728172|We studied the occurrence of the crop-to-wild introgressive hybridization in the Medicago sativa-falcata complex in the distribution area of the native M. sativa ssp. falcata (hereafter falcata) in western and northern Estonia. Flower colour and pod shape were used as the diagnostic genetic characters to assess the extent of hybridization from cultivated lucerne to populations of falcata. Among the 106 populations examined, only 15 were pure yellow-flowered falcata populations. In the remaining 91 populations, 1%90% of the plants had variegated flowers typical of hybrid plants, indicating widespread but highly variable introgression. Hybrid plants were detected most frequently in disturbed man-made habitats, mostly roadsides, wastelands and fallow fields. Hybrid plants with variegated flowers were found to have not only pod shapes characteristic of falcata but also coiled pods characteristic of cultivars, indicating that due to introgression hybrid populations have become morphologically more diverse.
23724288|1. Carex digitata L. var. pallens Fris. is not a shadow modification, nor merely a pale form of C. digitata, but differs from the main type (var. digitata) in several characters, including the form of the fruits. 2. Var. pallens generally occurs on dry and sunny southern slopes of moraine ridges. Its distribution includes the following provinces: Satakunta, South Hme and South Savo in Finland; South Kerelia in Russia, District of Leningrad; and Vrmland, Dalarna, Hlsingland, Medelpad, Jmtland and ngermanland in Sweden. Outside this area it is not known. It is most abundant in areas where C. pediformis ssp. rhizodes also occurs, and often grows along-side this species. 3. A new pale form of C. digitata, in which the red colour is totally lacking, is described (f. lutescens). 4. For some of the most important quantitative characters of C. digitata and C. pediformis ssp. rhizodes mean values are calculated on the basis of herbarium specimens and mass collections. 5. Comparisons made by the hybrid index method show that the populations of var. pallens are intermediate between C. digitata var. digitata and C. pediformis ssp. rhizodes, being, however, closer to the former species. This points to an introgressive origin of var. pallens. In phenology, too, it has an intermediate position. 6. A new chromosome number for C. digitata, n = 27, is recorded from material belonging to var. pallens. Typical var. digitata yielded the number n = 26. 7. The possibilities of hybridization between C. digitata and C. pediformis ssp. rhizodes and the age of var. pallens are discussed.
23727675|Ophiopogon acerobracteatus R.H. Miau ex W.B. Liao, J.H. Jin & W.Q. Liu, a species with affinity to O. intermedius in section Ophiopogon, is described as a new species from Guangdong, China.
23726573|Two new species, Taraxacum desideratum Sonck and T. sacrificatum Sonck (sect. Vulgaria seu Ruderalia) from Raisio near Turku, SW Finland, are described. Both species have succumbed under a big shipyard.
23724689|By culturing hybrid embryos in vitro, the following F1 hybrids could be achieved: (1) Triticum ovatum  Elymus arenarius, (2) Hordeum vulgare  E. arenarius, (3) E. arenarius  Secale cereale, (4) Roegneria mutabilis  S. cereale, (5) R. borealis  S. cereale. A monoploid plant of E. arenarius was obtained from the cross E. arenarius  H. vulgare (2a), obviously through somatic elimination of the barley chromosomes. The meiosis of hybrid No. 5 was studied cytologically, and found to be very disturbed. The pseudomeiotic course of the divisions is described and illustrated. Some theoretical aspects of meiosis are discussed in the light of previous research and the present observations. Studies on monoploids and on hybrids between the other species of these genera are briefly reviewed. The possible value of such hybrids in plant breeding is discussed.
23726430|Of the genus Lepicolea a new species, L. norrisii Piippo is described. Formerly only L. rara (Steph.) Grolle (= L. loriana Steph.) has been reported from Western Melanesia. L. norrisii differs from L. rara and also the other Asiatic species on the basis of a long apical hyaline awn of the leaf segments consisting of long cells with the basal one inserted between the apical cells. It is mainly an epiphyte of rich rain and moss forests.
23724230|Descriptions of species based on light microscopic studies of the section Echinosporae of Anthracoidea are given, supplemented with an analysis of the variation in some species on different host plants. The results are compared with those obtained from scanning electron micrographs of all the species of the section. The size and shape of the spines are confirmed, and some features of the spines and the relief of the spore surface between the spines are established. The results increase our understanding of specialization in the Anthracoidea species.
23725425|A key is given to the Asiatic species of Leucolejeunea Evans, of which five belong to sect. Leucolejeunea and two to sect. Omphalanthopsis (Schust.) Grolle & Piippo comb. nov. The four Western Melanesian species are described and illustrated. Among them are three endemic to New Guinea: L. gradsteinii Grolle & Piippo spec. nova, L. suprema Grolle & Piippo spec. nova and L. loriana (Steph.) Mizut. L. xanthocarpa (Lehm. & Lindenb.) Evans is pantropicalsubtropical. The genus Aureolejeunea Schust. is excluded from the Palaeotropics.
23724181|The purpose of the study is to analyse the dependence of the daily hydrostatic changes in tree diameter on some climatic factors, measured on the site. The material was collected during four years (1964  1967) from a Scots pine stand in western central Finland. Of the factors included in the study, saturation deficit, maximum temperature, and relative humidity showed a strong correlation with the daily diameter changes. The regression combined from the time factor, saturation deficit, and maximum temperature explained the daily changes in tree diameter best. No distinct long-term rhythm was found in the diameter changes. Instead, the occurrence of rainy and rainless periods seemed to be responsible for the long-term variation.
23726760|The species was recently described as Tyromyces sibiricus Penzina & Ryvarden. The new combination Spongipellis sibirica (Penzina & Ryvarden) Penzina & Kotir. is proposed, based on microscopic characteristics, e.g., thick-walled, cyanophilous spores and the structure of the contextual hyphae. The microscopical details are described and illustrated, and comparisons made with the similar-looking species Aurantioporus fissilis (Berk. & M. A. Curtis) H. Jahn, Climacocystis borealis (Fr.) Kotl. & Pouzar and Spongipellis spumea (Sowerby: Fr.) Pat. The affinities to the genus Tyromyces P. Karsten are briefly discussed; S. sibirica lacks the special, spiny encrustations, characteristic of the species of Tyromyces. The species was earlier known from the type locality only. In this paper it is reported from Siberia, Buryat Rep., Lake Baykal, Russian Far East, Kamchatka and China.
23726505|The 113 Finnish lakes studied by Lauri Maristo in the 1930's were reinvestigated in 19801985. The pH values of those lakes had not clearly altered, but transparency had, as a rule, diminished. The number of aquatics had generally increased, but some clearwater aquatics, such as Potamogetn praelongus Wulfen and Myriophyllum alterniflorum DC. had become rarer. Two species had disappeared, 17 species declined, and 57 species had become more frequent. Six species were found as newcomers. These floristic changes were probably caused by eutrophication due to leaching of agricultural and forest fertilizers or effluents of industry. The greatest vegetation changes were the decline of Schoenoplectus lacustris (L.) Palla stands and increase of Phragmites australis (Cav.) Trin. ex Steudel belts. In some lakes aquatic mosses currently form dense carpets. The succession caused by eutrophication can be seen as a development from oligotrophic lake types towards eutrophic ones. The most remarkable changes had taken place in Potamogeton-type, Potamogeton filiformis-Chara-type and Typha-Alisma-type lakes. Presently six lakes can be assigned to different botanical lake types than in Maristo's classification.
23725268|The temporal course of sedimentation in Lake Lovojrvi, a small, deep (17.5 m) and eutrophic brown-water lake, was studied with sediment traps in 1974. Annually laminated sediment occurs in deeper areas of the lake, and a sediment sample, frozen in situ, could be used to determine the net sedimentation in 1974 at 17 m depth. The pattern of sediment distribution on the lake bottom was investigated in 1979 with a series of surface sediment cores, using as marker horizons two extensive clay layers from the years 19591960 and 19651966. In 1974 the average net sedimentation in the profundal of the lake was 108 g m-2. Due to sediment focusing, the influx at 17 m was about 20 % greater than the average. About 40 % of the total net sedimentation was organic matter (43 g m-2, or 920 kJ m-2). Of this, about 60 % originated from littoral and allochthonous sources, and 40 % from planktonic production. During the summer stagnation, the loss of sedimenting organic matter from the epilimnion equalled 12 % of the phytoplankton production.
23724995|Two of the three species of Tayloria subgen. Orthodon in East Asia, T. indica Mitt. and T. squarrosa (Hook.) Kop., have a hairy calyptra, and the third species, T. subglabra (Griff.) Mitt., has a papillate calyptra. The diagnostic gametophytic characters are the structure of the costa, the shape and size of the marginal teeth, and the size of the laminal cells. Distribution maps are presented for T. indica and T. subglabra. Typifications are given for each taxon, and the taxonomic status of T. imbricata Thwait. & Mitt., T. kwangsiensis Reim., T. marginata (C. Mll.) Broth., T. schmidii (C. Mll.) Broth. and T. subglabra var. spinosa Dix. is evaluated.
23726413|A new species of Neckeropsis sect. Pseudoparaphysanthus is described from Papua New Guinea: N. touwii Ochyra & Enroth sp. nova has entire leaf margins, strong, 48-stratose marginal bands connivent at the apex, and bistratose lamina cells. All species of the section Pseudoparaphysanthus are briefly evaluated and a key to them is provided. Neckeropsis moutieri is chosen as the lectotype of Neckeropsis sect. Pseudoparaphysanthus and N. madecassa is excluded from the section.
23724670|Racomitrium ericoides, hitherto mostly classified as a variety or form of R. canescens, is treated as a species. It differs from R. canescens in its denser and more regular branching, longer branchlets, shorter leaf papillae, etc. In northwestern Europe, R. canescens seems to avoid the most oceanic costal areas, where R. ericoides is commonest.
23725027|Ca. 7 000 samples of four cereal and 44 other grass species collected throughout Finland were examined. Thirteen species of leptosphaerioid fungi were discovered. Four are reported for the first time in Finland: Keissleriella taminensis (Wegelin) Bose, Paraphaeosphaeria michotii (Westend.) O. Erikss., Phaeosphaeria avenaria (G. Web.) O. Erikss. and P. nodorum (E. Mll.) Hedjaroude. The species on both cereals and other grasses were P. herpotrichoides De Not., P. nigrans (Rob.) L. Holm and P. vagans (Niessl) O. Erikss. Common species on non-cereals were P. fuckelii (Niessl) L. Holm and P. microscopica (P. Karst.) O. Erikss. P. nardi (Fr.) L. Holm was common on Nardus stricta. Keissleriella culmifida (P. Karst.) Bose, K. taminensis and Paraphaeosphaeria michotii were rare, occurring on non-cereals. Phaeosphaeria eustoma (Fuck.) L. Holm and P. tritici (Garov.) Hedjaroude were infrequent and absent from cereals. P. avenaria and P. nodorum occurred sporadically on Gramineae.
23726518|Pohlia cardotii (Ren.) Broth. (Bryaceae, Musci), previously known only from North America, is reported for the first time from Eurasia. It was found in the Russian Far East in the Kamtchatka Peninsula. A description and illustrations of Kamtchatkan materials of P. cardotii are provided. The differences between it and closely related species are discussed.
23726572|In 1916 Justus Montell, a forester in Lapland, found a new species of Taraxacum L. (Cichoriaceae). Later Harald Lindberg named it T. montellii H. Lindb., but failed to give a description. Nearly 80 years later I visited the same locality at Salmijrvi in Muonio parish, where I managed to find a reduced number of the species. It is so far known from only three localities in Finnish Lapland.
23725766|The presence of Mnium heterophyllum (Hook.) Schwaegr. in Europe is confirmed. Lectotypes are selected for M. rostratum Schrad. var. subintegrum Latz., M. serratum Brid. var. obscurum Warnst. and M. stellare Hedw. var. densum Gravet. Two nomina nuda, M. cuspidatum Hedw. var. pratense Hb. and M. undulatum Hedw. var. inundatum Husn., originally published on the labels of exsiccata, are dealt with. The original of M. cochlearifolium Wils. has been located.
23726536|The effects of shoot apex removal may be used to evaluate the cost of apical dominance and the cost of reproduction in plants. Plants that have shoot apices removed may have lateral meristems released from apical dominance and thus, may out-yield undamaged plants (i.e. overcompensate) either in the year of damage, or in the subsequent growing season, reflecting the cost of leaving apical dominance intact. Shoot apex removal may also reduce or prevent reproduction (undercompensation) in the year of damage, leaving more resources stored and available for greater reproduction (overcompensation) in the subsequent season relative to undamaged plants (reflecting the cost of reproduction for undamaged plants in the previous season). These hypotheses were tested using Lythrum salicaria L. (Lythraceae) as a study species. The effects of pre-flower (early), post-flower (late), and all-season shoot apex removal were recorded in L. salicaria within a natural population. Clipped plants were shorter and more branched than unclipped plants, but failed to outperform unclipped plants (in terms of biomass or reproduction) in either the year of treatment or the subsequent year, indicating no evidence for either a cost of apical dominance or a cost of reproduction in this species. Mean seed mass, however, was greater in pre-flower clipped plants compared with unclipped plants in the year of treatment. The interpretation of these results may involve effects of reduced attractiveness to pollinators (and hence reduced fertilization and seed set) in shorter (clipped) plants. The cost of reproduction may be negligible due to in situ photosynthesis of reproductive structures and enhancement of vegetative photosynthesis during reproduction, as reported for other species.
23727818|The population of Lobaria pulmonaria (tree lungwort) has been regarded as a relict on the land Islands (Ahvenanmaa). Fresh findings of apothecia imply the opposite. Censusing of 13 localities with more than 200 trees has shown that the lichen predominantly grows along the NWNE sector of tree trunks with porous bark in easterly slopes. In light and dry wooded meadows the lichen has a lower vitality than in undisturbed, shady and moist forests. Most thalli occurred on Acer platanoides, Fraxinus excelsior and Populus tremula, even though Quercus robur, Tilia cordata and some other species were also represented. About half of the trees were found in Hckble and it was also there and at Ingersholma that we found apothecia.
23725368|Six new species of Taraxacum are described from south-eastern France, Hautes Alpes, alt. 2 0002 500 m, viz. Taraxacum brevipapposum Sonck, T. calocarpum Sonck, T. facile Sonck, T. fimbriatum Sonck, T. marmottae Sonck and T. sordidulum Sonck.
43922133|The effect of some variables on the C method of measuring phytoplankton production has been studied. Filtration pressure and volume had little effect within the normal range employed. The size of the air space within the experimental vessels markedly affected results and it seems that the air space should be kept as small as possible. Addition of buffered formalin was not a satisfactory way of preserving samples for later measurement of radioactivity. Losses of radioactivity from samples to which formalin had been added were unpredictable and often large.
23726524|In Morocco the genus Pinguicula L. (Lentibulariaceae) is represented by two species: P. lusitanica L. and P. fontiqueriana Romo, Peris & Stbing sp. nov. The previous reports of P. vulgaris L. and P. corsica Bernard & Gren. from Morocco were based on misidentified specimens. A key to all four species is provided and P. fontiqueriana is illustrated in line drawings.
23725775|Lead, cadmium and mercury contents of 59 samples of fruit-bodies of fungi (Agaricales) collected in a small town, Mikkeli, in southeast Finland were determined. The dry wt concentrations ranged <0.5-16 mg Pb/kg, <0.2-130 mg Cd/kg, <0.02-64 mg Hg/kg and were generally at the same level as reported earlier for unpolluted areas. High contents of cadmium (mean 32 mg/kg) and mercury (mean 11 mg/kg) were observed in Agaricus fungi. The mean lead content of Agaricus fungi was lower: 5.1 mg/kg. The uptake of cadmium and mercury in fungi is highly species-dependent. As it is very difficult to identify the species of this genus, the use of wild-growing Agaricus fungi for food should be limited. No correlation was found between the concentrations of these three metals.
23728275|Peucedanum ozhatayiorum Akpulat & E. Akaln is described and illustrated as a new species from northeast Anatolia, Turkey. It is similar to P. caucasicum and P. longibracteolatum but differs from them by having a slender, scabroid stem; scabroid leaves; a fibrous collar; deciduous bracts; persistent unequal bracteoles; green-purple petals; and up to 10 vittae in the dorsal side of mericarps.
23727961|A new species of Primulaceae, Primula lihengiana C.M. Hu & R. Li, from W Yunnan, China is described and illustrated. It resembles P. ovalifolia and P. klaveriana; it differs from the former by the leaves tapering gradually at base, the calyx being longer and lobed below middle into lanceolate 35-nerved lobes, and by the exannulate corolla; from the latter it can be easily distinguished by its scapes, pedicels and abaxial surface of leaves densely covered with tawny multicellular hairs and especially by its heterostylous flowers.
23726148|This paper introduces a mycological project, where the autumnal fruit body production of larger fungi was studied in 32 localities (100 stands) in different parts of Finland. Most of the sites studied were upland type forests on podsolized mineral soil representing mainly mature or advanced-aged stands. The study method was one of collection, the total number and biomass of fruit bodies on the plots being recorded.
23727685|The genus Chrysolaena H. Rob. (Vernonieae, Asteraceae) is redefined to include two taxa previously placed in Lessingianthus subgen. Oligocephalus H. Rob. Additionally, a new species of the genus endemic to eastern Paraguay is described and illustrated. The new species differs from its morphologically closest species, C. simplex (Less.) Dematteis, in its inflorescence of a single head, 34-seriate involucre, pilose corolla lobes and discolorous leaves, with silvery-greyish hairs on the abaxial surface.
23727225|Two new species of Orchidaceae, Coelogyne tsii X.H. Jin & H. Li and Dendrobium menglaensis X.H. Jin & H. Li, are described and illustrated from Yunnan, China. Coelogyne tsii is morphologically reminiscent of C. prolifera, from which it differs in having red and secund flowers, and a midlobe one third of the total length of the lip. Dendrobium menglanensis is similar to D. moschatum, but can be easily distinguished by its complanate stem, 1-flowered inflorescence, smaller flowers and white anther cap.
23727219|Spruce mires are rare and endangered plant communities of central and western Europe. In the Czech Republic, they were intensively destroyed and drained during the 1970s. To start the regeneration of spruce mires, palisade dams sealed with peat were used to block draining ditches in the Giant Mountains. Four years after construction of the dams, there were significant differences in vegetation above and below the dams. Vegetation above the dams successfully developed towards plant communities characteristic to spruce mire forests. Below the dams, the colonization by forest floor species continued. These differences indicate that palisade dams effectively retain water and help the regeneration of spruce mire forests. Our results support construction of palisade dams in such habitats.
23726507|We report the Asian species Bolboschoenus yagara (Ohwi) A. E. Kozhevnikov (Cyperaceae) from Europe, where only B. maritimus (L.) Palla has previously been recorded. Critical differences between these species lie mainly in achene structure, particularly anatomy of the pericarp, and in the persistence of the perianth bristles on the achenes, which we illustrate with SEM micrographs. We also report putative hybrids (B. maritimus  yagara) on grounds of the intermediate structure of the achenes. The presence of B. yagara and hybrids in Europe bears on the typification of Scirpus maritimus L., which is problematic. We recognize B. affinis (Roth) Drobov pending further research.
23728161|Rheum khorasanicum B. Baradaran & A. Jafari is described and illustrated as a new species from NE Iran. It is morphologically very close to R. ribes, both of them belonging to sect. Rheum. Some features that differentiate R. khorasanicum from R. ribes are the presence of bracts, different surface of inflorescence, the pedicle joint position and the epidermal cell shape.
23726417|The 12 species included in the so-called Cladonia coccifera group are C. borealis Stenroos, sp. nova, C. coccifera (L.) Willd., C. pleurota (Flrke) Schaerer, C. diversa Asperges, C. granulans Vainio, C. carneola (Fr.) Fr., C. metacorallifera Asah., C. lepidophora Ahti & Kashiw., C. meridensis Ahti & Stenroos, C. leprocephala Ahti & Stenroos, C. brasiliensis (Nyl.) Vainio and C. corallifera (Kunze) Nyl. The first six species are discussed in more detail. The species reduced to synonymy include C. austrogeorgica Dodge (=C. carneola), C. blakei Robbins (=C. coccifera) and C. pseudo-digitata Gyelnik (=C. coccifera). A lectotype is selected for Baeomyces cocciferus [var.] B. asoteus Ach. A key to all the 12 species is presented and the distribution of five species is mapped. The phenolic and other compounds in the species are reported.
23726648|The ecological range of the halophilous plants were studied in the salt marsh of Txipio (Butroi river) in northern Spain, with respect to some of the most influential edaphic parameters (moisture, conductivity, pH, organic matter) of the environment. This area has been undergoing a natural regeneration since 1965, when tide broke the water retaining walls and agricultural activities were stopped at the site. Thirteen plant species occurred and the most abundant ones were analysed according to different edaphic parameters. Conductivity was the primary factor explaining the distribution of halophilous plants. Texture was also a conditioning factor in species distribution in the marsh, while pH was not determinant. Despite the low regeneration time of the site, the species distribution and edaphic conditions showed a significant recovery of the area.
23727663|The lichen biota of the mylonitized areas of the subnival belt in the Tatra Mts. (Western Carpathians) was examined. A list of 325 species, including 317 lichenized fungi, seven lichenicolous fungi and one not-lichenized saprophytic fungus (Melaspilea gibberulosa), is given based on literature records and the author's original observations. As many as 105 species are recorded from the subnival belt of the Carpathians for the first time. Rhizocarpon glaucescens is reported as new to central Europe from its the southernmost locality. Other new records for several regions are added, e.g. Aspicilia polychroma var. rubrireagens, Lecanora bicinctoidea, L. cavicola, Porpidia speirea var. prochsthallina, and Thelocarpon sphaerosporum for the Carpathians; Arthonia muscigena and Lecanora stenotropa for the Western Carpathians, and Arthonia lapidicola, Cecidonia umbonella and Rhizocarpon grande for the entire range of the Tatra Mts. Thirteen species of lichenized Ascomycota (Aspicilia polychroma, Bellemerea diamarta, B. subsorediza, Dermatocarpon rivulorum, Gyalidea subscutellaris, Lecanora bicinctoidea, L. cavicola, L. stenotropa, Leptogium imbricatum, Rhizocarpon glaucescens, Thelidium olivaceum, Thelocarpon sphaerosporum, and Toninia coelestina), and one lichenicolous fungus (Cecidonia umbonella) are reported from Poland for the first time. The ecology and distribution of some interesting species and the conservation status of the lichen biota in the study region are discussed. The study clearly shows the importance of the mylonitized areas of the subnival belt for the biodiversity in the Carpathians.
23728242|Three new species, Astragalus torbathaydariyehensis Ranjbar & Zarin, A. salehabadensis Ranjbar & Zarin and A. ilachchiensis Ranjbar & Ghahremani (Fabaceae) are described from Iran and illustrated. They belong to A. sect. Astragalus, which contains species with basifixed white and black hairs and yellow flowers.
43922171|The levels of aluminium, iron, zinc and cadmium in fine roots and needles of Pinus sylvestris were compared in urban and rural areas in Hyvink, South Finland, at the beginning and end of the summer. The metals were determined by atomic absorption spectrophotometry. The metal levels in the roots were 2-5 times as high as those in the needles, except in the case of zinc. The contents of all the metals except cadmium were lower in June than in August. The metal levels in the needles were higher in the urban than in the rural area, but a corresponding difference was not evident in the roots.
23724267|During the period 1925  1945, the author was attached as Professor to Bergen's Museum (now The University, Bergen) and had ample opportunity, especially from 1930 to 1939, to botanize in North Norway. Many of my observations, both floristic and plantsociological, are already published in a series of papers (cf. Nordhagen 1931, 1933, 1935, 193940, 1954 a and b, 1955 a and b, 1963 and 1964). However, several discoveries from the said years before the last war have never been published, or in any case not in a satisfactory way. In the present paper the author is only going to enter upon some interesting observations which he made on Magery and Sry, the two largest islands in Finmark country (cf. the map Fig. 1). Some new discoveries of Arenaria humifusa Wg. After having discovered Arenaria humifusa Wg. in 1935 and shown that this species occurred on the mountain Duken, south of North Cape (Fig. 2), I visited Magery for the second time in 1936. During my excursions I found A. humifusa in four new places in the lowlands of the eastern part of the island. One of them was situated near the village of Honningsvg, about 10 m above sea-level and on disintegrated gabbro, in a flattish and moist situation. In 1961, during the XIIIth International Plantgeographical Excursion (I. P. E.) through Finland, Finmark and Troms, I revisited the locality; but since the last war Honningsvg had grown apace, and in 1961 people were building a house on the exact spot where I found the plant. Luckily one of the Swedish members of the excursion, Mr. Gustav Sandberg, succeeded in finding a single specimen about 50 m farther east. It admits of no doubt whatever that A. humifusa is going to disappear rapidly from the surroundings of Honningsvg. Fortunately, I found the species in 1936 in three localities near Skipsfjord and the small Skipsfjord lakes northwest of Honningsvg 25  30 m above sea-level. It is to be hoped that this rare plant species will in future be safe on Mount Duken and in the above-mentioned localities. In 1940 the species was rediscovered by Nils Dahlbeck on the locus classicus in Lule Lappmark, Sweden, where G. Wahlenberg found it in 1807 and from where he described it as new to science in 1812. Dahlbeck found it on dolomite and mica schists. In 1954 Rune discovered it in the neighbourhood on serpentine, and still later Rune (1955), and Sivertsen and Engelskjn (1965) found A. humifusa on serpentine in several new places in northern Scandinavia. The southern limit of the species is still the mountain Kruttvassrddiken in the county of Nordland, Norway (cf. the map in Nordhagen's paper 1935, p. 28, and Engelskjn 1965, p. 122). Since on the mountain Duken A. humifusa grows on dolomite and limestone, and on the Russian peninsula Rybatchi keeps to schists and dolomite (cf. the geological map of the western part of Rybatchi published by Kalela [1939 p. 14]), one cannot, as Rune has done, characterize A. humifusa as a serpentinophyte. The finds on serpentine only show that the species tolerates serpentine (cf. Asplenium viride in Scandinavia; this fern thrives as well on limestone and mica schists as on serpentine). The isolated occurrence of A. humifusa on Sry, west of Hammerfest, detected by me in 1936, is not bound to serpentine (cf. below). In the author's opinion Magery had ice-free refuges during the last glaciation. This island is the only place outside Arctic Europe where Braya purpurascens occurs. Most probably both this species, Arenaria humifusa and many other plants have overwintered on Magery. The geomorphology, especially of the northeastern side of this island, is very peculiar indeed. One finds here two huge blind valleys (botner). The southernmost, the Opnan valley, harbours a lake which is separated from the open sea by a barrier consisting partly of a big outwashed terminal moraine (cf. the map published by Nordhagen 1935 p. 62 and the picture fig. 3). The innermost part of the valley shows heavy disintegration, and this is also the case with the ridge between the Opnan valley and the neighbouring valley Brvikbotn. When using the new road from Honningsvg to North Cape one observes that the higher lying parts of this road are dug out in quite unsorted coarse gravel with sharp-angled stones - not in moraines. Arenaria humifusa is evidently a seasonal hygrophyte, in contrast to A. norvegica. In one of his papers Rune expresses doubt about the correctness of reckoning A. humifusa as an alpine plant. The species was, however, recently found up to 1050 m, and both on Mount Duken and in several places in Nordland country (cf. also Sry below) it is accompanied by an at any rate low-alpine flora. Its occurrence in lowlying habitats in Finmark is not at all astonishing as a number of alpine species in northern Norway extend right down to sea-level. When I wrote my papers on A. humifusa in 1935 and 1954, A. humifusa was only known, outside Scandinavia, from Rybatchi (the Fishers Peninsula) and from a single locality, Kongsfjord, in Spitzbergen (Polunin 1943). It was a well known fact, however, that the species occurs in numerous localities in West Greenland and North America, but nobody had found it in East Greenland. In 1962, however, A. humifusa was discovered by the English botanist G. Halliday in East Greenland at 72 30' N.L. some kilometres inland near Holms Bugt, Traill Island. Soon after his voyage to Greenland, Mr. Halliday paid a visit to Oslo for the purpose of comparing his plant with Norwegian material. It admitted of no doubt whatever that Mr. Halliday had found A. humifusa. He discovered it by chance when hunting for certain mosses. In future, botanists will have to trawl the districts in East Greenland north and south of 72 in search of this tiny plant.
23724180|The study of Trientalis europaea L. was mainly carried out in Piikki in south Finland, and in Utsjoki in Lapland, and treats the reproductive biology, the ecology and the variability of the species.  The section on the reproductive biology is the most important. The reasons for the small role played by sexual reproduction are sought in the plant itself and in its environment. Meiotic slides reveal the chromosome number to be 2n = c. 160. Dimorphism is observed in the pollen, and special attention is paid to the formation and fertility of the grains. The germination of the seeds and the development of the seedlings are mainly examined by means of laboratory tests.  The ecological section deals with the optimal environments of T. europaea in south Finland and in Lapland, and its frequency and abundance in these habitats. Various environmental factors affecting the vitality of the species are considered.  The variation of the vegetative and floral organs is studied with special reference to populations in different parts of Finland. A number of cultivation experiments are made to elucidate the nature of the variation and the influence of the environment, and the opinions offered on the separation of subspecific taxa are partly based on their results.
23728076|Demographic variation of gender expression among four natural populations and one cultivated in a monoecious species, Schisandra chinensis (Schisandraceae), was studied over three consecutive years in a bid to clarify its sexual system and to better understand reproductive strategies in monoecious plants. We found that gender expression was more variable in the natural populations than in the cultivated one. In the natural populations, plant size was positively correlated with flower production (total, male and female) but not with the female ratio, whereas shade intensity was negatively correlated with the female ratio. In the cultivated population, plant age was positively correlated with flower production and the female ratio within an age range. Hence, gender expression and reproductive output in Schisandra chinensis was found to be age-dependent. The female ratio varied with age; young and old plants had lower female ratios. Our study confirmed the sexual system in the species to be monoecy as opposed to dioecy, and supported the hypothesis that monoecious plants can regulate gender expression by altering quantities of pistillate and staminate flowers at the individual plant level to maximize fitness.
23726749|The East Asian Lejeunea claviflora (Steph.) S. Hatt. is synonymous with L. neelgherriana Gottsche, known from Bhutan, China, India, Nepal, Sikkim, and Sri Lanka. Tuyamaella veillonii Tixier, previously reported only from New Caledonia, is proposed as a synonym of T. serratistipa S. Hatt., a species widespread in SE Asia. A detailed description and illustration of L. neelgherriana is provided. Taxonomic notes and distribution of L. neelgherriana and Tuyamaella serratistipa are presented.
23724600|In the present study the spores of 35 Fennoscandian fern species are described with a key to the species supported mainly by the criteria of the perine, the outer surface of the spore. Species identification is possible on the basis of the perine characters, but if the perine is lacking, the identification, which must then be based on spore size, shape and exine sculpture, remains uncertain. For taxonomic discussion the Fennoscandian ferns have been classified into ten spore morphological types. Utilizing descriptions in the literature I have also applied the type classification to spores of ferns growing outside Fennoscandia. The classification of the old family Polypodiaceae s. lat. is examined in the light of spore morphology and compared with recent taxonomic classifications of the ferns. In this way the validity of spore morphology as a criterion in fern systematics has been assessed.
23728207|The history of the occurrence of Cladium mariscus (Cyperaceae) in NE Poland at the north-eastern limit of its distribution in Europe is discussed. The decline of the species may be related to gradual oligotrophication of its habitats, caused by the isolation of calcareous deposits and the decline of calcium carbonate in the substratum. The presence of C. mariscus in Kojle and Perty, lakes in NE Poland, is related to the occurrence of calcareous sediments, which may compensate for the lack of sufficient warmth. The occurrence of calcium carbonate in the substratum allows for the growth of C. mariscus in areas that are influenced significantly by a continental climate. The abundance of Ca 2+ cations in the substratum compensates for that climatic factor.
23728098|The aim of this study was to determine the extent and geographical pattern of intraspecific chemical and genetic variability of the lichen Hypogymnia physodes by comparing populations from different habitats. We analyzed the secondary lichen substances and their relative concentrations using HPTLC and HPLC in samples collected from sites with different environmental conditions. We identified seven lichen substances: the cortical atranorin and chloroatranorin, and the medullary physodalic, physodic, protocetraric, 3-hydroxyphysodic, and 2-O-methylphysodic acids. The samples were uniform qualitatively, which means that H. physodes has only one chemotype. We detected quantitative chemical differences between the samples without any geographical pattern. We investigated 21 samples in order to study the connection between genotypic diversity of populations and geographical distribution. We determined the sequences of five loci (ITS, nucSSU, nucLSU, mitSSU, EF1). We found no significant genetic differentiation among populations collected from different areas.
23725347|Vegetation was studied in three national parks in SW Finland using PCA transformed and supervised classified Landsat TM imagery. In Seitseminen and Liesjrvi, the images were compared to published vegetation maps, whereas Landsat study of the Baltic Sea Archipelago Park included comparisons with aerial photographs in addition to field observations. The results reveal that satellite imagery contains accurate information on environmental features, which are often difficult or impossible to examine by other means. However, satellite data fails to distinguish many of the vegetation types recognized by the Finnish phytosociological school, though the major physiognomic categories are for the most part discernible. The increasing number of vegetation studies based on remote sensing requires a re-evaluation of the classification criteria applied in the botanical tradition. Manual interpretation of digitally enhanced images is superior to supervised classification procedures in many botanical works, because the former is free from operator-defined classes which may not necessarily be representative. Many satellite-based mappings that are available at present are of limited value in biological studies because their accuracy is questionable. There is an urgent need for developing unified accuracy validation procedures to meet the needs of image users.
23728022|Leopoldia ghoschtchiensis Jafari & Maassoumi sp. nova (Hyacinthaceae) is described from Iran. Keys to and a brief synopsis of the eleven species here recognized in Leopoldia, Muscari and Pseudomuscari (or Muscari s. lato) in Iran is provided.
23725557|In stands of Ceratodon purpureus (Hedw.) Brid. forced at 12.8C, the duration of meiosis was 47 hours. The reduction division lasted 38 hours and the second division 9 hours. Meiosis progressed slowly at 0 and development ceased at 35.7C. On sunny sites in nature on the southern coast of Finland, meiosis occurred in the first half of May in 1977 and 1979. Meiosis in Ceratodon was characterized by variable stainability of the chromosomes during the reduction, slightly asynchronous separation of the chromosomes at anaphase I, and absence of interkinesis between the two divisions.
23725589|The effect of thermal discharges from the Olkiluoto nuclear power station (Bothnian Sea) on the production of individual phytoplankton species was determined by track autoradiography in 19811982. During the early spring phase, in April, the production of the dominant Chaetoceros wighamii was stimulated by passage through the cooling system. In May the phytoplankton biomass was at its highest, but the cell-specific growth rates of the main species had decreased from April and the response to passage through the station was weak. In summer and autumn, the changes in the production of the prevailing flagellates varied. A strong decline in the production after power station entrainment was noted when the temperature of the discharged water reached 30C and Cryptomonas, Pyramimonas and unidentified flagellates were dominant. Production tended to be smaller in the discharged water than in the intake water, when both were incubated at the ambient temperature. Physiological injuries sustained by the cells during entrainment were compensated to some extent by the stimulative effect of the elevated temperatures in the discharge area. The total impact on the production can be beneficial or harmful, depending on the environmental conditions, and the species composition and successional stage of the phytoplankton.
23726273|We investigated the spatial distribution of genotypes among 20 and seven Korean populations of Eurya japonica Thunb. and E. emarginata (Thunb.) Makino, widespread and broad-leaved evergreen dioecious trees native to East Asia, using spatial autocorrelation analysis of enzyme polymorphism. Korean populations of E. japonica are large, abundant, and contiguous, while populations of E. emarginata in Korea are small, isolated in few localities. Although the two species have very similar life history traits (e.g., obligate outcrossing, high fecundity, and long generation time), the observed pattern of genetic distribution among populations of E. japonica appears to be different from that of E. emarginata examined. For example, the number of overall significant correlograms is different from each species (10%, 3/29 in E. japonica vs. 40%, 8/20 in E. emarginata). The average Moran's I values for E. japonica were very similar among three distance classes (-0.01, -0.07, and -0.07), whereas these values for E. emarginata were 0.02, -0.18, and -0.34 for each distance class. The results indicate that more genetic structuring among Korean populations exists in E. emarginata than E. japonica. The distribution patterns and effective population sizes found in the two species may be important factors in shaping the observed genetic structures among populations of the species.
23724193|The qualitative analyses of the nucleic acids of the microsporangiate strobilus primordia and the spur shoot primordia of the dormant Scotch Pine have been made by determining the DNA base ratios and the RNA mononucleotide ratios. The results of the DNA analyses indicate that material extracted with modified SchmidtThannhauser procedure and material extracted with Na-lauryl sulphate and, after precipitation, with saline have different base ratios. In both cases the ratio Pu/Py is the same for one and the same tissue. The base ratio in material collected at about the same stage of development in two subsequent years is similar, at least in the floral tissue. DNAs from the vegetative and the male flower tissues have a slighly different base composition. The Pu/Py ratio is higher in spur shoot primordia than in strobilus primordia. Small difference was observed in the thymine content. A significant difference was found in the amounts of adenine in the vegetative and floral tissues when the Na-lauryl sulphate method was used. The ratios of RNA mononucleotides in vegetative and floral tissue shows certain difference. The physiology of this is discussed. The RNAs of both tissues contain minor components in addition to the four main ones.
23725068|The karyotypes and morphological variation of N.marina were examined in plants from central and northwestern Europe. Two different karyotypes, A and B, have been described. The chromosome number is the same in both, 2n = 12, but about five structural rearrangements are needed to derive karyotype A from B. The two cytodemes also differ in their morphological characters: specimens with karyotype B have narrower leaves and smaller fruits than those with karyotype A. Cytodeme B has been named subsp. marina, cytodeme A subsp. major (All.) Viinikka. The former subspecies has its main distribution around the Baltic Sea, and a few isolated populations in the Alps. Subsp. major is distributed in the fresh waters of central Europe. The species can be cultivated in controlled aquarium conditions. The whole life-cycle from seeds to seeds is completed in about 100 days. The differences in morphological characters observed between the subspecies were also present in plants raised in cultures. The two subspecies were able to produce hybrid seeds, but the seedlings died at a young stage. One natural population is considered to be of hybrid origin. Seed shapes were examined in two succeeding generations. Both narrow and broad seeds are set by the same plants. The shape appears to be mainly determined by environmental factors.
23728119|Gentiana zhenxiongensis L.H. Wu & Z.T. Wang sp. nova (Gentianaceae) from Yunnan province, China, is described and illustrated. It resembles G. praticola, but differs in having stolons and/or rhizomes, small flowers, calyx lobes with keeled midribs, a campanulate corolla and a tuberculate testa.
23725716|The material was obtained from an eight-week experiment (water originating from a rock-pool) and directly from rock-pools. Living or preserved algae were studied with an inverted microscope. A rare blue-green alga (Cyanophyceae), Cylindrospermum breve Welsh, was recorded in the water from the experiment. Two green algal (Chlorophyceae) species, Franceia amphitricha (Lagerheim) Hegewald and Golenkiniopsis longispina (Korsikov) Korsikov, were recorded for the first time in Finnish rock-pool water. The population of G. longispina tended to occur in colonies rather than as single cells, which supports the view that the genera Golenkiniopsis and Micractinium do not differ clearly from each other. The morphological characteristics are presented for Aphanizomenon gracile (Lemmermann) Lemmermann (Cyanophyceae), Glenodinium steinii Lemmermann (Dinophyceae), Monoraphidium contortum (Thuret) Komrkov-Legnerov (Chlorophyceae) and Treubaria triappendiculata Bernard (Chlorophyceae). The results show that experimental studies can be useful in floristic research. The experimental treatments, additions of nutrients or a predator, favoured populations of naturally rare algae and made morphological studies possible.
23726887|Cephalaria aytachii R.S. Gktrk & Smbl sp. nova (Dipsacaceae) is described from central Anatolia, Turkey. It is illustrated in line drawings, its diagnostic morphological characters are given, and its pollen structure is examined.
23728029|Aspidistra liboensis S.Z. He & J.Y. Wu sp. nova (Apiaceae), is described, illustrated, and compared with the morphologically similar species, and a diagnostic key is provided. The new species resembles A. longipetala but differs from it by having a long petiole (1622 cm vs. 611 cm), a broadly campanulate perianth (vs. suburceolate) with at least 2 appendages at the inner base of lobe, and an enlarged stigma (2.53.2 cm vs. 11.2 cm in diameter), with at least 16 adaxial grooves with purple papillate margins.
23727920|Linaria kavirensis Hamdi & Assadi (Scrophulariaceae) is described and illustrated as a new species from the central desert and eastern provinces of Iran. It belongs in sect. Supinae and is compared with the morphologically close L. simplex, from which it differs by having filiform vs. linear leaves, shorter bracts (1.52 mm vs. 2  0.50.7 mm), shorter corolla (56 mm vs. 77.5 mm), shorter spur (1.51.7 mm vs. 2.53 mm), smaller capsules (33.5 mm vs. 44.5 mm), and smaller seeds with smooth vs. tuberculate surface. In addition, L. kavirensis is compared with L. arvensis and L. micrantha by means of scanning electron micrographs of seed and capsule surfaces.
23727973|Chromosome numbers for 52 populations representing eight South American species of Stemodia (Scrophulariaceae) were determined. The numbers 2n = 22 found in S. hassleriana and S. palustris, and 2n = 44 in S. lobelioides are the first records for the species, while those found in S. hyptoides (2n = 22, 44) and S. stricta (2n = 22) constitute new cytotypes for those species. The basic chromosome number x = 11 was confirmed for the New World species. Chromosome numbers indicate the existence of a polyploid series in S. hyptoides with 2n = 22, 44, 66. Moreover, the existence of at least three different ploidy levels, both within and among species, indicates that polyploidy has been one of the mechanisms involved in the evolution of the genus. The geographical distribution of different species and cytotypes are analysed and discussed in the light of their extant morphological variation and taxonomic implications.
23726782|Linaria dumanii A. Duran & Y. Menemen sp. nova is described from the Akseki district in Turkey. It belongs to the section Pelisserianae Valds and is related to L. pelisseriana (L.) Miller, from which it mainly differs in its very small flowers.
23727600|One hundred and sixty-one polypore species are reported from the Central Urals. Two of them, Anomoporia vesiculosa Y.C. Dai & Niemel and Junghuhnia semisupiniforme (Murr.) Ryvarden, are reported for the first time from Russia. The material consists of literature data and 838 collections and observations, and according to the data of the authors, the most frequent species are Fomitopsis pinicola (Sw. : Fr.) P. Karst., Trichaptum fuscoviolaceum (Ehrenb. : Fr.) Ryvarden, Fomitopsis rosea (Alb. & Schewin. : Fr.) P. Karst., Postia caesia (Schrad. : Fr.) P. Karst., and Bjerkandera adusta (Willd. : Fr.) P. Karst., respectively. These contain 22 per cent of all observations, but only 3.9 per cent of all the species. Thirty-two species (25.2%) were collected only once, 16 species twice (12.6%) and 10 species (7.9%) three times, respectively. The collecting sites are briefly described, the host trees listed and descriptions and illustrations of some species given.
23724678|The form and function of diverse capitulum types of the pseudanthic Compositae were studied in correlation with the sensory reaction and attendance frequency of plant pollinators. No original capitulum types, specific to the Compositae, were found. All studied types imitated some floral pattern already existing in solitary flowers. The differentation of the flower heads of the Compositae appeared to be a close imitation of the evolutionary sequence of solitary flowers. The long-debated mystery of the development of pseudoflower from the multi-flowered inflorescences of the Compositae was plausibly explained by the behaviour of plant pollinators. The process of this evolutionary recapitulation and its underlying mechanism were found to be correlated with the inherited sensory reaction of food-searching insects and birds and the selective pressure which they exercise upon the plants.
23726946|Four limnic sediment cores were analysed by means of pollen and plant macrofossil analyses and radiocarbon dated from the island of Valamo (Russian Karelia). The results show evidence of Bronze Age cultivation in the western part of the island. After a period lacking evidence for this activity, agriculture respread in the area between ca. 14001000 BP (ca. cal AD 6501000), the main increase being dated to ca. 800 BP (ca. cal AD 1250).
23725191|Four species of Rhodobryum occur in China. R. spathulatum (Hornsch.) Pcs, commonly named R. roseum, has the widest distribution, occurring in the temperate and meridional zones. R. roseum (Hedw.) Limpr. s.str. is rare and known only from Northeast China. R. giganteum (Schwaegr.) Par. has a tropical-subtropical distribution. R. laxelimbatum (Ochi) Iwats. & T. Kop. is reported for the first time from China and is known from the Xizang (Tibet) and Yunnan Provinces. Figures and a key to the species are given, and the nomenclature and distributions are treated. Lectotypes are selected for Mnium giganteum Schwaegr. (=Rhodobryum g.), and Bryum globicoma C. Mll., B. leptorhodon C. Mll. and B. ptychothecioides C. Mll., which are synonyms of Rhodobryum spathulatum.
23727865|Extensive surveys on wood-rotting fungi were recently carried out in Hainan Province, southern China. Around 2500 specimens of poroid wood-inhabiting fungi were collected during ten field trips, and 235 polypores were identified. Four species, Grammothelopsis asiatica Y.C. Dai & B.K. Cui, Inonotus latemarginatus Y.C. Dai, Perenniporia hattorii Y.C. Dai & B.K. Cui and Wrightoporia austro sinensis Y.C. Dai, are described and illustrated as new. Of the 235 species, 99 were found from the province for the first time.
23724669|The botanical aspects of importance for the ecology and identification of Equisetum palustre are discussed: its anatomy, environmentally determined morphological plasticity and life-cycle. The rhizome starch content, measured by the iodine colorimetric method, fluctuated according to the stage of shoot growth. The presence and content of alkaloids, especially palustrine, showed wide fluctuations without any detected cause. Studies on the geographic range of E. palustre in Finland revealed areas of frequent occurrence and gaps. The synecological amplitude, studied in both natural and man-influenced habitats, was wide. Its mire habitats were mostly meso-eutrophic. In disturbed sites its competitive ability was pronounced. In natural mire habitats it behaved like its commonest associated species indicating margin influence. The micro-environmental factors soil type, nutrients, and ground-water, examined in relation to the occurrence of the species in different habitats and to rhizome distribution in the soil, indicated that the water factor was most important. The species remained growing on fields cleared from natural mire habitats, and even on mineral soil when the peat layer had disappeared. The ecological observations are used as a foundation for the consideration of practical aspects: the toxicity of the species' alkaloids to cattle, symptoms and cure of poisoning, the control of it and the harm caused by it to agriculture in Finland.
23725884|Eleven new species of Taraxacum (section Spectabilia) are described from Lule Lappmark and Torne Lappmark, Sweden: T. assimulans G. Hagl., T. barycephalum G. Hagl., T. brachyoncum G. Hagl., T. erythropodum G. Hagl., T. extensifrons G. Hagl., T. nitens G. Hagl., T. selandri G. Hagl., T. stenanthum G. Hagl., T. submuticum G. Hagl., T. subulicuspis G. Hagl., and T. vacillans G. Hagl. All except T. selandri G. Hagl. belong to the collective T. croceum Dahlst. In 1950, they were included as nomina nuda in a floristic study by Sten Selander.
43922198|Published statements that Baltic Pilayella littoralis (L.) Kjellm. is unusually slender have been confirmed by measurements of cultured material and field samples from sites in Finland and North Europe. Neither sporangial nor filament thickness normally exceeds 30 m in Baltic plants, whereas one or both usually does so in plants from more Atlantic localities. Baltic material is also very euryhaline in character with active growth possible over a salinity range of 1.5-45 ppt. The opinion that Baltic Pilayella constitutes a distinctive subspecies is therefore upheld. The geographical limit of this taxon would appear to lie in the vicinity of Copenhagen, although the possibility that it may also occur in the innermost parts of tidal estuaries on Atlantic shores is not discounted.
23724999|The effect of the filtration process on measurements of the phytoplanktonic primary production was studied in a sample typical of Lake Pjrvi. The results obtained indicated that increases in the filtration pressure and the volume of the samples filtered did not necessitate corrections of the production values.
23726343|Bacidia fraxinea Lnnr. (Lecanorales, lichenized Ascomycotina) is closely related to B. rubella (Hoffm.) Massal., but differs in a number of characters. The most obvious difference is in the appearance of the thallus: B. fraxinea has a smooth to verrucose, areolate or irregularly cracked thallus, whereas B. rubella has a granular thallus. Furthermore, B. fraxinea has slightly darker apothecia than B. rubella, and is more abundantly fertile. Analysis of variance (ANOVA) shows that there are statistically significant differences in spore length and hymenium height, whereas no such significant differences were detected in spore width and spore septation. B. fraxinea occurs on nutrient-rich bark, chiefly on Fraxinus excelsior, Populus tremula and Ulmus spp. It is reported here from Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Estonia, Russia, Germany, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Ukraine, Slovenia, Croatia, Italy and Spain.
23728271|The polyploid origin and colonization history of Iris aphylla in central and southeastern Europe were investigated by means of karyological and AFLP analyses. The study indicated two chromosome races within I. aphylla based on chromosomal numbers 2n = 24 and 2n = 48. The overall chromosome counts and determined ploidy suggest tetraploidy as the most common ploidy level for this species in Europe. Only one diploid I. aphylla population was found, with a restricted distribution area in the Slovak Karst. The analyses showed that tetraploids arose independently at least three or more times in the past. The karyological results were in agreement with the AFLP data and strongly suggested that migration between the two Carpathian Mts. sites occurred recently via the Dukielska Pass. The low number of AFLP fragments unique to each population supports the hypothesis of recent range expansion and colonization of different environments in central Europe by I. aphylla. All populations were genetically depauperated and had 03 unique bands, indicating that not enough time elapsed for many unique fragments to form through mutation. We also observed relatively high and significant differentiation between the one diploid and all investigated tetraploid I. aphylla populations (ST = 0.470, p < 0.001). The high and significant values of genetic differentiation can be explained by several factors such as anthropopression and natural succession, which have fragmented the open calcareous habitats in central Europe.
23724192|The lateral spur shoot primordia and the microsporangiate strobilus primordia from mixed terminal buds of a dormant Scotch Pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) were collected and studied in regard to their nucleic acid content, the dry weight and the total nitrogen content. The results are given in Tables 1  4. The extractability of the deoxyribonucleic acid was different in these closely related tissues and depended on the method used. The possible physiological bases for this has been discussed. The amount of nucleic acids is higher in the microsporangiate strobilus primordia than in the spur shoot primordia. The ratio between the two nucleic acids is closely correlated in both tissues. The larger size of the floral primordia is reflected in the dry weight and the total nitrogen content.
23725765|Carex canescens L. (C. curta Good.) is lectotypified with table 32. in Flora Prussica by Loeselius (1703) in order to conserve the traditional usage of the name. Subspecific status is proposed for the predominating race of C. canescens in eastern North America, as C. canescens subsp. disjuncta (Fernald) Toivonen, stat. nov.
23728101|We describe a new species of Lithocarpus from the central Kelabit Highlands of Sarawak, Malaysia with a distribution extending north to Mt. Kinabalu, Sabah. This species was included in a previous morphometric and phylogenetic study of the section Synaedrys, mistakenly identified as L. rotundatus. Several individuals were observed on the western slopes of Mt. Kinabalu between the elevation of 12001500 meters. The species has a distinctive cupule, which usually completely encloses the nut and is very dark in color, almost black with a brittle texture similar to charcoal. The fruit is semi-hemispheric in shape and the bracts on the cupule are entirely fused, relatively sparse, stiff, brittle, and prominent.
23726473|Premature yellowing and browning of the foliage of deciduous trees was observed in western Finland up to the Arctic Circle during summer 1991. There is growing evidence that ubiquitous volatile organic air pollutants, especially C2-halocarbons, may be converted to various secondary air pollutants, which are phytotoxic and broadly classed as herbicides. One of these, trichloroacetic acid, is found in considerable concentration in the foliage of northern forest trees. If uptake from the atmosphere is the prevailing process in tree exposure to herbicides, stand density of a forest should influence the extent of the damage. An experimental area for tending of young stands in various densities (5005 100 stems per hectare), located within the damage zone in Rovaniemi, provided an ideal opportunity to investigate the damage and degree of defoliation of birch trees (Betula pubescens Ehrh.). The assessment was made in summer 1992. The proportion of injured trees and their degree of defoliation were inversely correlated with stand density. The proportion of undamaged trees was much greater where density exceeded 3 000 trees per hectare.
23726557|The name Cyperus corymbosus (L.) Rottb. as used by Kukkonen in Rechinger (ed.), Flora Iranica (Cyperaceae) 173: 95 (1998) is corrected to C. corymbosus Rottb.
23725345|The effects of Pb(NO3)2, CuSO4 and CdCl2 on the germination and initial growth of Juncus acutus L.(Juncaceae) were studied. The metal content of the seedlings was also measured. The concentrations used were: Pb(NO3)2 from 0.97 to 3.90  10-5 M, and CuSO4 or CdCl2 from 0.12 to 1.95  10-5 M. Germination was not affected by any of the tested metals, whereas the initial growth was strongly inhibited by Pb(NO3)2 concentrations from 1.95  10-5 M upwards, and by CuSO4 and CdCl2 concentrations from 0.12  10-5 M. The root was affected more than the shoot and failed to develop at all the tested concentrations of CuSO4. J. acutus seedlings accumulated 55% to 98% of the metals present in the culture solution. The accumulation of cadmium in the seedlings was higher than that of lead and copper.
23726091|Six lactarane derivatives were isolated from the sesquiterpenoid fraction of Finnish Lactarius torminosus (Fr.) S.F. Gray. The compounds are furanalcohol 2 (main component), lactarorufin A, blennin C, deconjugated anhydrolactarorufin A, blennin A and 15-hydroxyblennin A. The first three compounds were also isolated from L. trivialis (Fr.) Fr. Present knowledge of the sesquiterpenoid composition of Lactarius species is summarized in table form. The correlation between the sesquiterpenoid composition and the generic subdivision of Lactarius is discussed.
23727971|Twenty-five species in ten cetrarioid lichen genera belonging to the family Parmeliaceae are reported for the lichen flora of NE China. Keys to the genera and species as well as short descriptions are given. Cetrelia japonica, Tuckermannopsis americana and T. ulophylloides are reported as new to China. Seven additional species are new to NE China. Nephromopsis endocrocea is excluded from the lichen flora of China.
23725032|A list is given of the localities in Anatolia at which collections were made by a Finnish botanical expedition visiting SW Asia in 1972. The total number of phanerogam species collected was ca. 1250, and the records are listed that are new for the floristic grid squares and/or vilayets of Turkey. Chenopodium ambrosioides and C. strictum subsp. strictum are probably new for Turkey.
23727945|Descurainia sophia (L.) Webb ex Prantl subsp. bartschii (O.E. Schulz) C. Vural comb. & stat. nov., previously regarded as a species, is proposed based on the morphological and pollen characteristics. A detailed description is given on the basis of new material from the type locality. The taxon is endemic to central Anatolia, Turkey. A key to the Turkish subspecies of Descurainia sophia is provided.
23727176|Twenty-eight names of taxa of Hieracium, occuring in, and in most cases described on the basis of material from, the SE Swedish provinces of Gotland and stergtland are lectotypified.
23724932|Light and electron microscopic observations suggest that proteins are present in the oil bodies of the thallus cells of Pellia epiphylla and Bazzania trilobata. Electron microscope observations show that proteins are present in the stroma but not in the globules embedded in the stroma. These globules consist of unsaturated neutral lipids, which form the bulk of the total stainable lipids of the cell. In Pellia epiphylla these globules can be extracted entirely from the oil bodies, whereas in Bazzania trilobata, electron-dense layers are left, suggesting that the globules are surrounded by a single membrane and thus demonstrating differences between the oil bodies of these two species.
23726629|Malus sylvestris (L.) Mill., is an important diversifying and structural element in seminatural grasslands in parts of temperate Europe. Awareness of this has been growing in recent decades. Little, however, appears to be known about the dispersal of the species in nature. The field study reported here suggests that large domestic herbivores may be a major vector of dispersal, as well as providers of suitable seedbeds for germination. Of the close to 1800 individual seedlings, the emergence and subsequent fates of which are recorded in this study, 98% have with certainty been spread through grazing by cattle or horses. The survival of the seedlings depends on a number of factors, e.g., the growth conditions due to the prevailing climate, light regimes at germination, nutrient availability, breaking of field-layer vegetation canopy and avoidance of excessive browsing. Some 20% of the seedlings may survive for longer periods if grazing ceases, while very few survive under continuous grazing. The study shows an inverse relationship between the survival rate and the grazing pressure in the early post-germination years, but it also indicates that germination density is directly related to grazing pressure. There appears to be a direct relationship between the stocking rate and level of grazing by cattle, indicating that Malus sylvestris may not be actively sought by the cattle for food. Accordingly, the survival expectancy of the seedlings is higher where grazing pressure is less and this may be used in a grazing strategy to establish or secure a population of Malus sylvestris by natural dispersal.
23725721|The families Andreaeaceae Dum., Archidiaceae Schimp. and Seligeriaceae Schimp. each have a single species in Western Melanesia. Ditrichaceae Limpr. in Rabenh. has six species in the genera Garckea C. Mll. (1 species), Ditrichum Hampe (3), Distichium B. S. G. (1) and Ceratodon Brid. (1). The paper includes keys to the species, descriptions, illustrations and distributional data for the species in Western Melanesia. For each species there are discussions on taxonomy and classification, as well as nomenclatural notes and range descriptions.
23726481|The connection between the effective temperature sum and the occurrence of the flower bud burst on eleven plant taxa was analyzed using historical, regionally-distributed phenological observations in Finland from the period 19181955. Local estimates of effective temperature sum were optimised by temporal and spatial interpolation of the temperature data that was available from a relatively sparse network of stations. During the extremely warm spring of 1921 flowering on many taxa occurred nearly one month earlier than in an average year, corresponding to the about 5C warmer-than-average temperatures. The year-to-year fluctuation of spring-time mean temperature had a standard deviation of about 2C. This corresponded to a fluctuation range of 18 days in flower bud burst. In the warmer climate anticipated for the near future by most climate scenarios, the occurrence of bud burst would be expected to advance correspondingly, i.e. by about 4 days per 1C of warming, if the temperature rise remains within the present range of climate variation. Phenological maps based on the ETS indicated that the progress of flowering with latitude was regionally highly variable, with a latitudinal gradient of about 200300 km/10 days on average. A 2C mean climate warming would thus correspond to a latitudinal shift of about 700 km in the average date of flowering.
23726832|A new combination is proposed in Astragalus L. sect. Corethrum Bunge: A. scoparius Schrenk subsp. intarrensis (Franch.) Ghahremani. The subspecies is endemic to Middle Asia (Kirgistan, Tadzhikistan and Uzbekistan). A list of species of Astragalus sect. Corethrum is provided as well as a note on its phytogeography.
23724649|In summer 1970 a study was made of the species composition and biomasses of the phytoplankton in the northern part of Kuorevesi, in the northeast of the Kokemenjoki basin, Finnish Lake District, whose waters are polluted by the effluents of a sulphite cellulose factory. Observations were also made on the concentrations of oxygen and carbon dioxide, and pH.
23724665|Six indigenous species of Luzula, subgenus Anthelaea Griseb., are recognized in North America, viz. Luzula divaricata S. Wats., L. gigantea Desv., L. hitchcockii Hmet-Ahti, L. parviflora (Ehrh.) Desv., L. piperi (Cov.) M. E. Jones, and L. wahlenbergii Rupr. L. glabrata (Hoppe) Desv., which is commonly reported from western North America, is shown to be restricted to Europe; the American taxon usually presented under that name is described as a new species, L. hitchcockii Hmet-Ahti. L. parviflora has three major races in North America, viz. ssp. fastigiata (E. Meyer) Hmet-Ahti, n. comb., ssp. melanocarpa (Michx.) Hmet-Ahti, n. comb., and ssp. parviflora.
23726576|A group of four long-spored (> 15 m) species of Dermatocarpon Eschw. is revised. Dermatocarpon bachmannii Anders, D. deminuens Vain., D. meiophyllizum Vain., and D. rivulorum (Arnold) Dalla Torre & Sarnth. are recognized. A key to the species is given and their delimitation discussed. The delimitation of D. bachmannii from D. deminuens was studied in detail by PCA and Student's t-test of anatomical and morphological characters. The following names are lectotypified: D. bachmannii, D. bachmannii var. inundatum Klem., D. deminuens, D. laatokkanse Rsnen, D. meiophyllizum, and D. meiophyllum Vain. Dermatocarpon bachmannii is for the first time reported from Finland, Iceland and Norway and D. deminuens and D. meiophyllizum from Iceland.
23725220|The volatile compounds myrcene, limonene, -pinene, -terpineol, D-fenchol and 1,8-cineole, present in the oleoresin fraction of coniferous wood, were tested individually and as mixtures for their effect on the growth and peroxidase activity of cultures of six strains of Phellinus pini (Fr.) A. Ames and one strain of P. chrysoloma (Fr.) Donk (P. pini var. abietis (Karst.) Pilt). P. pini was more tolerant of the substances than P. chrysoloma. There were differences in the tolerance and peroxidase activity between the strains of P. pini. Peroxidase activity was generally higher in the test cultures than in the controls, but was lower in cultures exposed to 1,8-cineole and -terpineol.
23726053|The phenetic variation of Polytrichastrum alpinum (Hedw.) G.L.Sm. was examined with cluster and principal component analysis, using nine different procedures. The material consisted of 261 herbarium specimens, mainly from the Northern Hemisphere. The analyses were based on 12 quantitative characters of the gametoand sporophyte. The results of three clustering methods (single, average and complete linkage) differed significantly from each other, not only in the degree of grouping but also in the cluster composition. Single linkage, which has been neglected because of its potential chaining effect, took better account of the form of the clusters and revealed the possible clinal nature of the variation more clearly. On the other hand, with this method a small proportion of specimens with several missing characters had a considerable effect on the results. Three different character weighting procedures, two of which were unequal, being based on the results of principal component analysis, gave clearly different results. In contrast, two dissimilarity measures (mean character difference and Euclidean distance) gave very similar grouping. The results of both cluster and principal component analysis were visualized not only with the usual dendrophenograms and scatter diagrams, but also with a curve diagram describing n-dimensionality. The analyses failed to reveal any clear variation gaps, and indicated that the variation of the material was clinal.
23727378|Based on herbarium and field observations, combined with a transplant experiment, Clematis pinnata Maxim. is shown to be a variable species, and the names C. tatarinowii Maxim. and C. pinnata var. ternatifolia W.T. Wang are reduced to its synonymy.
23725223|The fluorine content and the damage to lichens was studied in Hypogymnia physodes (L.) W. Wats. and Parmelia sulcata T. Tayl., epiphytic on birch, spruce and pine, in 1973 and 1977 in the vicinity of a fertilizer factory in Siilinjrvi, central Finland. Fluorine was separated by micro-diffusion and determined with an ion-selective electrode. The damage to the lichens was assessed visually. Between 1973 and 1976, the emissions of fluorides were reduced by a factor of about three. The lichen desert and the polluted zone expanded considerably between 1973 and 1977, but the fluoride contents of the lichens decreased greatly, the highest values in the two years being, respectively, 940 ppm and 260 ppm. The background fluoride concentration was 3 to 6 ppm. The correlation between the damage index and the fluoride content was rather poor. The damage to lichens is considered in relation to the chemical state of the fluorine, the phorophyte species, humidity and fertilizer dust.
23727633|Cheilolejeunea tenella (Taylor) J.J. Engel & B.C. Tan (Lejeuneaceae) has a proximal hyaline papilla of the leaf lobule and other typical characters of the genus Lejeunea. It is reinstated here as Lejeunea tenella Taylor. The species has to be excluded from the floras of Indonesia, New Zealand, and the Philippines because previous reports of Cheilolejeunea tenella for these countries are based on misidentifications. The description and illustrations of Lejeunea tenella here provided are based on the type specimen from Singapore.
23728175|To analyze the altitudinal distribution of seed plants in the central area (~590 km 2 ) of the Qinling Mountains (central China), supporting a giant panda population, we conducted floristic surveys at discrete altitude intervals and reviewed the data in published floras for the area. We found that there are 2031 species of seed plants in the study area, representing 694 genera and 148 families. These seed-plant species account for 59.1% of all those known from the Qinling Mountains and 7.6% of those found in China. The proportion of pantropical species decreases with increasing altitude, and above 2800 m a.s.l. tropical species do not exist. The proportion of northern-temperate plants increases with increasing altitude. The area accommodates predominately a mixture of Sino-Japanese and Sino-Himalayan forest-region species. A regression model predicted a theoretical boundary between the subtropical and warm-temperate zones at 530 m above sea level.
23724679|Eastern Finnish Lapland is divided into 3 floristic areas, mainly on the basis of the distribution of fjeld plants. A survey is made of the late- and post-glacial development of eastern Lapland and its vegetation. Some migration routes of the flora of eastern Lapland are traced. A survey is made of the occurrence of open mineral soil patches in the different floristic areas and attention is paid to their importance for the survival of the fjeld flora in the conifer belt.
23726654|The species of Abundisporus Ryvarden and Perenniporia Murrill (Aphyllophorales, Basidiomycota) from China are listed. A key was prepared for the 24 species so far recorded in the two genera from the country, including condensed descriptions and spore dimensions. Two new species are described and illustrated: Abundisporus quercicola Y.C.Dai and Perenniporia piceicola Y.C.Dai. The genera Haploporus Singer and Pachykytospora Kotl. & Pouzar are considered as synonymous, being closely related to Perenniporia but differing from it by ornamented spores. The following new combinations are proposed: Haploporus alabamae (Berk. & Cooke) Y.C.Dai & Niemel, Haploporus papyraceus (Schwein.) Y.C.Dai & Niemel, Haploporus subtrameteus (Pilt) Y.C.Dai & Niemel, Haploporus tuberculosus (Fr.) Niemel & Y.C.Dai, and Perenniporia subadusta (Z.S.Bi & G.Y.Zheng) Y.C.Dai.
23726547|The fine-scale population genetic structure of Cymbidium goeringii Rchb. f. (Orchidaceae), a small herbaceous perennial, was analyzed using spatial autocorrelation statistics in a severely disturbed population (60  100 m area). All visible individuals (72) were sampled and their locations were mapped. Individual plants were genotyped for 14 allozyme loci, and Moran's spatial autocorrelation statistics were calculated for 19 alleles. The pattern of spatial genetic structuring is very weak in the population, though over 500 out of 598 individuals have been removed during the past two years by collectors. However, the average values show essentially no spatial autocorrelation, but there is some autocorrelation for some alleles. This indicates that mass collectings by human beings have not affected the genetic structure (thinning-like effect). The mean correlogram of the population suggest that total gene flow may be considerable. As pollen movement by bumblebees is leptokuretic, it is highly likely that large numbers of very small seeds travel through the population by wind.
23726525|Differences in the resistance of the chlorophyll-containing cells of the branch leaves of five species of the genus Sphagnum L. were revealed by direct freezing and heating. Sphagnum balticum (Russ.) C. Jens., S. subsecundum Nees and S. teres (Schimp.) ngstr. were shown to be more frost-resistant than S. magellanicum Brid. and S. fuscum (Schimp.) Klinggr. Differences in heat resistance between the mosses studied were smaller than those in cold resistance. However, there was correlation between the two responses. The thermo-resistance of Sphagnum mosses was shown to be strongly affected by environmental conditions.
23727638|The effect of increasing concentrations (0, 0.05, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.6 mol l-1) of different salts (Na2SO4, Na2CO3, MgSO4, NaCl, MgCl2) in solution and soil extract solutions of comparable osmotic potentials on germination of Suaeda salsa seeds was studied. Seed germination decreased significantly with increased salinity. Germination inhibition was in the following order: MgCl2 > Na2SO4 > Na2CO3 > NaCl > soil extract solution > MgSO4. Non-germinated seeds under all salt treatments recovered completely when transferred to distilled water, indicating that there was little specific ion effect on seed viability. Seedling growth was studied under different levels of NaCl salinity (0, 0.05, 0.1, 0.2, 0.4 mol l-1) stress. Low levels of salinity (0.050.1 mol l-1) increased seedling growth, while high levels (> 0.2 mol l-1 NaCl) inhibited the growth significantly. Under salt stress, the leaves accumulated high levels of proline, whereas their soluble sugar content decreased with an increase in salinity. Na+ content in leaves, stems and roots increased with salinity. Ions were mostly accumulated in the shoot, especially in leaves. Under the highest level of salinity (0.4 mol l-1 NaCl), Na+ accounted for more than 91.6% of the ions in leaves, 92.6% in stems and 84.1% in roots. Inorganic ions, especially Na+, were more important than organic solutes in the osmoregulation in S. salsa to adapt to a saline environment.
23725674|The presence or absence of vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal infection in Rubus chamaemorus L. (Rosaceae) was assessed in a range of mire communities in Finland, Sweden and the United Kingdom. None of the root samples were mycorrhizal although they were collected from sites which included the extremes of available soil nutrients as estimated by foliar analysis. Experimental infection of seedlings at the cotyledon stage of development growing in a mineral soil and using an innoculum of spores of Glomus fasciculatus (Thaxt.) Gerdemann & Trappe, was only partially successful. The ecological implications of this lack of mycorrhizal infection are discussed.
23725034|Dissolved inorganic carbon was determined both by two indirect methods from pH and alkalinity and by a direct method using an infrared gas analyzer. When it was determined indirectly by acid titration of alkalinity, the results from weakly buffered lakes were often tens of percents higher than those obtained with an infrared gas analyzer. When dissolved inorganic carbon was determined indirectly with back titration of alkalinity, results similar to infrared analysis were found.
23726718|The manifold role of aquatic macrophytes in lake ecology is closely linked to their distribution and biomass, which in turn is a synergy of various environmental factors. The implication of different environmental variables on macrophyte speciation and life form structure in lake Hiidenvesi, with an uneven eutrophication history, was studied. The persisting life forms reflected the somewhat inherently turbid water: emergent and floating-leaved species were common, whereas submerged species were scarce and low-light tolerant dominated. Effects of uneven nutrient loading were noticeable amongst the interconnected basins of the lake: the shallow, northernmost basins are most turbid and eutrophic, and the steeper westerly basins are in turn less eutrophicated and more clear-water. Increased nutrient level and turbidity together with softening of bottom substrate have emphasized the speciation to more eutraphent species and pleustophytes, especially in the most eutrophic Kirkkojrvi basin.
23727712|The vegetation history of the A1 Da1 region in the Ida Massif (NW Turkey) was reconstructed on the basis of pollen analysis of a topogenic peat bog. The analysis provided evidence of human impact on the woodland environment in Byzantine times and the centuries that followed. The bog was probably formed as a result of extremely wet conditions due to excessive forest degradation. It appears that the initial chestnutoak forest, after a period of intensive clearings, recovered at first artificially and then naturally. A sequence of events: deforestationafforestation continues to the present day. Chestnut woodland displayed an optimal development between the 11th and 14th centuries due to human influence. However, due to negligence and destruction, the gradual destruction of the initial chestnutoak forest at the mountain vegetation level resulted in the extension of black pine forests at this level, leading to acidification of the soil and disappearance of the ephemeral flora of the original leafy forest. Consequently, biological diversity declined and the forest ecosystem became more fragile. The chronology for the last 1250 years has been established on the basis of a 14C dated pollen profile from the lowest peat layer.
43922163|In Western Melanesia, the family Leskeaceae Schimp. is represented by one species of Pseudoleskeopsis Broth, and Lindbergia Kindb. The family Fabroniaceae Schimp. includes one species of Fabronia Raddi and one of Macgregorella Bartr. Subsequent to our earlier paper on the Thuidiaceae, we have found one species each of Trachyphyllum Gepp in Hiern. and Herpetineuron (C. Mll.) Card. Lindbergia longinervis Card. & Dix, Trachyphyllwn inflexion (Harv.) Gepp in Hiern and Herpetineuron toccoae (Sull. & Lesq. in Sull.) Card, are newly reported from Western Melanesia. Lectotypes are selected for Austinia micholitzii Broth, ex Dix. and Schwetschkea indica Broth. Important corrections of previous papers include a revision of the collection number  site listing, and a correction of the listed collection number of the holotype of Orthothuidium curtisetum Noms & T. Kop. The name of the plant which we earlier called Aerobryopsis wallichii (Brid.) Fleisch, is nomenclaturally revised to A. longissima (Dozy & Molk.) Fleisch. The paper includes keys, descriptions, illustrations and distribution data for the species found in Western Melanesia. For each species there are discussions on taxonomy and classification, as well as nomenclatural notes and range descriptions.
23727826|Astragalus ghouchanensis Souzani, Zarre & Maassoumi (Fabaceae) is described and illustrated as a new species from Iran. It is compared with some similar species in Astragalus sect. Dissitiflori. Some notes are given on the affinities of sect. Dissitiflori and sect. Erioceras.
23725771|A new monotypic moss family, Splachnobryaceae A. Kop., is described. Earlier, the genus Splachnobryum C. Mll. was placed in either Splachnaceae or Pottiaceae. Differences between Splachnobryaceae and Splachnaceae are found in both the generative and vegetative organs, e.g. in the archegonia, androecia, annulus, exothecial cells of the capsule, hypophysis and peristome, and in the calyptra, rhizoids, conducting tissue, leaf shape, laminal cells, and mucilage hairs. Two of the characters, the solitary, lateral archegonia and the lack of a hypophysis, are found in some species of the family Splachnaceae, but only Splachnobryaceae has androecia without paraphyses, the peristome mainly composed of endostome, the annulus, calyptra with spirally arranged cells at base, the lack of conducting tissue in the leaves and usually in the stem and uncoloured mucilage hairs originating from wide basal cells in the stem. The family Pottiaceae, which includes the aperistomate genus Gymnostomiella Fleisch., differs from Splachnobryaceae in its truly acrocarpous archegonia, haplolepidous peristome, and papillate laminal cells. Splachnobryaceae is regarded as a primitive family and is tentatively placed in the diplolepidous order Funariales.
23727822|Astragalus croaticus Alegro, Bogdanovi, Brullo & Giusso sp. nova (Fabaceae) is described and illustrated from Dalmatia (Croatia). It grows on the carbonatic mountains of Biokovo and Mosor on rocky stands. Morphologically, it shows close similarities with A. sirinicus and A. angustifolius, two thorny species belonging to the sect. Melanocercis. However, A. croaticus has several distinguishing features chiefly in the leaves, flowers and legumes.
23725467|Carex digitata L. var. pallens Fristedt (Cyperaceae) is considered to deserve specific rank, and the following new combination is made: Carex pallens (Fristedt) Harmaja. The most important differences between C. digitata and C. pallens are given, some of which have not been reported before. The habitat and distribution of C. pallens are noted; the species is so far known only from northern Sweden, southern Finland, and the District of Leningrad, USSR. Several new localities are given for C. pallens in Finland. An isolectotype of C. pallens has been detected in H. The new interspecific hybrid C. digitata  pallens is reported from two localities in Finland.
43922327|C- and pH-based methods were used to estimate the photosynthetic yields of the phytoplankton community in the oligotrophic, brown-water lake Pjrvi, southern Finland. The estimates showed reasonable agreement, although on bright days the values obtained by the C method at surface light intensities were twofold the pH-based estimates. Acrylic plastic bottles, which have better light transmission than Jena glass, showed stronger surface inhibition of production.
23727746|Rorippa behcetii A. lim sp. nova (Brassicaceae) from Turkey is described and illustrated. It is compared with the closely similar R. amphibia and R. austriaca.
23725078|Sixteen strains of Lemna minor L., collected mainly in the neighbourhood of Helsinki, were aseptically cultured on Hillman's M-medium in the presence and absence of the chelating agent EDDHA (ethylenediamine-di-o-hydroxyphenylacetic acid). The morphology of the strains was very similar when they were cultured under identical circumstances. In most strains the length and width of the fronds increased under the influence of EDDHA but the thickness did not seem to be affected by the chelating agent. Comparison of the present results with those of a similar investigation in the Netherlands showed more genetic variability among the Dutch Lemna strains. Flat forms of potentially gibbous strains probably do not occur in the neighbourhood of Helsinki. If the specific distinction of L. gibba L. and L. minor is maintained, the present strains certainly belong to L. minor.
23724989|Chromosome numbers have been counted for Ziziphora tenuior L. (2n = 18) and Z. persica Bunge (2n = 34).
23727688|Juniperus thurifera L. subsp. africana (Maire) Romo & Boratyski stat. nov. is proposed and justified. Morphological characters that separate that taxon from J. thurifera subsp. thurifera are provided.
23725819|Ten new subspecies of Ranunculus auricomus L. are described, viz. R. auricomus L. subsp. baeckii Fagerstr. & Kvist, subsp. caroli-frederici Fagerstr. & Kvist, subsp. kitinensis Fagerstr. & Kvist, subsp. laurilansis Fagerstr. & Kvist, subsp. recurvens Fagerstr. & Kvist, subsp. simplicior Fagerstr. & Kvist, subsp. singularis Fagerstr. & Kvist, subsp. tutus Fagerstr. & Kvist, subsp. urbicola Fagerstr. & Kvist, and subsp. varangerensis Fagerstr. & Kvist.
23727781|A revision of three endemic Chinese species of Pternopetalum (P. cardiocarpum, P. delavayi and P. sinense), based on herbarium material and field observations, is presented. Examination of critical diagnostic characters showed that there is a single morphologically well-delimited species here treated as P. delavayi. Pternopetalum cardiocarpum and P. sinense are its taxonomic synonyms.
23726307|Alyssum campestre (L.) L. subsp. strigosum (Banks & Solander) Jalas, comb. nova is proposed. European taxa of the Lepidium lyratum group are revaluated as consisting of L. coronopifolium Fischer and L. meyeri Claus, the latter with subsp. meyeri and subsp. turczaninowii (Lipsky) Schmalh.
43922227|Psilochilus tuerckheimii Kolan. & Szlach., a new orchid species from Guatemala is described, illustrated and placed within an identification key to the Central American species of Psilochilus. The taxonomic affinity of P. tuerckheimii is briefly discussed.
23724173|The virus causing mosaic disease of cow-parsnip, Heracleum sphondylium L. ssp. sibiricum (L.) Simk., in Finland seems to be identical with or closely related to the virus recently isolated from the cow-parsnip, H. sphondylium L. ssp. australe (Hartm.) Ahlfv. in Czechoslovakia. The symptoms in the different host plants used as well as the thermal inactivation points were identical for the two isolates.
23727786|Centaurea ertugruliana Uysal sp. nova (Asteraceae) from Turkey is described and illustrated. It occurs only on rocky road sides from Bursa to Balikesir in the western part of the country.
23725504|Gymnocarpium dryopteris and G. robertianum (Dryopteridaceae), the two European species of a circumpolar genus, are strikingly similar and differ in only a few characters. The two species were compared at different sites in Switzerland. G. robertianum is restricted to basic soil in limestone areas. G. dryopteris is confined to acidic soil, mainly in crystalline areas. In the unstable conditions of limestone sites, containing rock fissures or rubble and characterized by rapid erosion, G. robertianum develops a strong, sparsely branched rhizome. The leaf dimensions are fairly variable within populations. The branching, netlike and rather thin rhizome of G. dryopteris reflects the stable, slowly eroding sites in crystalline areas. The leaf dimensions within a population are fairly uniform. There is evidence that prothalli extracts have allelopathic influences (possibly correlated with antheridiogens). Extracts of G. robertianum, which has to cope with harsher and more restricting environmental conditions, proved to promote spore germination and sporophyte formation, whereas extracts of G. dryopteris promote spore germination and maleness of prothalli, but inhibit sporophyte formation to some degree. Spermatozoids of G. robertianum retain mobility longer, but swim slower than those of G. dryopteris. There is evidence that the mean radius of action of G. robertianum spermatozoids is larger than that of G. dryopteris. This result and the allelopathy can be considered to be connected with the different habitats of the species.
23727271|Relationships between microclimatic site factors and cover of epiphytic lichen species were studied in a dieback-affected forest of Picea rubens and Abies balsamea on Whiteface Mountain, New York, U.S.A. Canonical correspondence analysis revealed an effect of light and water relations on epiphytic lichen abundance, but these factors only accounted for less than 10% of total variance in species data. Neither light nor evaporation, relative humidity, water-holding capacity of bark, or air temperature differed at the trunks between trees of different species or vitality. These results suggest that microclimate is probably not the main cause of significant differences in the epiphytic lichen diversity of spruce and fir and of living trees and snags. However, as canopy structure at the study site changed recently due to dense young growth of A. balsamea, it is possible that past differences in microclimate still exert an influence on present-day within-stand variation of epiphytic lichen abundance.
23726902|Pollen morphology of 14 taxa, 12 taxa of the genus Onobrychis Adans. and two taxa of the genus Hedysarum L., distributed in Bulgaria, was studied with light and electron microscopy. The pollen is 3-colpate, medium or large in size, with reticulate ornamentation. Differences are observed in the dimensions, the aperture shape and the exine stratification. One pollen type with three tentative subtypes are recognized based on size and ornamentation. Pollen morphology confirms a close relationship between the species of both genera.
43922230|Ophiopogon yangshuoensis R.H. Jiang & W.B. Xu (Asparagaceae), a new species from limestone areas in Guangxi, China, is described and illustrated. It is similar to O. intermedius, but differs by its abaxially glaucous leaves, white streaked, broadlanceolate or ovate-lanceolate bracts, narrow-lanceolate innermost bracts, and ovate, reflexed tepals.
23725479|A description is given of a new Taraxacum (Cichoriaceae) species, T. panhellenicum Sonck, sp. nova, collected from several places in Greece and belonging to sect. Erythrocarpa. A new name, T. praegracilens Sonck, is proposed for T. pseudogracilens Sonck (sect. Erythrosperma), which, unfortunately, was a homonym (used earlier by R. Doll).
23728132|Female gametophyte development of Sinopodophyllum hexandrum (Berberidaceae) was studied on materials from different altitudes. The plant displays diversity in the megagametogenesis, and two categories of four female-gametophyte development models are observed, including the monosporous Polygonum-type, a new Sinopodophyllum type (and its two variants), which is intermediate between the monosporic and bisporic types. The results suggest that the Polygonum type is more primitive than the other types, and that the Sinopodophyllum type is intermediate between the Polygonum type and the Allium type. The diversity in the female gametophyte development in S. hexandrum reveals megagametogenesis may be influenced by altitude and be of great significance to its adaptability and evolution. In the Podophyllum group, Sinopodophyllum is more advanced than Diphylleia and Dysosma, where the female gametophyte development conforms to the Polygonum type. In addition, the results of this study directly provide evidence that the disporous Allium-type is derived from the monosporous Polygonum-type.
23726870|The seed banks of two delta meadows were studied on the west coast of Finland (6133N, 21392141E) to evaluate the possibilities of using seed bank in the restoration of coastal wetland meadows. The objective of the study was to determine the size, composition and species richness of germinable seed bank, estimate the effect of flooding on the seed bank, and describe the similarities and differences between seed bank and the aboveground vegetation. The study areas are conservationally important. A total of 125 samples were taken with a corer of 4.8 cm in diameter to the depth of 10 cm. Altogether 4977 seedlings were observed, yielding an average of 22 005  1880 seedlings/m2. Most seedlings and species in the seed bank were monocotyledons, perennials and hemicryptophytes, similar to the aboveground vegetation. Although 36 species were found in both the seed bank and vegetation, there was a significant lack of similarity overall (Mantel test). The seed bank flora included 24 dicot vs. 25 monocot species and 41 perennial vs. 8 annual species. Many of the species found only in the seed bank were annuals or biennials (13 species, 46% of total) and those growing only in the aboveground vegetation were mainly perennials (52 species, 92% of total). The most abundant species found in the seed bank were Carex nigra, C. aquatilis, Juncus gerardii, Calla palustris, and Potentilla palustris, which together made up 74% of the seed bank. The numbers of species differed significantly between different elevation classes and were highest at middle elevations. Seed bank is an important part of these delta grassland communities and can be utilised in restoration.
23727210|Danaea antillensis Christenhusz, D. kalevala Christenhusz and D. ushana Christenhusz (Marattiaceae) are described as new species from French Guiana and the Lesser-Antilles. They are compared with morphologically similar ones and illustrated with line drawings.
43922220|Carex lepidocarpa Tausch subsp. lepidocarpa (section Ceratocystis) is a threatened plant growing in Finland only in the Aland Islands. It is restricted to intermediate and flark levels of calcareous rich fens, where it occurs both in mire margin and in mire expanse conditions. A comparison is made with the ecology of C. lepidocarpa subsp. jemtlandica Palmgr. in NE Finland. The vegetation of C. lepidocarpa localities was grouped with TWINSPAN classification analysis and DCA ordination analysis. A distribution map of C. lepidocarpa in land is presented. Hybridization with other species in the C. flava complex and especially with C. hostiana is frequent. C. lepidocarpa is sensitive to changes in the water table of the habitat, and it has strongly decreased in Aland because of the drainage of mires for agriculture and forestry. The overgrowth due to cessation of traditional agricultural management (mowing and grazing) is another threat to C. lepidocarpa, at least in mire margin conditions. The localities that remain contain several plants that are threatened in Finland and have a high conservation value.
23726936|The utilization of wild green leafy vegetables was studied among the Sambaa people in the East and West Usambara Mountains, Tanzania. Seventy-three species of wild vegetables representing 26 families were recorded in the interviews and inquiries. These plants, locally known as mchicha, are commonly eaten as a form of stew, mboga, which is served as a sidedish of staple food, e.g., maize porridge (ugali). The majority of the informants stated that they use wild vegetables more than the cultivated ones. Wild vegetables are regarded as easily obtainable and palatable. Some of the recorded species are not indigenous but naturalized. Most of the recorded species are ruderal, growing by the roadsides and as weeds of arable land.
23726818|Crataegus turcicus Dnmez sp. nova (Rosaceae), is described from Artvin, in NE Turkey. The relationship of this new species to C. pentagyna is discussed. Diagnostic features, a description which includes pollen morphological features, and a taxonomic discussion of the new species are given. An illustration and a distribution map are also provided.
43922101|Seeds of 63 species (513 samples) collected in Spitsbergen were germinated in the open air on greenhouse peat in the Botanical Garden of the University of Oulu. A TTC test was also made. The results are examined with reference to various plant communities and altitude ranges (200-m intervals). The results relating to the Dryas and Cassiope regions (sections) are compared with each other. Reproduction by seed in the middle and high arctic zones of Spitsbergen is decidedly less effective than in the low arctic zone and is commonest in the dry Dryadion vegetation and on some talus slopes. In mountain areas germinable seed is produced as high as 800 m, even though the numbers of species and individual plants are not great.
23727772|Following the commonly accepted generic concept, the Carpathian endemic Hieracium ullepitschii Bocki and the Balkan endemic H. rhodopeum Griseb. are transferred to the genus Pilosella as P. ullepitschii (Bocki) Szelg and P. rhodopea (Griseb.) Szelg. Hieracium alpicola subsp. furcotae Degen & Zahn, H. depannatum Elfstr., H. rufotectum Elfstr. and H. quasadnatum Elfstr. are reduced to synonymy of Pilosella ullepitschii. Hieracium micromegas Fr. is synonymized with Pilosella rhodopea. P. alpicola var. serbica F.W. Schultz & Schultz-Bip. is raised to species rank. Four names are lectotypified and two names are neotypified. A new section Pilosella sect. Alpicolinae (Ngeli & Peter) Szelg is established.
23725431|The Kobresia section Elyna is characterized by a superficially unbranched, spike-like inflorescence with a restricted number of staminate flowers in the coflorescences ("spikelets"). A host of names has been applied to the taxa concerned, e.g. Kobresia myosuroides (Vill.) Fiori, K. capillifolia (Decne.) C.B. Clarke, K. capilliformis Ivan., K. filifolia (Turcz.) C.B. Clarke, K. macrolepis Meinsh., K. microstachya Ivan., K. ovczinnikovii T. Egor. and K. setschwanensis Hand.-Mazz. In addition, further species have recently been described from China. The species appear to form a reduction series starting with up to six staminate flowers per coflorescence in K. filifolia, and ending with a single staminate flower in K. myosuroides. There is some morphological variation in the inflorescence structure within the total area of K. myosuroides. The Caucasian plants, often placed in K. capillifolia, also have a single staminate flower per coflorescence, but are distinguished from K. myosuroides by vegetative characters and are properly named K. macrolepis. In the Central Asian plants, the number of staminate flowers varies from two to four in proximal coflorescences. In the two specimens from Pakistan, one or two staminate flowers per coflorescence were found; in addition, one of the specimens lacked staminate flowers in the distal coflorescences. The name K. capilliformis should be applied to the plants from the Pamir Mts. and further north and the name K. capillifolia to the plants from the Himalayas and areas south of Pamir. No stand is taken on the status of K. microstachya or K. setschwanensis, known only from China.
23727788|Impatiens yaoshanensis K.M. Liu & Y.Y. Cong sp. nova (Balsaminaceae) is described from northern Yunnan, China, and illustrated. It is morphologically similar to I. cyanantha, I. purpurea, I. blinii, I. pseudo-kingii, and I. loulanensis. The distinguishing characters are given in a key to the six species.
43922232|Birches are ecologically and economically important trees in forest ecosystems and commonly used in studies of plant-herbivore interactions. Such studies often require manipulation of natural levels of herbivory. In field conditions, this can be executed using insecticides, but such experiments have to assume that the insecticide has no side effects on the study plant. Here we (1) provide results of a test of the effects of synthetic pyrethrin, deltamethrin, on growth, leaf and litter chemistry and litter decomposition rate of Betula pendula seedlings in controlled growth chamber conditions, and (2) illustrate effectiveness of the insecticide in a field study of the effects of insect herbivory on B. pendula. The field effects, a significant reduction in leaf damage and a corresponding increase in growth, show that we used an effective dose of deltamethrin, while the results of the growth chamber experiment show that the dose did not cause any side effects on B. pendula seedling growth or chemistry. We conclude that pyrethrin compounds can be safely used for reducing insect-herbivore load on B. pendula in field-scale studies of tree-herbivore interactions.
23725060|Scanning electron microscopy revealed several taxonomically useful characters in the perigynium and achene epidermis of 23 species of Carex, subg. Vignea, (mainly in sect. Heleonastes Kunth, em. Mack. and species from related sections). The ultrastructure is fairly similar in closely related species, diverging more in the more distantly related ones. SEM observations are compared with some previous classification schemes. The North European species of sect. Heleonastes could be grouped into five provisional subdivisions on the basis of SEM observations. The unispicate species C. ursina belongs to the section, whereas C. disperma is clearly separate from the other species and should be excluded from it. C. exilis should be referred to sect. Dioicae, and C. remota and C. elongata should be placed in sections of their own. Microscopic characters seem to be useful in Carex taxonomy both at species and section level.
23726842|Mowing and grazing are often used as alternative methods of grassland management, but the effects on plant species richness are often found to be contradictory. In order to compare the methods, changes in plant species composition were studied in a restored dry semi-natural grassland after mowing (19901995) and grazing periods (19972001) in 30 sample plots. During the mowing period, the number of grassland species increased, but the change was unfavourable for the original dry grassland community. The results indicated that the aggressive growth of clovers (increase in 19 plots/decrease in 0 plots), Trifolium medium in particular, reduced the abundance of dry grassland species (6/13). Simultaneously both forest species (10/1) and overgrowth species (7/0) increased. During the grazing period, species turnover was lower and the growth of T. medium was reduced (6/8), but the invasion of clovers was continued by T. repens (11/1). Changes in species composition, including a decreased abundance of weeds (1/17), during grazing was more favourable for the grassland vegetation.
23727726|A new species of Rhododendron subsection Taliensia (Tagg) Sleumer, R. yaoshanense L.M. Gao & S.D. Zhang from NE Yunnan, China, is described and illustrated. It is compared with the morphologically similar R. pronum.
23726702|In this study, we (1) explored the lichen floras of snags and living trees of Picea abies, Pinus sylvestris, Betula pubescens and Alnus glutinosa in the Estonian peatland forests, distinguishing tree species, snags with bark (S1) and snags without bark (S2); (2) measured the availability and characteristics of snags. On average, 4264 snags ha-1 were detected, but snag types differed in availability. Although S2 of Betula, Alnus and Picea were the rarest studied substrata, the highest numbers of lichen species were estimated to occur there. The lichen floras of S1 and S2 were distinct, with that of S1 resembling living trees. Tree species influenced the flora of living trees and S1 but not of S2; a similar pattern emerged in substratum acidity. 25% of the lichen species were unique to snags. Forest management activities should retain especially the naturally rare S2 of deciduous trees.
23727171|Bioassays on Chenopodium murale demonstrated that root and shoot aqueous extracts reduced the seed germination, seedling establishment, plant growth and metabolite production of four target species. Leaf area and dry matter production showed a decreasing trend in response to the different treatments. Similar effects were found for pigment, carbohydrate and protein contents. In general, inhibition percentage was a function of extract concentration and plant tissue type. Shoot treatment was more strongly inhibitory than root treatment. The target species arranged from the most affected to the least affected were Melilotus indicusTrifolium alexandrinumTriticum pyramidalLycopersicon esculentumCucumis sativus.
23727836|Leaf trichomes can protect plants against herbivory and drought, but can be costly to produce. Theory suggests that selection for reduced costs of resistance may result in the evolution of inducible defences. We quantified variation in tolerance to drought and defoliation, and tested the hypotheses that (a) tolerance is associated with cost, (b) leaf trichome production increases tolerance to drought, and (c) trichome production is increased in response to defoliation and drought stress in Arabidopsis lyrata (Brassicaceae). Eight maternal half-sib families were exposed to two watering regimes and four defoliation treatments in a factorial design. Tolerance to drought varied among families and was inversely related to leaf size, but was not related to trichome density. Family mean performance in the low-watering treatment tended to correlate negatively with that in the control treatment. Trichome production was not induced by defoliation or drought stress. The results suggest that there is genetic variation in tolerance to drought in the study population, that tolerance to drought is associated with a cost, and that trichome production does not increase tolerance to drought in A. lyrata.
23724204|The fate of J. A. Scopoli's botanical collections, especially his lichen specimens, is discussed. The Yugoslavian type material of Lobaria scrobiculata (Scop.) DC. (Lichen scrobiculatus Scop.) has evidently been lost. The specimen (preserved in Oxford, OXF) corresponding to Lichenoides no. 114 of Dillenius' Historia Muscorum is selected as the lectotype of Lichen scrobiculatus and L. verrucosus Huds. 1778. The last-mentioned name is the basis of Lobaria verrucosa Hoffm., while Lichen verrucosus Huds. 1762 is a Pertusaria (the nomenclature of this genus is shown to be in need of revision because of many illegitimate names). Using thin-layer chromatography, the following chemical constituents were identified in the 36 Lobaria scrobiculata samples studied: scrobiculin, stictic acid, norstictic acid, constictic acid, and a trace of usnic acid.
23725245|Variation in the general morphology and in the chemical content of the tubers was studied in 29 populations of the dropwort (Filipendula vulgaris Moench) cultivated on an experimental field in Turku, SW Finland. Statistically significant variation (p < 0.0010.05) was found in 16 of the 25 shoot characters studied and in 7 of the 13 characters studied in the tuberous roots. Certain characters differed between the eastern and western populations. Of the shoot characters, the following had higher mean values in the western populations: number of rosette leaves, height of inflorescence, number of flowers and number of shoots; characters with higher means in the eastern populations were leaf breadth and seed length, particularly the latter. Of the root characters, the following had higher means in the western populations: maximum tuber depth, tuber length, tuber length/breadth ratio, mean weight of individual tubers and total weight of tubers on a single plant, and weight of root system. The eastern populations had a greater number of tubers per plant. All the populations had the chromosome number 2n = 14. Chemical analysis of the tubers gave the following mean values for the whole material: dry matter 47 % of total weight, crude protein 4.3 %, ash 5.3 %, crude fibre 6.6 %, crude fat 0.22 % and starch 9.5 %. The eastern populations, with their smaller tubers, had higher values for crude protein, crude fibre, and crude fat, whereas the mean starch content was higher in the western populations. Various basic elements were determined and the eastern populations proved to have higher contents of N(tot), K, Mg, Mn, Cu and Fe, while no significant differences emerged between the populations in the levels of Ca and Zn. Strikingly high concentrations of calcium, magnesium, copper, zinc and especially iron suggested that these elements are accumulated in the tubers. The vitamin C concentration of the tubers averaged 6.0 mg/100 g, and that of the young shoots 50 mg/100 g.
23727798|Patterns of seed germination of the endemic perennial spurge Euphorbia boetica were studied in two populations in southern Spain. We investigated whether its seeds have any type of dormancy, and whether diverse factors such as temperature, darkness, or acid scarification affect germination of the seeds. Freshly matured seeds of E. boetica do not germinate; they need a dry after-ripening period of up to 3 months to reach maximum germination, which indicates that the seeds have a non-deep physiological dormancy. Seeds of this species seem to present a certain tolerance to fire, since many of them survived after exposure to the mildest treatment simulating fire conditions. Finally, darkness and acid scarification had no effect on seed germination. The high germination capacity of E. boetica seeds both in natural conditions and under diverse treatments suggests that germination per se does not represent a crucial phase in the life cycle of this rare species.
23725228|Biological and chemical techniques were used to compare changes in the lake with the land use in the catchment area. Sediment cores dated earlier by varve counts, the 14C technique and pollen analysis were analysed for: macrosubfossils, coarse matter, fossil diatoms, 16 chemical variables and sedimentary pigments. The history of the lake during the last 10 000 years is outlined against the background of the present-day limnological data, the section relating to the last 6000 years being discussed in more detail. The gradual long-term trend towards less alkaline and less productive conditions (i.e. slight meiotrophication) was arrested by human activity in the catchment area (forest clearance for cultivation from about 1400 B.C.) and in the lake itself. The lake sediments provided a sensitive record of forestry and agricultural activity, and even soil erosion of only moderate intensity was reflected in the ignition residue curve. These changes in the ash content became evident in changes in the phytoplankton composition. At five levels in the profile an increase in the mineral matter washed into the basin could also be distinguished. Comparison with the anthropogenous zones revealed by pollen analyses showed that there were delays of ca. 200 to 100 years in the changes of the diatom assemblages. The expansion of cultivation and soaking of fibre plants caused an increase in productivity and changes in the diatom species composition from A.D. 1400 onwards. Several fluctuations detected in the water level did not show any connection with the land use.
23728216|A description of Taraxacum zajacii J. & P. Marciniuk, a new species of T. sect. Palustria in Poland is given. Taraxacum zajacii is a pentaploid (2n = 40). Morphologically, the new species is closest to the T. subalpinum/T. neterophilum group.
23725595|The following nine species of Cladonia Hill ex Browne (Ascomycotina: Lecanorales) are described from East Africa as new: Cladonia insolita Ahti & Krog, C. leucophylla Ahti & Krog, C. modesta Ahti & Krog, C. pallens Ahti & Krog, C. parva Ahti & Krog, C. tapperi Ahti & Krog, C. umbellata Ahti & Krog, C. usambarensis Ahti & Krog, and C. varians Vainio ex Ahti. Cladonia andesita Vainio is reported as new to Africa. The major lichen substances of each species are reported.
23725875|The length-to-breadth ratios were determined on the leaves of herbarium specimens (n 354) of Frangula alnus Miller (Rhamnus frangula L.) from Eastern Fennoscandia, mostly from Finland, and compared with the results of a thin-layer chromatographic study of the anthraderivatives in the same specimens. The leaf index distribution of the specimens did not differ statistically significantly from the normal distributions. No correlation was found between the leaf index and either the total anthraderivatives or the single compounds.
23725627|Soil samples were taken from seven natural stands of Norway spruce (Picea abies L.) on four dates in JulyOctober 1986. Four stands had suffered long-term pollution from the city of Helsinki. The remaining three less polluted sites (controls) were situated at the city border, and 25 km northwest and 30 km west of Helsinki. The urban pollution, which consists mainly of SO2, NOX and heavy metals, had significantly reduced the soil respiration and the length of the total fungal hyphae in the A01/A02 soil horizon. The lengths of the fluorescein diacetate-active hyphae did not differ between the control and polluted sites, which probably indicates that acidification has already started at the control sites.
23727723|Different concentrations of abscisic acid (ABA), naphthalene acetic acid (NAA) and methyl jasmonate (MeJa) were applied to maize (Zea mays) plants exposed to cold stress. ABA enhanced plant resistance against the damaging effects of freezing. ABA-treated plants produced some specific proteins when exposed to cold. Prominent changes were observed in the size and number of stomata with the application of ABA during cold stress. MeJa inhibited root growth, but increased root dry weight during cold acclimation. The chlorophyll content was lower at 100 g ml-1 NAA and 50 g ml-1 MeJa and higher in the residual applications when compared with that in the control plants. Carotenoid levels increased in all NAA and some ABA treatments, decreased however in MeJa treatment. Exogenous MeJa treatments increased endogenous trans-zeatin (t-Z) and indole-3-acetic acide (IAA) in contrast decreased ABA levels. Exogenous NAA also increased endogenous IAA, ABA and zeatin riboside (ZR) levels, while exogenous ABA decreased endogenous IAA and ZR levels.
23725012|Spatial and seasonal variations in the species composition and biomasses of the phytoplankton of Keurusselk were studied in 1971. The lake lies in the northeast of the Kokemenjoki drainage basin, and is the object of a comprehensive study program, the physical and chemical properties of its waters having been treated in an earlier publication. Attention was paid to both the species composition and the proportions of the biomasses comprised by different algal groups. The degree of eutrophication in the different parts of the lake was assessed on the basis of the biomasses. The fluctuations in the numbers of species were studied, as well as the factors influencing species numbers and species composition. Special consideration was given to the relations between biomass, water colour, season and biotic diversity. The results revealed limitations in the applicability of the quotient systems.
23728137|Encyclia navarroi Vale & Rojas (Orchidaceae) is described from western Cuba. This orchid thrives in coastal vegetation on the karstic terrains in the Pinar del Ro and Artemisa provinces. It co-occurs locally with congeneric species. Encyclia navarroi can be easily recognized by its erose leaf margin, the not connivent and triangular lateral lobes of the labellum, and by the round central lobe with a basal papillose area.
23726527|The distinguishing characters of Heteroscyphus planus (Mitt.) Schiffn. and H. tener (Steph.) Schiffn. are discussed. Both species are illustrated and range extensions in China are given. Lophocolea magniperianthia Horik. is synonymized with Chiloscyphus costatus (Nees) Engel & Schust.
23727174|The early-flowering, annual hemiparasite Euphrasia stricta var. suecica is a small and delicate plant, sensitive to competition for light from neighbouring plants in its grassland habitat. Today this variety of E. stricta is highly endangered due to the abandonment of traditional management and increased air-borne nitrogen deposition. As hemiparasites reduce vegetation height, we hypothesized a positive effect of the immediate presence of another endangered and much larger hemiparasite, Rhinanthus serotinus ssp. vernalis, on Euphrasia growth and fitness. In an outdoor pot experiment with the two hemiparasites grown in combination with different hosts no such effect could be detected. However, we found that early attachment to a host greatly enhanced fitness measured as net reproductive rate and seed viability, which was true for both hemiparasites. Host type also mattered: in pots with the leguminous Trifolium pratense, growth was augmented for both hemiparasites. When both leguminous and graminoid hosts were present, Rhinanthus had a higher net reproductive rate.
23726941|A new orchid genus Alatiliparis Marg. & Szlach. is described to accommodate A. filicornes Marg. & Szlach. sp. nova and A. otochilus Marg. & Szlach. sp. nova. Alatiliparis is compared with the closely allied Liparis L. C. Rich. All new taxa are described and illustrated in line drawings.
23725400|The whole-lichen carotenoid composition was analyzed in Cladonia fimbriata (L.) Fr., C. merochlorophaea Asah. (incl. var. novochlorophaea Sipman), C. pyxidata (L.) Hoffm., Cladina rangiferina (L.) Nyl. and C. stygia (Fr.) Ahti. Twenty carotenoids were identified, each specimen containing 610. The most frequent principal carotenoids were lutein epoxide and violaxanthin, in Cladonia also antheroxanthin and in Cladina mutatoxanthin. The frequent carotenoids, at least, can be assumed to be located in the green algal photobiont (Trebouxia). 3-Hydroxyechinenone, -apo-8-carotenal and -apo-10-carotenal are reported from lichens for the first time. The closely related Cladina rangiferina and C. stygia differ slightly in their carotenoid composition: -apo-8-carotenal is present in C. rangiferina only. Most differences between Cladonia and Cladina are uncertain, but diatoxanthin is known from Cladina only. Cladonia pyxidata possibly deviates in its carotenoid composition. No distinct differences were noted in the geographic distribution of the carotenoids. The value of carotenoids in lichen taxonomy is discussed.
23725444|The ultrastructure of root tip cells and mature root cortex cells was studied in two strains of Hordeum vulgare L. (Brage = susceptible to DDT, and Ymer = resistant to DDT) grown in aqueous media saturated with DDT. No cytological differences were observed between control and DDT-treated seedlings after 1 week's culture. After 4 weeks' culture a higher frequency of cytological defects was observed in root tip cells of DDT-treated seedlings. The main defects found were: rupture of the nuclear membrane, destroyed mitochondria and multivesicular bodies. Furthermore myelin-like bodies were more frequent in root tip cells from DDT-treated seedlings. A higher frequency of defects was also observed in mature root cortex cells of DDT-treated seedlings, but the increase in the frequency of defects was not so clear as in the root tip cells. No differences in degree or type of damage could be observed between the two strains.
23726594|The phloroglucinol composition of Dryopteris subimpressa Loyal from North India has been investigated for the first time. This diploid sexual species contains almost exclusively propionyl (P) homologues of flavaspidic acid (5), aspidin (6), desaspidin (8) and trisdesaspidin (21). The following homologues have been isolated in crystalline form for the first time: aspidin PP (6-PP); desaspidin PP (8-PP); desaspidin AP/PA (8AP/PA) and trisdesaspidin PBP (21-PBP). These preparations contain only minor amounts of acetyl (A) and butyryl (B) homologues as found by mass spectrometry (MS) and reductive degradation.
23727928|Accurate and non-destructive methods to determine individual leaf areas of plants are a useful tool in physiological and agronomic research. Determining an individual leaf area (LA) involves measurements of leaf length (L) and width (W), or some combinations of both parameters. Investigation was carried out in 2008 and 2009 to test whether a model could be developed to estimate leaf area of Bergenia purpurascens along an elevational gradient across a timberline ecotone, southeastern Tibet. A total of 786 leaves, 153159 leaves for each 100-m elevation range, were measured in June 2008 for model construction. Coefficients of LA models incorporating both leaf dimensions (L and W) or W alone were independent of elevation, suggesting that a common model can be employed to estimate LA across the whole elevation range. A single-variable model using the leaf width (LA = 1.44W1.90), which was simpler, more convenient and also allowed reliable LA estimations, was developed. By applying this equation to another independent dataset from a later experiment in June 2009 for model validation, we found that observed and predicted LAs exhibited a high degree of correlation (R2 = 0.95). Therefore, this model can accurately estimate the leaf area of B. purpurascens across a timberline ecotone without use of any instruments.
23725190|Orthomnion yunnanense T. Kop., Li & Zang is described from Yunnan, China. It has stereids in the costa and a serrulate leaf margin, which suggests that it is one of the primitive species of the genus Orthomnion. Its closest relative seems to be O. handelii (Broth.) T. Kop. The sporophyte of O. yunnanense in still unknown.
23726465|Evernia prunastri (L.) Ach., growing epiphytically on Betula pendula Roth, is able to penetrate into xylem vessels of its phytophore and to dissolve some lichen phenolics in the xylem sap. Evernic acid, the main phenolic of this lichen species, was characterized by HPLC (retention time 6.61 min) and IR spectrometry. It is acropetally translocated and, as a consequence, the apical zone of branches contains eight times as much evernic acid as the basal zone and the apical bud about 17 times as much as the axillary buds. This lichen phenolic was been found in leaf tissues.
23727978|Two smut fungi on two different species of Ischaemum are taxonomically assessed based on newly studied collections. Sporisorium austroafricanum M. Pitek is described and illustrated as a new species infecting Ischaemum fasciculatum in South Africa. Among the smut fungi described on Ischaemum, it is similar only to Sporisorium ischaemi-anthephoroides, from which it differs by the macroscopic appearance of sori and by larger sterile cells with thicker walls. Tolyposporium bogoriense originally described as occurring on Panicum sp. in Indonesia (Java) appeared to be on Ischaemum cf. timorense and identical with Sporisorium flagellatum, the latter having priority. The morphology of this species is described and illustrated based on the holotype of T. bogoriense.
23725508|(9) The hyphened epithets, such as "cassubicus-binatus", used by Z. Schiller, in 1917, in the names of "transitional species" of the Ranunculus auricomus group are found not to be discordant with the ICBN when the ending of the first part is changed in line with Rec. 73G.1.(a): "cassubico-binatus". The resulting species names are legitimate, though some of them may be superfluous later synonyms. (10) The nomenclaturally correct spelling for the epithet given in Flora Europaea as [Ranunculus x] spitzbergensis [Hadac] is "spitsbergensis". R. pallasii var. spetsbergensis Nathorst is a heterotypic synonym of R. spitsbergensis. (11) The taxonomic treatment of Anemone narcissifolia L. ("narcissiflora") s. lato is surveyed, with notes on A. narcissifolia subsp. biarmiensis (Juz.) Jalas, comb. nov.
23724663|Among 15 species of the Mniaceae in Taiwan, 5 belong to the subtropical  tropical Asiatic element and 10 to the temperate East Asiatic element. Six species and one genus are reported as new to Taiwan, and the presence of seven taxa previously reported from there is considered doubtful. The Taiwanese material of Rhizomnium perssonii was found to be synoecious.
23726125|Pisum sativum L. seedlings growing in sterile solutions were exposed to zinc for 40 days. The zinc concentrations were: 1.0, 0.5, 0.25, 0.1 and 0.01 mM (64.50.65 mg/l), superimposed on the micronutrient level (0.08 mg/l) in the medium. The growth of the roots was affected less than that of the shoot, which was reduced even at the 0.01 mM concentration. The uptake of water per g of fresh weight of the total plants was decreased at the 1.0 and 0.5 mM zinc concentrations, but increased at the 0.1 and 0.01 mM levels. The chlorophyll content of the leaves of the third internode was significantly reduced except at the 0.01 mM concentration. The 0.25 mM treatment had the most adverse effect, reducing the chlorophyll a and b contents by 78 and 70 %, respectively. The acetylene-reducing activity of the root nodules was inhibited by zinc. There was a significant positive correlation between the reducing activity and the chlorophyll contents. The total nitrogen content of the plants decreased as the zinc concentration increased, the reductions at the 0.01 mM and 1.0 mM levels being 12 and 78 %, respectively.
23726523|Cyperus medusaeus Chiov., an endemic species of coastal Somalia, was described from a sterile specimen. Its identity is confirmed by comparing transverse-sections of leaf-blades of both the type specimen and a recently collected fertile specimen. It is related to C. jeminicus Rottb. and C. celans Kukkonen, all three species having glabrous roots without rhizosheaths and belonging to the sect. Arenarii (Kunth) Jaub. & Spach of Cyperus.
23725371|Six aapa-mires were studied near the shore of Lake Ladoga, within 40 km of Leningrad. The main type of mire in the area is bog, the main aapa-mire area being located 300 km to the north. The presence of the aapa-mires in this more southern region can be explained by regional features of the area around Lake Ladoga. The vegetation of "Ladogan" aapa-mires is similar to that of Karelian and Finnish ones.
23727779|Abortion of sunflower fruits during different phases of their development could be due to abnormalities in the reproductive process. We report a comparative study of the sporogenesis, gametogenesis and the development of the related sporophytic structures in three commercial hybrids, DK 4050, CF 17 and P30, and a line, HA 89. The anther wall consists of epidermis, endothecium, one middle layer and a plasmodial tapetum with binucleate cells before integrating. A peritapetal membrane with orbicules encloses the pollen grains, which are triporate, angulaperturate and shed at tricellular stage. HA 89 also presents tetraporate pollen grains. The ovule is tenuinucellate, unitegmic and anatropous. The young female gametophyte consists of six cells and eight nuclei. Antipodals, which vary in number and in the number of nuclei in each cell, usually have thick walls between themselves and the central cell. Differences among the genotypes studied may explain the contradictions found on previous accounts.
23727379|Centaurea marashica E. Uzunhisarckl, M. Teken and E. Doan sp. nova (sect. Pseudoseridia, Asteraceae) is described from South Anatolia, Turkey, and illustrated. It is morphologically similar to C. cheirolepidoides and C. isaurica, from which it differs mainly in the characters of leaves, appendages and pappus.
23725058|The relations and seasonal variations of some diversity indices of the phytoplankton were studied in different types of lakes. The indices compared were the species richness index (d = S1/ln N), Shannon and Wiener's index (H =   pi ln pi), the evenness index (e = H/ln S) and the index of the concentration of dominance (c =  (ni/N)2. The indices were correlated with each other and with the species richness and biomass, but the slopes of the correlation lines varied between the seasons and the different lake types.
23725434|Many lichen substances, especially among the depsides and depsidones are known to show fluorescence when whole thalli are exposed to long wave UV, but their distribution in lichen tissues remains unknown. The purpose of this work was to explore the possibilities for using fluorescence microscopy to demonstrate fluorescent lichen substances in thalli and to study the location of these substances in some selected lichen species (41 items). Thallus sections cut by hand or on a cryomicrotome were examined with epi-illumination by UV and blue excitation light, so that differences in the colour and intensity of the fluorescence emitted could easily be seen. The major lichen substances in most of the specimens were identified by means of TLC and/or microcrystal tests. In addition to the depsides and depsidones, which were usually medullary, the orange anthraquinones also appeared to be fluorescent, and were mostly located in the cortex. The exact location of most of the fluorescent substances identified could be shown, but there was also fluorescence from unknown sources.  Fluorescence microscopy alone is an insufficient means for the determination of lichen substances, but it is appropriate for use alongside modern chemical techniques to show the location of fluorescent substances identified in lichen thalli.
23726188|Column and thin-layer chromatography revealed the presence of the following carotenoids in the thalli of 10 lichen species from Lapland: lycoxanthin, lycophyll, -, -carotene, -, -cryptoxanthin, echinenone, canthaxanthin, lutein, lutein epoxide, zeaxanthin, antheraxanthin, diatoxanthin, -doradexanthin, adonixanthin, astaxanthin, neoxanthin, violaxanthin, mutatochrome and mutatoxanthin. The total content of carotenoids ranged from 2.270 (Peltigera aphthosa) to 14.823 mg g-1 dw) dry weight (Stereocaulon alpinum). The amount of the carotenoid content in the form of pro-vitamin of vitamin A in the 10 lichens ranged from traces (Usnea glabrata) to 4.772 mg g-1 dw) (Physconia pulverulacea).
23726326|A herbarium specimen, originally referred to Fragaria viridis Duchesne in 1954, was studied, together with living material from the original site in S Finland, in 1993. The clone is octoploid with 2n = 56 chromosomes, morphologically distinct from the diploid F. viridis and androecious with fertile pollen. All its characteristics match those of the N American species F. virginiana Duchesne, one of the ancestral species of the garden strawberry, F.  ananassa Duchesne. The N American species may have been brought to Finland by man unconsciously, as seed, before 1949. As a strain seemingly well adapted to local climatic conditions, it is well worth gene-banking. For 40 years since the find the survival of a small population of the rare F. viridis and the hybrid of F. vesca L. and F. viridis is confirmed on a nearby island. At least two different self-incompatible genotypes exist in this small population of F. viridis. Variants of F. vesca with introgression from F. viridis occur. The chromosome number of F. viridis in this population was determined to be 2n = 14. Two previously ignored occurrences of F. viridis in herbarium material are referred to.
23724636|Two new species, Rhizomnium appalachianum Kop., and R. gracile Kop., are described. In addition, there are six other species of Rhizomnium in North America, R. andrewsianum (Steere) Kop., R. glabrescens (Kindb.) Kop., R. magnifolium (Horik.) Kop., comb. nova ( - R. perssonii Kop.), R. nudum (Britt. & Williams) Kop., R. pseudopunctatum (Bruch & Schimp.) Kop., and R. punctatum (Hedw.) Kop., which is represented only by the ssp. chlorophyllosum (Kindb.) Kop., comb. nova. The taxonomy of the taxa is discussed and their distribution mapped. The relationships of the species of Rhizomnium are discussed on an evolutionary, ecological and phytogeographical basis. The taxonomic status of Mnium cardotii Ren. & Card., M. ellipticum Brid., M. subglobosum var. subelimbatum Bryhn, and M. punctatum var. anceps Card. & Thr. is considered. Lectotypes are selected for Mnium glabrescens Kindb., M. glabrescens ssp. chlorophyllosum Kindb. and M. nudum Britt. & Williams.
23726903|In a large ecological survey of Britain,13 841 quadrats were sampled in 508 1-km squares. The quadrats included 1 132 species of vascular plants, of which 643 occurred in 10 or more quadrats. Applying the method of Gaussian logistic regression to data from this survey, ecological optima and tolerances of species were estimated for Ellenberg's seven ecological indicator variables. Tolerances showed very little relation to the original scales. Most optima were within the range of the original scales but a few species lacked optima for some variables. Optima showed a strong positive relation to original values, but the resulting scale was compressed. We propose a locally-weighted trend line to convert each optimum value to an estimate of the original value. Reprediction using methods based on large-scale quadrat samples offers a very good means of extending Ellenberg's values to a new geographic area such as Britain.
23726420|The family Plagiochilaceae has two genera, Plagiochila (Dum.) Dum. and Plagiochilion Hatt. in Western Melanesia. On the Huon Peninsula Plagiochilion occurs with two of its five Western Melanesian species, P. braunianum (Nees) Hatt. and P. oppositum (Reinw. et al.) Hatt. Genus Plagiochila has 50 species in Western Melanesia of which 32 occur on the Huon Peninsula. P. estipulata Steph. and P. miokensis Steph. are treated as new synonyms of P. blepharophora (Nees) Lindenb.; P. takakii Inoue of P. dendroides (Nees) Lindenb.; P. blepharophora var. major Schiffn. of P. seemannii Mitt.; P. micholitzii Steph. of P. longispica Mitt.; P. hewsoniana Inoue & Grolle, P. inflata Steph., P. pseudaberrans Inoue & Grolle and P. vernicosa Inoue & Grolle of P. gymnoclada Sande Lac.; and P. papuana Inoue & Grolle of P. novohannoverana Schiffn. Four species, whose types are destroyed, remain doubtful. Three new species, P. koponenii Inoue & Piippo, P. morobensis Inoue & Piippo and P. velata Inoue & Piippo are described. P. sumatrana Schiffn. is newly reported for the area. Keys for the species of both genera, illustrations of the species of the Huon Peninsula as well as for some additional type species of Western Melanesia, and maps of altitudinal ranges are presented.
23727239|Astragalus assadabadensis F. Ghahremani. & Podlech, endemic to Alvand Mt., Hamadan province, Iran, is described as a new species and illustrated. The new species belongs to Astragalus section Hymenostegis and is related to A. bradosticus.
23727929|We studied the germination of Erica australis seeds and their responses to different treatments (high temperature, acidic condition, cold stratification, gibberellic acid applications). Germination was very low in untreated seeds (3%) and required approximately one month to start, but increased in all the treatments tested, reaching a value of 100% when seeds were treated with gibberellic acid (25 ppm). Exposure to heat and to low pH promotes germination and reduces time to germinate, which indicates that germination is related to passage of fire and to soil pH. Germination of this species is also correlated with wet and cold conditions and dormancy can be classified as being of the physiological type.
23727966|Astragalus guzelsuensis F. Ghahrem.-Nejad, Behet & Demir sp. nova (Fabaceae), endemic to the eastern Anatolia, Turkey, is described here. It is placed in the sect. Incani due to its medifixed hairs, free stipules, bibracteolate flowers, and imparipinnate leaves, and it appears to be most closely related to A. siahcheshmehensis. Astragalus guzelsuensis differs, among other things, in having more leaflets (610 not 26 pairs), longer stipules (813 mm not 34 mm), a glabrous calyx (not hairy), a longer standard (2931 not 25 mm), and a glabrous fruit (not hairy).
23728139|Taraxacum penyalarense A. Galn, E. Linares & Vicente Orell. is described and illustrated as a new species. It was found in the Iberian Central Mountains, on the Pealara mountain, Madrid, Spain. It resembles some species of sect. Naevosa, but differs in its rough leaves, horned exterior phyllaries with a scarious border, and pale green achenes.
23726860|Silene acaulis (L.) Jacq. subsp. vanensis zgke & Kit Tan (Caryophyllaceae), a new taxon occurring in the province of Van in East Anatolia, Turkey, is described and illustrated. Its closest affinities are with S. acaulis subsp. bryoides, a plant occurring more than 2000 km away in the mountains of central and southern Europe. The existence of a new subspecies of S. acaulis in the extremely disjunct locality is interesting from a phytogeographical viewpoint. It is possible that during the post-glacial period the present-day Arctic-Alpine flora migrated not only southwards to the mountains of central and southern Europe but also to the highlands of eastern Turkey.
23727877|Vicia garinensis Dehshiri (Fabaceae : Vicieae), sp. nova of subgen. Vicilla is described and illustrated from the Hamadan province, west of Iran. It is similar, and probably most closely related to V. multijuga.
23726672|The name Doronicum thibetanum Cavill. has been inadvertently applied in herbarium labels to designate a species distributed in central China (provinces of Gansu and Sichuan). However, the study of the type specimen reveals that it is actually a species of Aster. The central Asian species of Doronicum has no available name and is thus here described as D. cavillieri lv. Fern. & Nieto Fel. This new species has as its closest relatives five central Asian species: D. altaicum Pall., D. briquetii Cavill., D. falconeri C.B. Clarke, D. kamaonense (DC.) lv. Fern. and D. stenoglossum Maxim. Their morphological affinities and phylogenetic relationships are commented upon and an identification key is provided.
23725713|Non-centred principal component analysis followed by varimax, quartimax and oblique rotation was applied to a set of data from lichen- and bryophyte-rich sand dune vegetation in E Finland. The sample plots were assigned to classes according to the greatest loading on the ordination axes. Unrotated and quartimax rotated solutions gave insensitive classifications, in which most of the relevs were allocated to one cluster. Varimax gave a classification which was fairly near to direct clustering. Oblique rotation gave different solutions, depending on the degree of correlation allowed between the axes. Oblique rotation generally produced more classes than varimax and not all these classes were easy to distinguish according to the floristic composition. The mean unipolarity and the mean (dis)similarity proved to be unreliable measures of the applicability of the classification systems. Varimax was perhaps the most useful method, but oblique rotation was almost equally good. The classification by ordination yielded slightly more information than direct clustering methods but was much more laborious.
23725592|An attempt is made to identify the three specimens of Ranunculus auricomus s. lato, present in the Linnaean Herbarium, London (LINN). The plant marked "12 cassubicus" in all probability derives from Siberia and is proposed as lectotype for Ranunculus cassubicus L. The plant marked "13 auricomus" is identified with Ranunculus auricomus subsp. eversii Julin. The third one, "13" represents Ranunculus auricomus subsp. obtusulus (Markl.) Markl. ex Fagerstrm, and is proposed as lectotype for R. auricomus L.
43922176|Pinus pinea L. pollen grains were collected in San Rossore Natural Park and Pisa town centre, central Italy, characterized by different types and levels of pollutants. The pollen was cultured at constant 20C on agar media supplemented with different concentrations of sucrose (0, 3, 9, 15%). The pollen from San Rossore had a higher germination rate (80%) than the pollen from Pisa (40%). The germination was favourably affected by the addition of sugar in pollen grains from San Rossore, but not in those from Pisa. Moreover, the latter showed more numerous anomalous grains and a poorer tube growth than pollen from San Rossore.
23725413|The paper discusses the taxonomic problems and secondary substances of 23 taxa of the genera Cladina (Nyl.) Nyl. and Cladonia Hill ex Browne (Ascomycotina: Lecanorales) occurring in Tierra del Fuego. Cladonia gracilis subsp. valdiviensis Ahti is described as new and a new nomenclatural combination is presented: Cladonia cervicornis subsp. mawsonii (Dodge) Stenroos & Ahti. New synonyms are C. gracilis f. propagulifera Vainio (= C. sarmentosa), C. aspera Ahti & Kashiw. (= C. sarmentosa), C. hypocritica Vainio (= C. ustulata), C. cupulifera Vainio (= C. ustulata) and C. pleurota var. digitiformis Rs. (= C. weymouthii). A lectotype is selected for Cenomyce pityrea f. acuminata Ach. Unusual chemical variation in Tierra del Fuego is shown by C. acuminata (Ach.) Norrl., C. bellidiflora (Ach.) Schaerer and C. symphycarpa (Ach.) Fr. Most of the species have a bipolar distribution pattern; only five are not known from the Northern Hemisphere. Ten species are reported for the first time from the Southern Hemisphere and two are new to South America. Cladina stygia (Fr.) Ahti is excluded from the S. Hemisphere flora.
23726762|Artificial neural networks (ANN) are capable of modelling functional relations between both dependent and independent variables. In this work, we propose the application of ANN as a complementary method of botanical identification which uses vegetative characters. In order to complete this objective, the development of a multilayer neural model to identification for three species of the genus Rollinia (Annonaceae) is presented.
23726087|Degradation analysis of pollen showed that the grains deposited in Lake Lamminjrvi (6105N, 2502E) from the early Iron Age on included a component washed in from the drainage area of the lake, as a consequence of forest clearance and agriculture. The rebedded component was estimated to compose up to 30 % of all the pollen grains. Corrosion and rupture were the most important types of degradation, but occurred with very different frequencies in different plant species.
23727988|Two new species of Mahonia (Berberidaceae), M. dulongensis H. Li and M. lushuiensis T.S. Ying & H. Li, are described and illustrated from Yunnan, China. Mahonia dulongensis is morphologically similar to M. taronensis, but it differs in having 1618 teeth on each leaflet margin side, adaxially with conspicuous lateral veins, and inflorescence of 11 fascicled racemes, 513 cm long, sometimes with branches. Mahonia lushuiensis is similar to M. polyodonta, but can be easily distinguished by its having 34 pairs of leaflets, adaxially with lateral veins flat or inconspicuous, and bracts of inflorescence ovate, 1  0.8 cm.
23726828|Micromorphological features of the lemma and palea were investigated for 77 species in the genus Bromus (Poaceae) using scanning electron microscopy. Several micromorphological characters of both long and short cells (cork cells, crown cells, prickles and macrohairs) were observed. All were treated as separate characters, although crown cells, prickles and macrohairs are treated as a single group (exodermic cells) owing to the protrusion of their periclinal wall. The main objectives of this work are to assess the value of the micromorphological typology in systematic studies, and to characterize the six subgenera of Bromus, using micromorphological features of the lemmas and paleas.
23726746|Alchemilla L. (Rosaceae) contains numerous agamospermous microspecies, which are often treated as species. However, many of them are not clearly morphologically distinct, and their genetic variability is practically not investigated. In the present study, we used RAPD analysis to assess the genetic relatedness between Alchemilla microspecies. In all, 51 plants from 12 Alchemilla microspecies were analysed, and 116 characters were considered (68 RAPD bands over three primers and 48 morphological characters). Phylogenetic trees were constructed by the unweighted pair-group method, neighbour-joining and maximum parsimony methods. The genetic data supported most Frhner's system of sections. Despite the use of a limited set of data in the investigation and weak support values, some tentative conclusions could be based on congruence of the RAPD analysis and morphological data. Alchemilla acutiloba Opiz and A. micans Buser should be united as a single microspecies, A. micans; section Plicatae should be divided into two series Pubescentes and Barbulatae; and A. heptagona Juz. may be separated in Exuentes series of Ultravulgares.
23726644|Axillary buds of 43 Japanese broad-leaved species were collected and used to initiate micropropagation cultures. Four nutrient media (MS, DKW, WPM, A3) were tested with different combinations of growth regulators (BAP or 2iP alone or together with IBA or IAA). Ten species (Callicarpa dichotoma (Lour.) K. Koch, Chosenia arbutifolia (Pallas) B. V. Skvortz., Lonicera chamissoi Bunge, Maackia amurensis Rupr. & Maxim., Morus alba L., Populus maximowiczii Henry, Prunus nipponica Matsum., Ribes japonicum Maxim., Salix sachalinensis F. Schmidt, Toisusu urbaniana (Seemen) Kimura) produced shoot cultures which could be used for micropropagation of numerous plantlets. The shoots were rooted on IBA supplemented medium and transplanted to a peat-sand mixture; most of them survived under the greenhouse conditions. Many species have survived the following winters out of doors, but some of them have shown cold damage. It is apparent that the long-day conditions in south Finland (60N) affect the development of dormancy of Japanese woody plants (Hokkaido 4243N), but some of them may be used for horticultural purposes.
23726328|Four taxa of the lichen genus Leproloma Nyl. ex Crombie are reported from Finland: Leproloma diffusum J. R. Laundon var. diffusum, L. diffusum var. chrysodetoides J. R. Laundon, L. membranaceum (Dickson) Vain., and L. vouauxii (Hue) J. R. Laundon. The Lepraria neglecta group is briefly retreated, and the new combination L. cacuminum (A. Massal.) Lohtander is proposed. The Finnish distribution of all the taxa is mapped. Leproloma diffusum var. chrysodetoides, L. vouauxii and Lepraria cacuminum are new to Finland and Russia.
23727744|Polygonum khajeh-jamali Khosravi & Poormahdi sp. nova (Polygonaceae) is described and illustrated from SW Iran. It can be assigned to Spinescentia group of sect. Polygonum and is characterized by its coriaceous leaves. The leaf epidermis contains a layer of tanniniferous cells with thick walls absent in the other closely similar species.
23726337|The growth of the bilberry (Vaccinium myrtillus L.) was investigated in two boreal forest types (moderately dry pine heath forest, EM, and mesic spruce heath forest, HM) after being clipped at ground level in July, August or September 1985. The treatments simulated herbivory damage caused by small rodents. The emergence and growth of new ramets was monitored for five growing seasons. Regrowth during the same season occurred after clipping in July, but the survival of these ramets was low, especially in the HM forest. The two later clipping times prevented current-year regrowth, but allowed new shoots to emerge in the following years. Calculated as a percentage of the original value, the biomass that had accumulated by 1989 was greater in the HM forest than in the EM forest. In the EM forest, the density and the biomass reached the control level in the plots clipped in July, growth decreasing as the time of clipping became later. In the HM forest, the control level was reached in the plots clipped in August and September. No clear pattern of ramet growth was observed to be caused by the different treatments. Ramet size was slightly reduced in the plots clipped in September in the HM forest, possibly owing to the great density. The ramets were smaller in the EM forest, but the percentage ratio of leaf biomass to total biomass was somewhat greater than in the HM forest. The results suggested that the ability of the bilberry to recover completely from severe herbivory between the years of peak rodent populations depends both on the timing of the damage and on the growing site.
23726734|Astragalus nezaketae A. Duran & Ayta sp. nova with bifurcating hairs (sect. Incani), is described from East Anatolia in Turkey. It is an endemic and closely similar to A. ancistrocarpus. Diagnostic morphological characters from closely similar taxa are discussed.
43922193|A new polypore species, Postia amylocystis Y.C. Dai & Renvall, is described, based on recent collections from the Changbai Mountain Range in northeastern China. The species is evidently a saprotroph that causes brown rot on fallen, decorticated trunks of deciduous trees. Thick-walled, hymenial cystidia and very narrow, allantoid spores are key characters, distinguishing it from other species in the genus Postia Fr. Amyloid reactions in the cystidia and in the uppermost contextual hyphae suggest a possible phylogenetic relationship to Amylocystis lapponica (Romell) Singer, and cast doubt on the separation of the genus Amylocystis Singer from Postia.
23726855|We studied the morphological plasticity of clones in Phyllostachys praecox f. prevernalis (Poaceae) in response to nitrogen availability in a field experiment. With increasing nitrogen availability, number of ramets per clone increased significantly, whereas the spacer became clearly shorter. Rhizome branching angle and internode length was not responsive to nitrogen availability. Although rhizome length of ramet decreased with increasing nitrogen availability, total rhizome length of clone had no significant variation. In higher nitrogen availability, the total biomass of clone increased significantly. The distribution of more ramets in relatively high nitrogen availability can enable Phyllostachys praecox f. prevernalis to fully exploit patchy nitrogen. With decreasing nitrogen availability, the clone invested higher percentage allocation of biomass into the underground growth, to enhance acquisition efficiency for nitrogen in soil.
23725017|Pollen grains were studied with both light and scanning electron microscopy in 21 species of Chenopodium L. sect. Chenopodium, with special emphasis on the morphologically similar species C. album L. and C. suecicum Murr. Taxonomically relevant differences were found in pore number, estimated from the ratio of the distance between two pores to the diameter of the grain. The pollens of C. album and C. suecicum were found to be distinguishable. Significant differences in grain size and pore number were also found within each of the two species. These differences are partially correlated with latitudinal distribution and growth habit, but are also due to infraspecific variation. The correlations between ploidy level and pore number as well as grain size are discussed.
23727274|Croton yangchunensis H.G. Ye & N.H. Xia, sp. nova is described from Guangdong Province, China, and compared with its congeners. It is somewhat similar to C. purpurascens, but is distinguished by its acute apex of leaf blade, with a cupular gland on each side of midrib at base, its longer raceme, and its lanceolate sepals of female flowers, 3.54 mm long. It also resembles C. tiglium, but differs in having an entire leaf blade, smaller and oblate fruit, and smaller seeds.
23725542|The synflorescence of Schoenoxiphium lanceum (Thunb.) Kkenth. (Cyperaceae, tribe Cariceae) was studied both morphologically and anatomically. The normal synflorescence is composed of a main axis, axillary branches of three orders and different kinds, and axillary unisexual flowers. The following fundamental types of node are found in the normal synflorescence: 1. inflorescence nodes, 2. female flower nodes and 3. male flower nodes. The two latter node types can occasionally be reduced. The basal nodes of the main axis are inflorescence nodes and the distal ones male flower nodes. The first node of a branch is always a female flower node. This may be followed by both inflorescence nodes and distal male flower nodes, or by male flower nodes alone. According to the node types, the following branch types can be distinguished: 1. compound bisexual branches, 2. compound male branches, 3. simple bisexual branches and 4. simple female branches. The synflorescence branches become reduced in structure and size towards the peripheries. In addition to unisexual caricoid flowers, several exceptional, evidently bisexual, flowers were found, which suggests that the caricoid flowers are reduced from originally bisexual ones. The results are compared with observations on the structure of the synflorescence and flowers of Kobresia laxa Nees.
23725035|The following new combinations are proposed: Loeskypnum wickesii (Grout) Tuom., Scorpidium vernicosum (Mol.) Tuom. and Warnstorfia procera (Ren. & Arn.) Tuom.
23726299|Thamnites marginatus JovetAst & Huard, an extinct moss species from the Upper Miocene of Arjuzanx, southern France, is transferred to the extant genus Thamnobryum Nieuwl. (Neckeraceae) and the combination T. marginatum (JovetAst & Huard) Enroth is made. A report of the taxon from the Miocene deposits of Kausche, eastern Germany, was based on misidentification: the fossil fragments represent T. alopecurum (Hedw.) Gang. Neckera complanata (Hedw.) Hb. is reported from the Kausche deposits. A photograph published in the protologue of Thamnites marginatus is re-published.
23727943|133 species of polypores were identified based mostly on collections from Qin Mts. of southern Shaanxi Province, central China. A checklist of the polypores with substrate and collecting data is supplied. Two new species, Polyporus rhododendri Y.C. Dai & H.S. Yuan and Postia qinensis Y.C. Dai & Y.L. Wei, are described and illustrated. The former is an elegant species growing on Rhododendron, and it has almost sessile basidiocarps; microscopically it is characterized by fusiform basidiospores. The latter is characterized by white, soft, resupinate to effused-reflexed basidiocarps, abundant gloeocystidia, cylindric to slightly allantoid basidiospores.
23725358|The germination of Rumex acetosella L. s.l. was studied in the laboratory and in nature. The proportion of dormant seeds was 4699%. Seeds buried in nylon gauze bags in forest humus and peat remained dormant and viable up to 14 1/2 years. When kept on continuously moist quartz sand in the laboratory, the seeds remained dormant for at least 5 years. Germination was induced in dormant seeds by drying and remoistening. The lower the relative humidity during drying, the higher was the germination rate. Fluctuating temperatures (8h +30 or +22C/16 h +5 or +10C for 7 cycles) promoted germination much less effectively (0.65%) than drying and remoistening (17.0%). Germination of dry seeds was greatly increased by heating to +80C for 13 hours. On rock outcrops in South Finland, prolonged (12 months') droughts killed the vegetative parts of most vascular plants growing on the shallow soil, but after the first rains abundant seedlings of R. acetosella rapidly appeared. This was evidently due to drying-induced germination seeds lying dormant in the soil. This germination ecology enables R. acetosella to recolonize rocky areas where other species have been killed by drought. The occurrence of R. acetosella on soils earlier cultivated by burn-beating is discussed.
23728257|Our aim in this study was to evaluate whether coverage change in the vegetation of a forestry buffer wetland can be used to reveal a possible increase in nutrients. To achieve this, we followed changes in vegetation on two peatland buffers, and biomass with nitrogen content in one of them. Nutrient concentrations were periodically lower in the water inflow than in the outflow. Flooding caused a species change in favor of flood-tolerant grasses and Sphagna, but this species composition did not indicate a higher trophic level. Nitrogen content in the reference site's original surface peat layer, which was rich in woody remains, was higher than that of the newly formed, more acidic Sphagnum peat of the spruce swamp buffer. Changes in biomass did not indicate an increased nutrient-binding capacity of the spruce swamp buffer vegetation. On the other hand, the changes in species cover outlined the area of effective water flow paths within the buffer and suggested that severe eutrophication of peatland forestry buffers does not seem likely.
23726963|We studied the reproductive biology of two morphs (LF, large flowers; and SF, small flowers) of Cytisus multiflorus, an endemic legume from SW Europe. Visits by pollinators are indispensable for fruit-set to take place. After hand self-pollination, all the individuals have a uniform behaviour with null fruit, in spite of self-penetration of the ovules. This and the fact that the abscission of initiated fruit occurs en masse at the same time seems to indicate the possibility of a late-acting self-incompatibility in this species. Intramorph crosses showed that the SF morph has a significantly greater reproductive success than the LF morph. Intermorph crosses were quite ineffective due to the lesser viability of the LF morph pollen, although we cannot discard the possibility that its ovules are also less viable. The situation is suggestive of the presence of a partial reproductive barrier between the two morphs that operates both before and after crossing.
23726276|Seventeen species of mainly epiphyllous Lejeuneaceae are reported from Western Melanesia (West Irian, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands). Five of them are new to the flora of the region: Acantholejeunea spinistipula (Herz.) Schust., Drepanolejeunea grandis Herz., Lejeunea dimorpha Kodama, Stenolejeunea dentata (Steph.) Pcs, comb. nov. (Drepanolejeunea dentata Steph.), and Stenolejeunea schiffneri (Herz.) Pcs, comb. nov. (Crossotolejeunea schiffneri Herz.); four are new to the Huon Peninsula and two to the Solomon Islands. The genus Acantholejeunea (Schust.) Schust. is newly reported for Western Melanesia. Vegetative propagation by detaching specialized branches in Lejeunea dimorpha Kodama is reported.
23727765|We report on New Guinea occurrences of the genus Merrilliobryum, previously thought to be endemic to the Philippines. The New Guinea plants are named M. tanianum D.H. Norris, T.J. Kop. & W.R. Buck, sp. nova. They differ from the Philippine M. fabronioides Broth. in their larger size, relatively broader leaves, the more elongate cells of the median leaf, and in the number of cells in the uniseriate leaf apex. The paper includes a key, descriptions, illlustrations and distributional data for the two species of the genus.
23727880|Two new species in Apiaceae, Ferula brevipedicellata Pemen ex M. Sarolu & H. Duman and F. duranii M. Sarolu & H. Duman are described and illustrated from East and South Anatolia, Turkey, respectively. The diagnostic morphological characters are discussed; notes on the ecology of the new species are presented and electron micrographs of the mericarp surfaces of F. brevipedicellata are provided. A somatic metaphase plate of F. duranii shows a chromosome number of 2n = 22.
23725277|Near the tree line in Utsjoki great annual variation occurs in length of annual shoots on secondary branches of Scots pine (Pinus silvestris L.). This variation is reported and discussed. The main material consists of a 50-year sequence of measurements combined from data in the author's earlier papers, with some new information added. Data on annual variation in needle length and female flowering intensity of the same shoots during the same period are added to give a more comprehensive picture of how the various visible aspects of annual growth of pine are interrelated. The significant correlation between the annual growth variations of pine and the temperature during the growing season (particularly July) is illustrated with diagrams, which confirm previous statements and correlation coefficients presented in the author's earlier papers. Serial observations on the annual growth of pine from different places in northern Europe and similar sequences obtained from different habitats are compared. The diagrams show clearly that the annual variation in the visible growth processes of pine are similar over wide areas and that in this connection the quality of the habitat plays only a minor role. Finally the ecological implications of such data on the annual growth processes of pine are briefly discussed. Particular stress is laid on the important relation between "key years" and shifts of the tree line. In spite of the great difficulty of obtaining an uninterrupted series of observations, such an investigation on variations in annual shoot length provides an ecologically useful tool.
23726632|The essentially Japanese taxon Ledum palustre L. var. diversipilosum Nakai (Ericaceae) deserves the specific rank. Following the current generic concept, the taxon is at the same time transferred to the genus Rhododendron L. as Rhododendron diversipilosum (Nakai) Harmaja.
23727894|The green alga Printzina (Trentepohlia) lagenifera was found in southern Finland in the sori of the leaves of the indigenous fern Polypodium vulgare. The find is noteworthy because P. lagenifera occurred epiphyllous in a boreal, natural habitat. The subcosmopolitan P. lagenifera is a collective species; it was described from a hothouse in Germany. Two earlier finds from Finland are likewise from hothouses. The present alga is hardly conspecific with these lignicolous hothouse algae that most probably are introductions from the tropics. Another green alga, the common Desmococcus olivaceus (Chaetophorales) is reported to occur in Finland on the upper surfaces of the leaves of Polypodium vulgare.
23725866|The genus Anomobryum Schimp. has four species; the genus Bryum Hedw. 16 species; and the genus Rhodobryum (Schimp.) Limpr. two species in Western Melanesia. Anomobryum hyalinum, A. ochii and Bryum pseudoblandum are described as new species. Anomobryum alboimbricatum (Ochi) T. Kop. & Norris and Brachymenium wabagense (Bartr.) T. Kop. & Norris are new combinations. Nine names are reduced as synonyms and lectotypes are selected for Bryum subsect. Doliolidium C. Mll., Bryum sect. Apalodictyon C. Mll. and Bryum russulum Broth. & Geh., Anomobryum julaceum (Gaertn. et al.) Schimp. and Bryum microerythrocarpum C. Mll. & Kindb. are for the first time recorded for Western Melanesia, and Anomobryum bulbiferum Bartr. and Bryum perdecurrens Bartr. new to Papua New Guinea. Anomobryum auratum (Mitt.) Jaeg. is excluded from the flora. The paper includes keys to the genera and species, descriptions, illustrations and distributional data for the species in Western Melanesia. It also has total range and nomenclatural notes, and discussions on the taxonomy and classification.
23725558|From the Frieda River area in Papua New Guinea, 173 species of mosses are reported. Ten species, Chaetomitrium friedense Norris & T. Kop., Distichophyllum albomarginatum Norris & T. Kop., D. leskeodontoides Norris & T. Kop., Ectropothecium giganteum Norris & T. Kop., Glossadelphus ovatus Norris & T. Kop., Mastopoma parvidentatum Norris & T. Kop., Taxithelium friedense Norris & T. Kop., Trichosteleum fuscescens Norris & T. Kop., T. pendens Norris & T. Kop. and Vesicularia ectropotheciopsis Norris & T. Kop., are described as new to the science. One genus and 18 species are newly recorded for Western Melanesia and 15 species for Papua New Guinea. The special features of the flora are the absence of some families common in other parts of New Guinea, and the diversity of some other families. Many of the reports represent wide range extensions of species. The list includes notes on the taxonomy, distribution and nomenclature.
23726552|The paper describes six new species of Taraxacum L. from Greece: T. kalambakae Sonck, T. rigidifolium Sonck, T. sublimiforme Sonck, T. trigonense Sonck, T. zagorae Sonck (of sect. Vulgaria or Ruderalia), and T. microcranum Sonck (of sect. Erythrosperma). The species are illustrated in black and white photographs.
23724309|Counts have been made of the somatic chromosome numbers of 14 strains of Thymus partly collected in the wild, partly received as living plants or as seed samples from different botanical gardens. The chromosome numbers not previously reported are as follows: T. armeniacus Klok. & Des.-Shost. One Armenian sample. 2n = 30. T. glabrescens Willd. One Romanian and one Russian sample. 2n = 56. T. kosteleckyanus Opiz. One Czechoslovakian specimen. 2n = 28. T. pseudonummularius Klok. & Des.-Shost. One Caucasian sample. 2n = 30. T. pulcherrimus Schur. One specimen from Poland. 2n = 56. T. pulegioides L.  serpyllum L. em. Mill. One garden plant from South Finland. 2n = 26. T. sibiricus Klok. & Des.-Shost. One plant from District of Irkutsk, USSR. 2n = 26. T. tiflisiensis Klok. & Des.-Shost. One Caucasian sample. 2n = 56. Confirmation of previous counts: T. praecox Opiz. One sample from Czechoslovakia. 2n = 58. T. pulegioides L. One Polish sample. 2n = 28. T. transcaspicus Klok. One sample received from Tashkent. 2n = 60. The first case of infraspecific polyploidy in the genus Thymus was found in T. comosus Heuff. ex Gris. Two cultivated strains showed the numbers 2n = 28 and 2n = 58, respectively; the former number had been reported earlier for the species.
23726285|The vegetation of three abandoned fields in Karkali Nature Reserve in southern Finland developed without human impact for 21 years. In 1967, the first summer after abandonment, permanent sample plots were set up to study the succession of the vegetation; these were inspected every fifth year. In autumn 1988 and 1989, soil samples were taken for seed germination. The composition of the seed bank is here correlated with the successional vegetation cover. The average size of the seed bank was 50 000 viable seeds m-2 to a depth of 25 cm. The most abundant taxa were Gnaphalium uliginosum (L.) Opiz, Juncus spp., Hypericum spp., Sagina procumbens L. and Veronica serpyllifolia L., representing species common in the early stages of succession. Seeds of 17 species were found to have remained viable for 521 years. Analysis of the vertical structure of the seed bank is shown to be a useful means of evaluating which seeds arrived before and which after the abandonment of the fields.
23728171|Morphological differences among 20 populations of Carex viridula growing in different habitats in Poland were analysed based on examination of 365 specimens. Soil samples collected from each habitat were assayed for pH, organic matter, organic carbon, nitrogen, carbonates, and exchangeable elements (Ca, Mg, K, P). Statistical methods were used to detect patterns in morphological differences among the populations of C. viridula and to elucidate the effects of soil conditions on morphological characters. PCA and cluster analyses divided the specimens into two groups reflecting habitats differing in their soil conditions. A general pattern in the C. viridula morphology was found: habitats with soils of high contents of carbonates and exchangeable elements, and with pH exceeding 7.0, supported specimens usually having three or two (more seldom four) female spikes spaced widely apart, and long, usually peduncled, male spikes.
23728225|Gypsophila yusufeliensis Budak sp. nova (Caryophyllaceae) is described from Yusufeli (Artvin province, Turkey). It resembels especially G. patrinii. The diagnostic characters, as well as a full description and figures of new species are provided.
23724997|The 10 Fennoscandian species of Carex section Heleonastes Kunth and seven putative infrasectional hybrids of Carex canescens L. were studied chromatographically. The chromatographic patterns of the species differ markedly from each other, and are fairly constant, except that of C. brunnescens (Pers.) Poir., the variation of which might be partly of taxonomic significance. The flavonoid patterns of the C. canescens hybrids show the spots found in the chromatograms of the parental species and are easily identifiable. The Rf-values and colour reactions are given for the chromatographic spots. Paper chromatography seems to be a useful method for studying morphologically difficult Carex groups.
23726785|The primary aim of this study was to investigate and document the hepatic and hornwort floras of Singapore. The secondary aim was to compare and understand the changes in the species composition through time in a highly urbanized island environment like Singapore. As presented, a total of 74 species in 37 genera of Hepaticae and Anthocerotae are known from Singapore. Aneura, Cololejeunea, Cyathodium, Folioceros, Harpalejeunea, and Notothylas are new generic records. Thirty-eight species are reported as new for Singapore. Identification keys to the genera and species of Singapore hepatic and hornwort floras are provided. Short descriptions are provided for each species. Of the 74 species, 21 are regarded as possibly extinct from the island on the basis of no recent collections. An additional 16 records could not be confirmed due to lack of voucher specimens and recent collections. Taxa suffered most from the urbanization of environment seem to be those of the genera Bazzania and Frullania. A moderate 40% extinction rate over a period of two centuries was calculated for the liverwort and hornwort floras of Singapore. Their local disappearance is probably caused by forest clearing and the subsequent change of air humidity and, in the case of corticolous species, most probably due to the increased air pollution.
23726571|Tamayorkis Szlach. (Malaxideae, Epidendroideae, Orchidaceae) is redefined and three additional species, T. ehrenbergii (Rchb.f.) R. Gonzalez & Szlach., T. hintonii (Todzia) R. Gonzalez & Szlach. and T. wendtii (Salazar) R. Gonzalez & Szlach. are incorporated into it. Tamayorkis is compared with Malaxis Solander ex O. Swartz and Liparis L. C. Richard, to which it is closely related.
23726092|A list is given of the nomina nuda and dubious names published by Carl Mller (Hal.) in Mniaceae, and most of the original collections are identified. In all 44 names are dealt with, 13 of which are new synonyms. Lectotypes are selected for Mnium punctatum Hedw. var. reflexifolium Kab., Mnium speciosissimum Schimp. ex C. Mll., and M. tenerrimum C. Mll.
23728246|Astragalus pseudopinetorum Taeb, zdoru & Erik sp. nova (Fabaceae), endemic to the Hakkri province of E Turkey, is described and illustrated. It belongs to A. sect. Caprini and is morphologically related to A. kamelinii. A characteristic feature is the whole plant being glabrous, with just a few scattered white hairs on the rachis and pedicels.
23727644|We used principal components analysis (PCA) to distinguish wingless birch fruit bodies of different birch species from each other. Firts, we measured seven dimension variables from a modern fruit selection and analysed their explanatory power using PCA. Then, we included the subfossil birch fruits in PCA as passive variables and compared the result with the data gathered by visual analysis. PCA clearly separates the modern fruits of Betula nana, B. pubescens ssp. czerepanovii, and B. pendula from each other. PCA also provides an effective and objective tool for producing more detailed palaeoecological data of the occurrences of different birch species than does the traditional visual analysis only. Instead of classifying fossil birch fruits into rough type-classes at least Betula nana, B. pubescens ssp. czerepanovii, and B. pendula can be separated from each other on the basis of the morphological features.
23725855|A theoretical biosequential scheme of the precursors of the depsides, depsidones and dibenzofurans in Cladonia is presented to explain the chemical and evolutionary background of the aromatic secondary product patterns detected in a chemotaxonomic survey of the genus. Most species represent the following biosequential patterns: (1) an orcinol series pattern of depsides and depsidones, and (2) a -orcinol series pattern; within the latter most species produce either (2a) -orcinol depsides or (2b) -orcinol depsidones as the major secondary substances. A new preliminary infrageneric division of Cladonia is outlined in the light of the biogenetic groups. Compounds reported in Cladonia include connorstictic acid in C. symphycarpa (Ach.) Fr. and cryptostictic acid (new to the genus) in C. boliviana Ahti.
23725551|Phytosociological relevs were made in abandoned fields (n = 130) of different ages in Finland in summer 1981. The ordination procedure arranged the relevs according to the age of the stages, and the species according to their participation in the succession. The species could be sorted roughly into four main groups, which were easily delimited in the ordination space: annual weeds, perennial weed and ruderal species, meadow species, woody species and forest herbs. Species diversity declined with increasing latitude. The most variable aspects of the succession were found to be the initial species composition and the time of invasion by woody species. The succession in abandoned fields in Finland usually proceeds rather rapidly toward forest communities, as compared with that in drier parts of Central Europe.
23725052|Thirty-one species of Chenopodium have been found in Finland. None of these is regarded as truly indigenous, although, in S Finland, C. glaucum and C. polyspermum inhabit natural waterside sites. Other established species are the wide-spread C. album and C. suecicum, the strictly southern C. bonus-henricus, C. hybridum, and C. rubrum, and the evidently extinct C. urbicum. All these eight species are also found as casual immigrants and the remaining 23 occur exclusively as such. The sites and dates of the finds and the ecology of the plants indicate their means of arrival; entry has occurred with ship ballast, garden seed, grain from various continents, Russian and German troops, USSR railway waggons, coal, Moroccan cork, Polish oak timber, and Danish sugar beet, and some plants were earlier cultivated. There is some discussion of diagnostic characters and the criteria adopted for species delimitation.
23727801|Botryobasidium baicalinum Kotir. & Ryvarden is described from Lake Baikal, southern Siberia, Russia. It is characterized by constantly clamped hyphae, long, thin-walled cystidia, ephemeral small basidia, smooth, thick-walled chlamydospores and navicular or subnavicular basidiospores. The new species is fairly similar to B. parvisetosum, which, however, differs in having smaller cystidia, specialized chlamydospore-bearing cells, ornamented chlamydospores and narrower basidiospores. The new species is illustrated and compared to B. parvisetosum.
23725173|The scanning electron microscope was used to study the epicuticular wax of Pinus sylvestris L. needles collected from five areas with urban air pollution and a forest area with only slight pollution. The samples were collected during winter 19771978 and summer 1978 around the town Oulu, North Finland. The first sign of normal ageing of needles and the effect of air pollution is fusion of the wax fibrils; later on all the wax fibrils are fused and eroded. Because of the uneven structure of the needle surface, the wax erosion is most marked in the projecting parts between the stomatal rows and in the grooves around the stomata. The young stoma is covered by tubular wax fibrils, which occlude the epistomatal chamber. In northern areas, the normal erosion due to ageing destroys the surface wax in four or five years, but the erosion caused by air pollution was observed to be two to five times as rapid. The wax layers around the stomata can be totally destroyed in one or two years. Erosion during the first year is considered to have an especially strong influence on the water economy of the needle.
43922226|Aspidistra australis S.Z. He & W.F. Xu sp. nova (Ruscaceae) is described and illustrated from southern Guizhou Province, China. It differs from its closest sibling, A. claviformis, by its leaf blades which are oblong-lanceolate and sparsely serrulate above the middle, by its light yellow perianth, by its stamens being inserted slightly below the middle of the perianth tube, and by its stigma being a little enlarged and with a concave apex.
23727942|We have revisited the phylogenetic evaluation of the Physcia aipoliaP. caesia lichen group (sect. Caesiae; Physciaceae, Lecanorales) in order to investigate whether new sequence data and extensive sampling can help us to understand the phylogenetic relationships in that group. We combined partial mtSSU DNA data with two previously used nuclear gene regions (betatubulin, ITS) and a group I intron. We also compared the resulting phylogenies with chemical and morphological characters. Altogether 52 specimens of the P. aipoliaP. caesia group were analysed. Direct optimization of the molecular data revealed several well-supported groups. Our results essentially agreed with those of the earlier studies, and we were able to confirm the independent taxonomic status of some controversial morphotaxa. We also discovered at least two distinct clades that potentially represent species new to science. A new nomenclatural combination, Physcia alnophila (Vain.) Loht., Moberg, Myllys & Tehler, is proposed.
23725204|The phosphatase activities and phosphate accumulation of Nitzschia actinastroides (Lemm.) v. Goor were studied in the presence of four detergents: sodium dodecyl sulphate, Triton X-100, sodium desoxycholate and cetyl trimethylammonium bromide. The effect of phosphorus starvation on the phosphatase activities was also assessed. The activities in algae grown in the presence of detergents were studied using both lyophilized and fresh cells, the activities being much higher in the lyophilized material. In general the detergents increase the phosphatase activities, especially at low concentrations. Phosphate starvation seems to have a similar effect. At higher concentrations the activities begin to decrease again. These features were shown by all tested detergents except cetyl trimethylammonium bromide. This compound seems to have no effect on the phosphatases at the tested detergent concentrations in spite of its toxicity. The tested detergents lower the amount of accumulated extractable phosphorus in the cells. This fact is least marked with cetyl trimethylammonium bromide.
23725432|Water balance was monitored in the needles and young twigs of the Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris) in Oulu, North Finland (65N) in winter 19861987, employing trees which had been cut off at the stump and propped up, together with intact controls. Morphological parameters for the needles were also measured. The water balance remained fairly good throughout the winter in both types of tree. Evidently the risk of drought in winter is not as great under these northerly conditions as it is in the Alps, for instance. It was not until spring (AprilMay) that the situation deteriorated rapidly. A thick (about 1 m or more) frozen layer developed in the ground in Northern Finland during the winter in question, and this may have caused the control trees to suffer from drought in spring. The condition of the cut trees naturally declined more markedly than did that of the intact trees. The water balance in the 0-year-old needles was also better than that in the 1-year-old needles during the winter, but the reverse situation held good for the young twigs. The thickness of the needles appeared to correlate best with water balance. There were marked individual differences between the trees, even within the same forest, a fact which should be borne in mind, e.g. when considering the combined effect of natural winter stress and air pollution.
23727711|The bioclimatic belts of Gomera are established and the potential distribution of its climatophilous vegetation series mapped accordingly. PCA and DCA analyses explain the significance of thermic factors related to altitude, and rainfall or humidity conditions (mist precipitation) in the distribution of bioclimatic belts and vegetation series. A map of potential natural vegetation is produced by considering several additional abiotic environmental factors, and the current distribution of potential vegetation remnants or their substitute communities. Three new climatophilous associations (Neochamaeleo pulverulentaeEuphorbietum balsamiferae, Violo rivinianaeMyricetum fayae, Cisto gomeraePinetum canariensis), one new climatophilous subassociation (Brachypodio arbusculaeJuniperetum canariensis subass. ericetosum arboreae), two potential edaphophilous new associations (Euphorbietum aphyllae, Euphorbio berthelotii-Retamatetum rhodorhizoidis), one new potential edaphophilous subassociation (Cisto gomeraePinetum canariensis subass. juniperetosum canariensis) and two serial new associations (Micromerio gomerensisCistetum monspeliensis, Adenocarpo foliolosi-Chamaecytisetum angustifolii) are described. Commentaries and phytosociological tables of the potential natural vegetation communities and the other communities described are given.
23726059|The mercury contents of aquatic plants collected downstream from a paper-mill in Hmeenkyr and two chlor-alkali works (ets and Kuusankoski) were compared with those of plants taken from an unpolluted area at Mntyharju. Below the paper-mill the mercury contents were similar to those from Mntyharju (mean 0.04 ppm of dry weight). Below the chlor-alkali works in ets and Kuusankoski the mercury contents of the aquatic plants were, respectively, 100 and 7 times as high as those from the control area (max. 6.6 and 0.90 ppm). The differences between plant species were small. The mean mercury content of the littoral sediment was 2.5 ppm (dry wt) in ets, 0.98 ppm in Kuusankoski and 0.02 ppm in Mntyharju. No correlation was found between the mercury contents of the aquatic plants and the littoral sediments.
23724988|23 counts on 11 taxa of Chenopodium, mainly of sect. Chenopodium, from Germany, Yugoslavia, Greece, Turkey, Iran, Afghanistan, and India are reported.
23724961|The macroscopical and microscopical structures of two closely related yellow stipitate polypores, Albatrellus syringae and A. peckianus, are described and compared, with special emphasis on the microstructure of the stipe. The main cultural characters of A. syringae are included. A. syringae is reported for the first time from Finland and Sweden. A new combination, Albatrellus peckianus (Cooke) Niemel, is proposed.
23724295|1. In earlier papers on the lichens of boreal and arctic Ontario (particularly Macoun 1902, Hustich 1955, 1957 a) about 100 macrolichen (fruticose and foliose) species were recorded. The present material has increased this number to about 203 species. The distribution and habitats of these species within the study area are outlined. 2. In the north-south direction the boreal and arctic Ontario was divided into five essentially thermal climatic vegetation zones: southern boreal, middle boreal, northern boreal, hemiarctic, and southern arctic. The so-called hemiboreal zone, adjacent to southern boreal in the south, is omitted here. Corresponding zones (subzones) in zonation systems established by other authors in various northern regions are listed. In addition, in the east-west direction (in principle) the southern boreal zone was divided into three humidity districts (strongly, moderately and weakly humid), while the middle and northern boreal zones are stated to be chiefly moderately humid in Ontario. The arctic subzone is designated as maritime southern arctic. 3. The stations of each lichen species are listed according to the vegetation zones rather than to administrative units, as is commonly done. This arrangement should improve possibilities for a detailed ecological comparison between plants in widely separate territories. 4. The horizontal zonal amplitude and total distribution of each species in the northern hemisphere are briefly outlined. 5. Special taxonomic or nomenclatural remarks are made on the following species: Cladonia acuminata, C. amaurocraea, C. arbuscula, C. chlorophaea, C. coccifera, C. crispata, C. deformis, C. gonecha, C. gracilis, C. lepidota, C. pocillum, C. rangiferina, C. scabriuscula, C. squamosa, C. symphycarpia, C. verticillata, Cetraria ericetorum, C. islandica, Parmeliopsis hyperopta, Peltigera leucophlebia, P. rufescens, Anaptychia galactophylla, Stereocaulon condensatum, Xanthoria polycarpa, Alectoria implexa, A. jubata, A. lanea, Ramalina calicaris, R. intermedia, R. obtusata. In addition, three unidentified (possibly undescribed) species, a Cetraria (subg. Platysma), a Parmelia (sect. Melanoparmelia) and a Usnea (subsect. Dasypogae) are mentioned. Two new nomenclatural combinations are made: Hypogymnia bitteri (Lynge) Ahti and Cladonia alpestris var. aberrans (des Abb.) Ahti. 6. The abundance and distribution of lichens in the corresponding parts of northern Ontario and eastern Fennoscandia are compared. These climatically and edaphically highly similar regions, though situated widely apart, share a very large number of species. Of the macrolichen species recorded for northern Ontario 85 per cent are also found in eastern Fennoscandia, but some of them show different degrees of abundance or distribution in the two areas. The existing differences are evidently due to historical or climatic factors. Bryophytes apparently show about the same degree of similarity, while only about 30 per cent of the vascular plants are common to the two regions. Race formation is much more frequent among vascular plants than among lichens and bryophytes.
23725465|Lecanora vainioi Vnsk, sp. nova, and L. ahtii Vnsk, sp. nova (lichen-forming fungi, Lecanorales), are described from Brazil. Lecanora frustulosa var. cinerascens Krempelh. is typified, raised to specific rank and provided with a new name, L. henssenii Vnsk, nomen novum et status novus, and its morphological and chemical characteristics are described. L. vainioi, L. ahtii and L. henssenii are included in the L. subfusca group. The following species of that group are typified and their morphological and chemical characteristics described: L. brasiliana Zahlbr. [= L. sulphurata Mll. Arg., non (Ach.) Nyl.], L. dispersula Mll. Arg., L. pallidofuscescens Vainio and L. sulphurescens Fe. L. depressa Fe and L. pallidofusca Krempelh. are typified and reduced to synonymy with L. sulphurescens, which is divided into three chemodemes. L. sulphurata (Ach.) Nyl., not included in this group, is typified and the chemistry of its lectotype is reported. L. argopholis (Ach.) Ach. is considered to form a separate group, its nearest relatives in the L. subfusca group being L. vainioi, L. ahtii and L. henssenii. L. frustulosa (Dickson) Ach., s. str. [= L. ludwigii (Sprengel) Ach.], is provisionally included in the L. polytropa group, s. ampl.
23725701|The phenological life strategy was studied in 20 cultivated populations of a monocarpic umbelliferous plant, Angelica archangelica L. subsp. archangelica. The parental seed samples were collected from Finland and North Norway. The material also included one Icelandic population. The germination of the seed cohort spread out over at least two years. The mean seedling size of a population showed a correlation with the mean fruit size. The first rosettes produced flower stalks in the third growing season. The probability that a genet would flower was correlated with the size of the two-year-old rosettes. The genets flowering in the third year produced more flowers per primary umbel than those flowering in the fourth year. The latter, however, usually had 24 main stems and so the total number of flowers per plant was higher. The difference in flower number between the two growing seasons was greatest in the northernmost populations. The reduced potential of seed production on the primary umbels of the Somerniemi population was partly compensated for by the seeds produced on the secondary and tertiary umbels. This shows that the strategy for maximizing the reproductive output differs between plants adapted to growing seasons of different length. The strategy adopted by A. archangelica to augment its fitness in a hazardous environment seemed to comprise a buried seed bank and a prolonged juvenile period with increased reproductive output and great inter-individual variation in the timing of flowering during the growing season.
23727983|Draba orientalis O. Karabacak & L. Behet sp. nova (Brassicaceae) from Turkey is described and illustrated. Diagnostic characters of the species along with taxonomic notes are given. It is compared with the morphologically similar D. siliquosa, D. lanceolata and D. anatolica.
23727227|Crustoderma efibulatum Kotir. & Saaren. and Hyphodontia incrustata Kotir. & Saaren. are described. The former species deviates from the concept of Crustoderma Parmasto in being clampless and thus reminiscent of some species of Phlebia Fr. The latter species is at first sight reminiscent of Hyphodontia sambuci (Pers.) J. Erikss., but with differently shaped, encrusted basidia. The generic position of both species is somewhat uncertain.
23726487|The chemical compounds in 275 specimens of Ophioparma ventosa s. lat. from East Fennoscandia were analysed, resulting in three major chemotypes. They are: (I) thamnolicdivaricaticusnic acid, (II) hypothamnolicdivaricaticusnic acid, and (III) divaricaticusnic acid. Chemotypes I and II are characterised by long, multiseptate spores, whereas chemotype III occurs as two morphotypes: (A) with long, multiseptate spores, and (B) with short, non-septate or 1-septate spores. The chemotypes with long, multiseptate spores represent the species O. ventosa (L.) Norman s. str., whereas O. lapponica (Rsnen) Hafellner & R. W. Rogers is the correct name for specimens of chemotype III-morphotype B. A tendency to a higher usnic acid-content and to more yellow thalli occurs especially in O. lapponica and in chemotypes II and III of O. ventosa growing in northernmost latitudes and at high altitudes. The distribution of O. lapponica and the chemotypes of O. ventosa in Finland is mapped.
23727885|Two new species of Taraxacum are described and illustrated. Taraxacum decastroi A. Galn & Vicente Orell. was found in the Spanish Pyrenees, while T. lacianense A. Galn & Vicente Orell., was collected in the Cantabrian Mountains.
23728241|Impatiens parvisepala S.X. Yu & Y.T. Hou sp. nova (Balsaminaceae), from Guangxi, China, is described and illustrated. It is closely related to I. claviger in having a raceme, yellow flowers and four lateral sepals, but differs by the sessile or subsessile leaves aggregated or subverticillate on the upper part of the stem, obovate or obovate-lanceolate leaf blades, lanceolate or subulate bracts, smaller outer lateral sepals, funnel-shaped lower sepal with a nearly straight spur and reddish patches, and the lateral united petals clawed. Pollen morphology and leaf epidermal characters also support recognition of I. parvisepala.
23725154|Decomposition activity in the water was estimated from the changes in the concentrations of dissolved oxygen, dissolved inorganic carbon and total organic carbon. Winter decomposition activity correlated better with water temperature than with organic carbon. In winter 1978 the highest value measured for organic carbon was 9.9 mg/l, at the temperature of 2.8 C. A regression equation used to calculate the theoretical amount of organic carbon required to consume all the oxygen in the water gave 14.9 mg/l at 2.8 C and 13.3 mg/l at 4.0 C. However, the results for the following winter (1979) suggested that much lower concentrations could cause oxygen depletion, since anoxic conditions had apparently arisen at the sediment surface near the fish-breeding pool.
23725267|A comparison is made of the main morphological characters of Symphytum floribundum R. J. Shuttlew. ex Buckn., S.  ferrariense C. Massal., S.  hyerense Paw., S. orientale L. and S. officinale L., in order to elucidate the status of the three first-mentioned taxa. The cytology and distribution of the taxa are also briefly discussed. Symphytum floribundum and S.  ferrariense are both more or less intermediate between S. orientale and S. officinale. S  hyerense is intermediate between S. officinale and S. floribundum. Thus these three taxa seem to belong to the same hybrid (swarm) S. officinale  orientale. The correct binary name of the hybrid is S  ferrariense C. Massal. Symphytum floribundum is lectotypified. The name S. mediterraneum Koch, often adopted for S. floribundum, probably belongs to the synonymy of S. tuberosum L.
23725088|Rumex  dolosus Valta (= R. aquaticus L.  confertus Willd.) is described; it has been collected in Finland, in the Karelian ASSR, the Leningrad District and West Siberia. In addition, R.  lingulatus Jungn. (= R. hydrolapathum Huds.  obtusifolius L.) and R.  moedlingensis Rech. (= R. obtusifolius L.  stenophyllus Led.) are reported from Finland.
23726770|A Holocene fire history of dry heath forests of Cladina and EmpetrumVaccinium types in eastern Finland was reconstructed on the basis of charcoal layer data from two small mire basins and fire scars in living and dead pines. In addition, charcoal layers at two sites at the margin of a large mire were surveyed. Charcoal layers are indisputable evidence of in situ fires on the mire and provide a reliable fire record in the forest site adjacent to the studied peat deposits. Natural fire frequency was considerably lower than is usually assumed. The charcoal layer data indicate no more than 43 and 42 fires at the two dry forest sites during the whole Holocene period prior to any significant human influence. In natural conditions after the establishment of spruce (about 6300 cal. BP) Cladina and Empetrum-Vaccinium sites burned at an average interval of 170240 years, which is 38 times longer than the average intervals of 3050 years put forward in fire scar studies covering the past few centuries. At the other site seven charcoal layers could be dated to the time after about AD 1500, when extensive human influence started in the area. The data indicate changes in fire frequency linked with major climatic changes at the transition of the Boreal and Atlantic, and of the Atlantic and Subboreal chronozones (around 9000 and 6300 cal. BP, respectively). The data suggest no increase in natural fires due to the anticipated recent global climatic warming in Fennoscandia.
23726605|Using a synsystematical treatment of 625 relevs following the Braun-Blanquet approach, and correspondence (CANOCO) and cluster (TWINSPAN, GROUPAGE) analyses, 13 communities from 3 classes (Alnetea glutinosae, QuercoFagetea and Vaccinio Piceetea) and 7 associations (Carici elongataeAlnetum, Sphagno squarrosiAlnetum, CircaeoAlnetum, Carici remotaeFraxinetum, Sphagno girgensohniiPiceetum, Vaccinio uliginosiPinetum and Betuletum pubescentis) are distinguished. A brief overview of the community structure, physiognomical, ecological and phytogeographical features is given.
23725066|Analyses were made of the surface water of the mire Fgelmossen, a raised bog in S Finland, slightly polluted by emissions of Cl- from nearby factories. Netrium digitus was collected from a bog pool and its growth studied in pure cultures in original bog pool water and nutrient solution, to which HCl and NaCl were added to form a series of different concentrations. The lowest pH tolerated by N. digitus in the HCl cultures was 3.33.5. Small or moderate additions of the two compounds were found to promote algal growth. At higher concentrations decrease and cessation of cell division and finally death of the cells were observed. Deviations in cell form and size observed during the experiments resembled some varieties and forms described earlier.
23724289|1. Albugo candida (Albuginaceae, Peronosporales, Phycomycetes) is a cosmopolitan parasite of cruciferous species. In Finland and in Russian Karelia it has been found on 19 host species (p. 34), the commonest being Capsella bursapastoris, Erysimum cheiranthoides and Sisymbrium altissimum. The map in Fig. 1 shows the distribution of the white rust in Finland. The parasite has been collected in all the provinces of Finland except LK, KP and InL. 2. The four commonest Finnish hosts fall into two groups on the basis of the morphology of the parasite. On Capsella and S. altissimum the conidia are 16.5  16.8  long and 14.7  15.8  broad; the conidiophores, long in relation to breadth, are ca. 23  long; the sori are large, convex, hard, and often oblong and occur on all the green parts. On E. cheiranthoides and Descurainia sophia the conidia are 14.2  14.3  long and 12.8  13.2  broad; the conidiophores, short in relation to breadth, are ca. 17  long; the sori are small, plain, and almost round and occur only on the leaves. The former hosts seem to offer some advantage to the parasite; attention is drawn to the presence of calcium oxalate in them. 3. In southern Finland the length of the conidia increases from west to east. This is in positive correlation with the increase in precipitation. 4. During the growing season there are considerable variations in the size of the conidia. Measurements on herbarium material suggested that these variations were also correlated with variations in the amount of rain. Mostly both increase towards the autumn. 5. For more exact results, samples from Albugo populations on Capsella in Turku were collected at intervals of five days and the variation in conidial length was compared with the variation in climatic factors. It was found that the conidial length is correlated positively with humidity and negatively with temperature. The direct influence of rain is much more obscure, and was not statistically confirmed. 6. In infection experiments the parasite on Capsella bursa-pastoris was successfully transferred to C. bursa-pastoris, C. rubella, Cochlearia officinalis, Erysimum cheiranthoides, Neslia paniculata and Thlaspi alpestre. 7. From the infection experiments, it is concluded that the parasite on C. bursa-pastoris and on E. cheiranthoides belong to the same biological race, f. sp. capsellae-bursae-pastoris, in spite of the considerable differences in morphological characters. It is pointed out that in parasitic fungi, taxonomic conclusions should not be based on morphological characters alone. 8. Because of the considerable variation in the conidial size caused by climatic factors and appearing as geographical or seasonal variation, it is stressed that measurements of conidial size, in the Phycomycetes at least, should not be based on one or a few samples only, but that the whole range of variation should be studied. 9. Morphological differentiation of the parasite is not necessarily followed by biological specialization.
43922134|Acrylic plastic and Jena glass were compared as bottle materials when phytoplanktonic primary production was measured by the 14 G method in the brownwater lake Pjrvi, southern Finland. Samples were exposed for six consecutive 4-hr periods (short exposures) and for periods ranging through all the multiples of 4 hr to 24 hr (long exposures). In the short exposures, the production values differed little between the acrylic plastic and glass bottles, but the glass bottles gave slightly higher estimates during high radiation. In the long exposures, the average production was 17.9 % higher in the glass than in the acrylic bottles. The summed production of the short exposures in the acrylic and glass bottles was, respectively, 26.3 % and 15.6 % higher than the production of the corresponding long exposures. These differences were highly correlated with the irradiance during the exposure: in all the measuring series, illumination accounted for over 97 % of the variation in productivity. The correlation between production and biomass was negligible.
23725272|A check was made of 344 voucher specimens of mosses of the family Mniaceae listed in 25 papers reporting chromosome number counts. A corrected list is given of the chromosome numbers of the species of Mniaceae. The chromosome number of Plagiomnium rhynchophorum (Hook.) T. Kop. (n = 12) is reported for the first time. The vouchers of some of the oldest counts could not be located and some others are reported to have been destroyed or disappeared. Many of the voucher specimens proved to be misidentified or represented mixed populations. It is proposed that the chromosome number counts which are obviously erroneous due to the cytological methods used should be dropped out of the lists of chromosome numbers. Careful reporting and depositing of the vouchers are the only means of ensuring that possible mistakes can bee corrected later.
23726717|The pollen morphology of 15 species (34 specimens) of the genus Lycopus (Lamiaceae, Mentheae) was studied and documented in detail using light microscopy (LM), scanning electron (SEM), and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). The pollen is mostly medium or sometimes small in size, with a circular amb, oblate to prolate in shape, hexacolpate with granular membranes; the exine is bi-reticulate, with unbranched columellae and a continuous, lamellated endexine. The results indicate that Lycopus is stenopalynous; thus the value of pollen characters for taxonomic applications is limited. Some phylogenetic relationships with other related taxa within the tribe Mentheae are also briefly discussed.
23728158|Maianthemum harae Tseng & Chao, a new species of Asparagaceae from Taiwan, is described and illustrated. This species resembles M. formosanum in the shape and size of flower, but is easily distinguished from the latter by its tuberous rhizome, 912 leaves, lanceolate leaves and longer styles.
23727985|Prometheum chrysanthum (Boiss.) 't Hart subsp. uludaghense Kaynak, Ylmaz & Dakn subsp. nova from northwest Anatolia, Turkey is described and illustrated. It is closest to P. chrysanthum subsp. chrysanthum, but differs by its narrower, oblong-lanceolate, longer cauline leaves, a thyrsoid inflorescence, and larger flowers.
23725454|The genus Gymnocarpium Newman can be divided into two subgenera. The following taxa are accepted within subg. Gymnocarpium: G. dryopteris (L.) Newman subsp. dryopteris (nearly circumboreal), subsp. disjunctum (Rupr.) Sarvela (stat. nov.; from Sakhalin Island and Kamchatka to western North America), G. remote-pinnatum (Hayata) Ching (Taiwan), G. jessoense (Koidz.) Koidz. subsp. jessoense (from Afghanistan to Japan), subsp. parvulum Sarvela (subsp. nov.; nearly circumboreal), G. fedtschenkoanum Pojark. (Tadzhikistan), G. robertianum (Hoffm.) Newman (from eastern North America to Europe and the Caucasus), G.  achriosporum Sarvela (= G. dryopteris  robertianum, hybr. nov.), G.  heterosporum W. H. Wagner (= G. jessoense  robertianum) and G.  intermedium Sarvela (= G. dryopteris  jessoense, hybr. nov.). Subg. Currania (Copel.) Sarvela (stat. nov.) is formed for the single species G. oyamense (Baker) Ching (from Nepal to Japan and New Guinea).
23726549|Cardamine penzesii Anev & Marhold nom. nov. (= C. tuberosa Pnzes & Vida nom. illeg., non DC.), previously known only from the type locality, was discovered at four other localities in the southern part of the Bulgarian Black Sea coast. In addition, it is shown that distribution data for C. pratensis L. var. dentata (Schult.) Wimm. & Grab. from Bulgaria and those for C. uliginosa M. Bieb. from the European Turkey are based entirely on the misidentification of C. penzesii. Three specimens of C. penzesii from the Asian Turkey represent the first records for the C. pratensis group for this area. The unique character of C. penzesii seems to be the presence of globular tubers on the rhizomes. This taxon is also characterised by the white petals and by the appressed hairs on the rachis of leaves arising from adventitive buds and sometimes also on the rachis of leaves of young rosette leaves.
23724299|The object of this study was to explain the vegetation and the flora in some flooded areas and to examine the effect of drainage upon the succession of the vegetation. 1. The research area is situated in Kankaanp village in the commune of Kyli, S.W. Finland. It is about 42 ha in extent. In the spring the flood covers the soil and, because of the hardpan layer in the sand, water sinks into the soil very slowly. Standing water has led to paludification. The greater part of the area was drained in 1949. Then paludification stopped and afforestation began (pp. 67 - 70). 2. The sample plots have been concentrated in places which remain or have remained under the flood in the spring. The vegetation has been studied in quadrats 1 m2 in area (p. 70). 3. A description of the vegetation has been made with tables and maps and photos of the different habitats. The vegetation has been grouped into two broad categories: A. Forests. Most of the forests are of Calluna type In connexion with the forests heathy wet pine peat-moors and fen heaths are also dealt with (pp. 71 - 76). B. Plant communities without a forest layer. These include flooded heaths inundated meadows flooded treeless fens and swamp-like vegetation round pools (pp. 76 - 84). 4. The zonation of the drogs is described on pp. 84 - 85. 5. A list of the plant species and descriptions of their habitats is presented on pp. 85 - 93. 6. Finally there is a section concerning the cultural influence on the flora (pp. 93 - 94). Drainage has given rise to many changes in the flora.
23727262|Buddleja subcapitata E.D. Liu & H. Peng, a new species of the Buddlejaceae from SW Sichuan, China, is described and illustrated. The morphological characteristics of B. subcapitata are compared with those of the related species.
23725881|Altogether 194 species and varieties of mosses and 49 species of hepatics are recorded from the Mt. Chang Bai area in Northeast China. The moss flora of the oroboreal zone is a mixture of widespread circumpolar elements and of East Asiatic species. The most remarkable feature of the bryophyte vegetation is the rich epiphytic flora on coniferous trees. The list includes 15 taxa not previously recorded for China and 16 taxa new to Northeast China. Oxystegus tenuirostris var. stenocarpus (Thr.) Zander is another taxon with a disjunction between Atlantic North America and East Asia. The genus Haplodontium is recorded for the first time for East Asia. Maps of the distribution in China and adjacent areas are presented for Leucodon pendulus Lindb., Plagiomnium ellipticum (Brid.). T. Kop., Trachycystis flagellaris (Sull. & Lesq.) Lindb. and T. ussuriensis (Maack & Regel) T. Kop. A new nomenclatural combination is Didymodon rivicola (Broth.) Zander in Koponen et al. The list includes taxonomic, nomenclatural and phytogeographical notes.
23727871|Ovule morphology, megasporogenesis and megagametogenesis of ten species of Oxalis were examined. The ovule is anatropous, bitegmic and the integuments form a zig-zag micropyle. The type of female gametophyte development is variable in the studied species. The majority of them have a monosporic Polygonum-type female gametophyte. Two of the studied species show binucleate dyad members, so they have a bisporic Allium-type female gametophyte. Only O. articulata follows tetrasporic Adoxa-type development of the megagametophyte. This is the first report of a tetrasporic female gametophyte in Oxalidaceae. The endosperm is nuclear, and development of the embryo corresponds to the Solanad type.
23725033|The following documented chromosome counts are presented: Leontodon autumnalis L. 2n = 12, L. crispus Vill. 2n = 8, L. helveticus Mrat em. Widder 2n = 12, L. hispidus L. 2n = 14, L. incanus (L.) Schrank 2n = 8, L. montanus Lam. 2n = 12, L. saxatilis Lam. ssp. hispidus (Roth) Holub et Moravec 2n = 8, L. saxatilis Lam. ssp. taraxacoides (Vill.) Holub et Moravec 2n = 8, L. tuberosus L. 2n = 8, L. ambiguus Fleischer (= L. autumnalis  hispidus) 2n = 14. The idiograms of L. crispus, L. helveticus, L. incanus, L. montanus and L. tuberosus are presented for the first time. Pollination experiments with L. autumnalis, L. crispus, L. hispidus, L. saxatile and L. tuberosus showed that self-incompatibility prevails in these species. Cross-compatibility was found in most combinations within populations and between populations belonging to different taxa of L. hispidus (including L. danubialis Jacq.). No signs of apomixis were observed. The phylogenetic trends in the karyotypes agreed with those of the tribe Cichoriae in general.
23727757|We compared the diversity and composition of understorey vegetation of four successional stages (recently clearcut, young, middle-aged and old stands) in an Estonian boreonemoral coniferous forest under homogeneous soil conditions. The ordination analysis (NMDS) showed that successional age was the main driver of understorey species composition with soil pH and P content responsible for some variation as well. Species composition in old-growth stands was more similar to the vegetation of young and clear-cut stands than to the composition of mid-aged stands. Species richness in 1-m2 plots was higher in recently disturbed and young stands due to the higher abundance of disturbance-related species. The differentiation diversity, characterising species turnover among plots within a stand, was higher in recently disturbed and young stands than in mid-aged and old stands. The results indicate that earlier successional stages are characterised by spatially heterogeneous and diverse vegetation, whereas older stands develop more homogeneous vegetation composition.
23726463|A study of inter-population variation in vegetative morphology of Fucus vesiculosus L. populations from SW Finland has been carried out and the variation is described and quantified. The taxonomic status of an unusual population from Virolahti the eastern part of Gulf of Finland has also been assessed. Five populations of Fucus vesiculosus were sampled at peak fertility time from shores of different wave exposure. Nine vegetative characters were measured and analysed using principle component analysis and stepwise discriminant analysis. The plant width, distance between dichotomies, plant length, midrib and stipe width were the five most important distinguishing characters. The plants were classified with accuracy of 70% into the correct population. The morphology of Fucus vesiculosus appears to vary within a small scale due to the local factor, exposure; shorter plants with narrow fronds are found on exposed shores and plants from more exposed shores lack bladders. Reduced salinity level could partly explain the existence the dwarf morph of Fucus from eastern part of Gulf of Finland. However, it would be difficult to justify taxonomic recognition of any of these populations on morphology.
23727162|I studied factors influencing the distribution of Cladium mariscus in Latvia. Selected climate parameters, such as the mean temperature of the coldest month of the year, the mean temperature of the warmest month of the year, and the frost-free period were compared among 45 nature regions with and without C. mariscus. The study confirmed earlier findings that mainly low winter temperatures limit the distribution of C. mariscus in the northeast. However, besides low winter temperatures, also the duration of the frost-free period, historical distribution, and local factors, such as habitat availability and long-term persistence of suitable habitats influenced the distribution of C. mariscus in Latvia. Favourable climate conditions and good availability of optimal habitats for C. mariscus determined the high concentration of its occurrences in coastal regions of Latvia.
23727864|The morphology of the Italian-Balkanic populations of the Centaurea rupestris group was studied in order to clarify the taxonomy. The names C. ceratophylla, C. arachnoidea, C. adonidifolia, C. dichroantha, C. rupestris var. inermis are lectotypified. The taxonomic status of C. adonidifolia was re-evaluated and a new combination is suggested: C. arachnoidea subsp. adonidifolia (Rchb.) F. Conti, Moraldo & Ricceri, comb. & stat. nov. The new taxa here described include C. ceratophylla subsp. danielae F. Conti, Moraldo & Ricceri, subsp. nova and C. arachnoidea subsp. montis-ferrati Ricceri, Moraldo & F. Conti, subsp. nova.
23728213|A new species Dillenia tetrapetala Joongku Lee, T.B. Tran & R.K. Choudhary (Dilleniaceae) is described from HonBa Nature Reserve of the Khanh Hoa province of Vietnam. Detailed illustrations and taxonomic comments are provided along with a table listing the differential characters to the closely similar taxa. Phylogenetic analyses using nrITS region of ribosomal DNA and psbAtrnH intergenic spacer region of chloroplast DNA sequences were also performed and they supported the status of D. tetrapetala as a distinct species. The plant is considered endangered based on the IUCN red list criteria because of its restricted distribution.
23728130|Systematic affinities and taxonomical rank of Asteropyrum in the Ranunculaceae have been controversial. It has been placed in Coptidoideae, Thalictroideae, Ranunculoideae (incl. Helleboroideae), or sometimes in its own tribe or subtribe. Recent molecular phylogenetic studies, however, supported the inclusion of Asteropyrum in its own tribe Asteropyreae (Ranunuculoideae) but its affinities remain unclear. In order to help resolve such an uncertainty, we used scanning electron microscopy to study the floral development of A. peltatum ssp. cavaleriei. Our results indicated that the petal, carpel and ovule development in Asteropyrum markedly differs from that in Coptis (Coptidoideae) and Dichocarpum (Thalictroideae), whereas the inclusion of Asteropyrum in Ranunculoideae is supported by several floral morphological and developmental characters. Together with vegetative, anatomical, and cytological data from earlier comparative studies, our study indicates that the monotypic tribe Asteropyreae should be maintained.
23728007|Gypsophila torulensis M. Ko sp. nova (Caryophyllaceae) is described from the Torul district (Gmhane Province) in Turkey. The specimen was collected from calcareous rocks, at an altitude of 1100 m a.s.l. The new species resembles G. muralis; the differences between these two taxa are given in a table. Diagnostic characters, a full description, and a detailed figure of G. torulensis are provided in the article.
23725448|One-dimensional thin-layer chromatography was used to separate compounds from tops of young Hippopha seedlings. The material consisted of 37 progenies, one of these representing H. salicifolia and 36 representing 32 populations of H. rhamnoides. At least 10 seedlings were analysed in each progeny. Similarity coefficients were used to compare pairs of progenies. The chromatographic pattern of H. salicifolia was quite distinct from that of H. rhamnoides. Of the seven subspecies of the latter included in this study, ssp. rhamnoides was the most distinct. On the basis of chromatographic similarity, the 16 populations of this subspecies could be divided into 4 groups with a characteristic geographic pattern. Ssp. rhamnoides and ssp. fluviatilis were chemically relatively uniform, whereas the Asiatic subspecies showed practically no correspondence between the chemical variation and the subspecific boundaries. A rough comparison of the intra-population variation was also attempted.
23728014|Aphyllorchis rotundatipetala C.S. Leou, S.K. Yu & C.T. Lee, a new species of Orchidaceae discovered in Taiwan, is described and illustrated. It is related to A. montana and A. simplex. The distinguishing characters of A. rotundatipetala are peloric and yellow flowers, obtuse apex of petals and lip, pinnate veins at the lip's top, and entire apex of the rostellum.
23727790|Carex arisanensis Hayata subsp. ruianensis Hong Wang, C. Song & X.F. Jin, subsp. nova (Cyperaceae) is described from Zhejiang, China, and illustrated. It differs from subsp. arisanensis in its 1218 mm broad leaves, non-sheathing bracts, and three spikes, with the lowest without a peduncle. The geographic distribution of C. arisanensis subsp. arisanensis and subsp. ruianensis is presented on a map.
23726435|In all the three Chara species, C. aspera Deth ex Willd., C. hispida L. s. lat. and C. tomentosa L., the chromosomes in the antheridial filaments were observed to have a localized centromere. No morphologically detectable sex chromosomes were seen. The chromosome number was always n=14 in C. tomentosa and mostly n=14 in C. aspera (on two occasions (n=21). C. hispida s. lat. had several chromosome numbers (28, 35, 42, 49, 56), the series showing evident euploidy. The phylogenetic relationships of Chara species are discussed.
23727255|The somatic chromosome numbers of Orchidantha maxillarioides, O. insularis, O. chinensis var. chinensis, and O. chinensis var. longisepala were counted, of which O. insularis and both varieties of O. chinensis are reported for the first time. The chromosome numbers of O. maxillarioides and O. insularis are 2n = 18, apparently diploid, while that of O. chinensis is 2n = 54, and therefore hexaploid (x = 9). We discuss the biogeographic and systematic implications of the different chromosome numbers and ploidy in Orchidantha.
23726534|To explain the coexistence of plant species in a mixed deciduous broad-leaved forest in Abruzzo, Italy, a number of leaf traits were analyzed, and the shade tolerance was investigated. Bud break started at the end of April and the rapid leaf growth during the first stages was attested by the highest relative growth rates. The leaf area index (LAI) increased from 0.7 at the beginning of the leaf growth to 2.6 at full lamina expansion. Most of the species of the dominated layer were shade-tolerant and most of the species of the dominant and co-dominant layers were shade-intolerant. There was a fairly well defined specific leaf area (SLA) range between the shade-tolerant (271.1 cm2 g-1) and shade-intolerant species (159.2 cm2 g-1). The SLA, the chlorophyll content (Chl) and the leaf water content showed the same trend from the top to the bottom of the forest canopy. The chlorophyll a/b ratio ranged from 2.78 (dominant + co-dominant layers) to 2.95 (dominated layer). Laburnum anagyroides Medicus, one of the most shade-tolerant species (305.1 cm2 g-1 SLA), showed the highest total chlorophyll content (2.69 mg g-1) and Quercus cerris L., one of the most shade-intolerant (148.2 cm2 g-1 SLA), the lowest (0.70 mg g-1).
23725247|Symphytum sepulcrale Boiss. & Bal. differs from S. asperum Lepechin in many morphological characters and the two taxa seem to be allopatric. S. sepulcrale is regarded as a distinct species endemic to Turkey. A local variant of S. sepulcrale with longer and softer indumentum and some long-petiolate cauline leaves is described as var. hordokopii Kurtto, var. nova. S. longipetiolatum Wickens is reduced to synonymy with S. sepulcrale. S. sylvaticum Boiss. is included in S. sepulcrale as subsp. sylvaticum (Boiss.) Kurtto, comb. et stat. nov. Symphytum armeniacum Buckn. differs slightly from S. asperum in the indumentum, leaf shape and floral characters. It seems, however, to deserve only infraspecific rank and is treated as S. asperum var. armeniacum (Buckn.) Kurtto, comb. et stat. nov. Symphytum savvalense Kurtto, spec. nova, is described from NE Turkey. It is in many respects intermediate between S. asperum and S. sepulcrale. Symphytum armeniacum, S. sepulcrale and S. sylvaticum are lectotypified.
23725304|Eight species of higher aquatic plants, and seston (>25 m) and zooplankton (>100 m) were collected from 16 sampling sites in the eutrophicated estuary of the River Kokemenjoki and analysed for mercury by cold vapour atomic absorption spectrometry. The mean Hg concentration in the aquatic plants was 0.43 ppm of dry weight, in the seston 0.71 ppm and in the zooplankton 1.19 ppm. Among the aquatic plants, the highest Hg values were recorded in small bottom-rooted submerged Eleocharis acicularis (0.77 ppm) and Elatine spp. (0.80). The lowest Hg concentrations were found in the floating leaves of Nuphar lutea (0.04 ppm). The Hg concentrations of aquatic plants in the estuary were 5  20 times as high as those reported from unpolluted watercourses in Finland. The Hg contents of the seston and zooplankton were 5  20 times as high as the natural background levels. No clear differences in the Hg concentrations could be noted between different parts of the estuary. Most of the aquatic plants seemed to take up the main part of the Hg in their shoots from the water. Submerged aquatic plants, seston and zooplankton appeared to be valuable indicators of mercury contamination in the delta area. The dredging operations planned for this area could harm the biota by releasing more Hg from the sediments to the overlying water and thus increasing the amounts circulating in the food webs.
23726738|Three new species, i.e. Hieracium cirrobractum T. Tyler, H. helenae T. Tyler and H. praviforme T. Tyler, are described from southern Sweden and two new combinations, i.e. Hieracium limitianeum (Johanss.) T. Tyler and Hieracium oletatum (Johanss. & Sam.) T. Tyler are made.
23725406|A key is provided to the seven species of Rhododendron L. subg. Rhododendron sect. Rhododendron subsect. Ledum (L.) Kron & Judd (genus Ledum L.). Some characters are mentioned that are useful in separating species but have been used insufficiently. The recent union of Ledum with Rhododendron is briefly discussed. The author citation of R. tomentosum Harmaja is corrected.
23728222|Bunium allioides B. Bani, Pimenov & Adgzel sp. nova (Apiaceae), is described and illustrated from southern (Mediterranean) Turkey. The taxonomic affinities of the new species were determined by analysing morphological data and a molecular phylogenetic study of nrDNA ITS sequences. Bunium allioides belongs to the section Elegantia, and is related to B. paucifolium and B. elegans.
23727839|Chirita auriculata J.M. Li & S.X. Zhu sp. nova (Gesneriaceae) is described from Yunnan, China, and illustrated. We investigated its phylogenetic relationships within the Chirita-Chiritopsis group using separate and combined data from the nuclear ribosomal Internal Transcribed Spacer (ITS) and the chloroplast trnL-F sequence for twenty-three species in different sections of Chirita and Chiritopsis. Chirita auriculata belongs to section Chirita. This is an unexpected phylogenetic position because the new species has a calyx divided almost to the base, ovoid ovaries shorter than the styles, small plant bodies, and small flowers, characters that typically define Chiritopsis. Its position close to C. pumila is supported by its annual stems and membranous leaves.
23725554|A comparison is made of the main morphological characters of Symphytum ottomanum Friv., S. pseudobulbosum Aznavour and S. orientale L., in order to elucidate their ranges of variation and the taxonomical status of S. pseudobulbosum. The pollen morphology, cytology, distribution and ecology of the species are also discussed. In many characters S. pseudobulbosum is intermediate between S. ottomanum and S. orientale, but in some others it is much closer to one or other of the species. It seems to be a stabilized hybrid derivative of S. ottomanum and S. orientale. The distribution area of S. pseudobulbosum is situated between the main areas of the putative parents, and includes Turkey-in-Europe. The three species are lectotypified and their affinities with other species of the genus are briefly discussed.
23725496|Four species were recognized by Marklund in 1940. Ranunculus altior Marklund is here given subspecific status, as R. fallax subsp. altior (Marklund) Kvist & Jalas. R. auricomus sensu Marklund and R. fallax sensu Marklund were later described as R. auricomus subsp. acutiusculus Marklund and R. fallax subsp. mendax Marklund, respectively. R. obtusulus Marklund has proved identical with R. auricomus L. subsp. auricomus, as lectotypified by Kvist. Lectotypes are here selected for Ranunculus altior Marklund and R. obtusulus Marklund.
23727606|Viburnum carnosulum var. impressinervium and V. formosanum var. pubigerum, described from China, were not validly published because two type specimens (one fruiting, one flowering) were designated for each of them in the original publication. To enable formal use, the two names are validly published here, the former as V. chingii var. impressinervium.
23725887|The inland sand dunes in North Karelia formed before 3 000 BC. They are now chiefly covered by dry moss- or lichen-rich forests of Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris). The relevs and species are clustered by a minimum variance method, and a relocation process is used for the relevs, to optimize the classification at a given class number. For species clustering, a two-step algorithm is used, where a symmetric distance matrix is derived from an asymmetric similarity matrix. Principal component analysis and correspondence analysis are used for ordination. On the south slopes the ground layer is usually do minated lichen-rich communities (mainly Cladina spp.), while on the north slopes moss-rich communities (mainly with Pleurozium schreberi) predominate. The south slopes are richer in species and fairly permanent dune meadows sometimes occur there. In the vegetation succession fairly species-rich communities are replaced by forest that is poorer in species. The seven noda described do not completely correspond with the Finnish forest site types. In part this is due to the successional status of the dune vegetation, in part to the unidimensionality of the site type system, which does not take into account variation due to aspect or slope.
23728245|A new combination Pseudosasa nanningensis (Q.H. Dai) D.Z. Li & Y.X. Zhang is made, based on new collections with inflorescences from Guangxi, China. Additions are also made to the description of Indosasa hispida McClure, which is included in the key to species of Indosasa from the bamboo account of the Flora of China, following more comprehensive collections.
23725210|Lectotypes are selected and syntypes listed for Mnium cuspidatum Hedw. [Plagiomnium cuspidatum (Hedw.) T. Kop.], M. hornum Hedw., M. punctatum Hedw. [Rhizomnium punctatum (Hedw.) T. Kop.], M. stellare Hedw., and M. undulatum Hedw. [Plagiomnium undulatum (Hedw.) T. Kop.]. Johann Hedwig's species should not automatically be typified by selecting a specimen in the HedwigSchwaegrichen herbarium, but the other typifications allowed by the Code of Botanical Nomenclature should also be carefully studied for each case. The recent typifications of Hypnum cuspidatum Hedw. and Cynodontium trifarium Hedw. do not accord with the Code and are not acceptable.
23725063|The freshwater reservoir of Uusikaupunki on the SW coast of Finland is very acidotrophic owing to the inflow of water rich in sulphates leached from gyttja clay deposits in the catchment area. Owing to the absence of bicarbonates and the imbalance in the ionic composition of the water, species that are primarily elodeids are absent, but there are rich occurrences of submerged growth forms of the phenotypically plastic hydrophytes Funcus bulbosus L., Hippuris vulgaris L., Sagittaria sagittifolia L., Sparganium emersum Rehm., S. minimum Wallr., Schoenoplectus lacustris (L.) Palla and Callitriche palustris L. emend. Schotsman. Their survival is due to their ability to use the rich biogenic production of free CO2 as a source of photosynthetic carbon. In some recently eutrophicated bays with rich nympheid and helophyte vegetation, these submerged forms are replaced by Myriophyllum verticillatum L. and Utricularia species tolerant of heavy overshadowing and detritus-rich water.
23725246|Nine representatives of the order Chamaesiphonales (Nostocophyceae = Cyanophyceae) growing epiphytically on filamentous algae and higher aquatic plants are described from the Svartn - Pojoviken - Tvrminne area, viz. Chamaesiphon amethystinus, C. incrustans var. incrustans, var. angustus and var. elongatus, C. longus sp. nov., C. subglobosus, Clastidium setigerum, Cyanocystis swirenkoi comb. nov. (bas. Dermocarpa swirenkoi, syn. Dermocarpa clavata Geitler), and Geitleribactron periphyticum. All records are new for Finland. In addition, Cyanocystis clavata is proposed as a new combination for Chamaesiphon clavatus Setchell & Gardner, and Chamaesiphon Jaoi as a new name for C. clavatus Jao. The distribution of the different taxa in the study area (salinity 07 ), and the taxonomical value of some morphological characters are briefly considered.
43922196|Neckera undulatifolia (Tix.) Enroth, previously thought endemic to North Vietnam, has recently been found in Guizhou Province, SW China. Taxiphyllum subarcuatum (Broth.) Iwats. and Calyptothecium phyllogonioides Nog. & X.-J. Li are new records to Hainan Island. The sporophytes of the latter species are described and illustrated for the first time.
23727815|Rhodobryum giganteum is a rare Chinese traditional medicinal moss species and has special therapy value in heart diseases. In the present study, we successfully induced gametophores and protonemata of R. giganteum in vitro from its new shoots, which were disinfected with 0.1% HgCl2 for eight minutes. We also tested the factors influencing the growth of its protonemata and found that: (1) modified Knop medium is able to facilitate the elongation of the protonemata in vitro and prolong their growth time in vitro, whereas MS medium is able to facilitate the branching of the protonemata, and the protonemata grew slowly in modified White medium, accompanied by the development of gametophores; (2) cutting of the protonemata increases protonemal proliferation in vitro; (3) 2,4-D facilitates the induction of protonemata from leaves at 0.5 mg l-1, but inhibits the induction and quickens the aging process of the protonemata at 2.0 mg l-1.
23725006|The Caucasian material of Thymus subsect. Pseudomarginati (H. Braun ex Borbs) Jalas, earlier referred to three separate species (Thymus caucasicus Willd. ex Ronn., T. desjatovae Ronn., T. grossheimii Ronn.), has been treated as representing one species, T. caucasicus, with subsp. caucasicus and subsp. grossheimii (Ronn.) Jalas, comb. et stat. nov. It is closely related to the European T. praecox Opiz. In the Himalayan area, from Afghanistan to Nepal, the subsection (and the whole genus) is represented by T. linearis Bentham, with subsp. linearis (incl. T. afghanicus Ronn., T. himalayicus Ronn. and T. pseudalbanus Ronn.) and subsp. hedgei Jalas, subsp. nova. The pattern of geographical and vertical (zonal) distribution is documented and discussed. Full synonymies and typifications are given for the taxa treated, including T. buschianus Klokov & Desj.-Schost. (based on a deformed specimen of T. nummularius Bieb.; subsect. Alternantes) and T. coriifolius (subsect. Isolepides).
23725280|Copper, Fe, Mn, Pb, Zn and ash content were determined in the lichen species Cladonia arbuscula and C. mitis from 23 sites throughout Finland and northern Norway. Lead, Fe, Zn, ash and Cu (ranked according to the steepness of the gradient) showed a significant decrease from south to north. This regional pattern is similar to that obtained previously with forest and bog mosses. Vertical fractionation of the lichen carpet revealed an increase in Fe, ash, Pb and Cu toward the basal part of the podetia, while Mn and Zn did not change significantly.
23724618|The distribution of the fjeld flora has been studied in Finnish East Lapland. The material available from Soviet Lapland has also been taken into account. This floristic element comprises 85 species. The fjeld flora in Finnish East Lapland can be divided into four groups. In three of these, the distribution is centred in the north and/or in the south-east of the study area. The species of the fourth group occur in the middle of the area, too. The distinction between the fourth group and the northern-southern group is not sharp. There are many reasons for the presence of these groups. In the northern group, the distribution is centred in and around the fairly high mountain chain Raututunturit  Saariselk. Contrastingly, there are very few fjelds in the main area of the southern distribution group, and the majority of the occurrences of the fjeld species are situated in the conifer belt. An examination of the distribution of the other habitat types shows that the kuru gorges occur in the zone of Raututunturit  the Finnish frontier  southern Salla. The outcrops of ultrabasic rocks are fairly evenly distributed throughout the area, though lacking in the district of Raututunturit  Saariselk. The distribution of the river-bank habitats is also moderately uniform. However, floristically, the Ivalojoki and the Kitinen are clearly richer than the other rivers. Climatic conditions have a very decisive influence on distribution, especially as regards the species belonging to the northern flora group. The limits of the ranges of some species seem to coincide with the approximate maximum summer isotherms presented by E. Dahl (1951). However, the occurrence of many fjeld plants depends on the moisture status of the soil. The water supplies of the large mountain massifs (Raututunturit, Saariselk, the mountain district of Nuortijrvi) create habitats with a suitable microclimate. Conversely, the alpine outliers in Central Lapland, which collect very little precipitation and are covered with rakka boulder fields, can maintain only a poor fjeld heath flora. In the border zone between Perpohjola and Forest Lapland, a sharp southern limit can be noted for the abundant occurrence of the following species: Equisetum variegatum, Tofieldia pusilla, Juncus trifidus, J. triglumis, J. biglumis, Luzula spicata, Carex Bigelowii, C. adelostoma, C. capillaris, Potentilla Crantzii, Bartsia alpina and Saussurea alpina. This is due to the fact that frost and percolation phenomena become more pronounced north of this boundary. The importance of frost action can be seen at the western foot of Raututunturit, in the tract of Laanila, where calciphilous species occur on bare frost grounds. In eastern Saariselk, such species are less abundant, but some which have an oceanic general distribution are found in the conifer belt. As regards the flora group which is concentrated in southern Salla, the distribution of these species must primarily be attributed to historical factors, since it cannot be wholly explained by reference to present environmental conditions. These fjeld species are evidently descended from immigrants from Central Kola. At the end of the last Ice Age, the ice-front retreated comparatively early from the area of southern Salla, and colonization would be possible during climatically suitable periods. These plants, which are very intolerant of competition, have been able to persist in this area thanks to the basic bedrock and the rugged topography. The fjeld species which benefit by frost phenomena occur more sparsely in western than in eastern Lapland. Climatic factors are primarily responsible for this difference.
23727821|Mastixia microcarpa Y.C. Liu & H. Peng, a new species in the Mastixiaceae from Mt. Yulong Yunnan, SW China, is described and illustrated. It resembles M. pentandra, and is known only from Mt. Yulong.
23727160|250 specimens of polypores were collected in the Jiuzhaigou and Huanglong nature reserves, and the Qingcheng and Ermei Mountains in Sichuan Province of southwestern China in October 2002. Of the 132 poroid species identified, 92 are here reported for the first time from Sichuan, and 14 are new to China. Two new species, Megasporoporia rhododendri Y.C. Dai & Y.L. Wei and Oxyporus macroporus Y.C. Dai & Y.L. Wei are described and illustrated. The first-mentioned species is characterized by resupinate or rarely effused-reflexed basidiocarps with pale greyish cream pore surface, large and ellipsoid basidiospores, and by its living exclusively on Rhododendron. Oxyporus macroporus is distinguished from the other species in the genus by its extensive basidiocarps, perennial habit, large pores, and by its occurrence on coniferous hosts. A new combination, Haploporus nepalensis (T. Hattori) Y.C. Dai is proposed. A checklist of Sichuan polypores, including their substrates and collecting data, is provided, based on our own materials. The major component of the northern Sichuan polypore flora are widely distributed circumpolar, temperate and boreal species, found at higher elevations in the two nature reserves. Some East Asian and subtropical polypore species occur at lower elevations in the Qingcheng and Ermei Mountains of central and southwestern Sichuan.
23725318|Seven new species of Taraxacum (Asteraceae) are described: T. edessicum Sonck, sp. nov., T. egnatiae Sonck, sp. nov., T. nanulum Sonck, sp. nov., T. radinum Sonck, sp. nov., T. salonikiense Sonck, sp. nov., belonging to the section Erythrosperma Lindb. fil., and T. molybdocephalum Sonck, sp. nov. and T. protervum Sonck, sp. nov., belonging probably to the section Erythrocarpa H.-M.
23724170|The paper deals with the pollen morphology of four European subspecies of Sedum telephium L., viz. ssp. maximum (L.) Roy & Camus, ssp. ruprechtii Jalas, ssp. telephium (= ssp. purpurascens (K. Koch) Areschoug), and ssp. fa-baria (K. Koch) Schinz & Keller. The grains were all observed to belong to the same pollen type. The differences in size, aperture systems, and exine relief seem to be only variations between individual specimens. Thus, these results do not support the claim made by Radulescu (1962) that there are some distinguishable features between the subspecies in pollen morphology. In microphotography as well as in detailed study the interference-contrast optical technique introduced by G. Nomarski has been found to intensify contrasts in exine decisively, and especially to visualize the fine tectal relief. It also aids in differentiations, especially in making it possible to distinguish the minute tectal elements from the LO-patterns caused by bacules in the thin exines.
23725342|In September 1988 a survey was made of pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) stands which had been subjected to a radionuclide discharge in April 1986 in the disaster area of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. For the first time abnormal one-member brachyblasts with cylindrical needles were found, most often in the stands where nearly all young shoots and buds had died in 1986. The next year, the shoots had auxiblasts measuring about 5 cm as against the normal ca. 24 cm. The length of the needles was about 120 mm (maximum 260 mm), in contrast to the normal length of about 70 mm. The overdevelopment of needles and the increase in the number of shoots growing in bunches were interpreted as manifestations of the redistribution of reserve nutritive substances and changes in the natural hormonal balance connected with the loss of a considerable number of shoot apical meristems, adventive and dormant buds. This also explained the delay of 23 years in the shedding of needles in comparison with the control samples.
23726119|A description is given of the vegetation, its growth, ecology and organic matter content in a spruce forest (Picea abies (L.) Karst) of the Hylocomium  Myrtillus type in Northern Finland (6622N). A plot of 30  30 m was set aside for the description of the vegetation. The same area was used for the phytomass determinations, which were done by the harvesting method. The amount of litter was studied using small litter traps and also by extracting it from raw humus samples. Temperature measurements were obtained from a number of layers in the forest. Throughfall and free rainfall was measured using a small rain gauge. The forest possesses a well-developed ground-layer vegetation consisting chiefly of dwarf shrubs and mosses. The major aerial biomasses among the dwarf shrubs were contributed by Vaccinium myrtillus (1.2 tonnes/ha) and V. vitis idaea (1.3 tonnes/ha), while Deschampsia flexuosa attained the highest value (0.06 tonnes/ha) among the grasses and herbs. Hylocomium splendens (0.9 tonnes/ha) and Pleurozium schreberi (0.9 tonnes/ha) were virtually of equal importance among the mosses. The calculated total phytomass of the forest was 139 tonnes/ha, of which 74 % was aerial phytomass and 26 % underground phytomass. The tree layer accounted for 5 % of the aerial phytomass and the ground-layer vegetation 6 %. The root systems comprised 20 % of the total tree biomass, and the roots and rhizomes of the ground-layer vegetation 70 % of its total biomass. The greatest part of the root material is contained in the humus layer (18 tonnes/ha). The mineral soil also proved to contain organic matter, the ignition loss for the eluvial and illuvial horizons together pointing to a figure of 209 tonnes/ha. The present determinations of growth and organic matter provide a basis for research into the nutrient cycle in the same forest, the results of which will be published later.
23726622|Secondary growth in the stem of Pupalia lappacea (L.) Juss. (Amaranthaceae) resulted in the development of successive rings of cambium. The cambium was storied, consisting only of fusiform cambial cells. Cessation of cell division in each cambial ring was followed by development of a new cambium from the outermost phloem parenchyma produced by the preceding cambium. Absence of ray cambial cells resulted in development of rayless secondary xylem and phloem. Development of conducting elements of xylem and phloem was restricted to the fascicular sector of cambial ring. Interfascicular sector of cambium gave rise to xylem fibres centripetally and axial parenchyma centrifugally. Xylem fibres retained their nucleus even after lignification of cell walls. Raylessness of the stem and possible significance of nucleated fibres are discussed.
23727731|Helichrysum yurterianum Y. Gemici, Kit Tan, H. Yldrm & M. Gemici (Asteraceae, Inuleae) is described and illustrated. It is a serpentine endemic restricted to the province of Erzincan in NE Anatolia, Turkey. Its affinities are with H. arenarium and H. noeanum, which both have a wider distribution. Anatomical and ecophysiological data for the new taxon are provided.
43922330|In pollen diagrams from  peat bog in Sksmki, S Finland (6110' N; 242' E), the following stages were distinguished in the cultivation history: I. The period of the first burn-beating clearances in the Late Bronze Age (1000 B.C.550 B.C.) II. A period of low human activity (550 B.C.A.D. 240). III. A period of regular burn-beating cultivation in the Early Iron Age (A.D. 240750) IV. An expansion of crop cultivation by the burn-beating method from the Late Iron Age onwards (A.D. 10001300). The first appearances of Cerealia were dated with C to 2770  100 B.P. and those of rye to 1710  50 B.P. The expansion of cultivation by burn-beating is revealed by pollen spectra similar to those in the Danish "landnam" phases. The successions of forest elements, cereals, weeds and pasture plants around 1000 A.D. and 1300 A.D. correspond with the archaeologically known developments. The pollen of the sediments from historical times (last 1000 years) provides clear evidence of an increase in the intensity of farming, but it is difficult to determine what methods were employed; e.g., the ratio of arable fields to burn-beaten land remains uncertain.
23726868|The bioclimates, ombrotypes, thermotypes, bioclimatic belts, climatophilous vegetation seres and potential natural vegetation of Gran Canaria were established and mapped. Due to salic substrates in the SW of the island, the potential natural vegetation map shows significant differences from the climatophilous seres map. Phytosociological tables of the terminal communities of each climatophilous sere are shown. The new association Pistacio lentisciOleetum cerasiformis is described.
23726600|Pycnolejeunea surinamensis Steph. is transferred to Cheilolejeunea (Spruce) Schiffn. as C. surinamensis (Steph.) He; Rectolejeunea maxonii Evans is transferred to Lejeunea Libert as L. maxonii (Evans) He, and Pycnolejeunea miradorensis Steph. is synonymized with Lejeunea maxonii; Pycnolejeunea flagellifera S. Arnell is synonymized with Rectolejeunea berteroana (Gott.) Evans; and the status of Lejeunea novoguineensis Schiffn. and the genus Rectolejeunea Evans are reviewed. Complete descriptions and illustrations are provided.
23726043|The composition and photosynthetic activity of floating algal communities from the pelagial and littoral zones in Pappilanlahti bay, Lake Pjrvi, were studied in the ice-free season of 1976. Little difference was found between the pelagial zone and the open water of the littoral zone; flagellated cryptophytes dominated in June and July, but blue greens in August. The pseudoplankton community, which developed within the macrophyte (Equisetum) stand had higher biomass and chlorophyll a values than the open water areas, diatoms dominating in July, but chlorophytes and diatoms in August. This high biomass in the pseudoplankton community caused production to be 4  higher than in other communities, but the specific activity was lower. It seems advisable to consider pseudoplankton as a distinct community in the energy budget of Pjrvi; this would be preferable in all lakes with extensive macrophyte development in the littoral zone.
23726482|The richness of vascular plant species in four grazed and five ungrazed shore meadow communities was studied on the west coast of Finland, near the town of Pori (6130 6133N, 21282141E). In the transects established, plant species were studied in 412 1-m2 plots and in the adjacent areas. The flora included a total of 183 vascular plant species representing 108 genera. The shore plant communities were dominated by perennial monocot species, although the number of dicot species was higher. The vascular plant species richness (11.54.7) in 1-m2 sample plots was significantly higher at the seashore than in the delta of the river Kokemenjoki. A model is constructed of the factors that affect species richness in seashore meadows. Species richness increased significantly with increasing distance from the waterline, and more importantly (R2 = 0.26) with elevation above the mean sea level. The linear increase in species richness continues up to a certain elevation, the latter being dependent on the amplitude of water level fluctuation. Species richness decreased significantly with an increase in biomass or height of vegetation. These variables are negatively correlated with elevation and have only secondary importance for species richness. In the delta area no significant results were obtained for species richness in general. The vascular plant species richness was higher in grazed plots than in ungrazed ones in the delta, but in the transects most exposed by the sea the opposite was true. The influence of grazing on the species richness seemed to be scale-dependent.
23727728|A new species of Gesneriaceae, Chirita longicalyx J.M. Li & Y.Z. Wang, is described from Guilin, Guangxi province, China. It resembles C. depressawith its short peduncles, but is easily distinguished from the latter by its toothed calyx and densely bearded anthers. It is also morphologically similar to C. fimbrisepala, but differs from it in having longer lanceolate-line-bracts and shorter peduncles with flowers hidden by rosette leaves.
23726942|Three new species of Scapania (Dumort.) Dumort., S. davidii Potemkin, S. sinikkae Potemkin, and S. schljakovii Potemkin are described from collections of Dr. David G. Long (Edinburgh, Scotland) from India and China. The species are illustrated in line drawings. Their infrageneric position and diagnostic characters are discussed.
23725315|Radiocarbon-dated pollen analysis of a forest humus profile in a depression (<0.02 ha) provided the basis for a detailed reconstruction of the local vegetation succession in a prehistoric settlement and cemetery area in Ketohaka, Salo, SW Finland. The results were compared with those from a peat bog profile at Santamki, 3.5 km away. The profile covered the past 3 500 years. The pioneer vegetation apparently resembled the species growing in modern coastal habitats. The pre-settlement Tilia  Corylus  Betula pollen assemblage was local in type, and included high representation of fern spores, mainly Pteridium. In contrast, the corresponding level at Santamki showed dominance of Pinus, Betula and Picea. Several phases are explainable only by clearance and agriculture. The first occurrence of human interference was dated to around 13001200 B.C. Clearance, starting in 400300 B.C., finally changed the local forest vegetation and resulted in the decline and disappearance of the lime forest. Cultivation of rye and cattle grazing were most intensive from around A.D. 100 to A.D. 700800. Difficulties were encountered in determining the beginning of animal husbandry. Reinvasion by Picea and Pinus is evident in the pollen diagram in the 1819th centuries.
23728210|Altogether 137 species of polypores were identified, based on specimens collected from the Guangxi Autonomous Region, southern China. A checklist of the polypores with collection data is supplied. Three new species, Junghuhnia flabellata H.S. Yuan & Y.C. Dai, Rigidoporus fibulatus H.S. Yuan & Y.C. Dai and Trechispora suberosa H.S. Yuan & Y.C. Dai, are described and illustrated. Junghuhnia flabellata is characterized by its flabelliform basidiocarps, small pores and small basidiospores, and skeletoystidia mostly present in dissepiments. Rigidoporus fibulatus is characterized by ceraceous to cartilaginous basidiocarps, clamp connections on generative hyphae and broadly ellipsoid to subglobose basidiospores. Trechispora suberosa is a poroid species with corky basidiocarps, ovoid to subglobose basidiospores with a finely echinulate ornamentation, and the absence of crystals on hyphae.
23728077|The aim of this study was to evaluate Syagrus romanzoffiana (Arecaceae) (1) reproductive phenology, (2) seed dispersal and (3) seed predation in a highly fragmented landscape. Over a 24-month period, we recorded flowering and fruiting events, proportions of fallen fruit infested by insects, as well as seed dispersal and seed predation by squirrels. Overall flowering and fruiting intensities varied among months; flowering being significantly greater in January and March 2008, and fruiting in AprilJune and AugustSeptember 2008. There were no differences between the first and second years in the flowering and fruiting percentages, flowering and fruiting duration, their peaks or synchrony. The squirrels spent same amounts of time dispersing and eating the seeds. Additionally, there were no statistical differences among the fragments in the numbers of squirrel visits, seeds dispersed or eaten by squirrels, or in the time spent by squirrels on eating or dispersing the seeds. Seed predation rates by insects or percentage of fruits with eggs were not influenced by fruit density, size or weight. Syagrus romanzoffiana can be characterized as a robust secondary species, recommended for restoration programs in fragmented landscapes.
23725429|The influence of two different soil preparation methods (tilt ploughing and full tilling with disc plough) on the concentration of Fe, Al, Zn and Cd in leaves of Betula pubescens Ehrh. and B. pendula Roth. and Maianthemum bifolium (L.) F.W. Schmidt was studied in the experimental areas of the Finnish Forest Research Institute in Kuru, Central Finland. Elevated levels of Al, Fe and Zn were noted in the leaves of birches growing in tilled areas. As for Al and Zn, the difference found between the areas tilled by using the two methods of soil preparation was not statistically significant. In the case of iron, however, a significantly higher concentration was found in the full tilled areas than in the tilt ploughed and untilled areas. The tilling of the soil had no effect on the metal concentration of the leaves of M. bifolium.
23725856|The first phase of colonization of a south Finnish forest by the Siberian fir Abies sibirica Ledeb. was studied by mapping the progeny of seven mother firs (planted in 1904) and analysing the dispersal pattern, and by measuring the annual height increment of the young firs. The seed dispersal from the mother trees was effective for only about 20 years; after this the number of new seedlings declined gradually to zero in spite of continuing seed production. This decline in the success of the reproductive effort occurred in parallel with successional changes in the forest, which became darker and more closed. The oldest of the progeny, established in the earlier stages of succession, also grew best. The annual shoot increments were longer in and after warm and dry summers than cool and rainy seasons. During the entire life-span of almost 80 years, the reproductive effort of the seven mother trees has resulted in a progeny of 102 still living firs. The reproductive effort, calculated as the number of offspring, declined only slightly with increasing distance up to 400 m. In contrast, the density of the young trees declined sharply with increasing distance from the mother trees. This is because the area over which the seeds are distributed grows very sharply with distance from the source, corresponding to an expanding circle. Thus, Abies sibirica seems to be efficient in dispersing its offspring widely in a patchy environment where the existence of suitable habitats for dissemination may be unpredictable in time and space.
23724992|Sixteen species of Alectoria are reported with certainty from the island of Newfoundland. A. canadensis Mot. (nom. inval.), A. fuscescens Gyeln. var. fuscescens, A. glabra Mot., A. minuscula (Nyl. ex Arnold) Degel. and A. tenuis Dahl are reported from the island for the first time. A. americana Mot. and A. sarmentosa (Ach.) Ach. subsp. sarmentosa are by far commonest taxa. Special features for Newfoundland are that the normally arboreal A. americana and A. nidulifera Norrl. are relatively common as terricolous species in coastal heaths, and that the normally terricolous A. nigricans (Ach.) Nyl. is not uncommon as an epiphyte of conifers.
23724939|The new name Bucklandiella Roiv. is proposed to replace the homonymous and thus illegitimate Bucklandia Roiv. given to a monotypic moss genus (Grimmiaceae) from Tierra del Fuego. The combination Bucklandiella bartramii (Roiv.) Roiv. is made.
23724987|Eighty-two specimens are listed that are believed to have once been part of the herbarium of Linn (Linnaeus) the elder or are annotated by him. The bulk of these specimens were brought to Turku/bo by Anders Dahl, either as part of his own collections or as part of the Alstrmer herbarium, now in S. Most of the material contributed by Dahl was destroyed in the great fire of Turku in 1827, but these specimens were saved in one way or another. Some of them, e.g. Arctotis anthemoides, Centaurea orientalis, Gnaphalium arenarium, Lathyrus pisiformis, Salvia glutinosa, and Trichomanes chinensis, might be used as types of the Linnaean taxa. The set includes specimens from the following persons: E. Brander, P. Browne, N. L. Burman, T. Gerber, J. G. Gmelin, J. F. Gronovius (?), F. Hasselquist, M. Khler, P. Kalm, S. P. Krascheninnikov, P. Osbeck, C. P. Thunberg, and C. H. Wnman. The specimens are also annotated by several other people. Brief biographical notes on all these persons are given.
23725629|In 19721982 phytoplankton was studied by the methods of Lorenzen and Utermhl in the sea area that since 1978 has received cooling water from the Olkiluoto nuclear power station. Throughout the study period, the species composition was typical of oligotrophic coastal waters of the Bothnian Sea. The diatom Chaetoceros wighamii usually predominated in spring and flagellates prevailed in summer. The chlorophyll a concentration and phytoplankton biomass (fresh weight) increased in the late seventies and early eighties, due to the general increase of nutrients in the Baltic Sea. The thermal discharges advanced the spring biomass peak in the discharge area by 2 weeks, but did not otherwise change the seasonal rhythm. The discharges seemed to slightly increase the abundance of the diatom Rhizosolenia minima, and also that of diatoms derived from the benthos. However, the temperature rise did not markedly affect the total phytoplankton quantities in the discharge area. Nutrients and salinity were the most significant factors explaining changes in the chlorophyll a concentration and total biomass.
23725872|The chlorophyll a analysis is based on acetone extraction and monochromatic measurement. Samples must be protected from light during transport to the laboratory and from direct sunlight during the analysis, because the light decreases the results of chlorophyll a. The filters may be dried in a dark fume cupboard for about one hour and, if necessary, frozen at least for a short period. The use of magnesium carbonate does not improve the keeping properties of the samples. The homogenization of filters for 10 seconds, the centrifugation of extract for 10 minutes and the extraction time of one hour at room temperature are sufficient. If the absorbance is to be measured the following day, the sample may be extracted for 24 h in the cold.
23728099|The present paper updates the taxonomy of Euphorbia subsect. Myrsiniteae for the Flora of Iran since the publication of Flora Iranica in 1964. We provide a key, descriptions, distribution maps and illustrations for the seven taxa of the subsection occurring in the country. The presence of E. monostyla and the absence of E. rigida is confirmed. The distribution of E. spinidens, E. myrsinites, E. marschalliana subsp. marschalliana and E. marschalliana subsp. armena is updated, and E. marschalliana subsp. woronowii is considered a synonym of E. marschalliana subsp. marschalliana.
23726933|This is the first paper of a series dealing with the bryoflora of Province in China. The vegetation, geology and geological history of Mangshan Nature Reserve and Wulingyuan Global Cultural Heritage Area are described and the collecting sites of the 1997 and 1999 bryological expeditions there are listed. Our 1 000 specimens studied so far represent 55 genera and 105 species in 28 families. A total of 19 genera, 3 species of Anthocerotae, 20 species of hepatics, and 46 species of mosses are for the first time recorded for the Hunan Province. Diplophyllum serrulatum (Mll. Frib.) Steph., Lopholejeunea brunnea Horik., and Metzgeria albinea Spruce are for the first time recorded for mainland China. Atrichum subserratum (Hook.) Mitt. extends its range from the Himalayas to Central Chinese mountains, and Dicranodontium asperulum (Mitt.) Broth. has a disjunct occurrence in Hunan between the Himalayas and Taiwan.
23725505|The metal contents were determined by atomic absorption spectrometry in Picea abies, Vaccinum myrtillus, Maianthemum bifolium, Pleurozium schreberi and Hypogymnia physodes growing in three areas with different degrees of forest damage, as evident from the crown thinning level of spruce, P. abies. The zinc, cadmium and mercury contents showed no statistically significant differences between the study areas. The aluminium and iron contents were highest in the worst damaged area especially in cryptogams. This area was near a highway and the elevation was possibly caused by road dust.
23725423|The paper surveys the previous classifications of the genus Eleocharis, including the typifications made. On the basis of these, a stabilizing revision is suggested, using names previously applied, primarily at subgeneric and sectional levels. One new species, Eleocharis bulbosa Kukk., is described from the Flora Iranica area, Afghanistan.
23725227|On the basis of microscopic examination, the lamination in sediment samples from Lake Ahvenainen is interpreted as annual. Dates obtained from varve counts and presented in the pollen diagrams of the lake in an earlier paper (Tolonen 1978a) are here compared with thirteen 14C datings and pollen chronology. The sediment sequence down to 249 cm contained a total of 6 174 varves. Comparison between the radiocarbon years and calendar years, as obtained from varve counts, revealed differences similar to those previously reported between 14C datings and tree-ring counts. Five radiocarbon dates from the cultural sediments of Lake Ahvenainen, gave ages that are from ca. 240 to 600 years too high, the error being due to erosion from the surrounding slopes after deforestation of the lake catchment area.
23726271|Cephalaria fanourii Perdetzoglou Kit Tan (Dipsacaceae), a new species endemic to the serpentine area of Mt Bouchetsi in the Northern Pindhos, northwest Greece, is described. Its closest affinities are with C. coriacea (Willd.) Steudel and C. laevigata (Waldst. & Kit.) Schrader.
23728143|Primulina gongchengensis Y.S. Huang & Yan Liu (Gesneriaceae) is described and illustrated as a new species from Guangxi, China. It is similar to P. macrodonta, but its leaves are densely glandular-pubescent on both surfaces, with a cuneate or broadly cuneate base and a repand or crenate margin; densely glandular-pubescent petiole and peduncle; purple corolla, with the tube ca. 1.5 cm long, 68 mm in diam. at the mouth; ca. 2 mm long, glabrous anthers; 3 staminodes, the lateral ones 1 mm long and the middle one 0.5 mm long; 1.51.8 cm long pistil; ca. 4 mm long ovary; and ca. 1 mm long stigma.
23726730|In Sweden, old wooden barns often host a diverse and threatened lichen flora including eight red-listed species, but this kind of barn has declined over the past 100 years. The barns have traditionally been made out of Pinus sylvestris, and it could be hypothesized that pine snags are the natural habitat for many lichens occurring on anthropogenic wood. We compared the lichen flora on old wooden barns in the village of Grdsj, Dalarna with that on snags of P. sylvestris. At  level, both species richness and lichen abundance were highest on snags, and for both substrates the north aspects had more species and higher abundance than E, S and W aspects. Overall species richness was similar on the substrates, with a slight tendency for higher -level diversity on barns. NMS ordination showed clear compositional differences between barns and snags, and also indicated a more heterogeneous vegetation on barns. Implications for conservation measures are discussed.
23725469|Two species of Cladonia Hill ex Wigg. sect. Unciales (Delise) Oxner are reported from Melanesia. Cladonia papuana Stenr., sp. nov. is described from Papua New Guinea. The species is closely related to C. solitaria H. Magn. and contains usnic and isousnic acids. C. siamea des Abb. is reported as new to the region.
23726466|A new subspecies of Dactylis glomerata L. from Galicia NW Iberian peninsula is described. Diploid (2n = 14) populations of the new subspecies are confined to surviving patches of climax Quercus robur L. woodland in central Galicia, whilst tetraploid populations of autopolyploid origin are widely distributed, with broad ecological range, throughout the region. We compare the characters of the new taxon with those of the most similar subspecies, and we justify the taxonomic approach taken.
23724201|In this study an attempt has been made to clarify the extent of abortion in ovules after interspecific pollinations and the stages at which this occurs. Attention has also been directed to the general development of ovules, and disturbances in this process in Picea as well as to the possible occurrence of agamospermy. The results for crossability are compared with previously published data on the morphological differences between species. From the standpoint of forest tree breeding, this study is the first step of a project aiming to produce a hybrid spruce suitable for Finnish conditions.
23727245|We propose the following new nomenclature in the Sematophyllaceae (Musci): Papillidiopsis brongersmae (Zanten) B.C. Tan, T.J. Kop. & D.H. Norris, comb. nova, Papillidiopsis cymbiforme (Bartr.) B.C. Tan, T.J. Kop. & D.H. Norris, comb. nova, Radulina orthophylla (Besch.) B.C. Tan, T.J. Kop. & D.H. Norris, comb. nova, Radulina hamata (Dozy & Molk.) W.R. Buck & B.C. Tan var. elegantissima (M. Fleisch.) B.C. Tan, T.J. Kop. & D.H. Norris, comb. & stat. nov., Radulina laevi-hamata (Dix.) B.C. Tan, T.J. Kop. & D.H. Norris, comb. nova, Radulina pendens (D.H. Norris & T.J. Kop.) B.C. Tan, T.J. Kop. & D.H. Norris, comb. nova, Radulina weidenii (Zanten) B.C. Tan, T.J. Kop. & D.H. Norris, comb. nova, and Warburgiella perfalcata (Bartr.) B.C. Tan, T.J. Kop. & D.H. Norris, comb. nova. Trichosteleum aequoreum M. Fleisch. ex Dix. and T. grosso-mamillosum Paris ex Dix. are synonymized with Radulina hamata var. scaberula, and Trichosteleum sematophylloides Dix. is lectotypified and synonymized with Wijkia extenuata (Brid.) Crum.
23727698|An updated checklist of liverworts (Marchantiophyta) and hornworts (Anthocerotophyta) of Thailand is presented. The checklist is based on published literature and some recent collections. The liverwort and hornwort flora of Thailand consists of 386 species belonging to 90 genera in 37 families. The largest family is Lejeuneaceae (123 spp., 25 genera). The genera with over ten species are Cololejeunea (38 spp.), Plagiochila (37 spp.), Frullania (37 spp.), Bazzania (34 spp.), and Radula (21 spp.). Sixteen species are known only from Thailand, but no genera are endemic to the country. A new name (Cololejeunea gradsteinii M.J. Lai & R.L. Zhu, nom. nov.) and a new combination (Heteroscyphus inflatus (Steph.) S.C. Srivast. & A. Srivast. var. fragilissimus (N. Kitag.) M.J. Lai & R.L. Zhu, comb. nova) are proposed. Eleven species are reported for Thailand for the first time. Vegetation and bryofloristic accounts of Thailand are also discussed.
23726719|A new species of Astragalus sect. Stereothrix (Fabaceae) is described from Turkey: Astragalus subhanensis F. Ghahremani. & L. Behet. It is endemic to Turkey and related to A. barbatus Lam.
23727669|The plant names (23) published by Fredrik Nylander (18201880) are lectotypified. In total Nylander described 39 taxa, consisting of 11 species, eight subspecies and 20 varieties. In addition, he published one unranked name and made ten combinations. He also collected specimens (30 taxa) to the Herbarium Normale distributed by Elias Fries in 18401846. The type specimens were collected mainly in the northwestern Russia. Carex spiculosa Fr. is lectotypified also. Three new combinations are proposed, Carex  acutangula (F. Nyl.) Vre (C. acuta L.  salina Wahlenb.), Eriophorum russeolum Fr. subsp. albidum (F. Nyl.) Vre and Scorzoneroides autumnalis (L.) Moench var. keretina (F. Nyl.) Vre. Viola  fennica F. Nyl. antedates V.  ruprechtiana Borb.
23725013|A spontaneous male sterile mutant (msg, cx) was observed in the F4 generation of the cross Hordeum vulgare L. ssp. vulgare ()  H. vulgare L. ssp. spontaneum (Koch) Thell. (). The mutant is inherited as a monofactorial recessive. The male sterility is total; the female fertility is evidently not affected. The msg allele was not restored by either the spontaneum or the vulgare cytoplasms tested. The mean open pollination was found to be 17.71 per cent under the experimental conditions in 1973. The male sterility caused by boron deficiency is discussed with reference to the male sterile mutants of barley.
23726841|Two isolated populations of Platanthera bifolia (Orchidaceae) were monitored for six years in the Biebrza National Park. Platanthera bifolia populations seem to be affected by habitat conditions. The populations differed in size, proportion of flowering individuals and the effectiveness of reproduction. The natural fruiting rate of P. bifolia is high (over 90%), due to high levels of autogamy (almost 60%). Some costs of reproduction (in terms of reduction of leaf size) were observed. Leaves were largest before flowering and in subsequent years their size decreased. Dormancy affected population dynamics, varying from 22.4% in one population to 16.3% in the other. Both P. bifolia populations appeared to be healthy and are not threatened with extinction at the two study sites.
23726597|Biebersteinia orphanidis Boiss. (Geraniaceae) is the only European representative of a chiefly Asiatic genus comprising 5 species. It was long presumed extinct in its locus classicus on Mt. Killini (N Peloponnisos, Greece) but was recently discovered on a neighbouring mountain, Saitas. Flowering and fruiting material was collected and some of the aerial parts used for a preliminary analysis of essential oils. It was found that the quantity of aliphatic hydrocarbons was rather high (25.74%) and also that oxygenated sesquiterpenes were absent.
23726674|Two new species of the genus Pseudoliparis Finet (Orchidaceae) from New Guinea are described and illustrated: P. gregorii Marg. & Szlach. and P. cruciatis Marg. & Szlach. Two new combinations within this genus are proposed: P. balabacensis (Ames) Marg. & Szlach. and P. latipetala (J. J. Sm.) Marg. & Szlach.
23726819|Prangos turcica A. Duran, M. Sarolu & H. Duman sp. nova (Apiaceae) is described and illustrated from Anatolia, Turkey. The species grows in mixed forest, on shady slopes and open forest in Amanos Mountains (C6 Osmaniye province). Prangos turcica, an endemic confined to South Anatolia, is closely related to P. trifida (Mill.) Herrnst. & Heyn. Diagnostic morphological characters from closely similar taxa are discussed. Habitat ecology of the species is also discussed. Prangos turcica is diploid with the chromosome number of 22.
23724659|The collection was made in 1901 and comprises 2 942 numbers (ca. 4 500 sheets) representing ca. 830 taxa. A list of the taxa is given, together with Cajander's floristic and ecological field notes. The following new combinations are made: Carex caryophyllea Latourr. ssp. conspissata (Krecz.) Hmet-Ahti, Carex disticha Hudson ssp. litophila (Turcz.) Hmet-Ahti, Silene sibirica (L.) Pers. ssp. jakutensis (Sambuk) Hmet-Ahti, Anemone narcissiflora L. ssp. crinita (Juz.) Hmet-Ahti, Cardaminopsis petraea (L.) Hiitonen ssp. media (N. Busch) Hmet-Ahti, Armeria maritima (Mill.) Willd. ssp. sibirica (Boiss.) Hmet-Ahti, Pseudolysimachion incanum (L.) Hmet-Ahti, and Senecio campestris (Retz.) DC. var. lenensis (Schischkin) Hmet-Ahti.
23726115|New synonyms: Mnium punctatum Hedw. var. chalubinskii Lisowski = Rhizomnium punctatum (Hedw.) T. Kop., Mnium cylindricum Hornsch. = Bryum capillare Hedw., Mnium rostratum anon. fo. pendulum Fleisch. and Mnium incertum Dix. ex Foreau, nom. nud. = Plagiomnium rhynchophorum (Hook.) T. Kop., Mnium stellare Hedw. var. integerrimum Corb. = Mnium stellare Hedw., Mnium punctatum Hedw. var. japonicum Besch. ex Paris, nom. nud. = Rhizomnium tuomikoskii T. Kop., Mnium arbuscula C. Mll. f. minutum Kab. = Plagiomnium arbuscula (C. Mll.) T. Kop., Mnium cuspidatum Hedw. var. pachyphyllum Kindb. (var. "brachyphyllum Kindb." ex Wijk et al.) = Plagiomnium cuspidatum (Hedw.) T. Kop., Mnium parvum Aust., non. nud. in synon. = Mnium ambiguum H. Mll., Mnium pumilum Wils. ex H. Perss. nom. nud. in synon. = Rhizomnium gracile T. Kop. Corrected name: Mnium "esculentum Mitt." ex Tix. = Mnium succulentum Mitt. (Plagiomnium succulentum (Mitt.) T. Kop.).
23725258|Rumex aquaticus L.  stenophyllus Led.; R.  cacozelus Valta hybr. nova is described; collected in Helsinki.
23726979|Gagea chinensis Y.Z. Zhao & L.Q. Zhao sp. nova (Liliaceae) is described from Inner Mongolia, China. It appears most closely related to G. pauciflora and G. provisa. The distinguishing characters are given in a key to the three species.
23726786|Anastrophyllum lignicola Schill & D.G.Long is described as a new species from Bhutan and China (Yunnan Province). It is closely related to A. hellerianum (Nees) R.M.Schust. but differs primarily in its gemmae which are mostly regularly ellipsoid and 2-celled. The occurrence of A. hellerianum in Bhutan is confirmed and it is reported as new to China, also from Yunnan. Both species are typically found in temperate coniferous forests where they colonize decaying logs.
23728138|Centaurea cassia Boiss. subsp. dumanii M. Din, A. Duran & B. Bilgili has been previously described as a new taxon based on the type photograph and description of C. cassia subsp. cassia. A detailed comparison of the plants from wild populations of the two subspecies revealed that subsp. dumanii was sufficiently distinct from subsp. cassia to be recognised as a separate species. We thus recognise it as Centaurea dumanii (M. Din, A. Duran & B. Bilgili) M. Din & S. Dou, comb. & stat. nov. It is close to C. cassia from which it differs, in addition to the previously known diagnostic characters, by having an ovate to oblong and cuneate-based involucre, nearly flat appendages, and achenes with a spreading and longer pappus.
23725157|Seventy-nine samples of fungi were determined for mercury content from 13 sites in Helsinki, Finland. The highest concentrations were found in lawn decomposers (range 0.1272 ppm/dry wt.). The mercury contents were much lower in wood decomposers and in mycorrhizal fungi (ranges 0.050.67 and 0.011.3 ppm). The mercury contents were much higher in lawn decomposers in the centre of the city than in the suburbs. In other fungi this could not be shown. The consumption of lawn decomposer fungi growing in Helsinki is not recommended, because the mercury content of about half of the 17 samples collected from the lawns in the centre of the city exceeded 0.5 ppm. According to Finnish norms, fish containing more Hg than this should not be eaten more often than once a week. None of the wood decomposers or mycorrhizal fungi, however, exceeded this norm.
23726830|The genus Trachylejeunea (Spruce) Schiffn. is reviewed and its subgenus Hygrolejeuneopsis R.M. Schust. placed in synonymy of Xylolejeunea X.-L. He & Grolle gen. nov. (Lejeuneaceae, Hepaticae). Four species are recognized in Xylolejeunea: X. aquarius (Spruce) X.-L. He & Grolle comb. nova, X. grolleana (Pcs) X.-L. He & Grolle comb. nova, X. muricella X.-L. He & Grolle sp. nova, and X. crenata (Nees & Mont.) X.-L. He & Grolle comb. nova. Eight species names are proposed as new synonyms. A key to the species is provided. The genus is characterized by the following main features: (1) an almost longitudinal insertion line of the leaf lobe, (2) an ovate to falcate-ovate shape of the leaf lobe with an entire to finely denticulate margin, (3) two transverse rows of conspicuously enlarged and elongate cells at its base, of which the upper one constitutes the adjacently arranged ocelli, (4) a proximal position of the hyaline papilla relative to the slightly curved first lobule tooth, (5) a blunt, distinct or fairly distinct second lobule tooth, often with strongly thickened outer wall, (6) distant underleaves with an almost transverse insertion to the stem, (7) gynoecia with 1 short, pycnolejeuneoid innovation or without innovation, and (8) the equally sharply 5-keeled perianth with double, 14 cells wide, irregularly denticulate wings. The relationships between Xylolejeunea and allied genera are discussed. A description, an illustration, and a distribution map is presented for each species of Xylolejeunea.
23726951|The occurrence of Ceramium tenuicorne in the SW Gulf of Finland seems to be determined by physical factors, species competition and adaptation to the seasonal environment of the northern Baltic Sea. Due to the strong competition, in the upper sublittoral C. tenuicorne grew mainly epiphytically. Asexual plants were most common aroung the year. In JulyAugust tiny C. tenuicorne was found also in the upper sublittoral. At that time plants with cystocarps, tetrasporangia and propagules were observed. In October, after the decline of Cladophora glomerata, a nap-like belt of C. tenuicorne grew at depths of less than one metre and a short-lived female generation with cystocarps was observed. In late autumn, most of the filaments close to the shore break down due to wave action, and in winter due to the ice scraping while deeper growing individuals are perennial. Ceramium tenuicorne is physiologically adapted to the extreme environment of the Baltic Sea. Photosynthetic pigment content of C. tenuicorne exhibit seasonal changes. The higher winter values of pigments can be considered an adaptation to an extreme environment, caused by low light. In summer, pale individuals with red basal parts grew at 12 m depth, having grown from old, overwintered basal parts. The pale colour is due to low concentrations of phycoerythrin. The fastest growth occurs in late spring, and in summer months the individuals are tall, the cells are long, and the number of secondary branches is exceptionally high. The cortical cells of many individuals grew upwards in the older parts of the thallus. The form of the cells was often conical, but some individuals with oval cells were observed.
43922135|The macrolichen vegetation on Pinus sylvestris L. and the element contents (S, K, Ca, Ti, V, Fe and Zn) of the lichen Hypogymnia physodes (L.) Nyl. and needles of Pinus sylvestris were investigated at 43 sites in the vicinity of metal, chemical and fertilizer plants at Kokkola, on the western coast of Finland. The industrial complex was found to lie in a 16-km lichen desert, surrounded by a 100-km struggle zone. The lichen damage index and the number of lichen species were found to be better indicators of the degree of air pollution than the lichen cover on pine bark. The elements were accumulated more effectively in lichens than in pine needles and the lichen element contents agreed better with the pattern of the prevailing winds. The correlations between the contents of the different pollutant elements were also stronger in lichens than in pine needles. The most reliable indices of air pollution were found to be the sulphur, iron and zinc contents of lichens and the zinc content of pine needles. Determinations of the element contents of plants can be expected to be useful in air pollution monitoring and to supplement the information provided by plant mapping and gauges.
23725471|A new species, Najas orientalis Triest & Uotila (Najadaceae), is described from rice fields in Japan, China (Manchuria) and the USSR (the Ussuri area). Its introduction is noted in Edirne Prov., European Turkey. The closest relative of the species is N. foveolata A. Braun ex Magnus, with which N. orientalis has been previously confused.
23727872|In this taxonomic revision of Dumasia (Fabaceae), eight species, two subspecies, and one variety are recognized. Two new combinations, D. villosa DC. subsp. leiocarpa (Benth.) B. Pan & X.Y. Zhu and D. yunnanensis Y.T. Wei & S.K. Lee var. arunachalensis (S.V. Predeep & M.P. Nayar) B. Pan & X.Y. Zhu are proposed. Four names are reduced to synonyms, and six lectotypes are designated. Chromosome numbers of D. forrestii Diels, D. hirsuta Craib, and D. yunnanensis Y.T. Wei & S.K. Lee are reported for the first time (2n = 20). Descriptions, illustrations, distribution maps, chromosome numbers, ecology, phenology, and a key to all taxa are provided.
43922137|Changes in the amount and kind of sedimenting material in Lovojrvi were studied with sediment traps during the open-water period of 1974. The results could be compared with information about the planktonic community obtained in the same year. The microscopical structure of the most recent sediment was investigated from a frozen sediment sample taken from the deepest point of the lake two years later, on 30. VIII. 1976. This was done by catching a layer of loose particles from a slightly dried vertical surface of the sediment block on strips of transparent adhesive tape. The layer deposited during 1974 could be identified by the similarity of its diatom succession to that in the sediment traps. Diatom frustules were found to be of special importance in the formation and also in the study of the laminated structure.
23728179|Fernandezia ortiziana Kolan. & Szlach. (Orchidaceae), a new species from Colombia, is described and illustrated. The differences between F. ortiziana and similar species are briefly discussed and a key to the Colombian species of Fernandezia is presented.
23725591|The genus Leptostomum R. Brown has eight species mostly restricted to the Southern Hemisphere. Only one species, SE Asian L. densum Thwait. & Mitt. reaches north of the equator. Two other species, L. intermedium Broth and L. perfectum Bartr. are present in SE Asia, mostly in New Guinea. Three species are distributed in Australia and New Zealand  L. erectum R. Brown, L. inclinans R. Brown and L. macrocarpum (Hedw.) Pyl. L. menziesii R. Brown and L. splachnoideum Hook. & Arnott are species restricted to South America. The distribution is given for each species by countries of occurrence. A key to the genus is given. The type specimens are indicated and the nomenclature and taxonomy dealt with. A lectotype is selected for Leptostomum macrocarpum (Hedw.) Pyl. Six names are presented as new synonyms and indexed.
23727843|Hedychium longipetalum X. Hu & N. Liu sp. nova (Zingiberaceae), from Yunnan Province, China, is described and illustrated. It resembles H. yunnanense, but differs from that species in the number of flowers per bract, in the form of the labellum, and in the length of the petal lobes.
23726309|In the Antarctic botanical zone the genus Ditrichum Hampe (Ditrichaceae, Bryopsida) is represented by three species, D. austro-georgicum (Card.) Seppelt, D. brotherusii (R. Br. ter.) Seppelt and D. lewis-smithii Ochyra sp. nov. The latter is closely related to D. immersum Zanten from the sub-Antarctic. However, D. lewis-smithii differs in its gymnostomous capsules, smaller, erecto-patent to widely spreading leaves with flexuose subulae, bistratose lamina cells at the leaf shoulders and mostly 23-stratose lamina in the subula. It is an epigean moss growing on bare ground and on soil covering rock ledges and on humus in rock fissures. It has been recorded so far only from the King George and Livingston Islands in the South Shetland Islands as well as from Signy Island in the South Orkney Islands and must therefore be considered an Antarctic endemic.
23726897|Plant strategies under succession were evaluated for communities on rising seashores of the northern Gulf of Bothnia, Sweden, representing sites of primary succession. The succession could not be explained by Grime's CSR model. Early successional stages were neither characterized by high incidence of ruderals as proposed for secondary successions, nor by the dominance of stress tolerators, as proposed for primary successions. Short-lived species were almost totally absent. Instead, the shore habitat was characterized by species with an ability to tolerate and vegetatively recover from disturbance. The way in which different species experience one and the same form of stress or disturbance is an important reason why the classification on the basis of stress and disturbance seems to be insufficient to explain the course of this succession. Dominants of early and late successional stages differed with respect to root system, breeding system, leaf longevity and growth form (graminioid, herb).
23727193|The development of the female gametophyte and the pollen grain, the ultrastructure of the mature megagametophyte and the endothelial cells in Lotus glaber were examined. The anther wall development follows the dicotyledonous type. The tapetum is secretory, the microspore tetrads are tetrahedral and pollen grains are shed at a bicellular stage. The mature ovule is anatropous, crassinucellar and bitegmic; integuments form a zig-zag micropyle. A T-shaped megaspore tetrad is formed and the lowest megaspore is functional and produces a 7-celled embryo-sac corresponding to the Polygonum type. The synergids show ultrastructural differences, involving dictyosomes and ERr; these differences suggest a functional differentiation, probably related to the reception of the pollen tube.
23726791|Vascular plants were recorded in a long-term (28-year) experiment on semi-natural grassland vegetation comparing six treatments: continued grazing, mowing every year, mowing every third year, annual spring burning, removal of woody plants, and untreated control. The treatments had created very different vegetation types: the annually mown and grazed plots had the highest species number while the untreated plots had the lowest. The species' ordination scores correlated with Ellenberg indicator values for nutrient status and light: species indicating poor nutrient conditions were mainly in grazed and mown plots, and shade tolerant species were mainly in untreated and grazed plots. The original aim of this experiment was to evaluate alternative ways of maintaining semi-natural grassland vegetation, but there were no satisfactory long-term alternatives to annual mowing or grazing. An ordination contrasted annual mowing and grazing, ranking species from those associated with mowed plots (e.g. Leucanthemum vulgare, Luzula pilosa, Campanula persicifolia, Ajuga pyramidalis) to those associated with grazed plots (e.g. Ranunculus spp., Geum spp., Vicia sepium).
23727789|Stachys marashica A. lim, M. enet & Dadand sp. nova (Lamiaceae) from Turkey is described and illustrated. It belongs to the section Infrarosularis and resembles S. cataonica and S. pumilia, with which the new species is compared. The geographical distributions of the species are provided on a map.
23725492|Sixty-five sample plots were studied in 38 mires in western Finland. In each sample plot five quadrats were marked out, the pH of the mire water was measured and two surface peat samples were taken. The peat samples were analysed for P, K, Ca, Mg and Fe. The vegetation was grouped with DCA ordination analysis and TWINSPAN classification analysis. The relations of the vegetation and environmental factors were studied with Spearman's rank correlation and hybrid ordination. The current Finnish mire site type classification was carried out in further detail. Mesotrophic mud-bottom flark fens were divided into mesotrophic and meso-eutrophic groups. Eutrophic pine swamps with Sphagnum fuscum were divided into two groups according to the trophic status and the mire margin effect. Mesotrophic Calliergon stramineum flark fen was separated from Drepanocladus flark fens. A new group is Sphagnum obtusum rich fens. According to Spearman's rank correlations, the ranking of the samples by TWINSPAN and the first two axes of DCA is very strongly correlated with several environmental factors. The sample ranking does not follow any single factor, but all the nutrients and the water surface percentage are strongly correlated. The factors best explaining the sample ranking were pH and K. In hybrid ordination the factor best explaining the ordination of DCA was the water surface percentage.
43922170|The occurrence of some isozymes was explored in Finnish populations of Parmelia omphalodes (L.) Ach. subsp. omphalodes, subsp. discordans (Nyl.) Skult and subsp. pinnatifida (Kurok.) Skult. Of the nine enzyme systems tested, activity was found in six systems. In general, a lack of activity was frequent at the beginning of the growing season, but later in the season also, the activity was temporarily decreased or absent (GDH, LAP). Small differences in isozyme number were found between the subspecies, in some cases also between different populations of the same subspecies. The similarity percentages of the isozyme phenotypes (based on six enzyme systems) for subspp. omphalodes and discordans was 70.8, for subspp. omphalodes and pinnatifida 66.7, and for subspp. discordans and pinnatifida 54.2. Cluster analysis of the total protein banding patterns, obtained by isoelectric focusing of crude protein extracts, resulted in arrangement of the 38 separate samples in two main groups: one group contained only discordans samples, whereas the other group contained omphalodes samples plus samples from an "atypical" pinnatifida population (from southern Finland).
23728113|Naxos and Amorgos are islands in the Aegean Sea with a typically arid to semiarid climate, the vegetation being dominated by thermo-Mediterranean shrubs. From the floristic point of view, both are among the most interesting islands of the Cyclades. However, no data were available on their fungal diversity. This work presents an annotated check-list of the basidiomycetes belonging to the subclass Agaricomycetidae (Agaricales and Boletales) from these two islands. A total of 142 species and subspecific taxa are recognized and assigned to 58 genera. The genus Simocybe as well as 21 taxa at the species or subspecies level constitute new records for Greece, while further 76 taxa represent first national reports for habitat, hosts and/or substrates. A brief description of key diagnostic characters  in conjunction with a discussion of pertinent literature  is provided for the most interesting findings.
23724604|A study was made of the floristic composition of the forest vegetation, including the rocks and peatlands, in four study areas, two of which were on the coast, two inland. The frequency of the different species is expressed as an estimate of the area occupied by the stands of the species in relation to the total area. Lists of plant species were made every 50 m on survey lines 5 m broad. The number of such plots (5  50 m) on which a species was recorded in relation to the total number of plots is regarded as an estimate of this coverage. Once estimates of the commonest species had been made in the Korso area, these were left unrecorded and only the rarer plants were noted; in this way the field work was considerably reduced and the method became rather similar to the usual excursion method. Several suggestions on the method are proposed. Marked differences in frequency were found between the coast and the inland areas, in particular in the case of the dominant plant species (table 2). After a discussion of several factors the hypothesis is advanced that the climate in the coastal areas, which is thermally more oceanic but at the same time deficient in summer rains, may be the main cause of this distribution pattern. Additional factors are the different biotope frequency on the coast (in particular the abundance of rocks and slightly smaller area of fertile biotopes), and in some cases also the prescribed burning earlier practiced and also pure chance.
23727905|Microstegium butuoense Y.C. Liu & H. Peng, a new species of Poaceae from S Sichuan, SW China, is described and illustrated. It resembles M. falconeri, but differs by the internode length, spikelet length, and characters of the upper lemma and upper palea.
23726957|Manglietia longipedunculata Q.W. Zeng & Law sp. nova (Magnoliaceae) is described and illustrated from Guangdong, China. It is closely related to M. pachyphylla and M. crassipes, from which it differs mainly in its villose, slender peduncles, and more numerous, longer tepals.
23726705|As a consequence of air pollution, lichens disappeared from the central part of the city of Tampere. A lichen desert of 5 km2 covered the centre in the beginning of the 1970s. Later the mean annual SO2 concentration decreased from 160 g m-3 in 1973 to 2 g m-3 in 1999. The monitoring of lichens on the trunks of Tilia  vulgaris which began in 1980 showed that recolonisation had started slowly but advanced rapidly after 1985. In 2000, the numbers of species in the monitoring sites were over 10 times and cover values nearly 200 times higher than in 1980. The number of species increased linearly, while cover values rose exponentially. In 2000, the reference sites had twice as many lichen species and over three times higher cover than the city sites. Thus, the recovery of the lichen flora and vegetation will take several decades after the virtual elimination of SO2.
23726586|The author describes two new species of Taraxacum: T. leucosquameum Sonck (of sect. Vulgaria or Ruderalia) from Luxembourg and T. carbocapillum Sonck (of unknown affinity) from Philadelphia, U.S.A. The species are illustrated in black and white photographs.
23726736|Neckera noguchiana M.C. Ji & Enroth sp. nova (Neckeraceae) is described from Nepal and illustrated in line drawings. It somewhat resembles N. denigricans Enroth from Vietnam; the differences between the two and some other species with which N. noguchiana might be confused, including N. pennata Hedw., are discussed.
23726498|Cryphaea leptopteris Enroth & T. Kop. (Cryphaeaceae, Bryopsida), an illegitimate homonym of C. leptopteris C. Mll., is renamed as C. songpanensis Enroth & T. Kop.
23726146|Samples of Hypnum cupressiforme Hedw. (Hypnaceae, Bryophyta) were taken along two profiles from NW to SE and WSW to ENE at 13 sites in and around Valkeakoski in southern Finland. PAH, PCB and trace metals, which originate in the urban and industrial environment, show distinctly higher concentrations in the centre of the town. Towards the edge of the area, the PAH concentrations decrease more rapidly than do the PCB levels. The explanation is probably that the PAHs are mainly transported adsorbed on air-borne dust, whereas the greater part of the PCBs is distributed in the gas phase. The chlorinated pesticides reveal no distribution trends as they are emitted from diffuse sources in agriculture and forestry.
23726327|The significance and validity of developmental processes is discussed for several structures, e.g. the cupular excipulum, the thalline cortex and the podetium especially of the Cladoniaceae. It is emphasized that the sequence of developmental steps rather than the mature structure is a reliable systematic characteristic. The definition of the generative tissue as one of the first steps in ascocarp development is discussed and the subsequent developmental steps of monokaryotic and dikaryotic hyphae are described. In the Parmeliaceae, the cupular excipulum of the mature ascocarp is not itself a major characteristic feature of the family, but rather the sequence of developmental steps and the origin of the tissues. The specialized structures of the lichen thallus can be seen as phylogenetically derived from the ascocarp even if this connection does not exist in the ontogeny of the present day species. The definition of stipes in stipitate ascocarps is shown to depend on several basic postulations. A clear distinction can be made between a functional, an ontogenetic and a phylogenetic approach. If the generative tissue as defined by Henssen and Jahns is accepted as relevant, podetia and pseudopodetia can be distinguished. If the podetium of Cladonia Hill is regarded as part of a (stipitate) apothecium, then the structure that is usually recognized as apothecium should be called a hymenial disc, a term proposed by T. Ahti.
23727259|The relationships between the closely related Mediterranean species Genista januensis Viv. and G. lydia Boiss. (Fabaceae) are discussed. The morphological differences between them are extremely subtle and they are allopatric for the greater part of their range. After extensive field and herbarium study the rank of subspecies for G. lydia is deemed appropriate.
23726296|A new polypore species (Basidiomycetes), Antrodia mellita Niemel & Penttil, is described and illustrated. It was found in a few localities in Central and East Finland, growing on Populus tremula L., and once in south-eastern Poland, on Fagus sylvatica L. It is close to Antrodia heteromorpha (Fr.: Fr.) Karst. and its large-pored relatives, but differs from them in having smaller spores, ca. 5.48.1  2.84 m. Further characters differentiating it from A. heteromorpha are the yellowish and honey-like colours, totally resupinate or at most pseudopileate habit, more regularly angular pores, thinner dissepiment edges and thinner skeletal hyphae of the subiculum. The affinities of the following, allied species are discussed: Antrodia albida (Fr.) Donk, A. albidoides David & Deq., A. macrospora Bernicchia & De Domin., Daedalea serpens Fr., Polyporus stephensii Berk. & Broome, Trametes alaskana Baxt., T. salicina Bres. var. greschikii Bres., and T. subserpens Murr. (Megasporoporia setulosa (Henn.) Rajchenb.). The separation of A. albida from A. heteromorpha deserves further study. Due to its rarity and preference of old, shady spruce-dominated mixed forests, we suggest that A. mellita is a threatened fungal species in Finland. The delimitation of the genus Antrodia is discussed. The use of the term 'biological species' is criticized.
23727935|Hydrocotyle changanensis X.C. Du & Y. Ren sp. nova (Araliaceae) is described from Shaanxi Province, northwestern China. The simple scapes of H. changanensis have 25 layers of flowers in their umbels, different from all other Chinese Hydrocotyle species. It is morphologically similar to H. sibthorpioides, however it differs from the latter by its narrower and longer styles, depressed stylopodia and longer pedicels. We present a key for identification, a line drawing of H. changanensis and a plate of SEM micrographs of H. changanensis and H. sibthorpioides. We discuss the relationships among H. changanensis and all species currently recognized in this genus in China.
23727857|Weddellomyces pertusariicola Halici (Ascomycota, Dacampiaceae) is described as new from the thallus of Pertusaria lactea on siliceous rocks in the East Black Sea Region of Turkey. It is the first known species of Weddellomyces on Pertusaria and differs from most other species of the genus by smooth-walled, shorter and narrower ascospores. The host lichen was also infected by Taeniolella pertusariicola.
23725422|The short-term effects of fertilizer application were studied on a drained herb-rich sedge birchpine swamp and a Vaccinium myrtillus spruce swamp treated with: (1) PK: apatite + biotite, (2) PK: superphosphate + potassium salt K 60, (3) NPK: urea + apatite + biotite, (4) NPK: nitroform + apatite + biotite, (5) NPK micronutrient mixture: urea + apatite + biotite + micronutrient mixture, (6) wood ash. Both sites (6251'N, 3053'E) were drained for forestry purposes in the 1930s and they were redrained and fertilized at the beginning of this study (19791980). At both sites, the coverage of the ground layer decreased immediately after fertilization and reditching. Rapidly soluble PK (2) and NPK + micronutrient mixture chiefly reduced the coverage and the production/biomass ratio (P/B) of forest bryophytes, e.g. Pleurozium schreberi, Hylocomium splendens and Dicranum spp. The rapidly soluble PK and NPK + micronutrient mixture had a more destructive effect on peat mosses (e.g. Sphagnum girgensohnii, S. angustifolium) than on forest mosses. NPK + micronutrient mixture, NPK (urea) and rapidly soluble PK reduced the coverage of Polytrichum commune, but not the P/B ratio of the live phytomass. "Burning" occurred in bryophyte stands that came into direct contact with the fertilizer. Stands in less direct contact benefited from the fertilizer and their P/B ratio increased. DCA ordination appeared to be well suited to identifying the most important gradients of the population structure on the sample plots. The diversity indices (Shannon H' and Kempton & Taylor Q) behaved in different ways: the index H' appeared to suit the ground layer communities of these drained areas, because the material contained dominant species on the one hand and a fairly large number of species with low coverages on the other.
23724304|Studies on the distribution and occurrence of Equisetum  litorale in Fennoscandia were made in the field and by examining herbarium material. The best characters found in making identifications were the length of the first internode of the branch, the shape of the upper part of the stem, the cross-section of the aerial and subterranean stems as well as the position of the endodermis (Figs. 7  10). Fig. 11 shows the distribution of E.  litorale in Fennoscandia. It is probable that the hybrid will be found in many new places, since hitherto it has not been well recognized. The external appearance of E.  litorale is highly variable (Figs. 1  6). On the basis of observations made in the field and transplantation experiments, it is evident that such variations are not genetically regulated but are modifications caused by environmental factors. The habitats of the hybrid are different kinds of peatland, especially mesotrophic spruce swamps, shores of lakes, rivers and seas, as well as edges of roadways and railways. Studies on the ecology of the hybrid were made on peatland. The principal associated species (Table 1) are those of swampy and mesotrophic spruce swamps as well as minerotrophic fens. The distribution of the rhizomes and the contents of certain nutrient factors in different layers of the soil are presented in Fig. 12. In relation to the ground surface area, the underground parts of the hybrid have a mass nearly four times that of the aerial parts. Horizontal rhizomes, 4  6 mm in diameter, are generally located at a depth of less than half a metre and grow in a well-humified soil layer which is moistened by ground water and has a favourable pH and lime content. Vertical branching rhizomes, 2  3 (5) mm in diameter, rise from the horizontal rhizomes to the surface. Equisetum  trachyodon has a very consistent external appearance. Its identification consists mainly of distinguishing it from large-sized specimens of E. variegatum. The best characters for such a separation are the large size of the hybrid, its thick stem, relatively long sheath, and long, narrow teeth with their narrow membranous margins (Figs. 13  14). Fig. 15 shows the distribution of E.  trachyodon in Fennoscandia. This hybrid usually grows in sandy, open sites with few competitive species, usually on shores of lakes or rivers. The rhizomes have been found to grow at a depth of about 10 cm and their pattern of growth closely resembles that of E. variegatum. Other hybrids described in the literature were not established with certainty in the present material studied. However, Equisetum arvense and E. pratense (and E. palustre) as well as E. pratense and E. sylvaticum are pairs of species which are worth close observation in this respect.
23725480|Palaeovegetation maps are contructed for periods at 8000 B.P., 5500 B.P., 4000 B.P., 2600 B.P. and 1200 B.P. with a time range of  500 years. The maps are based primarily on data from seven dated pollen diagrams from peat bogs in Paimio, SW Finland. The distribution of different soil types in the dry land area in each period is shown in another series of maps. The average abundances of different forest tree species are estimated from their corrected pollen values by assessing their presence and distribution on the different soil types in the light of their present-day ecological requirements. The primary succession of vegetation in Paimio was first controlled by land uplift and associated ecological factors. The long-term postglacial forest succession clearly followed the general glacial and interglacial cyclic scheme. The natural or progressive changes included, in an ecological sense, the Cryocratic, Protocratic and Mesocratic stages. As regards the secondary successions, the first signs of human influence are found in the earlier part of the Telocratic stage, or starting from 3500 B.P. in the study area. These do not overshadow the impact of climatic and pedogenic factors. Evidence of scattered openings in the forest cover caused by clearance and regression of spruce (Picea abies) first appears at 1200 B.P.
23727243|Carex obliquicarpa X.F. Jin, C.Z. Zheng & B.Y. Ding, a new species of the Cyperaceae from China, is described and illustrated. The morphological characters of C. obliquicarpa and the similar species C. olivacea and C. retrofracta are compared.
23728211|Epiphytic lichen communities were studied in old coniferous forests across Estonia to find out the effect of site openness on the lichen species richness. All lichen species were recorded on the basal 2 m of 105 Picea abies and 105 Pinus sylvetsris trunks. The canopy openness readings were taken with a spherical densiometer around every sampled tree. The number of species on the trunks of both tree species increased significantly with increasing canopy openness. Nine lichen species, e.g. Cladonia cenotea, Lecidea nylanderi, Platismatia glauca, were significantly favoured by higher light availability, and only one species, Coenogonium pineti, by lower light availability. The results demonstrate that in the coniferous forests higher light availability supports higher species richness of epiphytic lichens on the lower trunk of trees.
43922119|After a couple of strong winter storms in December 1975, severe salt spray injuries were observed on the seaward side of individuals of Pinus sylvestris L. growing 20250 m from the shoreline at Yyteri and Mantykallo, in Mantyluoto, near Pori, western Finland. Air-borne sodium chloride and other salts of marine origin caused browning and loss of needles in exposed pine branches. The salt spray also had an indirect effect: the needle injuries received during the winter dormancy inhibited both vegetative and reproductive growth to a degree that varied with the severity of the needle damage. The direct effects of the salts on the needles, buds and meristemic tissues of the stems of Scots pine, and the indirect effects on the growth, the anatomical structure of the shoots and the cambial activity were investigated in the field and with the aid of microscopic studies.
23724596|Es wurden die im Plankton vorkommenden Diatomeen an zwei Kstenstandorten westlich der Stadt Helsinki sowie drittens in der Stromschnelle Putaankoski im Fluss Porvoonjoki etwa 50 km stlich von Helsinki durch monatliche Probenahmen im Laufe des Jahres 1964 untersucht. Bei Helsinki bestand der Hauptteil der gefundenen Diatomeen aus brackwasserbewohnenden Formen, doch auch die anderen salinittskologischen Gruppen waren vertreten. Die monatlichen Mengenschwankungen sind hauptschlich lokal bedingt. Zu der Temperatur des Wassers verhlt sich der grsste Teil der gefundenen Taxa ziemlich indifferent. Eine Ausnahme bilden Amphora coffeaeformis var. perpusilla, Sceletonema costatum und mglicherweise auch Asterionella formosa, die Anspruch auf verhltnismssig warmes Wasser machen, sowie die relativ kaltes Wasser fordernden Arten Achnanthes taeniata, Thalassiosira baltica, Diatoma elongatum, Cyclotella meneghiniana coll. und Nitzschia polaris. In der auch winters nicht zufrierenden Stromschnelle Putaankoski bestand der Hauptteil der Diatomeenflora aus Ssswasserarten, doch auch Taxa des Sss- und Brackwassers waren ziemlich reichlich vorhanden. Die Plankton- und Benthosdiatomeen hatten abwechselnd das bergewicht, die Epiphyten dagegen waren sprlicher Cocconeis placentula var. euglypta in ihrem Maximum befand. Andere Diatomeen kalten Wassers waren hier Melosira islandica ssp. helvetica, Fragilaria intermedia und Meridion circulare var. constricta.
23727907|Chirita lijiangensis B. Pan & W.B. Xu, a new species of Gesneriaceae from Guangxi, China, is described and illustrated. It is similar to C. pteropoda, but differs by its leaf blade that is densely pilose on both surfaces; by the leaf base being cuneate to broadly cuneate; by the peduncle, the pedicel and calyx being densely pilose; by the corolla that is purple, 2.22.8 cm long, and with a slender, ca. 1.5 cm long tube; by the filaments being purple, ca. 8 mm long, and glabrous; by the lateral staminodes that are ca.1 mm long; and by the the pubescent, ca. 4 mm long ovary.
23727740|In this field study, we determined the effects of water stress, rainfed or irrigated conditions on the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal (AMF) root colonization in the late-seral Stipa clarazii, the earlier-seral S. tenuis and the early-seral S. gynerioides at different developmental stages and sampling dates. We had two goals: (1) to document the levels of AMF root colonization, and (2) to examine the plant stress responses during imposed water stress in the three Stipa species. We tested the hypothesis that the effects of water stress on Stipa grasslands depend upon the interactions between plant AMF status and plant species. No consistent patterns in AMF root colonization frequency were observed relative to soil water levels. This suggests that AMF root colonization is highly plastic and responds to environmental factors that we do not yet understand. Mycorrhiza colonization was greater in the late-seral than in the earlier-seral species. Higher AMF root colonization levels in S. clarazii may partly explain its higher competitive ability in comparison with the earlier-seral species.
23727230|The name Dendrobenthamia angustata (Chun) W.P. Fang is invalid since the validly published synonym Cynoxylon elliptica Pojark. predates it, thus the correct name is Dendrobenthamia elliptica (Pojark.) H. Yu, comb. nova.
23726318|In this study, we examined the importance of offspring production versus plant size estimates in the evaluation of competitive ability in different genotypes of a clonal species, Lemna minor L. Since growth in L. minor is not vertical, and results in the occupation of horizontal space on the surface of a pond, we predicted that performance in competition would not be enhanced by a relatively large individual frond size; i.e. genotypes that produce many small fronds would be just as successful as genotypes that produce fewer large fronds. Five genotypes of L. minor were grown in monoculture, and three were grown in mixture with a common competitor genotype in six combinations of surface area (light) and nutrient limitations. Total number of fronds, individual frond dry weight and individual frond surface area were measured under each treatment. Frond size and frond production rate were negatively correlated across genotypes. This is analogous to results in sexual species showing a general tradeoff between seed size and seed number. Performance in competition, in terms of aggressivity was positively correlated with individual frond size and negatively correlated with frond production rate. We conclude that large frond size is more important than high frond production rate in effecting high performance under competition in L. minor. This is consistent with results of other studies on terrestrial plants illustrating the predominant role of plant size in defining competitive ability. We suggest that allocation to offspring production plays a subtle but not unimportant role in defining fitness under competition; its relative importance may depend on the level of crowding within habitats.
23727601|The genus Tubulicrinopsis Hjortstam & Kotir. is described with three new species, T. ellipsospora Kotir., Hjortstam & Kulju, T. granulosa Hjortstam, Miettinen & Kotir. and T. cystidiata Kotir. & Miettinen, and the new combination T. farinacea (Boid., Lanq. & Gilles) Kotir. & Hjortstam is proposed. Tubulicrinopsis ellipsospora, T. granulosa and T. cystidiata were collected in north European forests and T. farinacea has hitherto been reported from Runion, Argentina and Taiwan as Amauromyces farinaceus. The species of Tubulicrinopsis are somewhat similar to the species of the genera Tubulicrinis and Sistotremastrum in having thick-walled basidial bases. The type of Amauromyces pallidus Jlich was studied. The species are described and illustrated, and a key to the genus Tubulicrinopsis is given. Botryobasidium ellipsosporum Holubov-Jechov is reported from Finland for the first time.
23725499|Column and thin-layer chromatography revealed the presence of the following carotenoids in the thalli of 10 lichen species from Southern Finland: -carotene, -carotene, -cryptoxanthin, zeaxanthin, canthaxanthin, astaxanthin, lutein epoxide, violaxanthin, matatoxanthin and luteoxanthin. The total content of carotenoids ranged from 10.6 [in Anaptychia runcinata (With.) Laundon] to 18.4 g/g dry wt. [in Parmelia conspersa (Ach.) Ach.].
23727895|The phylogeographic relationships between the Macaronesian islands and southern glacial refugia of the Iberian Peninsula was studied using molecular markers and two mosses as model species: Exsertotheca intermedia from Macaronesia and the recently described Neckera baetica from the Iberian Peninsula. The new combination Exsertotheca baetica (Guerra) Draper, Gonzlez-Mancebo, O. Werner, J. Patio & Ros is proposed for the latter. The genus Neckera has recently undergone considerable systematic and taxonomic changes, but our results show that the European species N. cephalonica and N. pumila belong in Neckera s. stricto.
23727771|A new species of Gesneriaceae from Guangxi, China, Lagarosolen hechiensis Y.G. Wei, Yan Liu & F. Wen is described and illustrated. It is similar to L. hispidus W.T. Wang in the leaf shape, but differs by its leaf margin, bracts, bracteoles and corolla lobes.
23725094|Four standard pollen diagrams across the southern part of Finland were studied and dated. The profiles were obtained from open excavations in bogs, and furnished material for 70 radiocarbon dates. The material was complemented with details from two other Finnish bogs and from a subfossil Dryas site in the Karelian Isthmus, U.S.S.R. The relative pollen diagrams obtained were zoned on the basis of their pollen flora using the conventional zones IIIIX, without any assumption of synchroneity. The calculated average ages (B.P.) of the zone boundaries in this area, based on the present material and other data available, are: III/IV  9800, IV/V9020, V/VI7980, VI/VIIca. 6400, VII/VIIIca. 5000 and VIII/IX ca. 2800 years. The zone boundaries VI/VII and VIII/IX, however, are more or less time transgressive in southern Finland, while the others seem to be more synchronous. Attempts were also made to date certain other palynological marker levels such as the Pinus maximum, Alnuso,+, Piceao,+, Tiliao,+, and Cerealiao,+.
23726173|During four summers, the CO2 concentrations were measured in the air above mires reclaimed for forestry in eastern Finland. The daytime concentrations varied from 290 to 330 ppm. In the evening, with irradiation levels of 3050 W m-2, the CO2 values usually began to rise and were often around 450600 ppm at sunrise (on about 50% of nights monitored). This increase in concentration was sometimes partly or wholly prevented by the wind. The nocturnal CO2 outputs of the different components of the system were calculated for one night. The total respiration rate at the beginning of the rise in concentration in the evening was about 1g CO2 m-2 h-1. The cumulative CO2 output from 18.00 to 03.00 was ca. 6.5 g CO2 m-2, of which 62% originated from the drained peat, 21% from the surface vegetation and 17% from the aerial parts of the trees. In virgin mires the carbon accumulation averages about 25 g m-2 a-1, but after drainage the present mire began to release carbon at about 10 times this rate. Thus it seems that instead of accumulating carbon, large areas of peatland have altered in character and become a source of atmospheric carbon dioxide.
23726657|The lichen genus Erioderma has a centre of speciation in the islands of SE Asia. It is represented there by a total of ten species, seven of which are endemic. Four of the species are here described as new. All but two of the SE Asian species are closely related to South American species.
23727804|Calamintha pamphylica Boiss. & Heldr. subsp. alanyense S. Alan & Ocak subsp. nova is described and illustrated from the northwest of Alanya (Antalya) in Turkey. It is characterized by a puberulent, densely glandular flowering stem and calyx, subbilabiate calyx divided to 1/8, lower teeth mostly longer than upper teeth, clearly serrate leaves and linear-lanceolate bracteoles. A distribution map of the new subspecies is given. Stem and calyx hairs of three subspecies of C. pamphylica are displayed in SEM photographs.
23727914|The study investigates the spatial pattern dynamics of Senecio rivularis on different levels of population organization: genets and ramets. The tested null hypothesis was: in the expansion phase of a population, abundance and spatial pattern are affected by the number and diversity of genet clumps, in the stable phase with limited habitat resources population size is controlled mainly within independent clumps of genets. Spatiotemporal patterns of genets were studied within the entire population area and within selected clumps, respectively, while patterns of ramets were observed at a small scale. Additionally, data on genet survival, production of ramets, and rhizome disintigration were collected on the basis of 100 labelled genets in different clumps. The genet spatial pattern concerning 'structure scale' and 'structure intensity' was very variable on the level of genets but on the level of ramets it was regenerated close to the mean lifespan of genet, i.e. from several to up to 10 years. Variable spatial patterns of genets and ramets were affected by changes in the proportion of unitary and iterative genets, and by the contribution of these categories to the total number of ramets. Different factors seem to be important for the population dynamics in the phases of expansion and fluctuation, respectively: environmental conditions, plant features, and intrapopulation relations, driven by competition for space and habitat resources.
23725490|The highly oceanic regions of the circumpolar zone have often proved to be problematical from the point of view of their biogeographical position. This article examines the position of the Faeroe Islands in various regional systems. The species composition of the flora and fauna, the dominant vegetation types, the results of planting experiments and the values obtained for different climatic parameters and indices lead one to conclude that the Faeroe Islands represent a highly oceanic sector of the hemiboreal sub-zone (= transition between the boreal and temperate zones). The superficially tundra-like physiognomy is by no means a valid reason for including the islands in the arctic (or tundra) zone. Only the lowlands (below 150 m) belong to the hemiboreal zone, of course, with the highest parts representing the orohemiarctic zone. An ecoclimatic-phytogeographical system is outlined. Climatic parameters and indices correlated with vegetation zone and sector boundaries may be used to delimit homoclimatic areas on other continents (a part of the Alaska panhandle, Tierra del Fuego and southern Patagonia, Auckland Island and Campbell Island).
23727751|Emulating natural disturbances in managed forests has been suggested as a potential solution to maintain habitat conditions similar to those observed in old-growth forests. We examined the gap attributes and disturbance history of old-growth Picea abies-dominated stands in the northern boreal vegetation zone of the Pallas-Yllstunturi National Park in northwestern Finland to evaluate the influence of gaps on forest dynamics and the temporal patterns of gap creation. Six stands located at two sites were sampled along 400-m-long linear transects so that all intersected gaps were measured and dated. The average proportion of the forest area in the gaps was 43.1%  7.5%. An average gap size was estimated to be 221 m2  198 m2, whereas the median gap size was 170.2 m2. While only 20% of the gaps were smaller than 100 m2, nearly 85% of them were smaller than 300 m2. Gap creation was constant with no distinct peaks from 1965 to 2005. Thus, forest dynamics were driven by continuous small-scale disturbances and were characterized by quasi-equilibrium structure. However, the results of the growth release analysis indicated that more severe disturbance(s) may have occurred almost two centuries ago. Emulating this type of forest dynamics would imply selective or group harvesting of trees as the predominant methods, but larger-scale, more intensive cuttings could also be carried out periodically.
23727693|The moss flora of Hunan Province, China, has seven genera and 17 species in the family Orthotrichaceae. Zygodon rupestris Schimp. ex Lor. is new to China. New records for Hunan include the genera Schlotheimia and Zygodon, and Macromitrium syntrichophyllum Thr. & P. de la Varde, M. ferriei Card. & Thr., Orthotrichum rupestre Schleich. ex Schwaegr., O. exiguum Sull., O. subpumilum Bartr. ex Lewinsky, and Schlotheimia grevilleana Mitt. Ulota macrocarpa Broth. is synonymized with U. crispa (Hedw.) Brid. and Macromitrium quercicola Broth. with M.ferriei. A new name Schlotheimia vittii Guo, Enroth & T.J. Kop. is proposed for S. rubiginosa (Mll. Hal.) D.H. Vitt, hom. illeg. Eight lectotypes are selected or corrected (indexed). All species but M. ferriei are rare or very rare in Hunan. They are mostly epiphytic growing on trunks and branches of trees. They can survive in disturbed and man-made habitats, if suitable phorophytes are available. The species are described and most of them are illustrated in line drawings, and their altitudinal ranges in Hunan are presented in diagrams.
23726817|Gypsophila osmangaziensis E. Atalar & A. Ocak sp. nova (Caryophyllaceae) from Central Anatolia, Turkey is described and illustrated. It belongs in sect. Capituliformes and is endemic to Turkey. Diagnostic and morphological characteristics, as well as a full description and a detailed illustration are provided. Its seed ultrastructure was examined by means of SEM. The new species is compared with G. leucochlaena Hub.-Mor.
23726046|It is suggested that cell counts of bacterioplankton from natural waters made by phase contrast microscopy are unreliable. Instead estimates of total cell volume are considered to be realistic if they are based on actual measurements of cell dimensions. The mean cell volumes in the studied samples were found to be variable and often much lower than values usually taken as the mean volume of water bacteria.
23726655|Following the commonly accepted generic concept, the East Asian species Ledum subulatum (Nakai) A.P.Khokhr. & Mazurenko (Ericaceae) is transferred to the genus Rhododendron L. as Rhododendron subulatum (Nakai) Harmaja. A list of all species of Rhododendron subsect. Ledum (genus Ledum L.), according to current knowledge, is provided.
23726733|The new combination Genista cinerea (Vill.) DC. subsp.jimenezii (Pau) Cant is made and Genista murcica Coss. is lectotypified.
23726295|Dryopteris stenolepis (Baker) C. Christensen from China and from N. India has been analysed. In spite of the similar morphology, the "phenolis" (= "phloroglucinols") in these two materials are quite different. The Chinese taxon contains a compound designated stenolepin B (28-B), which until now has been detected only by TLC in D. nigropaleacea FraserJenkins and is identical with a synthetic substance possessing the structure 28-B. It may be a useful chemical marker for identification of difficult taxa. We also describe the synthesis of three homologous compounds containing acetyl(A), propionyl(P) and valeryl(V)groups instead of the butyryl(B)-group. They may also occur in ferns and are needed as reference compounds in chromatographic analysis. In D. stenolepis from N. India, no stenolepin (28-B) was detected. Instead, norflavaspidic acid (4), mainly consisting of the homologue 4-AP was found in this taxon. It was not present in the Chinese material of D. stenolepis. It would be advisable to examine other material of this taxonomically difficult species by different experimental methods, in order to check whether the Chinese and Indian plants are really the same taxon.
23727825|Inula rajamandii Narimisa & F. Ghahremani. sp. nova (Asteraceae, Inuleae) from NW Iran is described and illustrated. It is endemic to the Azarbayjan province. The species appears to be most closely related to Inula viscidula, with which it is compared.
23725321|The remote sensing classification procedure applied to the Lake Posionjrvi area in the Kuusamo region of northern Finland is based on spectral reflectances. The aquatic surfaces could be divided into seven classes, which are connected, on one the hand, with water depth, the nature of the bottom and the vegetation, and on the other with water quality. The recognition of aquatic vegetation areas depends on the main lifeform (helophytic, nymphaeid, isoetid, etc.), since the amount of radiation reflected from the chlorophyll of the leaves varies with their position above, on or below the water surface. Open water strongly absorbs near infrared wavelengths, but in places confusing increases in the near infrared radiation are caused by turbid water or groups of islets. The Landsat classification system gives the best results if applied at a time when the influence of minor factors is at a minimum, since this allows the remaining main variables to be identified and mapped. The different classes represent different aquatic surface complexes and the change from one class to another enables environmental gradients to be determined. Information is still needed, however, on the extent to which the reflected spectrum and recorded data are affected by biological, physical and chemical variables.
43922204|A study of freshwater hyphomycetes of six streams in the northern area of Pakistan, collected by water filtration, trapping in artificial and naturally occurring foam, and from naturally colonized submerged plant material, resulted in the identification of 83 species of these fungi. These circumneutral to slightly alkaline streams with minor differences in water chemistry, water flow and riparian vegetation, exhibited a high degree of species diversity. Several conidia that could not be placed in known species are illustrated.
23727784|Corydalis anthocrene Lidn & J. Van De Veire, C. brachyceras Lidn & J. Van De Veire and C. helodes Lidn & J. Van De Veire are described as new to science and compared with morphologically similar species.
23727625|Verbascum yurtkuranianum Kaynak, Dakn & Ylmaz sp. nova is described and illustrated from northwest Anatolia, Turkey. It is closely related to V. bugulifolium, from which it differs mainly in the shape of leaves, color, corolla diameter and capsule shape.
23727163|The following new species of the orchid subtribe Cyclopogoninae are described and illustrated: Pelexia ghiesbreghtii Szlach., Mytnik & Rutk., Potosia kusibabiana Szlach., Mytnik & Rutk., P. praetermissa Szlach., Mytnik & Rutk., and P. tamayoana Szlach., Mytnik & Rutk. Cyclopogon subgenus Pseudowarscea Szlach., Mytnik & Rutk. subgen. nov. is established. Keys for determination of the Mesoamerican species of Potosia are provided.
23725720|Treubiaceae has Treubia insignis Goebel and Makinoaceae Makinoa crispata (Steph.) Miyake on the Huon Peninsula. Apotreubia pusilla (Schust.) Grolle of Treubiaceae and Sandeothallus radiculosus (Schiffn.) Schust. of Allisoniaceae occur in Western Melanesia but were not found in the area. Descriptions, ecological and distributional data and illustrations are given for Makinoa crispata, Sandeothallus radiculosus and Treubia insignis.
23726248|The chromosome numbers of two collections of Stellaria graminea L. from South Finland were examined from mitoses in the root tip cells of germinated seeds. One collection yielded 2n = 52, the other 2n = c. 40, 42(3944). The latter numbers are new for the species, but are close to the exact triploid number (2n = 39), which is known only from the Netherlands. The voucher collections showed some morphological differences.
23727194|Plant species composition in the highway intersections and along the highways and urban and rural roads was compared with that of field habitats (abandoned fields and field verges) and semi-natural grasslands in order to ascertain the importance of road verges as alternative habitats for the grassland flora. Species composition varied more within than between the road types. The mean number and cover of the indicator species of the semi-natural grassland vegetation in roadside habitats fell somewhere between the values obtained for field habitats and semi-natural grasslands. Plant species composition of the road verge vegetation was rarely comparable to that of semi-natural grasslands due to the young age of the verges, disturbance from road maintenance, and too intensive management, especially along the urban roads. However, sites with a good grassland vegetation were found along all road types in old verges on nutrient poor and sandy soil. Those variables were independent of the size of the road, whereas the variables related to the road size (verge width, pH, Na, Ca) proved less important for the grassland species.
23724174|1. A revision of the genera and sections currently included in the family Mniaceae is presented. The family consists of ten genera: Mnium Hedw., Trachycystis Lindb., Leucolepis Lindb., Cinclidium Sw., Rhizomnium (Broth.) Kop., Cyrtomnium Holmen, Orthomnion Wils., Orthomniopsis Broth., Plagiomnium Kop., and Pseudobryum (Kindb.) Kop. The genera Bryomnium Card, and Roellia Kindb. are excluded from the family. The genus Mnium of earlier authors is divided into five genera, Mnium, Rhizomnium, Cyrtomnium, Plagiomnium, and Pseudobryum. 2. Both gametophytic and sporophytic characters have been used in the delimitation of the genera. Genera earlier separated mainly on the basis of the sporophyte characters also showed differential characters in the gametophyte. The structure of the stem, rhizoid topography, colour and growth-form were found to be useful characters in the delimitation of the genera and had also sometimes diagnostic value at specific level. The generic division suggested is well foundedkaryologically. 3. An attempt has been made to base the classification on evolutionary concepts. The genera proposed are possibly monophyletic and also phenetically uniform. They also fulfil the conditions which are generally used and accepted in the delimitation of genera. On the other hand, it was not possible to apply the criterion of monophyly in the case of taxa above the rank of genus. Only one of the tribes suggested is probably monophyletic; the others may be paraphyletic while one is perhaps even polyphyletic. The delimitation of the families Bryaceae, Mniaceae, and Rhizogoniaceae appears to be in need of revision. 4. A sectional division of the genera is proposed. It follows Kabierschs (1936) subdivision with minor amendments. The species studied are listed under each genus or section and the necessary new combinations are introduced. 5. Three new tribes, Cinclidieae Kop., Orthomnieae Kop., and Plagiomnieae Kop., three new genera, Rhizomnium (Broth.) Kop., Plagiomnium Kop., and Pseudobryum (Kindb.) Kop., and one new section, Rhizomnium sect. Micromnium Kop. are introduced. The independent position of the section Pinnaticosta Kab. is not maintained and instead it is united with the genus Pseudobryum. Similarly, the subsection Sublimbata Kab. is united with Plagiomnium sect. Rostrata (Kindb.) Kop. A number of new combinations are introduced at sectional and specific level in the genera Mnium (p. 140), Rhizomnium (p. 142), Plagiomnium (p. 145), and Pseudobryum (p. 147). Numerous typifications are given at generic and sectional level.
23728162|Astragalus argentophyllus Taeb & Uzunh. (Fabaceae) is described and illustrated as a new species from south Anatolia, Turkey. It is placed in Astragalus sect. Malacothrix, and is similar to A. pseudotauricola, but differs by several characters in the leaves, flowers and legumes.
23726616|Inflorescence construction within the southern African species of Bolboschoenus (L.) Palla, namely, B. glaucus (Lam.) S. G. Smith, B. maritimus (L.) Palla s. str., and B. nobilis (Ridley) Goetghebeur & D. A. Simpson is discussed and illustrated diagrammatically and photographically. A glossary of terminology is given. [Note that B. maritimus s. str. excludes B. glaucus, which is often included by authors in B. maritimus s. lat.] The basic inflorescence pattern covers a considerable range from a solitary spikelet to complex, compound inflorescences with three orders of branches and hundreds of spikelets. For each entity, inflorescence limits are variable, correlated it would seem with plant robustness and growing conditions.
23727251|The flower visitors, pollination and fruitset of cashew (Anacardium occidentale) were studied. The investigation involved monitoring of flower visitors, assessment of floral rewards for pollinators and breeding experiments to establish the role of flower visitors on fruitset. Yield of fruits has been low due to the lack of appropriate pollinators and the possible role of ants in pollen damage. Bees, flies, butterflies, beetles and ants visited the flowers. Relative abundance of visitors coincided with nectar availability. Breeding manipulation by bagging experiments indicated that bees are efficient pollinators increasing fruitset, while ants decreased fruitset by damaging the viable pollen. Effective fruit production requires more activities of bees and management to reduce ant damages in A. occidentale.
23724302|On the basis of previous papers as well as preliminary experiments, the hypothesis was made that the strontium uptake of the Cladonia alpestris thallus consists essentially of an accumulation of these cations in the thallus caused by the electrical field of ionogenic groups on the thallus surface. The thallus homogenate was approximated as a polybasic macromolecule, to which the common principles of the physical chemistry of macromolecules were applied with the following results: 1. The strontium uptake of the C. alpestris thallus depends markedly on the pH of the external solution. It is very small under pH 3. When the acidity of the solution is decreased, the uptake increases to a maximum value, at pH 79, of about 0.20.3meq/g air-dry weight lichen. 2. Lichen samples from various regions in Finland reveal about a twofold maximum difference in capacity at the natural pH of thallus supension, pH 34. Because of the small number of samples, this result is only approximate and it must also be remembered that it includes the variation caused by environmental factors as well. However, the capacity values mentioned above seem to be characteristic of C. alpestris. 3. The strontium uptake and the H+ dissociation of C. alpestris are thermodynamically reversible in the ranges of biological pH values. 4. The temperature dependence of the strontium uptake is small. The standard heat of reaction is about + 1.7-+2.0 kcal/mole. On the evidence of changes in the standard free energy (-4  -5 kcal/mole) and entropy (+ 23 eu), the process seems to be a cation exchange which is complicated by the possible formation of some kind of chelate compound and hydrogen bonding between carboxyls. Because of the lack of earlier papers on this subject, the full significance of these thermodynamic values is difficult to evaluate. The original approximation of the thallus as a macromolecule possessing a net charge seems to be valid. 5. The kinetics of the strontium uptake follows the rate law of first order. The activation energy is about 2.5 kcal/mole, and the limiting factor is film diffusion. 6. To judge from the titration curves of numerous species, the thalli of Cladonia alpestris, Umbilicaria deusta, Parmelia saxatilis and the species pair Usnea dasypoga + U. comosa apparently contain different kinds of ionogenic groups. In the pK range of 2.7  3.3 these groups are evidently carboxyls of pectin-like substances. However, in some species the main part of the strontium uptake seems to be based on other substances having a pK of 5  7, which were not identified. Possibly they are organophosphoric compounds or side-chain carboxyls of proteins. The groups having a pK of about 8 are phenolic. Usnic acid, which has a wide distribution among lichens, was not found to participate in this uptake process. 7. There is apparently a correlation between the uronic acid content of the thalli of different lichen species and their strontium uptake. Epiphytic species seem to have a higher strontium uptake and uronic acid content than species growing on the ground. 8. The cation selectivity of the C. alpestris thallus generally agrees with that of other plants and cation exchange resins. The thallus prefers bivalent cations to univalent ones. 9. The exchange capacity of the C. alpestris thallus, as estimated from its strontium uptake, is similar to the few lichen determinations given in the literature and is of the same order of magnitude as that of monocots. 10. From these short-term experiments, it appears that the strontium uptake of Cladonia alpestris is purely a process of physical chemistry without any indications of metabolic activity.
23727987|Silene cirpicii K. YildiY& Dadand sp. nova (Caryophyllaceae) is described and illustrated from N Anatolia, Turkey. Diagnostic morphological characters for distinction from the similar S. falcata, S. caryophylloides and S. argaea are given along with their chorological characteristics. Ultrastructure of the seeds and pollen grains was examined using SEM.
23724658|The study area comprises the waters lying on the Haukivesi side of the town of Varkaus, which display varying degrees of pollution, and the cleaner waters lying above the factories. The pollution of the waters is caused by different factories, and human assemblages. According to the quality and degree of pollution, five main types of waters are distinguished in the study area. On the basis of their frequency and abundance in the different types of waters, the hydrophytes can be divided into three groups: 1) those which benefit by the wastes in varying degrees, 2) those which suffer from them in varying degrees, and 3) those which are indifferent to pollution.
23725773|The effect of summer frosts on the growth and production ecology of some dwarf shrub species (Andromeda polifolia L., Calluna vulgaris (L.) Hull, Empetrum nigrum L., Vaccinium oxycoccus L., Vaccinium microcarpum (Turcz. ex Rupr.) Schmalh.) was studied on an ombrotrophic raised bog in Lammi, southern Finland. Two summers, 1977 and 1978, were compared. In June 1978 there were severe frosts during two nights. In other ways the growing seasons were quite similar. Frost nights in June 1978 damaged a great deal of young growing shoots. All studied species were sensitive to cold. Vigour regeneration began after the frosts and new shoots were formed. One destroyed shoot was usually compensated by several regenerated ones. The growth curves of these new shoots were similar to those of the original shoots, but their total length was smaller. This vigour regeneration could not, however, compensate for losses in the annual production. In 1978 the total production of the studied dwarf shrubs was appr. 50 % of that in 1977. The differences in production losses between the individual dwarf shrub species are discussed. It was concluded that the existence of these dwarf shrubs on bogs is not endangered by losses through frost damage. The effect of summer frosts is greatest on the branching structure of these dwarf shrubs and on the fluctuation of production between different years.
23726643|Rate of net photosynthesis in Sphagnum fuscum (Schimp.) Klinggr. was measured during long-term (50122 days), and subsequently during short-term ( h), exposure to 350, 700, 1 000 or 2 000 ppm CO2 concentrations. Raised CO2 concentrations caused a general increase in the rate of net photosynthesis, increasing the rate of photosynthesis at light saturation and causing a given rate of net CO2 exchange to be reached at lower light fluxes. The relative increase in the rate of net photosynthesis by increasing radiation fluxes was independent of the CO2 treatment. The rates of net photosynthesis at enhanced CO2 concentrations gradually decreased compared to rates found with the 350 ppm treatment and this acclimation was also noticed during short-term exposure to all four CO2 concentrations. At 2 000 ppm of CO2, the depression of net photosynthesis at high water contents, found at lower CO2 concentrations, was removed. Observed rates of net photosynthesis indicated that water-use efficiency of Sphagna was not coupled with constant long-term CO2 concentrations.
23725076|Thymus perinicus (Velen.) Jalas, comb. et stat. nov., is accorded the rank of species as a local endemic of Pirin Planina, Bulgaria. Another taxon of the "cherlerioides group", endemic to the same general area, is recognized as T. leucotrichus Halcsy subsp. neiceffii (Degen & Urum.) Jalas, comb. et stat. nov. Varietal names are proposed to cover different hairiness variants of T. longicaulis C. Presl, T. ocheus Boiss., T. pannonicus All., T. pulegioides L., T. sibthorpii Bentham and T. thracicus Velen. The pertinent synonymies and a number of nomenclatural typifications are included.
23724609|1. The nuclear history during the spore germination of Anthracoidea aspera and A. limosa has been studied. 2. It is shown that the nucleus in the spores of both Anthracoidea aspera and A. limosa are at first binucleate and become uninucleate and thus diploid. 3. As a result of the first two nuclear divisions both the two promycelial cells have two nuclei. It is postulated that these divisions are meiotic. 4. In Anthracoidea aspera only one of the nuclei of the promycelial cell migrates, probably in anaphase, into the sporidium, which is initially uninucleate but becomes multinucleate. Because the other nucleus remains in the promycelial cell, this is able to produce several sporidia in succession. 5. In Anthracoidea limosa both nuclei of a promycelial cell migrate into the sporidium, which accordingly, is initially binucleate but becomes multinucleate. Because neither nuclei nor cytoplasm are left in the promycelial cell, only one sporidium can be produced. 6. It was found that in Anthracoidea limosa the nuclear migration is always connected with one certain divisional stage of the nuclei, viz. prophase (or prometaphase). Accordingly, the production of the different kinds of sporidia is possible only in connexion with nuclear divisions. 7. A probable mechanism restricting the genetical recombination process in Anthracoidea limosa is pseudo-homothallism. In A. aspera homothallism seems to be the only possible mechanism. Furthermore, the possibility that homothallism also occurs in A. limosa cannot be excluded.
23726803|A new species Astragalus crispus F. Ghahremani. (Fabaceae), is described from Iran and illustrated. It belongs to Astragalus sect. Craccina (Steven) Bunge, which contains species with bifurcate hairs, and is related to A. austriacus.
23725189|A revision of the Mniaceae specimens in the herbarium of the Institute of Botany, Academia Sinica (PE), revealed that the Chinese specimens deposited under the following names actually represent other species: Mnium affine Bland., M. affine var. elatum B.S.G., M. pseudopunctatum Bruch & Schimp., M. punctatum Hedw., M. seligeri Warnst., M. venustum Mitt., and M. undulatum Hedw. This confirms the absence of these species from the southeast Asian flora. Plagiomnium ellipticum (Brid.) T. Kop. is fairly common in N. China, P. rostratum (anon.) T. Kop. is rare, occurring in the Gansu, Sichuan and Yunnan Provinces, and P. vesicatum (Besch.) T. Kop. is not present in the Chinese flora. P. tezukae (Sak.) T. Kop. and Rhizomnium tuomikoskii T. Kop. are reported from the Chinese mainland. Lists are given of specimens establishing remarkable range extensions and of the 42 species composing the Chinese Mniaceae flora. Flagelliform branches are described for Trachycystis ussuriensis (Maack & Regel) T. Kop. and the distribution of T. microphylla (Dozy & Molk.) Lindb. is mapped.
23725878|Five fruit characters were measured in 20 populations of Angelica archangelica L. subsp. archangelica, which extended from the Atlantic coast of northern Norway to Kemi Lapland in Finland (between about 70 31'N and 67 40'N), and included the isolated Somerniemi population in South Finland and one Icelandic population. In addition. 24 samples collected from nature and obtained through botanical gardens or private persons were used for comparison. Within the study area there was clinal variation in the shape and size of the fruits from north to south and from higher altitudes to lower ones. In Inari Lapland the fruits collected from higher altitudes tended to be larger than those collected from lower slopes. In the samples from Kemi Lapland fruits collected from higher altitudes greatly resembled those from Inari Laplan, whereas the samples from lower altitudes were mainly characterized by their more flattened and elongated shape. The results suggest that the differentiation of the populations along the altitudinal gradient may parallel that along the gradient of latitude. The disjunct Somerniemi population most resembled the southernmost populations of northern Finland. The range of variation of the subspecies within the study area seemed to be wider than that found in the species in a larger region in Europe.
23727682|Adiantum reniforme var. sinense (Adiantaceae) is a rare and endangered fern with only four known remaining populations restricted to a few sites in the Three-Gorges area of the Yangtze River in China. RAPD markers were used to investigate the level of genetic diversity in the four populations. Twenty of the 80 primers that were tested were selected and a total of 92 DNA fragments were scored. The low level of genetic diversity observed in the fern is attributed to its confinement to the east of Sichuan Province and west of Hubei Province, which constitute a refugium of plants from the Quaternary glaciation period. At the population level, the percentage of polymorphic bands (PPB), the effective number of alleles per locus (AE), the expected heterozygosity (HE), and Shannon's information measure (H) were 29.6%, 0.102, 1.114 and 0.1506, respectively; while at the species level, the corresponding values were 33.7%, 0.118, 1.133 and 0.1779, respectively. Nei's standard genetic distance (D) was low and ranged from 0.0136 to 0.0274. AMOVA analysis indicated that the most of the genetic variation (89.93%) resided within populations, and that only 10.03% of the variation resided among populations. In the UPGMA dendrogram based on Nei's genetic distance some individuals from different populations clustered together. The high gene flow detected in the populations (Nm = 1.688) may indicate that the four populations may originally have belonged to a single expansive population, which at present is fragmented into four discontinuous units due to disturbance by human activities. The endangered status of this taxon is attributed to the effect of low genetic diversity and habitat deterioration and disturbance.
23727679|Surface microcharacters of the ovary of the Asteraceae were studied, especially biseriate glandular hairs. Of 34 species belonging to the Asteroideae, only Dittrichia viscosa, Pulicaria dysenterica, Bellis perennis, Tanacetum parthenium, Achillea maritima, Matricaria chamomilla, and Eupatorium cannabinum possess glandular hairs on the ovary. Additional characters considered are hair morphology and distribution, cell number, and presence of subcuticular chambers and chloroplasts. The usefulness of glandular hairs of the ovary for taxonomic purposes is discussed.
23725221|Diversity indices are given for diatom species in both the spring and fall population pulses in 39 lakes of the prairie, deciduous forest and coniferous-deciduous forest regions of central North America. Altogether 346 different diatom taxa were recorded in the 66 samples analyzed. The diversity indices H(S) and  are examined in relation to environmental conditions in the lakes. Within each of three geographic regions distinguished on the basis of the main vegetation types, the diversity index  and the phosphorus concentration supported each other in indicating pollution. But this was not the case with  and the conductivity of the lake water. An advantage of diversity indices in monitoring work is that long lists of organisms can be condensed into a single value, but such indices should be used only as additional information.
23727256|The new names (33) of plants published by Justus Montell (18691954) are typified. The type specimens of most of his new taxa derive from the Finnish provinces Alandia, Lapponia kittilensis or Lapponia enontekiensis. The most noteworthy names are Orchis maculatus var. kolansis Montell (= Dactylorhiza maculata subsp. montellii) and Carex  microstachyoides Montell (= C. dioica  heleonastes).
23726815|Cyperus bulbosus Vahl, C. cruentus Rottb., C. globosus Forssk. and C. amauropus Steud. are typified. The lectotype of C. bulbosus was collected in Senegal, Galam (upper course of river Senegal) by M. Adanson in 17491753 and that of C. cruentus in Yemen, Bolghosi [A1 Hadiyah] by P. Forsskl in 1763. Cyperus amauropus Steud. and C. globosus Forssk. are synonymised with C. cruentus Rottb. Cyperus leptophyllus Hochst. nom. inval. also represents C. cruentus.
23726769|Natural hybridisation between Saxifraga trabutiana and Saxifraga granulata, two species belonging to different series of sect. Saxifraga, is reported. The hybrid, S.  sorianoi, is endemic to the high mountains of Sierra de Filabres (Spain). The high morphological variation of S. granulata makes it difficult to differentiate all individual variants of this species from true hybrids found in sympatric populations. To test the hypothesis of the hybrid origin of S.  sorianoi, we have used parental-specific molecular markers, obtained by ISSR (Inter-Simple Sequence Repeat) analysis and restriction of ITS (Internal Transcribed Spacer) sequences. In agreement with that hypothesis, marker profiles showed strong additivity according to its parental species. On the other hand, the ITS sequence of S. trabutiana was analysed along with those from other species of sect. Saxifraga to determine its relative position within this complex group. Saxifraga trabutiana clustered with S. erioblasta and S. rigoi, all of them classified into series Gemmiferae. Conversely, other taxa of the same series such as S. globulifera, which is morphologically very similar to S. trabutiana, are scattered over different clusters. This is in line with what has been described for other plants of sect. Saxifraga. Discrepancies between molecular phylogeny and the relationships inferred from morphological data are discussed in a general context of reticulation within sect. Saxifraga.
23725756|The wide variation observed earlier in the secondary product chemistry of the lichen Parmelia omphalodes (L.) Ach. (Ascomycotina: Lecanorales) in Eastern Fennoscandia was found to exist in other regions as well. However, some differences were noted between the North American and European populations in the occurrence of chemical strains and morphotypes. The populations of P. omphalodes in North America mostly have a pale grey upper cortex, even in exposed sites  in contrast to the usually dark brown cortex in European specimens. In North America subsp. omphalodes is frequently represented by the chemotype without lobaric acid. Subsp. discordans (Nyl.) Skult does not occur in North America or Asia. A frequent taxon in the arctic regions is subsp. glacialis Skult, containing norstictic and salazinic acids and atranorin. Subsp. pinnatifida (Kurok.) Skult is chiefly restricted to subarctic-arctic regions and high altitudes in Europe and North America. A special, but rare chemotype of P. omphalodes, occurring on the northeast coast of North America, contains fumarprotocetraric acid and atranorin. The distribution of the subspecies and some of the strains is mapped, and the chemical strain profiles of seven distinct regions are compared.
23725857|A synopsis of the botanical lake types in Finnish Lapland and their distribution is presented on the basis of material from 484 lakes. Chemico-physical properties are reported for 180 of them and floristic data for 165. Of the 12 lake types described by L. Maristo, the following are found in Lapland: the Equisetum. Equisetum  Phragmites. Lobelia, Potamogeton filiformis  Chara, Stratiotes, Elodeid and Carex types, and in addition the Nuphar type presented by other authors. One new type is described, the Nitella type. Variants of the Nuphar type are presented: a clear-water variant, and poor clear-water and brown-water variants. Other new variants are the clear-water variant of the Equisetum type, the poor variant of the Lobelia type, and the brown-water and non-isoetid variants of the Carex type. The Nitella type, the Carex type and its variants and the Potamogeton filiformis  Chara type occur in this order from the north to the south of the northern boreal zone, being limited to that region. The Elodeid type has a mainly northern boreal distribution, reaching the middle boreal zone. The Nuphar type and its variants evidently occur throughout the boreal zone. The other types are southern and middle boreal but also extend to the southern part of the northern boreal zone.
23724684|Elymus arenarius, a native of the seashore, has been increasingly found in inland localities in Finland. The mainly northern occurrences beside lakes and rivers and on inland sands are very old, but there is evidence which suggests that they are not seashore relics but rather of ancient anthropochorous origin. The more recent inland occurrences are certainly anthropochorous, and the oldest of these are restricted to coastal areas. Numerous railway localities have been found, even far inland. The most recent wave of immigrations into the interior comprises occurrences on the sandy margins of new highways, mostly in southern Finland.
23725466|Two indirect non-destructive methods are described which seem to yield rapid and accurate estimates of the above- and belowground biomasses of two Ranunculus species. The method based on the size-class distribution of individuals in a population is probably useful for many herbs in which the number of leaves and flowers varies relatively little. If the range in the number of leaves and flowers is great, the regression method based on these plant organs may be applicable.
23724220|1. The vegetation and flora of Karkali Nature Reserve have been studied. In addition to material collected by the present author himself rather extensive material was available in the form of notes made in the years 1886 - 93 (pp. 132, 174). 2. Karkali peninsula is situated in one of the most fertile districts of southern Finland. The topography of the reserve is rather varied in its minor features as is also the bedrock, which in places contains lime. The microclimate is favourable owing to Karkali's position in the middle of a large lake. The conditions are suitable for rather luxuriant vegetation and exacting eutrophic plant species. 3. The history of the settlement and cultivation of Karkali is discussed in some detail in order to throw light on the conditions prevailing at the time when the earlier botanists made their records. According to historical evidence the peninsula was definitely inhabited by 1587, and possibly even as early as 1460. Information is available from the eighteenth century regarding the cultivation of the area of the present nature reserve and some meadows appear to have been situated there. Intensive burning-over was practised in the Karjalohja district and such was also the case in Karkali. In the area of the present reserve there were earlier three tenant farms, one of which was still inhabited in the 1910's. Human influence on the vegetation and flora was rather strong until the year 1881. 4. In 1881 Karkali changed owners, farming activity decreased, and the area became the site of a summer residence. The new owner modernized the cultivation methods, and the succession which had begun in the forest vegetation was subsequently disturbed only by some forest grazing and occasional felling. Some of the earlier meadows were left to revert to woodland and later on two cultivated fields were also abandoned. 5. The meadow vegetation in the 1880's and 1890's is described. There were two sorts of meadows: permanent meadows and meadows created by burning-over. The latter soon developed into meadow woodland on eutrophic soils and two old relevs exist from such sites. 6. The present meadow vegetation is described. 7. Forest vegetation in the 1880's and 1890's is described. The tree stands consisted mainly of deciduous trees, Betula being dominant (Fig. 13). Dry slopes and rocky sites were covered with Pinus woods. Picea occurred only in mixed woods. In the field layer the proportion of meadow species persisting from the earlier meadow period that followed burning-over was rather high. 8. The present forest vegetation is described. Heath forests are divided into two categories, dry and mesic heath forests. It is shown that dry heath forest sites in Karkali resemble eutrophic dry heath forests on esker ridges (Halbhaine). The mesic heath forest sites belong to the Myrtillus and Oxalis - Myrtillus site types. Grass-herb forest sites were one of the main subjects of the study. Mesic grass-herb forest sites are divided into two stand types. The Corylus - Oxalis - Maianthemum stand type occurs on the less eutrophic often stony upper parts of grass-herb forest slopes. The vegetation consists of less eutrophic species, part of which also occur in heath forest sites. The Aegopodium - Mercurialis stand type occurs on the most fertile calcareous soils and the vegetation consists of exacting grass-herb forest species, the oligotrophic species of the Corylus - Oxalis Maianthemum stand type being absent. In the vegetation belonging to the so-called Anemone ranunculoides - Heptica stand group the spring aspect is well developed. The stand group is related to the Aegopodium - Mercurialis stand type. The distribution of these stand types and this stand group is discussed. Their relation to the forest site types is examined and it is shown that the Corylus - Oxalis - Maianthemum stand type belongs to the Oxalis - Maianthemum forest site type, and that the Aegopodium - Mercurialis stand type and the Anemone ranunculoides - Hepatica stand group belong to the Oxalis - Hepatica site type. Wet grass-herb forest sites are divided into two stand groups, the Athyrium - Hepatica and Athyrium - Mercurialis stand groups. Their relation to the forest site types is discussed. In connexion with grass-herb forest vegetation a description is given of the vegetation of two fields which were abandoned about 40 years ago. Their vegetation now resembles that of grass-herb forests. Successional changes are still taking place in the tree stand and also in the vegetation of the field layer (pp. 162 - 163). 9. There are only a few swamps in the area, but some swamp forest sites occur. A description is given of a paludified heath forest site and swamp forest with grasses and herbs, of Alnus glutinosa carr, and also of the vegetation of melt-water pools and spring clusters. The only peat bog in the nature reserve is situated on the cliff on the northern shore. 10. The rock vegetation is rather varied, and it is dealt with as a sort of complex vegetation. The vegetation of the reindeer lichen rocks and rock meadows is described. In meadows on rock outcrops two sorts of vegetation may be distinguished, one has high herbs and grasses and the other (named by Jalas Woodsia - Viscaria vegetation) has a less luxuriant appearance and is more petrophytic in nature. A description is also given of the vegetation of the rock outcrop kept wet by run-off, and of the rock faces.
23725877|Fifteen different mire site types, varying from ombrotrophic to eutrophic, were distinguished on a 3-ha kettle-hole mire, Heinisuo, Koski Hl., southern Finland. Within these site types records were made of the thickness of the aerobic peat layer and its relation to the water table, the water tension of the surface peat and the chemistry of the surface peat and mire water. Due to its topography and hydrology, Heinisuo has remained in a rather fertile stage throughout its development. The mineral contents were usually in the upper end of the range of values reported from similar site types in larger mires. Due to the fluctuations of the ground water and rapid surface flow, three different groups of mire site types could be separated on the relationship between the thickness of the aerobic peat layer and the depth of the water table. The chemical analyses also revealed intercorrelated groups of elements. The vegetation and site types change along a complex gradient involving both the water level and its fluctuations and the nutrient regime. Due to horizontal water movement, the fertile lagg zone is broad and the ombrotrophic part of the mire is of minor importance.
23726085|The visible injuries of conifers and the sulphur contents of 13 year old needles were mapped in the environment of the fertilizer factory of Kemira Oy in Siilinjrvi and the pulp mill of Savon Sellu Oy in Kuopio and in the city of Kuopio during the years 19761978. The sulphur content of Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) needles varied from 740 to 3420 ppm and those of Norway spruce (Picea abies (L.) Karst.) needles from 700 to 4250 ppm. The sulphur content of needles of different ages did not show significant differences. The sulphur content of the needles relative to the visible injuries were different at each study area, thus indicating the presence of injurious factors other than SO2. Together the classification of visible injuries of conifers and the determination of the sulphur content of needles form a rather reliable method for mapping plant injuries caused by air pollutants and studying the role of SO2 as a causal agent of them.
23725332|Swamp vegetation was surveyed in the western Amazon lowlands (<500 m above sea level) using Landsat MSS and TM imagery, radar maps and ground truth surveys. Four categories of swamp vegetation were recognized on the basis of the physiognomy: (I) herbaceous swamp, (II) shrub swamp, (III) palm swamp and (IV) forest swamp. The total coverage of the swamp vegetation recognized was 24 900 km2 or 3.4% of the study area. Of these swamps, 19% are situated in floodbasin areas, 8% in blocked valleys, and 73% belong to the "Maraon wetland complex", where no detailed swamp classification was carried out. The largest swamp areas are located in the central parts of the intra-foreland basins PastazaMaraon and Ucayali, which are characterized by widespread inundations and aggradation. Mobile river channels cause alterations in inundation conditions, which lead to local forest destruction and succession. The instability of the swamp site physiography makes swamp vegetation classification difficult. The suggestion is made that future studies on swamp vegetation should also contain descriptions of the swamp site geomorphology, the type of flood water received (rivers, rain) and the hydrology (flood regime).
23727621|Manglietia decidua (Magnoliaceae) is the only deciduous species known in the genus. The ovules are anatropous, bitegmic and crassinucellar. The archesporium is one-celled and of hypodermal origin. The chalazal megaspore is functional and develops into the Allium type of female gametophyte. There is apparently a delay in development of the embryo while the endosperm is developing. As a cell wall partitioned the two nuclei into the first two endosperm cells, endosperm development was ab initio cellular. In the seed the outer integument became differentiated into an outer fleshy layer and an inner stony one, the inner integument persisting only at the micropylar region and forming a plugging tissue.
23724165|Der Untersuchung liegen 332 (davon 179 vom Verfasser selbst gesammelte) Populationsproben von Melampyrum pratense L. zugrunde, an die sich noch die schon frher analysierten 41 Proben aus den Grenzgebieten von Pohjanmaa und Nord-Hme (Jalas & Rikkinen 1962) sowie 69 Herbarbelege aus Ostfennoskandien (Jalas & Raitanen 1962) anschliessen. Im ganzen haben somit 444 Proben zur Verfgung gestanden, davon 373 aus Finnland, 21 aus der UdSSR, 16 aus Nordschweden und 34 aus Nordnorwegen. Ihr Ursprung erhellt aus dem Verzeichnis auf S. 492  497 und ihre Verteilung ber das Untersuchungsgebiet aus der Karte in Abb. 2. Die Untersuchungen betrafen vor allem die folgenden sechs Merkmale: Internodienzahl der vegetativen Hauptachse, stigkeit, Anzahl der interkalaren Blattpaare, Kronenlnge, Antherenlnge und Bltenfarbe. Die benutzten Punktklassen sind dieselben wie bei Jalas & Raitanen (op. c.) und sind in der bersicht auf S. 492 mitgeteilt. Die Ergebnisse der an den Proben ausgefhrten Messungen sind in Tab. 1 zusammengestellt. Grundstzlich scheinen alle Kombinationen der untersuchten Merkmale im Niveau der Lokalpopulationen mglich zu sein, und sehr viele von ihnen haben sich im Rahmen des untersuchten Materials auch tatschlich verwirklicht (Tab. 2). Eine unverkennbare gegenseitige Korrelation weisen von den untersuchten Merkmalen nur die Kronen- und die Antherenlnge auf (Abb. 3). Weiter erscheint die Gelbbltigkeit (Farbklassen 3 und 4) deutlich auf die Proben mit grossen Blten konzentriert (S. 497). ber die Selbstndigkeit der Lokalpopulationen in der Natur werden Beispiele erwhnt, und zwar Flle aus dem Material, wo zwei morphologisch unterschiedliche Typen entweder als Mischpopulationen oder dicht nebeneinander ohne Zwischenformen aufgetreten sind. Vordem wurde versucht, die Selbstndigkeit der Populationen u.a. von einer durch verschiedene Bltezeiten bedingten Isolation ausgehend zu erklren. Es hat sich jedoch gezeigt, dass wenigstens in Ostfennoskandien zwischen den verschiedenen morphologischen Typen keine solchen Unterschiede im Zeitpunkt des Bltebeginns bestehen, dass sie eine effektive Isolation zustandebringen knnten. Wohl hingegen gibt es erhebliche Differenzen in der Dauer des Blhens. Auch ihre Signifikanz als Isolationsfaktor wird indessen durch die vorhandenen Daten ber die Schwche der Samenfertilitt bei den sptesten Blten des Bltenstandes beeintrchtigt. In der Literatur vorhandene Angaben sttzen die aus eigenen Beobachtungen hervorgegangene Auffassung, dass die Art auch in hiesigen Verhltnissen zum grossen Teil (fakultativ) autogam ist, ein Umstand, der die Selbstndigkeit der Lokalpopulationen hinreichend zu erklren scheint. Die Verbreitung der einzelnen Merkmale wurde mit Hilfe von Punktkarten (Abb. 4  18) analysiert. Kleinbltige Populationen gibt es ziemlich gleichmssig durch das ganze Gebiet; an der Sd- und Sdwestkste des Landes fehlen sie jedoch fast ganz (Abb. 4). In Sd- und Mittelfinnland scheinen die kleinbltigen Populationen an die Gewsser und auf die sog. Hainzentren konzentriert zu sein. Die grossbltigen Populationen haben eine jhe Nordgrenze in der mittelborealen Vegetationszone (Abb. 5). Dazu fehlen sie in einem breiten Kstenstreifen des Bottnischen Meerbusens. Auch vereinzelte grossbltige Pflanzen gibt es jenseits der genannten Grenze nicht viel, aus seran der nordwestlichen Kste von Norwegen, auch dort in der mittelborealen Zone (Abb. 6). In den Randgebieten kommen Populationen mit disharmonischen Blten vor, die vielleicht das Resultat von Kreuzungen zwischen gross-und kleinbltigen Typen darstellen. Die Verbreitung der gelbbltigen Pflanzen (Punktlassen 3 und 4) deckt sich annhernd mit der der grossbltigen (Abb. 7 und 8). Der roten Bltenfarbe begegnet man in Ostfennoskandien hauptschlich erstens an der Sdwestkste Finnlands und zweitens in Lappland. Eine dritte Anhufung befindet in Sdschweden, ausserhalb des eigentlichen Untersuchungsgebietes. Dieselbe sdliche, in der mittelborealen Zone haltmachende Verbreitung wiederholt sich bei denjenigen Populationen, die im Durchschnitt durch 3 oder 4 vegetative Internodien gekennzeichnet sind (Abb. 9). In Lappland und Nordnorwegen dominieren Populationen mit nur einem Internodium, bei denen also die Kotyledonen unmittelbar vom ersten Hochblattpaar gefolgt werden (Abb. 10).
23724998|The vascular plants of South West Africa deposited in the Botanical Museum, University of Helsinki, are listed with descriptions of the localities of the specimens. A considerable number of the records are new for the region in question, especially for Ovamboland and Okavango, the northernmost districts of South West Africa, where the main part of the material was collected. Notes are given on the ways in which some plants are used by the natives and some vernacular plant names are listed.
23727912|Morphological features of pollen and seeds of 19 Turkish species of the complex genus Marrubium were examined using light and scanning electron microscopy. On the basis of exine sculpturing and seed shape, three main types are recognized in Marrubium. The study revealed that palynological and seed morphological characters are of taxonomic significance in the genus.
23725889|The anatomy of the roots of pea seedlings (Pisum sativum L.) grown in aseptic agar cultures was studied after 12-day exposure to three concentrations of lead or arsenate (1.0, 0.1 and 0.01 mM). At the 1.0 and 0.1 mM concentrations of arsenate the triarch pattern of the conductive elements could not always be recognized. Lead, at these concentrations, increased irregular radial thickening. The endodermis was not always discernible and its cell walls appeared to be lignified in the presence of either toxicant. At the 1.0 mM concentration of lead lignification occurred in the cortex parenchyma as well. Both toxicants seemed to induce loss of epidermis and cortex tissue at the 1.0 and 0.1 mM concentrations.
23726888|The genera Thuidium Bruch & Schimp. and Pelekium Mitt. have ten species in China, and the genera Aequatoriella A. Touw and Bryochenea C. Gao & K.C. Chang have one species each. The generic and specific nomenclature of these taxa in China is compared and a list of recommended names is given. Pelekium microphyllum (Schwaegr.) T.J. Kop. & A. Touw (Haplohymenium microphyllum Schwaegr.) is a new combination. The status of Thuidium unipinnatum Y.-M. Fang & T.J. Kop. and the genus Bryochenea need further study.
23724197|In the East Patagonian vegetation, A. Kalela (1946) distinguished four principal formations: the forest, steppe, semi-desert, and monte formations. Anatomical studies have been made of the leaves of 284 species belonging to the flora of these different zones, using the material collected by Professor Kalela and by Dr. Roivainen. The purpose was to find out whether any correlation exists between the internal leaf structure and the conditions prevailing in the different vegetation zones. A review of the literature dealing with the edaphic and climatic conditions in the regions in question shows that the main differences between them are to be found in their conditions of humidity, on the one hand, and in those of solar radiation on the other. The first-mentioned vary on account of the fact that the rainfall decreases from west to east, and the latter change from north to south owing to the great extent of the area in this direction. The plant species have been divided into 26 different types on the basis of the anatomical structure of their leaves. The groups have then been mutually compared in order to see how they are related to the distribution of the individual species. The following observations were made: 1. The anatomical structure of the leaves in the plant species examined was independent of their life form as a rule. Many of the groups contain plants with lignified stems as well as herbs, rosulate plants as well as cushion plants and shrubs. However, most of the annual plants belong to one group and are thus largely similar as regards leaf anatomy. There are also some groups containing only plants with lignified stems. The leaves of grasses have an anatomical structure deviating to such a degree from that of other herbs that the grouping by different types has been performed within the family in their case. 2. There is a connexion between leaf anatomy and the distribution of the species (Fig. 151). The correspondence is not exact but nevertheless clearly apparent, and it is thought to reflect the plants' possibilities of adaptation to various habitats. It was found that the leaf structure is increasingly xeromorphic, the more easterly the centre of distribution of the species. Since the rainfall diminishes from west to east, it is obvious that the xeromorphy of the plants is associated with increasing difficulty of their water economy. 3. Among the species examined, the plants of the western regions, which are forest plants, had the broadest leaves. The width of the leaves decreased almost stepwise towards the east. The narrowest leaves were encountered in the semi-desert plants. The leaves were thickest in broad-leaved, evergreen forest plants, monte plants and semi-desert plants. 4. The anatomical structure of the leaves revealed that the thinnest cuticle and outer walls of the epidermal cells occurred in the majority of the forest plants and in some of the steppe plants; it is comparatively thick in most steppe plants and some of the monte plants and thickest in the semi-desert plants and some of the monte and steppe plants. An exception is the Maytenus boaria type. Its species are found in the forests, in the parts of East Patagonia with highest rainfall, but despite this fact many of them have a fairly thick cuticle and/or outer epidermal cell walls. In the leaves of the grasses all the walls of the epidermal cells on the lower surface were thick and lignified in species with a range covering semi-desert and steppe areas, merely lignified outer walls in the steppe species, and totally unlignified, comparatively thin walls in species which are found both on steppes and in forests. 5. In 115 of the 237 dicotyledonous species examined there occurred unicellular or multicellular, branched or unbranched, air-filled cell hairs. A hair cover is commoner on the lower surface of the leaf only than on both surfaces and the material included no species with a dense hair cover on the upper surface alone. If the leaf is hairy, the stomata are almost without exception located only in positions where they are protected by hairs. Although the hair cover probably acts as an efficient protection against transpiration, it has to be considered a generic and specific character rather than a feature associated with environmental factors. 6. Well-developed palisade parenchyma occurred in plants of habitats exposed to high light intensity. The palisade cells were longer in plants of areas of greater wetness and actually diminished in length by degrees in the types of drier habitats. The conclusion can be drawn from this that only as long as xerophytes receiving much light obtain water in adequate amounts has their leaf a strongly developed palisade tissue. But when the plants suffer from water deficiency, the palisade cells in the leaves are short, narrow, nearly cubical, and closely adherent to each other.
23725309|Contents of morphine, codeine, thebaine, noscapine and papaverine were investigated by high performance liquid chromatography in six UNL strains of Papaver somniferum grown in harch climatic conditions in different parts of Finland. P. somniferum can grow and produce alkaloids as far north as in Utsjoki, close to the Arctic sea. The maximum alkaloid concentrations were usually found immediately after the flowering stage. Small and indistinct differences in the contents of alkaloids due to climatic variations between different years and latitude of the growing place were found. The alkaloid spectrum, however, primarily depends on genetic factors; our material consisted of three different chemotypes.
23725086|Lophocolea incisa Lindb., described from Helsinki (Finland), is conspecific with L. heterophylla (Schrad.) Dum. The lectotype for L. incisa is selected.
23726528|Pycnolejeunea decurviloba Steph. and P. valenciae Gott. ex Steph. are transferred to Cheilolejeunea (Spruce) Schiffn. Complete descriptions and illustrations are provided.
23726810|Effects of nitrate and ammonium nitrogen (N) on the growth of two-year-old Norway spruce seedlings (Picea abies) were studied after transplanting in a greenhouse. In a preliminary experiment (Exp. 1), seedlings were transplanted into sandy soil in 2-liter pots and irrigated either with ammonium or nitrate solution in concentrations (5 mg l-1 N) commonly found in clearcut boreal forest sites. Irrigation with pure water was used as the control treatment. In a further experiment (Exp. 2), seedlings were irrigated similarly, but irrigation with ammonium and nitrate mixture in proportion of 1:2 (total 5 mg l-1 N) was used as the control treatment. In addition, N treatments were combined with contrasting soil temperatures of 11.5 and 21 C. Irrigation with N-free pure water resulted in decreased root growth (Exp. 1). In both experiments, no clear differences were found in shoot or root growth in the different N-source treatments. Regardless of N application, the most pronounced effect was increased root growth at the higher soil temperature (Exp. 2). The results question the importance of N form on the growth of Norway spruce seedlings in boreal forests.
23725029|An unusual sediment stratigraphy in Lake Lojrvi (60 12 30 N, 24 30 E): clay and clay-gyttja forming the topmost layer overlying coarse detritus gyttja and dy was interpreted in the light of pollen analysis and archaeological finds as a result of accelerated erosion caused by the forest clearance and cultivation of prehistoric man. The very sharp sediment contact was dated in five profiles by 14C age determinations as 600  900 AD. Palaeomagnetic direction measurements in one profile suggest that the assumption that changes in geomagnetic declination have been similar in S. Finland and N.W. England during the last 4000 years can be made. The palaeomagnetic ages found by comparison with the N.W. England Master curve, calibrated by radiocarbon datings, are in good agreement with radiocarbon, pollen and land uplift chronology in the basin of Lake Lojrvi.
23727224|Astragalus babacianum A.S. Ertekin is described as a new species from SE Anatolia, Turkey. It is morphologically most similar to A. aleppicus, A. gilvus and A. subuliferus, with which it is compared. Astragalus babacianum is illustrated in photographs, and the geographical distribution of the four species in Turkey is mapped.
23727276|Three new combinations in the genus Cyclobalanopsis are proposed based on examination of type materials and other specimens. Quercus fleuryi Hickel & A. Camus and Q. macrocalyx Hickel & A. Camus var. tomentosa Metcalf are treated as synonyms of C. macrocalyx and C. kouangsiensis (A. Camus) Y.C. Hsu & H.W. Jen, respectively. The taxonomic treatment of several species in this genus is discussed.
23727244|Veyretella flabellata Szlach., Marg. & Mytnik sp. nova (Orchidaceae, Habenariinae) is described from Gabon and illustrated in line drawings.
23726563|A demographic study of Carex rostrata Stokes was carried out in a boreal mesotrophic fen between spring 1993 and spring 1995. Mean minimum shoot densities measured in spring were 270366 shoots m2 during the study, and mean maximum shoot densities between 440466 shoots m-2. New shoots emerged throughout the growing seasons, but highest rates of mortality were measured in late autumnwinter. Mean maximum shoot biomass was 166195 g dw m-2 and mean shoot production 163186 g dw m-2yr-1. The annual turnover rate of shoots was 0.500.53 yr-1, resulting in an average shoot lifespan of 1.9 years. The turnover of shoots did not correlate with the density of shoots. The possible mechanisms controlling the shoot density are discussed with reference to climate change and accumulation of carbon in fen ecosystems.
23724628|This paper is a brief report on: (1) A population of natural triploids of Vaccinium vitis-idaea L. (2) A single plant, a natural hybrid of V. myrtillus L.  V. vitis-idaea. (3) The hexaploid cranberry species V. hagerupii (L. & L.) Ahokas, comb. nova. Nucleolus-like bodies (NLB) were seen in the meiotic divisions of V. vitis-idaea.
23726575|Chiloscyphus koponenii Piippo, sp. nov., is a tiny, epiphyllous species, with fragmenting, 2-lobed and often toothed leaves, thin-walled cells and small trigones, very shallow and wide underleaves with two lobes and two teeth and numerous rhizoids. The morphology shows similar adaptations to the epiphyllous habitat as is seen in some genera of the Lejeuneaceae. Chiloscyphus teptepensis (Piippo) Piippo is a new combination.
23725711|Seven new species of Taraxacum are described from southern France (Lozre, Haute-Garonne and Pyrnes Atlantiques), viz. Taraxacum christelianum Sonck, sp. nova, T. invocatum Sonck, sp. nova, T. navarrense Sonck, sp. nova, T. tolosanum Sonck, sp. nova, which belong to section Erythrosperma Lindb. fil., as well as T. admordum Sonck, sp. nova, and T. dargilanicum Sonck, sp. nova, which belong to section Vulgaria Dahlst. (sect. Taraxacum), and T. calophlebium Sonck, sp. nova, which belongs to section Hamata llgaard.
23726504|The phloroglucinol compositions of 18 species (including subspecies) belonging to Dryopteris Adanson sect. Fibrillosae Ching have been investigated on a world-wide basis, and the taxonomic implications discussed. The main emphasis is on D. affinis (Lowe) Fraser-Jenkins, its subspecies and varieties, as well as on D. wallichiana (Sprengel) N. Hylander and its relatives. The phloroglucinols of the ferns of sect. Fibrillosae proved to be remarkably constant in most taxa: large amounts of flavaspidic acids (5) and slightly varying amounts of filixic acids (19) were found in virtually all taxa. Traces or small amounts of norflavaspidic acids (4), albaspidins (10), oligoflavaspidic acids (23, 26) and tetraalbaspidins (25) occur as well. Only D. acutodentata Ching and D. affinis subsp. borreri (Newman) Fraser-Jenkins, both partly derived by crossing with species outside the section, differ clearly from the other taxa in containing para-aspidins (7) and trisparaaspidin (20), while D. fusco-atra (Hillebrand) W. Robinson shows a different phloroglucinol pattern altogether. The high levels of similarity between taxa may reflect their common origin from a few diploid apomictic taxa by hybridization with sexual diploids. The different subspecies and varieties of D. affinis showed very similar phloroglucinol spectra except for subsp. borreri. The triploid apogamous subspecies cambrensis Fraser-Jenkins, pseudo-disjuncta (Fraser-Jenkins) Fraser-Jenkins and persica Fraser-Jenkins may have evolved from the diploid apomictic subsp. affinis and D. oreades Fomin of sect. Dryopteris, whereas the triploid apogamous subsp. borreri may have its origin from subsp. affinis and D. caucasica (A. Braun) Fraser-Jenkins & Corley of sect. Dryopteris. The precursor of apomictic diploid D. wallichiana subsp. wallichiana is discussed. Dryopteris crassirhizoma Nakai, a diploid sexual species from Japan in sect. Fibrillosae, is suitable from a chemical point of view, but not from its morphology. Dryopteris conjugata Ching in sect. Hirtipedes Fraser-Jenkins initially appeared to be suitable both in morphology and chemistry, provided that norflavaspidic acid (4) was biotransformed to flavaspidic acid (5) in D. wallichiana subsp. wallichiana as suggested in the present work. However, cytological investigation of one accession of this species has shown it to be diploid but apomictic, and therefore inappropriate as a sexual diploid ancestor of the diploid apomictic D. wallichiana subsp. wallichiana. Five new taxa are described: Dryopteris wallichiana subsp. reichsteinii Fraser-Jenkins, D. affinis subsp. affinis var. jessenii Fraser-Jenkins, D. affinis subsp. affinis var. kerryensis Fraser-Jenkins, D. affinis subsp. cambrensis var. insubrica Fraser-Jenkins and D. affinis subsp. pontica Fraser-Jenkins.
23726953|Arisaema menglaense Y.H. Ji, H. Li & Z.F. Xu (Araceae: Arisaemateae), a new species from the southern Yunnan Province of China is described and illustrated. The morphological characters of A. menglaense and the related species A. omkoiense and A. pingbianense are compared.
23725626|A putative transfectant or transgenic pea, designated as V84-77, was induced with liposome-associated DNA treatment at the pollination of the pea line L200. V84-77 produces dark green seeds and bright green leaflets. The mesophyll of the leaflets shows differences from that in L200. The leaf tissue was found to contain a more voluminous Chla-Pl complex on non-denaturing electrophoretic gels. The dry, mature seeds of V84-77 contain significantly more chlorophyll a and b than those of L200. Immature seeds at the canning stage were found to have about 1.3 times the corotenoid content of L200. In vitro translation of RNA from immature seeds of V84-77 showed a 18.9 kilodaltons band, which appeared to be missing from the translation products of L200. V84-77 has more intensive labelling of the band of Mr 14.4 kilodaltons, which is probably caused by a type of the small subunit of Rubisco. The dark green colour of the pea was shown to be attractive to potential consumers.
23726240|Two new methods for the pretreatment of orchid seeds were developed and tested: (1) A treatment in which the seeds are submerged in disinfectant and subjected to intermittent vacuum to replace air inside the testa with liquid, followed by one-week soaking in water on a rotary shaker. Rapid swelling of the embryo was observed during the treatment itself, followed by abundant germination, especially in the case of the American species of Cypripedium, (2) Enzyme treatment in which the seeds are subjected to cell wall-degrading enzymes for up to two weeks. Compared with sowings of seeds which were only disinfected, the treatments were observed to improve the germination of seeds of both rhizomatous and tuberous orchids. This was particularly noticeable in the case of old seeds of tuberous species. A seed container was developed for sequential treatment of seeds.
23726646|Two Chilean moss species endemic to the region, Matteria papillosula (Thr.) Goffinet and Microdus euchlorus (Mont.) Besch., are reported for the first time from northern Patagonia in Argentina. Both taxa are described and illustrated. Microdus euchlorus is transferred to Campylopodium (C. Mll.) Besch. as C. euchlorum (Mont.) Matteri comb. nov., and Dicranella flexipes Card. & Broth. and D. costata Broth. are placed in synonymy.
23726715|Herb-rich forests have aroused great interest in maintaining the biological diversity of boreal forests. The ecology and structure of these ecosystems are poorly known, and no systematic assessment of their characteristics has been made. In order to explore the structure of vascular plant communities, 101 sample plots in 57 herb-rich forest areas were studied in Koli, eastern Finland. The material was classified with two-way indicator species analysis (TWINSPAN) and ordinated with detrended correspondence analysis (DCA). The results suggest that many environmental variables; e.g. varying topography and bedrock affected the herb-rich forest vegetation. The most important compositional gradients were moisture, fertility and shading. According to species composition, the Koli area is an important patch for species dispersion from south to north. The study area is valuable for maintaining threatened forest flora and eastern elements. In particular, the unique Diplazium sibiricum communities and other taiga species deserve special attention. The site types (ecological groups) corresponded quite well to the herb-rich forest types described in literature.
23725536|Eight species are recognized in the Cladonia miniata group (genus Cladonia section Cocciferae). In addition to C. miniata G. Meyer and C. secundana Nyl., six new species are described, viz. C. lopezii Stenroos (Venezuela, Colombia, Peru, Bolivia), C. ahtii Stenroos (Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay, Venezuela), C. guianensis Stenroos (Venezuela, Brazil), C. salmonea Stenroos (Brazil), C. subminiata Stenroos (Brazil) and C. caribaea Stenroos (Mexico, Guatemala, Dominican Republic). The epithets reduced to synonymy are C. erythromelaena Mll. Arg. and C. miniata [f.] hypomelaena Vainio (=C. secundana Nyl.). Neotypes are selected for C. miniata G. Meyer and C. sanguinea Martius. A lectotype is selected for C. miniata [f.] anaemica [subf.] sorediella Vainio, C. sanguinea var. anaemica Nyl, C. miniata [f.] parvipes Vainio, C. secundana Nyl. and C. miniata [f.] hypomelaena Vainio. Altogether 20 identified and 26 unidentified lichen substances are reported to occur in this group. The major phenolic compounds are barbatic, didymic, obtusatic, sekikaic, subdidymic and usnic acids. A key to the species is presented and their distribution is mapped. C. miniata s. lat. is reported for the first time from Africa (Malawi).
23727624|Geranium kalenderianum A. lim & L. Behet from the city of Kahramanmara, Turkey, is described as a new species and illustrated. Diagnostic characters and taxonomic comments on the species are given. It is compared with closely similar Geranium subacutum and G. palmatipartitum. The geographical distribution of the new species and the similar ones is presented on a map.
23727764|Flooded forests in 79 sample areas were studied in various parts of Estonia. Using the principal component analysis and cluster analysis, six community types were established: (i) Tilia cordataMercurialis perennis, (ii) Ulmus laevisAllium ursinum, (iii) Populus tremulaConvallaria majalis, (iv) Alnus incanaCirsium oleraceum, (v) Alnus glutinosaFilipendula ulmaria and, (vi) Alnus glutinosaCarex acutiformis. The species composition of these types partly overlaps but the abundance proportions of species are clearly different and all types have several significant indicator species. Another classification scheme was established by TWINSPAN analysis. Following the phytosociological approach, the communities belong to QuercoFagetea, AlnoUlmion (PrunoFraxinetum, FicarioUlmetum, Pruno padiAlnetum incanae, the latter subdivided further into P.p.A.i. var. Frangula alnus and P.p.A.i. var. Urtica dioica), and to Alnetea glutinosae, Alnion (Carici elongataeAlnetum, represented with two subassociations: C.e.A. typicum and C.e.A. cardaminetosum). Despite different concepts used for establishment of community types by either approach the obtained results are rather similar. The syntaxa of AlnoUlmion show particularly high internal variability, although all recognised communities have unambiguous affinities with the assemblages described elsewhere from central and northern-central Europe.
23727169|Phenological changes within a growth season were investigated in two grazed, semi-natural grasslands in southern Sweden. On four occasions during the growth season, two independent observers recorded plant frequency and percentage cover. The vegetation data sets were analysed with ordination methods. The temporal changes were highly significant, but accounted for only a small part of the total variation in the data. Most species had early maxima, regarding both cover and frequency. There were differences in temporal pattern between the two grasslands. In a xeric area, the vegetation underwent a major change sometime in August, between survey-visit three and four. In a mesic area, the vegetation changed throughout the study period but least so during August. Therefore, phenological changes can be manifested in different ways, even within the same geographic region. Species-wise ordination scores highlighted those species whose records might be most affected by phenological patterns, information which is valuable when evaluating data collected in Scandinavian grasslands.
23726419|A set of multivariate methods was used to evaluate the influence of the successional age of the ecosystem on the frequencies of individual species (log-linear analysis) and the community composition (PCA, cluster analysis), and to assess the differences in characteristic indicator values between successional stages (discriminant analysis, Scheff test). Significant successional changes become evident in the community composition, but after the successional elimination of certain species right at the initial stage, the changes are mostly of quantitative character. The results of the analysis at the species and community level show good agreement. There is no convergence in community composition as succession proceeds. Four groups with different successional strategies are distinguished in the field layer species: post-disturbance, early, intermediate and late species. The characteristic indicator values show that the field layer vegetation becomes more shade-tolerant and less hydrophilous as the succession proceeds. Two types of succession mechanisms are distinguished: (1) "general processes"  changes due to various population processes (migration, regeneration from seed bank) and to increased shade, and (2) "site-dependent processes". In Jrvselja the last type is represented by the increase of the role of hydrophilous species in the clear-cut area, probably due to the increase of moisture when the total transpiration rate decreases. Post-disturbance species are mostly characteristic of swamp forests. In the course of secondary succession, the abundance of hydrophilous species decreases.
23727643|The material in Swedish herbaria previously identified as Hieracium sublividum (Dahlst.) Johanss. was revised using both the traditional taxonomical approach and PCA analysis based on 44 morphological characters. Only about half of the specimens did belong to H. sublividum s. stricto (known from the provinces Smland, land and stergtland). Three new species were revealed and are described anew as H. askii T. Tyler (from Smland), H. emblae T. Tyler (from Gotland) and H. hangvarense T. Tyler (from Gotland). The characteristics of all four accepted species are described, illustrated and discussed.
23725396|In Western Melanesia (West Irian, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands) the family Plagiotheciaceae (Musci) is represented by Plagiothecium neckeroideum B.S.G. var. javense Fleisch. The report of P. undulatum (Hedw.) B.S.G. is based on misidentified specimens and the species is excluded from the flora; the presence of P. denticulatum (Hedw.) B.S.G. in the region is considered doubtful. Plagiothecium neckeroideum var. javense is described and illustrated, its Western Melanesian as well as its total range is given, and its ecology in Western Melanesia is briefly discussed.
23724120|In Wells Gray Provincial Park, east-central British Columbia, forest site types and their zonal distribution have been studied. A preliminary outline of the vegetation zones and sections below the oroarctic (alpine) zones in the whole of British Columbia has also been presented. The present system, in which both horizontal and vertical zonations are combined under the same units, has been used before by the author in northwestern Europe. In British Columbia six zones occur, one of which (boreomeridional) is only horizontal, two (hemiboreal  orohemiboreal and southern boreal  lower oroboreal) being both horizontal and vertical, and the others (middle oroboreal, upper oroboreal, orohemiarctic) apparently only vertical. In all these zones many subdivisions, called sections, may be distinguished according to their humidity.
23726158|Experiments were carried out on specimens of Hypogymnia physodes (L.) Nyl., either treated with a sulphite solution in the laboratory or transplanted to environments with varying degrees of pollution. Sections were cut from the thalli of the lichens by hand into water and examined under a fluorescence microscope with epi-illumination to determine the living or dead status of the algal cells. Healthy algal cells showed a characteristic red primary fluorescence under blue or UV excitation light, and this colour then changed through brown to orange and finally white with increasing degrees of cell destruction. Fluorescence intensity was measured numerically using an MPV photometer (Leitz Wetzlar), it apparently being sufficient for measurements to be made at three wavelengths in the yellow  red area of the spectrum in order to reveal the differences in the effects of the treatments to which the lichens were subjected. The advantages of the microfluorometry method lie in its sensitivity, its rapidity and the small amount of material required. The results suggest that the method described here is capable of application for the demonstration of changes brought about in lichens by air pollution, and for the estimation of the condition of the algal cell layer in lichens in general.
23725774|Deviating from the often quoted description of anisogamy by J. Huber, true oogamy is described in rock-pool populations of Aphanochaete. This description involves actively swimming spermatozoids with four flagella, and immobile stalked female gametes (oospheres) with no external traces of flagella. One of these populations differs significantly in hypnozygote morphology. Records of the resting stages in Aphanochaete are critically examined in the light of the new observations. The ecology of sexual reproduction in Aphanochaete is briefly discussed. Sexuality seems to be most likely induced in small water bodies with a strong seasonal pulse in nutrient input. The bearing of our observations on the generic taxonomy of Aphanochaetaceae, and of the position of the family within Chaetophorales, is commented on. Taxa described in Aphanochaetaceae and allied chaetophoralean genera with no mention of sexual reproduction should be regarded as imperfectly known and classified accordingly, unless ultrastructural or other details clearly show their affinity.
23724686|An account is given of the recent discovery of the first specimen from North America identified as Chandonanthus pusillus Steph. C. pusillus and C. setiformis (Ehrh.) Lindb. are compared, and the differences in their general features, cell morphology and the structure of their perianths are considered sufficient to justify their separation. C. filiformis Steph. and C. pusillus are united in one species, for which the name C. filiformis is chosen. This decision is based on measurements made on 15 separate samples collected from the main areas of distribution of this obvious relic, Canada, Japan, and the Himalayas, five samples from each.
23726560|A spatial autocorrelation analysis of 11 quantitative characters among 31 populations of the Hemerocallis middendorffii complex (Liliaceae) in Japan and Korea was conducted to better understand their patterns of geographic variation. There are two types of relationships between the mean values of the characters measured and their spatial autocorrelations: (1) significant heterogeneity of means with significant autocorrelation (length of inflorescence [LIF], length of perianth tube enclosing ovary [LPO], length of inner [LIP] and outer [LOP] perianth), and (2) significant heterogeneity of means with weak autocorrelation (width of inner and outer perianth and mostly vegetative characters). LIF displays a clear geographical (altitudinal, longitudinal, and latitudinal) cline, indicating that shorter inflorescences are generally located in northern, alpine and subalpine populations. In addition, LPO, LIP, and LOP show clear altitudinal and longitudinal variation. Floral tube and perianth length in the eastern and lowland populations are generally shorter and smaller than those in alpine, subalpine and western populations. The paleoclimatic history during the Quaternary period and diverse ecological conditions (e.g., altitudinal, longitudinal, and latitudinal differences) in the Japanese archipelago probably operated in shaping the patterns of local differentiations now recognized in the H. middendorffii complex.
23726145|The subfamily Lepidozioideae of Lepidoziaceae is represented on the Huon Peninsula by the genera Lepidozia (11 species), Psiloclada (1 species) and Telaranea (5 species), Calypogeiaceae by Calypogeia (1 species), Adelanthaceae by Wettsteinia (1 species), Cephaloziaceae by Nowellia (3 species) (subfam. Cephalozioideae) and Odontoschisma (1 species) (subfam. Odontoschismatoideae), and Jubulaceae by Jubula (1 species). No species of the genera Arachniopsis, Hygrolembidium or Metahygrobiella were recorded from the Huon, although they are known from Western Melanesia. Western Melanesian Lepidozia (19 species) is treated in seven sections, including sect. Stahliae Piippo, sect. nov., sect. Neolepidozia (Fulf. & J. Tayl.) Piippo, comb. nov. and sect. Chaetolepidozia (Schust.) Piippo, comb. nov. Lepidozia gwamii Piippo is described as a new species and L. tenax Steph. is treated as syn. nov. of Mastigophora diclados (Brid.) Nees. L. stahlii Steph. and Nowellia curvifolia (Dicks.) Mitt. are recorded as new for Western Melanesia and Lepidozia borneensis Steph. for Papua New Guinea. Keys for Western Melanesian Lepidozia, Telaranea, Calypogeia, Nowellia and Jubula are presented. The species on the Huon Peninsula are described and notes are given on their taxonomy, distribution and ecology. Figures of them, except Telaranea, are presented.
23726583|Amphidium tortuosum (Hornsch.) Cufod. is the only species of the family Rhabdoweisiaceae occurring in Western Melanesia and New Guinea. Both collections came from cliff walls, one of them was in an open grassland area and the other in closed montane rainforest. The placement of Amphidium Schimp. in the neighbourhood of Dicranaceae and in the family Rhabdoweisiaceae instead of Orthotrichaceae is based on the presence of epigametophytic plants in Amphidium, which are unknown in the Orthotrichaceae, on the rhizoid topography similar to Dicranaceae and different from that in Orthotrichaceae, the pattern of papillosity of leaf cells, and on recent evidence from nucleotide sequences.
23727960|A new species of Gesneriaceae, Chirita grandibracteata J.M. Li & M. Mller sp. nova (Gesneriaceae), collected in Hekou county, Yunnan province, is described and illustrated. It is most similar, and probably most closely related, to C. eburnea Hance. The new species differs from the latter by having large round leaves with appressed hairs, two rows of dense long hairs on the adaxial border of the two anther-thecae, a triangular stigma lobed for more than half of its length and with an acute or acuminate apex, three glabrous staminodes, and fruits 2.8 cm long.
23726262|The taxonomy, distribution and ecology of eight species of Phaeocalicium A. F. W. Schmidt (Mycocaliciaceae, Ascomycetes) occurring in the Nordic countries and Greenland are described. They are parasitic or saprophytic mainly on thin twigs of trees and shrubs such as Alnus, Betula, Populus and Salix and are often quite host-specific. A key to the species is supplied. Two new species, Ph. boreale Tibell and Ph. flabelliforme Tibell are described. A lectotype is selected for Calicium praecedens Nyl., Mycocalicium pusiolum (Ach.) Rsnen var. macrospora Rsnen and Stenocybe tremulicola Norrl. ex Nyl., and a neotype is selected for Phaeocalicium populneum (Brond. ex Duby) A. F. W. Schmidt. The new combination Ph. tremulicola (Norrl. ex Nyl.) Tibell is proposed.
23728144|Draba cemileae Karaer sp. nova (Brassicaceae) is described and illustrated. It is confined to NE Anatolia in Turkey. The diagnostic morphological characters from closely similar species in the sect. Chrysodraba are discussed. Notes are also presented on its ecology and biogeography. The ultrastructure of the seed coat surface of D. cemileae and the similar species was examined by SEM.
23726748|We compared the floristic composition of the seedling flora and the mature vegetation in several alpine plant communities. First, we examined whether it is possible to predict the floristic composition of the seedling flora from the floristic composition of the mature vegetation. Second, we explored whether severe disturbances increase the floristic similarity between these two phases in the life-cycle. It is possible to make a rough prediction across the plant communities. This is because almost all taxa existing in the seedling flora are also present in the mature vegetation, and because the parallel changes in the floristic composition occur along DCA axes. The floristic similarity between the seedling flora and the mature vegetation within the plant communities was low. The variation in the qualitative similarity was closely related to the cover of the regenerative groups. On the other hand, the variation in the quantitative similarity was not related to these factors. In most cases the seedling flora and the mature vegetation were not more similar within the severely disturbed plant communities than within the relatively undisturbed ones.
23727185|Chenopodium chaldoranicum Rahiminejad & Ghaemmaghami sp. nova is described from Iran and illustrated in line drawings. It is compared with the morphologically close C. bryoniaefolium, C. atripliceforme and C. sosnovskyi.
23727134|The phylogenetic system and classification of the family Scapaniaceae Mig. emend. Potemkin as a whole are presented for the first time. The classification of the family is significantly revised. Scapaniaceae is classified with 87 recent and one fossil species in 18 sections and three subgenera of one genus, Scapania (Dumort.) Dumort. emend. Potemkin. Subgenus Scapania has 82 species in 18 sections, subgenus Macrodiplophyllum (H. Buch) Potemkin has three species, and subgenus Macroscapania R.M. Schust. has two species. Earlier distinguished subgenera Plicaticalyx Mll. Frib. and Ascapania Grolle are merged in the sectio Plicaticalyx (Mll. Frib.) Potemkin, comb. & stat. nov., of the subgenus Scapania. The taxonomic composition of many sections is considerably revised, and the species composition of all infrageneric groups is listed in a systematic arrangement. Alteration of the species composition and/or species differentiation (including keys) of the sections Ciliatae Grolle, Gracilidae H. Buch, Nemorosae (Mll. Frib.) H. Buch, Planifoliae (Mll. Frib.) Potemkin, Plicaticalyx, Scapania, and Verrucosae Potemkin of the subgenus Scapania as well as of the subgenera Macrodiplophyllum and Macroscapania are provided. New sections are described for Scapania karl-muelleri Grolle (Grolleoscapania Potemkin, sect. nova) and for S. schljakovii Potemkin and S. himalayica Mll. Frib. (Muelleria Potemkin, sect. nova). A number of new synonyms and index for identification of taxonomic position of mentioned taxa of Scapania are provided.
23726292|The fertilizer plant and strip mine are located at Siilinjrvi in central Finland. In the years 19851987, a study was made in their surroundings of the visible and ultrastructural injuries in needles of Norway spruce (Picea abies (L.) Karst.), of the visible and cellular injuries in epiphytic lichens growing on spruce branches, and of the element contents of the spruce needles and the lichen Hypogymnia physodes. Zones of severe and slight injury could be distinguished with regard to both the needles and lichens and these zones had expanded considerably since surveys made about 10 years earlier. In this study the zone of slight injury in the needles reached about 6 km from the factory and that of the lichens about 7 km. The highest sulphur concentrations were measured in the spruce needles (11001300 g/g) and lichens (19002800 g/g) in the vicinity of the factory, and these concentrations declined exponentially, reaching the background level 78 km and 89 km from the factory, respectively. The fluoride distribution had two peak areas, which were especially marked in the needle material, showing that both the factory and apatite strip mine are important sources of fluorides. The apatite dust also clearly elevated the Ca, P, K and Mg contents of lichens in the vicinity of the strip mine, but the increase was not so clear in the needles. In the ultrastructural analyses of spruce needles and lichens, types of injury could be found that were related to the effects of acidic pollutants and fluorides. The visual observations of the needles and lichens and the chemical analyses of the material provided consistent indications of the extent of the area affected by the industrial complex.
23727875|Scutellaria anatolica M. Cicek & O. Ketenoglu, sp. nova (Lamiaceae) is described from south Anatolia, Turkey, and illustrated. It belongs to the section Lupulinaria subsection Lupulinaria and resembles S. bicolor, but differs by its ascending-erect stems, smaller triangular-ovate and sessile median cauline leaves, and smaller lanceolate bracts with acute apex, equalling or shortly exceeding the calyx at anthesis.
23724177|This paper constitutes the first part of the author's study on meromictic lakes. The physiography of Lake Valkiajrvi is briefly described and an analysis is made of the diatom flora obtained in 46 samples, collected from the recent sediment in different parts of the lake. The diatom taxa are treated and references are given to the descriptions and illustrations used in the determinations. Original illustrations are provided in many cases. Details are given of the percentages of counted specimens referred to each taxon and of the places of the taxa in a pH preference classification. The diatom flora and its ecological groups are briefly discussed.
23725540|The aromatic compounds in 18 species of Cladonia Hill ex Browne section Helopodium (Ach.) Stenr. and five species of subsection Foliosae (Vainio) Mattick were screened by means of high-performance liquid chromatography and thin-layer chromatography. New data on the chemical composition are given for many species, and the earlier data are reviewed and re-evaluated in the light of recent taxonomic findings. Quantitative data are presented for the first time for 20 species. The major medullary compounds present in Helopodium include fumarprotocetraric, psoromic, stictic and norstictic acids, all depsidones of the -orcinol series, as well as the cortical compound atranorin. Most species in Foliosae produce the fumarprotocetraric acid complex and the cortical substances atranorin or usnic acid. C. robbinsii A. Evans and C. strepsilis (Ach.) Vainio differ, however, in that they produce depsides of the -orcinol series. The dibenzofuran strepsilin is also abundant in the latter species  these species should probably therefore be transferred to some other Cladonia group. The total contents of the aromatic compounds in individual samples ranged from 0.5% up to 14.3% of lichen dry weight. The highest concentration for a single compound was 11.5% of fumarprotocetraric acid in C. prostrata A. Evans from Alabama. Taxonomic notes are appended for many species.
23728212|A new polypore, Aporpium macroporum Niemel, Spirin & Miettinen, is described on the basis of material from Finland, Poland (Biaowiea National Park; type locality), European Russia, Belarus, Estonia, and Latvia. It grows primarily on fallen aspen trees and prefers old forests with abundant coarse woody debris. Aporpium caryae is an American taxon, and its European kin is A. canescens; A. macroporum differs from them in having wider pores, softer consistency, and paler colours. The spores of the new species are wider than in A. canescens, and longer than in A. caryae. The three species can be distinguished by their ribosomal DNA ITS sequences. We briefly discuss the heterobasidioid genera Aporpium, Elmerina and Protomerulius.
23727896|Saussurea megacephala C.C. Chang ex Y.S. Chen, sp. nova (Asteraceae) is described and illustrated from southeastern Xizang, China. Its morphology is compared with that of S. przewalskii and S. semifasciata.
23726551|In two papers, of which this is the second, the authors present a macro- and microscopic study of 45 Myxomycetes collected on the Peninsula of Baja California, Mexico. This part treats 21 taxa, in alphabetical oder, from Hemitrichia clavata (Pers.) Rostaf. to Trichia varia (J. F. Gmelin) Pers. SEM photographs of spores and capillitial threads are provided. The following taxa are new to Mexico: Hemitrichia minor G. Lister, Licea biforis Morgan, L. variabilis Schrad., Physarum contextum (Pers.) Pers., P. viride var. aurantium (Pers.) Lister and P. viride var. incanum Lister. We propose the synonymy of Mucilago crustacea F. H. Wigg. var. crustacea and M. crustacea var. solida Sturgis. We also propose the following two new combination: Mucilago dictyospora (R. E. Fr.) Lizrraga, G. Moreno & Illana. Hemitrichia serpula (Scop.) Lister var. parviverrucospora Lizrraga, Illana & G. Moreno is described as new to science.
23725547|Samples of Sphagnum compactum DC. were taken from three populations in northeastern Finland (Puolanka-Hyrynsalmi, Posio, Salla) and one in south-eastern England (Dersingham) and compared electrophoretically. The sample areas represent two main habitat types: populations from flarks of aapa mires and from open, marginal areas on thin peat deposits over leached mineral soils. A high overall level of similarity was found between all populations, although a number of individual electrophoretic bands showed distinct inter-population variation. The English population showed a number of differences from the Finnish ones and the two hilltop populations (Paljakka and Riisitunturi) showed the greatest similarity. The possible selective effect of ecological conditions on band patterns is discussed.
23728069|Phellinopsis was recently erected for P. conchata, the generic type, and P. occidentalis. Later on P. junipericola and P. resupinata were described as new species. In this study, more specimens of Phellinopsis were examined and a phylogenetic analysis based on ITS sequences was carried out. Phellinopsis helwingiae L.W. Zhou & W.M. Qin sp. nova is described and illustrated from Sichuan Province, southwest China as the fifth species in this genus. In addition, information on the hosts of P. junipericola is elaborated.
23728114|The aim of the study was to evaluate the distribution of Lepraria lichen species in dry deciduous forests, in relation to tree substratum and forest characteristics. In total, 34 localities with 1020 trees (13 tree species) were studied in different parts of Latvia. Lepraria spp. were found on 642 trees: L. eburnea on 8 trees, L. incana on 80 trees, and L. lobificans on 568 trees. Lepraria eburnea was recorded for the first time in Latvia. Tree species, tree bark crevice depth, inclination, pH and forest type were the most important variables explaining the presence of Lepraria species. Lepraria incana was associated with Quercus robur and Tilia cordata, while L. lobificans was associated with Betula pendula. The occurrence probability of L. lobificans increased with tree inclination and tree bark pH, and that of L. incana with bark crevice depth and tree bark pH.
23725087|The distribution and taxonomic status of the Californian species Luzula subcongesta (S. Watson) Jepson and the range and variation of L. parviflora (Ehrh.) Desv. are discussed. L. subcapitata (Rydb.) Harrington is probably a local (Colorado) race of L. parviflora and clearly distinct from L. subcongesta.
23724648|The effect of gibberellic acid and CCC on the morphogenesis and anatomy of Coreopsis tinctoria has been studied in greenhouse conditions and in sterile cultures with sucrose as carbohydrate source. At first the internodes developing in the plants grown in a greenhouse were lengthened by GA, but this effect was transitory. The growth of the stem was slightly retarded by CCC. Both compounds modified the leaf form and colour somewhat. C. tinctoria (greenhouse conditions) has a stem with a narrow cortex, a cylinder of many collateral vascular bundles and a large pith with a central cavity. Endodermis is present in the stem. Under moist conditions (aseptic culture) the cortex enlarges, being formed mainly by aerenchyma in both the stem and root, and the formation of supporting tissues is less than normal. The leaves are amphistomatic and the epidermis anomocytic. The structure of the epidermis was modified by very moist conditions. The effects of the growth substances on the anatomy of plants grown in a greenhouse were rather small. CCC stimulated the function of cambium in the stem, especially in sterile conditions, and the development of the supporting tissue of the cortex in greenhouse conditions. Gibberellic acid enhanced secondary thickening in the root and stem in sterile cultures but the walls of the secondary xylem and sclerenchyma fibres remained thin although they lignified.
23725205|The breeding of rainbow trout in a bay of Lake Lngelmvesi loaded the lake with 1 600 kg of phosphorus and 8 000 kg of nitrogen in 1977. This nutrient loading could be recorded as an increase in phytoplankton 14C-productivity at a distance of three kilometres from the fish-breeding pool. The lake water became more turbid and the phytoplankton production was more concentrated in the surface water. The loading doubled the total phosphorus concentration in a water volume of 50 million cubic metres, and the extra phosphorus was assumed to be the main cause for the increased algal production. The corresponding increase in the total nitrogen concentration was 20 %.
23726242|The genus Ortholimnobium Dix. is congeneric with Plagiothecium B.S.G. Ortholimnobium borii Dix. and Plagiothecium rotundifolium D.K. Li nom. inval. are synonymized with Plagiothecium paleaceum (Mitt.) Jaeg. (Plagiotheciaceae, Musci). Plagiothecium paleaceum is known from the SikkimDarjiling area and Aka Hills (Arunachal Pradesh State) in north-eastern India. The first records for China are based on the lectotype (nov.) of Stereodon paleacus Mitt. and collections from Yadong (Xizang Province) and Lijiang (Yunnan Province). The species is illustrated and a map showing its distribution in northeastern India and the adjacent parts of China is provided.
23726955|Astragalus baharensis is described from Iran as a new species in Astragalus sect. Ammodendron (Fabaceae), and illustrated in line drawings. It is related to and compared with A. macrobotrys.
23727785|Alcea tarica Pakravan & Ghahreman sp. nova (Malvaceae) is described from Iran and illustrated. The relationships among it and the closely related species are discussed. Alcea glabrata Alef. var. microcarpa (Zohary) Pakravan comb. nova is proposed, and A. longipedicellata I. Riedl is considered its synonym.
23724290|1. The living material consisted of 51 population samples. Of these, 33 were tentatively identified as Potentilla anserina L. s. str., 13 as P. pacifica Howell, 4 as P. egedii Wormsk. and 1 as P. anserinoides Raoul. 2. The chromosome number was determined in 47 of the population samples and was found to be tetraploid (2n = 28) in 44 and hexaploid (2n = 42) in 3 samples. The hexaploids belonged to P. anserina L. s. str. 3. The meiosis of four tetraploid populations and one hexaploid population was studied. The meiosis of the tetraploids was normal, the PMCs consisting of 14 bivalents. The PMCs of the hexaploid in the diakinesis and metaphase I contained either 14 or a few more chromosomal bodies. Whether these were real trivalents or resulted from very intimate secondary pairing could not be decided with certainty, although there are indications in favor of the latter alternative. The meiosis of the hexaploid showed a number of irregularities, the frequent occurrence of stickiness bridges in anaphase I being one of the most prominent features. 4. The stainability of pollen with cotton blue was determined in 19 tetraploid and 3 hexaploid populations. The percentage of stained pollen grains varied from 59.8 to 98.1 in the tetraploids and from 18.9 to 22.2 in the hexaploids. 5. There was a good correlation between pollen stainability and seed fertility, the hexaploids being seed-sterile, the tetraploids seed-fertile. 6. The anserina and pacifica populations were totally or almost totally self-incompatible. Of the three egedii populations tested, two were completely and one partially self-compatible. The anserinoides population was totally self-compatible. 7. A uniform garden experiment was carried out with 19 population samples during one growing season at Berkeley, Calif., U.S.A. At Piikki, Finland, a 3-year uniform garden experiment was carried out with 27 population samples, 15 of these being the same as at Berkeley. With one population, the effect of two different environments was studied at Berkeley. 8. The seasonal rhythm of the populations was studied in the different climates of California and Finland. A close adaptive relation was recognizable between the seasonal rhythm in the experimental conditions and the length of the growing season in the area of origin of a population. The flowering response was found to be day-neutral in all population samples in the uniform garden experiments. 9. A large number of morphological characters were studied in the uniform garden experiments at Berkeley, or Piikki or both. Genotypic differences between individuals and populations as well as modificatory differences caused by different environments were observed and analyzed. In regard to many characters, the population samples fell into groups corresponding to the different taxa. Within the taxa, certain morphological trends could be correlated with the area of origin. 10. The three hexaploid anserina populations showed close morphological resemblances to the tetraploids from the corresponding areas. The only morphological features that could be observed with certainty in some or all hexaploids were a larger number of leaflets, shorter and broader leaflets, larger pollen diameter and greater variation in the pollen size as compared with the tetraploids from the same area. In all except the last of these characters, the hexaploids were within the limits of tetraploid anserina populations if the world variation was taken into account. 11. Correlation coefficients were calculated for 13 characters, using data obtained from the uniform garden experiment at Berkeley. In the whole material, 47 of the 78 character pairs showed a significant positive or negative correlation. The correlations observed in the different taxa only partly coincided with each other or with the correlations in the whole material. 12. Controlled hybridizations were carried out with individuals belonging to the four different population groups. All crosses between tetraploids produced viable offspring except those in which P. anserinoides was one of the parents. The seeds obtained from these crosses either did not germinate or gave chlorotic, inviable seedlings. If either parent was a hexaploid, no seeds were obtained. 13. The 23 F1 progenies grown were intermediate between the parent populations in regard to the flowering time and all the morphological characters studied except the number of pistils, which was always close to the parental population with the lower number.
23726831|Thamnium cossyrense Bott. is synonymized with Scorpiurium sendtneri (Schimp.) M.Fleisch. and Thamnium cossyrense var. melitense Bott. is synonymized with Scorpiurium circinatum (Brid.) M. Fleisch. & Loeske (Brachytheciaceae). An identification key to the three species of Scorpiurium occurring in Europe is provided. Scorpiurium sendtneri is recorded for the first time for France.
23727373|Three species of Ceratobasidium, C. bicorne Eriksson & Ryvarden, C. cornigerum (Bourdot) D.P. Rogers and C. pseudocornigerum M.P. Christensen, and two species of Oliveonia, O. fibrillosa (Burt) Donk and O. pauxilla (H.S. Jacks.) Donk, are reported from Finland. Ceratobasidium cornigerum and O. fibrillosa are reported for the first time. The most widespread species seems to be C. cornigerum, whereas C. pseudocornigerum gives an impression of southern distribution and the Oliveonia species are very rare. The anamorph of Ceratobasidium bicorne Eriksson & Ryvarden is commonly isolated from conifer seedlings, but for the present no basidiocarps are observed. The substrates of the telemorphs are listed, the species are illustrated and a few reference collections from Russia were studied.
23726190|The following new combination is made: Diphasiastrum complanatum (L.) J. Holub subsp. zeilleri (Rouy) Kukkonen.
23726944|The South African member of the Chenopodium schraderianum aggr. is recognized at species level, as Chenopodium pseudomultiflorum (Murr) Uotila stat. & comb. nova. Specimens in LINN have been rejected as original material for Blitum chenopodioides L., and a neotype is chosen for the name, maintaining its usage in the sense proposed by P. Aellen in 1933. Chenopodium blomianum Aellen is lectotypified.  Flora Nordica Note No. 28.
23726859|Astragalus pendulipodus Ranjbar & Karamian sp. nova (Fabaceae) is described from Iran and illustrated, and placed in Astragalus sect. Ammodendron. It is confined to the western part of Iran (Prov. Zanjan) and known from two localities. Some characters in A. pendulipodus suggest that it is closely related to A. ovalis.
23724213|Diese Untersuchungen sind auf ckern gemacht worden, die wegen ihrer Bodenarten, pH- und Nhrstoffverhltnisse typisch fr diesen Teil der West-Uusimaa-Landschaft Sdfinnlands sind. In Tabelle 1 werden die Beziehungen zwischen einigen weitverbreiteten Unkrutern, verschiedenen Kulturpflanzen und einigen Bodenarten dagestellt. Zwischen den Unkrutern verschiedener Sommergetreide, sogar Sommergetreidearten sowie Winterrbsen sieht man einige Verschiedenheiten. Das Auftreten der Unkruter auf Ton- und Feinsandbden wurde u.a. mit Hilfe der 2-Analyse verrechnet und dabei ergab sich, dass Leontodon autumnalis von Feinsandbden und Sonchus arvensis von Tonbden begnstigt wird. In Tabelle 2 wird die Einteilung der untersuchten Unkruter in verschiedene pH- und Trophieklassen auf verschiedenen Bodenarten dargestellt. Ein grosser Teil kann als indifferent in dem untersuchten pH-Gebiet (6.9-4.5) betrachtet werden. Trotzdem sieht man einige klare Verschiedenheiten in den pH-Verhltnissen der Unkruter, die aber infolge des geringen Materials nicht als sehr bedeutend anzusehen sind. Man kann jedoch auf Grund dieser und einiger vorher durchgefhrter Arbeiten sagen, dass die R-Zahlgruppierung Ellenbergs (1950) bei uns nicht berall stimmt. Der Schwerpunkt der ais indifferent betrachteten Arten (R = 0) Capsella bursa-pastoris, Cerastium holosteoides, Myosotis arvensis und Plantago major ist bei uns gewhnlich nur auf mssig bis wenig sauren Bden. Die folgenden, zur R = 4 - 5-Gruppe gehrenden Arten Erysimum cheiranthoides, Fumaria officinalis, Galium Vaillantii, Sonchus arvensis, Stachys palustris, Thlaspi arvense, Tripleurospermum inodorum und Tussilago farfara treten bei uns auch in niedrigerem pH-Bereich auf. Eine Ursache hierfr drfte in taxonomischen Fragen zu suchen sein. Fr die Praxis empfehlbare, leicht erkennbare Indikatoren wren einmal das Artenpaar Sonchus arvensis nebst S. asper (und S. oleraceus), zum anderen das Gattungspaar Galeopsis nebst Lamium. Die Erstgenannteren (also Sonchus arvensis und die Galeopsis-Gattung) sind meist indifferent und die Letzteren ziehen einen hheren pH-Wert vor. Die Trophieklassen in Tabelle 2 sind nach den pH-Werten und leichtlslichen Kalk-, Kalium- und Phosphorsuremengen errechnet worden; die meisten untersuchten Ackerunkruter erwiesen sich dabei jedoch ais indifferent. Die Schlussfolgerung aus der Auswertung der Ergebnisse war zum Teil unsicher, weil unsere Kenntnisse ber das Verhltnis der Pflanzen zu den Eigenschaften des Bodens vorlufig noch zu gering sind. Wenn man etwas Sicheres ber die Bodenkologie der Ackerunkruter aussagen will, muss, ein jeder Faktor - Kulturpflanze, pH-Wert, Nhrstoffgehalt, Hhe des Grundwasserstandes und Bodenart - getrennt voneinander, im Zusammenhang mit einem umfangreicheren Material, untersucht werden. Die cker sind in Finnland im Verhltnis zu dem pH-Wert und dem Nhrstoffgehalt des Bodens verhltnismssig einfrmig und die wichtigsten bodenkologischen Faktoren drften auf den ckern die Bodenart und die Hhe des. Grundwassers sein.
23726701|The lichen genus Erioderma is shown to have four species in China and Japan: E. meiocarpum Nyl. (W China), E. rigidum P. M. Jrg., sp. nova (NE China), E. sorediatum P. M. Jrg. & D. Galloway (S Japan) and E. tomentosum Hue (S China and Japan). Erioderma asahinae Zahlbr. is a synonym of the latter. Erioderma meiocarpum is reported as new to Mexico. All names are typified, and the phytogeography is discussed. A key to the species is presented.
23726798|Microsite characteristics of established Picea abies seedlings were studied in a windthrow area of a Picea-dominated old-growth forest in the southern boreal zone of Finland. The seedling (height 330 cm) density, most of which was Picea (87%, ca. 31 000 ha-1), was high (ca. 36 000 ha-1). Seedlings of Betula pubescens (ca. 2000 ha-1) and Sorbus aucuparia (ca. 2100 ha-1) were also abundant. The distribution of Picea seedlings across microsite types was significantly nonrandom. Picea seedlings were found in microsites created by windthrow disturbance, particularly advanced-decay wood, and uprooting pits and mounds. Sixty-three percent of the Picea seedlings occurred in these microsites, although they only covered ca. 28% of the study area. As a result of this pattern, Picea seedlings were aggregated in space and the majority of seedlings grew on microsites located above average local ground level. These results demonstrate the importance of disturbed microsites for the natural regeneration of Picea after windthrow disturbance. In managed forests, when naturally regenerating Picea on fertile sites, effort should be taken to create regeneration microsites similar to those created by natural disturbances, i.e. uprooting niches and decaying logs. These microsites are also important for the maintenance of biodiversity in managed forests.
23728141|Crocus jablanicensis N. Randj. & V. Randj. sp. nova (Iridaceaeis described from the Balkan Peninsula. It is found on Mt. Jablanica in the western part of Macedonia, where it grows in alpine grasslands around snowmelts. It is compared with the morphologically similar C. cvijicii and C. veluchensis. In contrast to these species, C. jablanicensis has white styles and stigmas and a glabrous, white perianth throat.
23725772|Cladina-predominated vegetation on siliceous rock outcrops was studied using 164 relevs, 5 m2 each, on a ca. 40 km transect inland from the Tvrminne archipelago. The climatic gradient on this transect is rather steep, e.g. the yearly precipitation increases inland from 424 mm to 684 mm. The inland relevs are generally at higher altitudes and have thus been exposed for longer periods. The species intercorrelation matrix was ordinated using factor analysis. The relevs are classified into noda and subnoda according to species groups, formed by aid of factor analyses. Six species groups and three noda divided into six subnoda are described. The main vegetation gradient is from coastal herb and grass rich reindeer lichen communities (characterized by Agrostis vinealis, Deschampsia flexuosa, Rumex acetosella, Senecio sylvaticus, etc.) to Calluna vulgaris, Cladina stellaris and cuplichen rich communities of the inland areas.
23726889|In the Atlas Florae Europaeae, Comarum, Dasiphora, Drymocallis and Sibbaldianthe, which are commonly included in Potentilla, are recognized as independent genera. Due to the generic delimitation adopted and some taxonomic remodellings, the following new nomenclatural combinations are proposed and discussed: Drymocallis corsica (Soleir. ex Lehm.) Kurtto, D. halacsyana (Degen) Kurtto & Strid, D. longisepala (Strid) Kurtto & Strid, D. longisepala subsp. epirotica (Sojk) Kurtto & Strid, D. malacophylla (Borbs) Kurtto, Sibbaldianthe bifurca (L.) Kurtto & T. Eriksson, and S. bifurca subsp. orientale (Juz.) Kurtto & T. Eriksson. Potentilla aspegrenii Kurtto is proposed as a replacement name (nomen novum) for the illegitimate name P. sordida Fries ex Aspegren. Alternative names published by Wolf in his monograph of Potentilla in 1908 are discussed and listed.
23725402|The effects of different pH values (pH 5.5 to 3.5) on pollen grain germination and pollen tube growth in Pinus pinaster Aiton and P. pinea L. were investigated in two different media, with and without sucrose. Our results indicate that pollen behaviour was significantly affected by pH 3.5 in both species. As regards germination, different pH values had the same effect on both species: the germination percentage was negatively influenced by pH 3.5. The addition of sucrose had a favourable effect on germination rate, though less significantly in P. pinea. Pollen tube growth in both species proved similar in all treatments, except for the pH 3.5 in which elongation was considerably less than in the other media. A marked acceleration of tube growth was also obtained with the addition of sucrose. As regards bilateral pollen tubes, a negative effect of the acidity was found only in P. pinaster.
23728081|Seventy specimens from 14 populations of Onobrychis altissima (Fabaceae) were collected from their natural habitats in Iran. In order to assess the genetic variation, we carried out genomic fingerprinting using inter-simple sequence repeat PCR (ISSR). We identified a population which is distinguishable from all other populations genetically as well as morphologically by several unique characters, most notably by having the keels longer than standards (rarely in other members of sect. Onobrychis in Iran), wings  large and pods with four to five very short teeth on the crest. We describe this taxon as Onobrychis chaldoranensis Toluei, Ranjbar & Wink sp. nova (sect. Onobrychis).
23724117|Die experimentalkologischen Untersuchungen fr den vorliegenden Beitrag zur Kenntnis des Tagesverlaufes der Photosynthese und der Atmung bei Betula nana L. wurden im Juni 1963 in Pass Thurn (47 22' n.Br., 12 22' .L. Greenw.) in den Kitzbhler Alpen, sterreich, durchgefhrt (Abb. 1). Die Versuche wurden nach einem von Ungerson (1961) und Ungerson & Scherdin (1962, 1964 a) beschriebenen Verfahren mit festsitzenden Blttern der Zwergbirke ausgefhrt, unter Bercksichtigung der Temperatur der die Assimilationskammer durchstrmenden Luft, der Lichtintensitt, des CO2-Gehalts der Luft, der Spaltffnungsweite, des Wasserdefizits der Pflanze sowie der chemischen und physikalischen Beschaffenheit des Bodens. Der Versuchsplatz liegt auf einem an Kalium und Phosphor reichen (Tab. 1), saueren (pH 4.3), gut humifizierten (Humifikationsgrad 7), wassergesttigten Torfgrund. Betula nana war hier ziemlich gut entwickelt (Abb. 2), mit Sonnenblttern ausgestattet (Abb. 5), mit Jahrestrieben von durchschn. 70 mm Lnge und mit reichlicher Samenbildung. Die durchschnittliche Tagesleistung der apparenten Assimilation belief sich auf 7.816  2.957 mg CO2/50 cm2 und die der Bruttoassimilation auf 25.329  1.454 mg CO2/50 cm2. Die Atmungsintensitt war viel grsser als bei der Zwergbirke in Fennoskandien, und ihr mittlerer Tageswert betrug 17.513  2.147 mg CO2/50 cm2 (Tab. 2). Das Lichtoptimum der Assimilation wurde bei 40 000  60 000 Lux und der Lichtkompensationspunkt der Photosynthese bei 1 100 Lux gefunden. Das Temperaturoptimum der apparenten Assimilation liegt bei 18 C (Abb. 7). Die Atmungs-intensitt nimmt mit steigender Temperatur zu, und zwar steigt bei Temperaturerhhung um 1 C die Intensitt der Atmung bei Betula nana durchschnittlich um 0.059 mg CO2/50 cm2 Stunde (Abb. 6). Im Alpengebirge war der CO2-Gehalt der Luft geringer als an unseren smtlichen Versuchsorten in Fennoskandien. Sein Tagesminimum traf regelmssig gegen 13h ein (Abb. 3). Man sieht, dass bei zunehmendem CO2-Gehalt der Luft die Assimilationsintensitt steigt (Abb. 9). Der optimale Wert des Wasserdefizits wurde bei 30 % gefunden. Bei noch grsserem Wasserdefizit nimmt die Assimilationsintensitt ab, und gleichzeitig erhht sich auch die Atmungs-intensitt sehr schnell (Abb. 10).
23725896|The records of Caryophyllaceae given here from Yugoslavia, Albania, Turkey-in-Europe and Bulgaria represent UTM squares not indicated in the maps provided by the regional collaborators of Atlas Florae Europaeae. Brief comments are also made on the taxonomy of these plants. The paper is based on material in H, ISTE and W. The notes include records of Minuartia anatolica (Boiss.) Woronow, M. hirsuta (Bieb.) Hand.-Mazz. subsp. falcata (Griseb.) Mattf. and M. erythrosepala (Boiss.) Hand.-Mazz. from European Turkey, and of M. hirsuta subsp.frutescens (Kit.) Hand.-Mazz., M. verna (L.) Hiern subsp. attica (Boiss. & Spruner) Hayek and Spergularia bocconii (Scheele) Ascherson & Graebner from Yugoslavia.
23727827|Hypericum sechmenii Ocak & Koyuncu sp. nova (Hypericaceae) is described and illustrated from the peak of Arayit Mountain in central Anatolia, Turkey. The species grows on limestone rocks in B3 Eskiehir province. It is closely related to H. minutum and H. huber-morathii, the latter an endemic confined to central Anatolia. Diagnostic morphological characters are discussed. The pollen characteristics of three species were examined by SEM.
23727130|This paper deals with the species of Antrodia (Basidiomycota) in northeastern China. Seventeen species are found in the area, and a key was compiled for the species so far recorded. Statistical variations of spore dimensions are included in the key. A new species, Antrodia leucaena Y.C. Dai & Niemel, collected on Populus davidiana, is described and illustrated. It is characterized by resupinate to effused-reflexed basidiocarps, and white to cream colour of pore surface, turning brownish when drying. The hyphal structure is dimitic with clamps on generative hyphae, spores are cylindric, and rhomboid or irregular crystal clusters are common in its context and trama. In addition, a non-fertile hymenium has thin-walled hyphidia with apical encrustations. The species seems to be living exclusively on Populus. The closest relatives are A. serialis (Fr.) Donk (having different spores, different set of colours, and growing on conifers), Antrodia macra (Sommerf.) Niemel (a resupinate species), and A. pulvinascens (Pilt) Niemel (producing pseudopilei). Five other Antrodia species are briefly discussed.
23725372|Two taxa which belong to Myosotis laxa s.l. (M. caespitosa C.F. Schultz and M. baltica Sam.) have previously been distinguished in the Baltic region. The question is if these two really are separate taxa and if M. baltica, which is said to be a Baltic endemic, is distributed in the whole region. The morphological variation in M. laxa s.l. in the Baltic region of Sweden, Finland and Estonia was therefore studied. In particular, the variation in calyx size and pedicel length was discussed, as well as the total variation pattern, which was evaluated with the aid of principal component analysis. No completely clear differences between Myosotis baltica and Myosotis caespitosa were found either in calyx length, pedicel length or in the total variation pattern and a number of intermediate forms occur. In spite of this, a slightly morphologically deviating form can be discerned. This taxon is referred to as the "M. baltica type". The "M. baltica type" occurs only in coastal habitats, while the "M. caespitosa type" occurs both in coastal and inland habitats. The largest morphological variation in M. laxa s.l. in the Baltic region occurs in the southwest archipelago of Finland. It is therefore not unlikely that the "M. baltica type" has evolved in the Finnish archipelago, maybe as an adaptation to the special ecological conditions which prevail in the Baltic area. From southwest Finland the "M. baltica type" has been dispersed in the Baltic region above all by sea-currents and by birds. Boating activities are probably also of importance for the dispersal, at least nowadays.
23725360|Nutrient elements (Ca, K, Mg, Na, N, P) and heavy metals (Cu, Fe, Mn, Pb, Zn) were studied in the surroundings of Kolari cement works, NW Finland. Elevated calcium concentrations were measured as far as 16 km from the works. The other elements clearly emitted by the works were magnesium and iron. The contents of calcium, magnesium and iron correlated well with the calculated depositions. The results show that mosses (Pleurozium schreberi) and lichens (Cladina stellaris) are preferable to raw humus in studies of atmospheric deposition. The element concentrations in Cladina lichens were much lower than in Pleurozium or raw humus. At distances of 0.5 to 1 km from the cement works, reindeer lichens were totally lacking. The distance from the cement works explained 8590% of the variation in the calcium content of raw humus and Pleurozium, and the calcium concentrations of the studied materials correlated significantly with the simulated particle fall-out of the preceding year.
23727648|Arisaema muratae G. Gusman & J.T. Yin is described as a new species native to western Yunnan, China, along the border with Myanmar. Arisaema muratae belongs in section Sinarisaema. Its morphological characters are discussed and compared to other closely related species.
43922136|The following infraspecific taxa are accepted within Asarum europaeum L. : subsp. europaeum var. europaeum (almost throughout the range of the species), subsp. europaeum var. romanicum Kukk. & Uotila (var. n. ; from S Germany to the eastern Balkan region and to Russia), subsp. caucasicum (Duch.) Soo (western Caucasus and southern Alps) and subsp. italicum Kukk. & Uotila (subsp. central and northwestern Italy, and locally in the Balkans and NW Anatolia). The most useful characters for distinguishing the taxa are found in the leaves: shape, indumentum, presence or absence of stomata and papillae on upper surface of lamina. Chromosome counts were made on subsp. europaeum var. europaeum, subsp. italicum and a clone intermediate between subsp. caucasicum and subsp. europaeum. They all gave the number 2n = (ca.) 26.
23725668|The genus Radula is represented in Western Melanesia by 42 species of which 29 occur on the Huon Peninsula. We recognise two subgenera, Radula and Odontoradula Yamada, with 8 sections and 11 subsections. The following novelties are proposed: section Caducae Schust. ex Yamada & Piippo; subsections Abnormes (Massal.) Schust. ex Yamada & Piippo, Dolabratae Yamada & Piippo and Madagascarienses Schust. ex Yamada & Piippo; combinations of subsections Densifoliae (Castle ex Grolle) Yamada & Piippo, Laceratae (Yamada) Yamada & Piippo, Mizutaniae (Yamada) Yamada & Piippo, Saccatae (Castle ex Grolle) Yamada & Piippo and Vanzanteniae (Yamada) Yamada & Piippo; and species Radula emarginata Yamada & Piippo, R. grollei Yamada & Piippo, R. koponenii Yamada & Piippo, R. minutilobula Yamada & Piippo, R. morobeana Yamada & Piippo, R. norrisii Yamada & Piippo and R. novoguineensis Yamada & Piippo. R. novae-hollandiae Hampe ex Lehm., R. pinnulata Mitt. and R. similis Steph. are excluded from Western Melanesia.
23725543|Descriptions are given of four new Taraxacum species, collected in 1985 from the Pindos mountains between Metsovon and Trigona (alt. 1 4301 550 m) and later cultivated in Czechoslovakia or Finland: T. declivicola Kirschner, Sonck & tpnek, sp. nova, T. extimum Kirschner, Sonck & tpnek, sp. nova, T. multisinuatum Kirschner, Sonck & tpnek, sp. nova, and T. noterophilum Kirschner, Sonck & tpnek, sp. nova. Their position in the section Palustria is discussed.
23725043|The primary production, biomass and species composition of the phytoplankton community and some basic chemical and hydrological parameters were studied from autumn 1970 to the end of 1973 in the oligotrophic lake Pjrvi in Lammi commune, southern Finland. The methods used in the long-term studies are presented. In addition, the results of the first study period from 4. X. 1970 to 16. X. 1971 are summarized in six figures.
23726093|Floristic notes on Chenopodium (Chenopodiaceae) from Italy, Yugoslavia, Greece and Turkey, representing UTM squares not indicated in the maps provided by regional collaborators of Atlas Florae Europaeae, are reported. The paper is based on material in H, and P. Aellen's collections (G-PAE) during his excursion to Turkey in 1967. Probable new records on Chenopodium, from Turkish vilayets and squares adopted in Flora of Turkey, are also reported in these materials. The notes include C. multifidum L. from Yugoslavia and European Turkey, and C. strictum Roth subsp. striatiforme (J. Murr) Uotila from Greece.
23724614|The comparatively oligotrophic, humic, Fennoscandian watercourse of the Kokemenjoki is rather heavily polluted by different industrial effluents, town sewage, and agricultural waste. The aquatic vascular plants of a section of its main course were mapped in 1954 and 1967. During the intervening period six species (in addition to one or two hepatics) invaded the area, several of them being very frequent and abundant in 1967, while some others were seemingly just at the colonizing phase. Some old members of the flora showed a clear increase. The immigrant species and those which have increased in frequency have several characters more or less in common: vegetative dispersal, submerged or lemnoid habit, hydrotrophy, eutrophy, and saproby, as well as a somewhat southern range. The new-comers have obviously spread mainly from the upper parts of the watercourse, primarily owing to eutrophization caused by pollution. No remarkable floristic losses have been observed so far. However, some species of oligotrophic and pure waters have slightly decreased.
23727842|Onobrychis bakuensis Ranjbar, Vitek & Karamian sp. nova (Fabaceae), endemic to Azerbaijan, is described and illustrated. It belongs to the subgenus Sisyrosema section Hymenobrychis. It is distributed in northwestern Iran, and west of the Caspian Sea in Azerbaijan. It is morphologically close to O. kachetica, but is easily distinguished by the black indumentum of its rachis, leaflets, peduncle, calyx and standard.
23724169|1. Die Ergebnisse ber die Frhlings- und Herbstemperaturen, die Dicke der Schneedecke und des Bodenfrostes liegen dieser Untersuchung zu Grunde. Das Verhltnis dieser pflanzenkologischen Faktoren zur Moorvegetation des Blten- und Rimpi- bzw. Schlenkenhorizonts wurde untersucht. Die Untersuchungen wurden in Nordfinnland durchgefhrt, hauptschlich im Kirchspiel Muhos. 2. In der Schlenke (oder in dem Rimpi) ist die Temperatur gleichmssiger, und die Minima liegen im Frhjahr eher ber 0C als auf der Blte. Die Schlenke taut schneller auf, obgleich sie anfangs hinter der Blte zurckbleibt. Wenn die Schlenke erwrmt worden ist, wehrt sie wegen ihrer grossen Wrmekapazitt den Nachtfrost ab. Dadurch sind die Minima der Schlenke auch im Herbst hher als die der Blte. Der Schneeschutz der Schlenke ist besser, und die winterlichen Minima sind deshalb hher. In der Schlenke oder dem Rimpi herrscht also im Vergleich zur Blte ein mehr ozeanisches Mikroklima. 3. Die Entwicklung von Eriophorum vaginatum und Empetrum nigrum beruht auf dem warmen Mikroklima der ganz bodennahen Luft. Die grossen Zwergstrucher sind nicht nur vom Mikroklima abhngig sondern auch von der Tiefe des Auftaubodens, wie auch Rubus chamaemorus (siehe Tab. 4). Im Detail gibt es allerdings bei den grossen Zwergstruchern Unterschiede. 4. Das Makroklima sttzt oder kompensiert das Mikroklima. Dadurch erstrecken sich die arktisch-borealen Sphagnum fuscum-Reiser-moore an der extrem ozeanischen Westkste Norwegens nach S hin etwa bis zum 66., in der Sowjetunion aber etwa bis zum 53. Breitengrad. Entsprechend reicht die nicht-boreale Schlenkenvegetation der Hochmoore mit Eriophorum angusiifolium, Rhynchospora alba, Sphagnum cuspidatum, S. papillosum, S. rubellum, S. tenellum und Trichophorum caespitosum an der Westkste Norwegens bis an den obengenannten Breitengrad, auf den minerotrophen Mooren sogar noch weiter nordwrts. Im kontinentalen Gebiet Russlands spielt diese Vegetation keine wichtige Rolle mehr.
23727847|The Kuril Island Chain, which extends 1200 km in a northeast direction from Hokkaido (Japan) towards the shores of the Kamchatka Peninsula (Russian Federation), unites the boreal flora of the southern Kamchatka with the temperate flora enriched with subtropical elements from the lower elevation belts of Hokkaido. The gradual shift in the liverwort flora from the north to the south is analysed and described. It is shown that the border between East Asian and Circumboreal floristic regions (based on an analysis of liverworts) should run either along the Izmena Straight between Hokkaido and Kunashir Islands, or along the Ekaterina Straight between Kunashir and Iturup Islands, the former being a better-justified position.
23726286|When concentrations of conidia of Ingoldian fungi in streams fall to very low levels, trapping them by filtration technique becomes impractical because of the large volumes of water that must be filtered. A new trapping technique exploiting artificial foam is described and its efficiency demonstrated in comparison with Millipore filtration techniques.
43922324|Finnish records are given for 14 polypore species (Basidiomycetes). Species reported as new to Finland are Anomoporia myceliosa (Peck) Pouzar, Pernniporia medulla-panis (Fr.) Donk, Trametes suaveolens (Fr.) Fr., Tyromyces leucomallelus Murrill and T. guttulatus (Peck) Murrill. Species with a distinctly southern distribution in Finland are Aurantioporus fissilis (Berk. & Curt.) H. Jahn, Grifola frondosa (Fr.) S. F. Gray, G. umbellata (Fr.) Pil. and Spongipellis spumeus (Fr.) Pat. Very rare species with an eastern  continental distribution are Piptoporus pseudobetulinus (Pii.) Pil. and Poria placenta (Fr.) Cooke; Perenniporia subacida (Peck) Donk, another species with an eastern distribution, has scattered occurrences throughout Finland. Aporpium caryae (Schw.) Teix. & Rogers is reported from six, and Phellinus ribis (Fr.) Karst, from four localities.
23726067|Stem callus of Atropa belladonna was grown on media containing 0.01 mM, 0.05 mM and 0.10mM of L-methionine in combination with inorganic nitrogen (36mM). The callus used proved to be very sensitive to methionine, and its growth was completely inhibited by a concentration as low as 0.10 mM. The production of ethylene was somewhat reduced by methionine concentrations of 0.01 mM and 0.05mM, and very clearly decreased by 0.10 mM of methionine. At all the concentrations used, methionine increased the production of the phenolic compound scopoletin, which was detected by paper chromatography.
23726086|The features used to distinguish different Ulmus populations in postglacial sediments are discussed. In spite of some overlapping, the differences in the fossil pollen grains could be used to separate two different Ulmus pollen types. The first type, found in early postglacial deposits, was tentatively classified as Ulmus cf. laevis; the second type, U. cf. glabra, appeared somewhat later in the sediments.
23726726|An inventory of the two largest Swedish occurrences of the lichen Cyphelium notarisii, situated on Visings in Smland and at Kovik on Gotland, respectively, was conducted. A third occurrence on Fr, Gotland was discovered. A total of 21 localities were visited. Only cultural substrates such as wooden barn walls, fishing sheds and gates were utilised by fertile specimens. The species is mostly found on south- to southwest-facing walls with no shade cover, close to a water-body. The current distribution is greatly reduced compared to the historical range of the species. The major current occurrences are characterised by a high concentration of old wooden structures, which strongly indicates that measures to ensure the viability of the species should be taken at the landscape level, rather than on individual localities. Cyphelium notarisii is reported as new to Estonia and Kazakhstan, and C. tigillare is reported as new to Gotland, Sweden.
23727654|The somatic chromosome numbers of a total of 57 populations of five Allium species were studied in Lithuania. The chromosome numbers were: A. angulosum 2n = 16, A. lusitanicum 2n = 32, A. oleraceum 2n = 32 and 40, A. scorodoprasum 2n = 16 and 24, and A. vineale 2n = 32 and 24. Allium oleraceum, A. scorodoprasum and A. vineale showed ploidy differences both within and among populations.
23726182|The nitrogen content of the sporocarp pilei of Lactarius rufus (Fr.) Fr. and Suillus variegatus (Fr.) O. Kunze was measured on unfertilized and fertilized (5 different fertilizers) plots in four forest stands of different types in Pudasjrvi in 1978-1984. In all the trials the amount of nitrogen added was 200 kg/ha. The nitrogen concentration of the pilei was determined by the Kjeldahl method. On the unfertilized plots the nitrogen concentration of L. rufus was 2.6-3.8 % dw and that of S. variegatus 2.2-4.0 % dw. The fertilizers commonly increased the nitrogen level of the sporocarps. Ammonium nitrate fertilizer increased the nitrogen concentration of L. rufus to at most 1.4 times the control value, and usually to 1.2 times. The effect of urea and nitroform was somewhat more than half of the effect of ammonium nitrate. The mixed fertilizers, UAB (urea-apatite-biotite) and UABM (urea-apatite-biotite-micronutrients), had the smallest effect. In S. variegatus the effect of urea was commonly small. Nitroform had the greatest effect, a 1.4-fold increase of the control value in dryish forest. In mesic forest the effect of nitroform was small and ammonium nitrate and UABM caused the greatest increase. The nitrogen concentration of the sporocarps usually decreased to near the control level 1-2 years after fertilization, but remained above that level for 5 years. The amount of nitrogen fertilizer absorbed by the fungus sporocarps was estimated to be fairly small.
23724189|To evaluate the degree of introgressive hybridization in Finnish populations of Centaurea, starting with C. jacea and C. nigra, the author has, besides studying herbaria, analysed 32 populations, mostly in areas where C. nigra has been found. According to herbarium material, even the earliest collections of C. nigra from old ballast places comprise, besides pure nigra, nigra plants with some genes of C. jacea or the hybrid jacea  nigra. In all the ballast places and harbours studied there has been, according to population analyses, strong selection in favour of jacea genes. Pure C. nigra has disappeared. Spontaneous hybridization between C. jacea and C. phrygia ssp. austriaca also takes place in Eastern Fennoscandia; it needs further examination
23725427|Material was analysed by the isotope excited X-ray fluorescence method at 31 sites in Finland. The chlorine content of the lichens appeared to depend closely on the lichen species and that of the bark on the phorophyte species. The highest chlorine contents were found in Pseudevernia furfuracea and Hypogymnia physodes. Scanning electron microscopy and X-ray microanalysis revealed that the chlorine was mostly located in the cortex of the lichens. There was a significant correlation between the chlorine contents of birch bark and H. physodes and a highly significant correlation between the chlorine contents of P. furfuracea growing on pine and H. physodes growing on birch in the same habitat. The mean chlorine contents of P. furfuracea and H. physodes growing on birch reached maximum values in SW Finland. The distribution of deposited chlorides in Finland and the chloride absorption of birch bark are discussed.
23725152|Lake balls can be roughly divided into three groups: (1) true lake balls or aegagropiloids, formed by living algae with radial growth (corresponding to terrestrial moss balls), (2) false lake balls composed of tangled dead plant remains debris, etc. and (3) balls formed from tangled living plants. Aquatic moss balls formed from Fontinalis antipyretica Hedw. and Drepanocladus tenuinervis T. Kop. are described, and their genesis discussed. In culture D. tenuinervis produced curved intercalary or lateral stem portions with depauperate, almost straight leaves, tightly pressed to the stem. There are not many earlier reports of aquatic moss balls in the literature.
23727655|Jurinea remains a taxonomically complex genus, many of the problems concentrating around J. mollis. In this study, Jurinea species native in Turkey were collected from different localities in Anatolia and DNA was isolated from the collected samples, using a commercial plant DNA extraction kit (Nucleon phytopure). Inter Simple Sequence Repeat (ISSR) was the fingerprinting method preferred due to its high level of reliability and consistency as compared with the Randomly Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD). The data were analyzed with NTSYS-pc 2.1. The phytogeographical distribution of Jurinea was found to be closely related to the Anatolian Diagonal. Based on the Diagonal, two major taxonomic groups emerged, from which J. kileae was clearly separated both morphologically and phylogenetically.
23725463|The aromatic compounds in 30 species of the lichen genus Cladina (Nyl.) Nyl. (Ascomycotina: Cladoniaceae) were screened by means of thin-layer chromatography and high-performance liquid chromatography. Most of the samples were herbarium specimens derived from various regions of the world. The qualitative data for the substances chiefly confirm the earlier reports, although some additional findings were made. The quantitative results for the lichen substances in most of the species are shown for the first time in the present study. The contents of lichen compounds are highly variable, the total contents ranging from 1.0 to 8.3% of the lichen dry weight. The major substances include usnic acid (from traces to 7.9%), perlatolic acid (0.32.5%), fumarprotocetraric acid (from traces to 5.3%) and atranorin (0.54.4%).
23725888|The effects of arsenate and lead were studied on Pisum sativum L. plants that had grown for 40 days in sterile hydroponic cultures at five concentrations (1.00.01 mM) of both toxicants. At the 0.5 mM (37.5 mg/l) concentration of arsenate, the dry weight of whole plants was about 50 % lower than in the controls, whereas at this concentration of lead (103.6 mg/l) the decrease was about 20 %. The maximum level of arsenate tolerated proved to be about 0.01 mM (0.7 mg/l) and the tolerance level for lead lay between 0.1 and 0.01 mM (20.7 and 2.1 mg/l). The chlorophyll a content of the third internode leaves was affected by all concentrations of arsenate above 0.01 mM. The 0.1 mM concentration was the most harmful: the chlorophyll a content was decreased by about 37 % and the chlorophyll b content by about 44 %. At the 1.0 and 0.5 mM concentrations of lead the chlorophyll a content was decreased by about 26 and 66 %, respectively, and chlorophyll b by about 38 and 58 %, respectively. Nodulation failed completely at the 1.0 and 0.5 mM concentrations of arsenate and at the 1.0 mM level of lead. All arsenate concentrations above 0.01 mM depressed the acetylene-reducing activity per mg of dry weight of the root nodules, and significant depression also occurred at the 0.250.01 mM concentrations of lead. The total nitrogen content of the plants decreased with increasing concentrations of lead and arsenate, the decrease being 66 and 14 % at the 1.0 and 0.01 mM concentrations of lead, and 50 and 22 % at the corresponding concentrations of arsenate. The results are also discussed in the light of correlations revealed by analyses of the data.
23726975|The perennial forbs Centaurea jacea and C. scabiosa have relatively similar morphological traits, but different distributions and local abundance. Both occur in ruderal sites and in calcareous grasslands, but C. jacea may dominate in calcareous grasslands, while C. scabiosa is a subordinate species. We hypothesised that: (1) C. jacea is dependent on the presence of the root-associated microbial community of a calcareous grassland (CG inoculum), as opposed to the microbial community from a ruderal site (old field inoculum, OF), while C. scabiosa is not; and (2) if there is a positive response of C. jacea to CG inoculum, it will be more evident in oligotrophic soil conditions. In our experiment the two Centaurea species were grown with two different inocula (CG, OF) at three different nutrient levels. CG inoculation considerably increased the leaf number of C. jacea as compared with the OF inoculation. This response was interpreted as an investment into competitive ability in the future. CG inoculum resulted in a significantly higher root biomass in C. scabiosa, while the biomass of C. jacea did not vary among differentially inoculated plants. This was interpreted as an increased allocation to storage in C. scabiosa, to improve performance in stress conditions. Thus, compared with ruderal inoculum (OF), grassland (CG) inoculum enhanced 'competitive behaviour' in C. jacea and 'stress-tolerating behaviour' in C. scabiosa. Both responses were more evident at high nutrient levels. Fertilisation decreased the shoot to root ratio in both species, which may represent an 'element of stress-tolerating behaviour', much more common among rhizomatous perennial plants than is usually recognized.
23726962|The general aims of the current study were (i) to develop a classification of the aquatic macrophyte communities of the Estonian watercourses flowing into the Gulf of Finland, (ii) to distinguish the main ecological variables which determine the occurrence of the dominating species and discriminate between the community types and, (iii) to establish a classification of river reaches (habitats) and to identify the parameters distinguishing them. The data were clustered into 23 vegetation types of which 18 were dominated by vascular plant species, while five clusters included communities of cryptogams. Water BOD5, current velocity and riverbed material proved to be the variables separating the clusters most reliably. The occurrence of single species is affected by different environmental variables; from this point of view the most important physical environmental variables are extent of bottom coverage with fine sediments and water turbidity; among the chemical variables content of O2, NH4-N and PO4-P, as well as N/P ratio are of considerable importance. As the species dominating in the clusters are mostly characterised by a very large geographical distribution and a wide ecological amplitude, the established community types are well known from other regions of Europe as well. However, comparison of the ecological parameters of the established community types with those obtained by other researchers revealed marked discrepancies in many cases. The river reaches clustered into four habitat types were significantly separated by water depth and turbidity as well as by riverbed substrate. In this way, in every habitat type there occur plant communities of different types; also, communities of a certain type can grow in different type habitats.
23728117|Elatostema robustipes W.T. Wang, F. Wen & Y.G. Wei and Pellionia tenuicuspis W.T. Wang, Y.G. Wei & F. Wen, two new species of Urticaceae from the Guangxi and Guangdong provinces (China), respectively, are described and illustrated. Elatostema robustipes most closely resembles E. balansae, and P. tenuicuspis most closely resembles P. incisoserrata.
23725548|Puccinellia phryganodes (Trin.) Schribner & Merr. has disjunctive occurrences on the coast of the Bothnian Bay, in the Baltic Sea area. Three new occurrences are presented on the island Hailuoto (Grid 27E: 7206:394-5 and 7208:395) and at Lohtaja (72029:324). The seven sites known in the 1960s were revisited anew, and the species was again detected at only one site. Even at Lohtaja the species is disappearing. Thus P. phryganodes has decreased greatly during less than 20 years. Its disappearance is evidently due to the reduction of pasturing and hay-making, the land upheaval and poor colonization ability. The species grows on chloride and sulphate-chloride soils, where the competition between plant species is not particularly intense. On Hailuoto P. phryganodes has occurrences near the mean water level, which is the habitat of the species on arctic shores. The other occurrences in the Bothnian Bay area are or have been on salt patches in the middle-upper geolittoral and in the epilittoral.
23727882|Castanopsis malipoensis and C. jinpingensis, two new species of Fagaceae from Yunnan, China, are described and illustrated. The former grows in mixed forests on limestone hills of the Malipo County and is closely related morphologically to C. xichouensis, differing from it by having thinner leaves, shorter petioles, flat glabrous cupule spines, and larger nuts. The latter is restricted to the thick forest on Mt. Wutai in the Jinping County, most resembling C. platyacantha, but differing from it by its entire leaf-margin, slender cupule spines without pubescences, and having smaller nuts. A key to the two species and their allies is provided.
23725506|Patterns in the distribution of vascular plants were studied by using the distribution maps of the latest field flora of Finland. These maps give the status of the species ("native", "archaeophyte", "established alien", "casual alien", or "unknown") in each of the 20 biogeographical provinces. There are 897 native, 188 archaeophytic and 186 established alien species in Finland. The number of archaeophytes and established aliens decreases rapidly towards the north, whereas the number of native species remains fairly constant throughout the country, being significantly higher only in the hemiboreal zone of SW Finland. The constancy distribution of the native species is bimodal: about 20% of the species occur in all 20 provinces, and 27% occur in fewer than four provinces. The most common "distribution types" (i.e. province combinations) represent the wellknown biogeographic elements of Finland: southwestern species, northern species, and species of the coastal provinces. DCA ordination of the flora indicated that the regional changes in the flora mainly follow large-scale geographical gradients from south to north, and, in a smaller scale, from west (coastal regions) to east (inland S Finland).
23726871|A new species of Crepidium is described from the NE part of Borneo (Malaysia). Additionally, 15 new combinations at the species level are proposed in Crepidium.
23725085|A new species, Tayloria (subg. Brachymitrium) pocsii A. Koponen, is described.
23726658|The pollen composition of the uppermost part of sediments formed during the last hundred years in four lakes located in different landscapes (open agricultural land, forested area, ombrotrophic bog) in Estonia was studied. The pollen of land-use indicator taxa are arranged into three groups: indicators of cultivated land, ruderal communities, and meadow and pasture land. We established clear differences in the pollen proportions of cultivated, ruderal and meadow plants, depending on the intensity of human impact around studied site. The temporal changes of the share of different human impact pollen indicators show especially good correlation with the history of land-use when the changes took place in the immediate vicinity of the lake (Ruusme). In those areas close to the actively used arable land the proportion of Cerealia pollen may reach 6%8% of the total pollen sum. Values of Cerealia pollen of 1%2% reflect the background values for the region.
23728237|Potentilla radiata Lehm., described from northern Iran, also occurs in the Caucasus, Transcaucasia and NE Turkey. It has been reported as P. svanetica Siegfr. & R. Keller, P. sommieri Siegfr. & R. Keller or P. armeniaca Siegfr. ex Th. Wolf by local authors. It was occasionally collected also in the N part of European Russia and in Romania, being described as P.  burduja Prodn & opa, P.  leteae Prodn, P.  moeszii Jv. ex Prodn, P.  porciusii Prodn and P. gordiaginii Juz. The name P. radiata Lehm., not used previously, has priority over all of the mentioned names. Potentilla radiata is interpreted as a hybrid between P. argentea L. and P. thuringiaca Bernh. ex Link.
23727835|Veronica hederifolia (Plantaginaceae)  an invasive, alien weed in eastern China  is of great concern due to its potential to spread. This study was conducted to determine the genetic diversity of V. hederifolia in comparison with several congeneric species, including V. persica, V. arvensis, V. didyma and V. peregrina as outgroups, using the Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphism (AFLP) technique. The samples of V. hederifolia were collected from 24 locations in Nanjing and Zhoushan, and genomic DNA was digested with the enzymes EcoRI/MseI and amplified with six E+3/M+3 primer combinations. Both mono- and polymorphic AFLP markers were analyzed to estimate genetic diversity of V. hederifolia based on a range of standard indicators. A high percentage of polymorphic bands (89.23%) existed in the populations examined, implying high genetic diversity. Based on all genetic indices, the Nanjing population, which was the first reported in China, exhibited greater genetic diversity than the Zhoushan population. Substantial variation was also found among individual plants collected from a single site near Nanjing, with 79.56% polymorphism. This high genetic diversity indicates this weed species potentially has broad adaptability. Cluster analysis of AFLP data placed V. hederifolia samples into three groups depending largely on geographical locations.
23727211|Parasenecio weiningensis S.Z. He & H. Peng, a new species in the Asteraceae from Guizhou, SW China, is described and illustrated in line drawings. Parasenecio weiningensis is compared with the morphologically fairly similar P. delphiniphyllus.
23725030|The spores of 42 of the 62 known species of Mniaceae are described with the aid of light and scanning electron microscopy. From the point of view of the taxonomy, the most useful differences between the spores of the family lie in the spore size and the thickness of the exine. A subdivision of the family based on the spore morphology accords well with the subdivision of Mniaceae into tribes. Most of the genera of the family are uniform in their spore morphology. The taxonomy of the genera Mnium, Trachycystis, Leucolepis, Cinclidium, Rhizomnium, Micromnium, Orthomnion, Orthomniopsis, Plagiomnium, and Pseudobryum is discussed on the basis of their spore morphology.
23727181|Vegetation of an area of 500 km2 in the western Khentey Mountains, northern Mongolia is phytosociologically classified with the help of 254 relevs. Twenty-one main vegetation units are described. The study area is situated at the interface between the western Siberian dark taiga, the eastern Siberian light taiga and the Mongolian-Daurian forest steppe. A small-scale pattern of these three major vegetation types was found depending on site characteristics. Dark taiga forests of Pinus sibirica, Abies sibirica, Picea obovata, and Larix sibirica grow at the most humid sites. Light taiga forests dominated by Larix sibirica and Betula platyphylla occur on relatively dry northern slopes of the lower montane belt. Sun-exposed, southern slopes of the lower montane belt are covered by montane meadow and mountain steppe. DCA ordination suggests that the distribution of vegetation types depends on water supply and altitude.
23727954|The purpose of our study was to test whether any significant morphological differences exist between island and mainland plant populations of the north European White Sea. Six polymorphic species were studied: Atriplex nudicaulis (Chenopodiaceae), Euphrasia wettsteinii (Orobanchaceae), Achillea millefolium (Asteraceae), Parnassia palustris (Parnassiaceae), Potentilla egedii (Rosaceae) and Rhodiola rosea (Crassulaceae). Based on the multivariate analyses of our data, we found 10 cases where differences between island and mainland populations are best explained by the existence of short-scale evolutionary processes. These results suggest that plant populations on islands of recent origin may display local morphological divergence in a short evolutionary time frame.
23725430|The thickness increment, production of dry matter and volumetric density of Sphagnum carpets were measured during three years using the so-called net method. The Sphagnum species studied were S. magellanicum, S. papillosum, S. majus, S. angustifolium, S.flexuosum, S. riparium, S. warnstorfii and S. fuscum. The greatest thickness increments were recorded for S. angustifolium and S. riparium. The most productive species were S. fuscum, S. majus and S. riparium. The highest volumetric densities were measured in the S. fuscum and S. majus carpets; in the former this was due to its great shoot number and in the latter to its dense floating carpet. Carpet thickness was a poor predictor of dry matter production, as the growth patterns and site conditions varied greatly between species. The importance of the three variables studied is discussed with reference to the habitats and autecology of the Sphagnum species.
23727599|The five species of Bolboschoenus  B. glaucus, B. laticarpus, B. maritimus, B. planiculmis and B. yagara  occurring in Europe were studied. A detailed taxonomic and nomenclatural account is provided for these taxa, together with an identification key, distribution data and maps based on a revision of herbarium specimens from 36 herbaria and on field observations. Because ecological differentiation influences the distribution of the taxa concerned, detailed information on their ecology is also provided.
23727212|Gagea daqingshanensis L.Q. Zhao & J. Yang sp. nova (Liliaceae) is described from Inner Mongolia, China. It appears most closely related to G. albertii and G. pauciflora. The distinguishing characters are given in a key to the three species.
23727800|Cyrtopodium hatschbachii is a recently-described orchid species distributed in norteastern Argentian. Natural populations of this species require conservation because they have a very restricted size and distribution and are in danger of destruction. Cryopreservation in liquid nitrogen is the most commonly-applied technique for ex situ conservation of plant genetic resources, but genetic stability after cryopreservation is an important consideration. Chromosome number and morphology are primary cytogenetic parameters that must remain stable after cold storage. We analyzed plants of C. hatschbachii cytogenetically in order to determinate their stability level. The plants from cryopreserved encapsulated seeds were stable at chromosome and phenotypic level, but showed more limited condensation of the chromatin during the first stages of their development. The chromosome number and karyotype analysis of C. hatschbachii is presented for the first time.
23724673|The uneven distribution of diatom frustules in the recent sediments of four meromictic lakes, one in Finland, two in Norway, and one in Wisconsin (USA), is described. The different distribution patterns are discussed on the basis of the limnology of the lakes and of the ecology of the diatoms. They are found to be controlled primarily by the reduced water movements and the dissolution of frustules in the monimolimnion. In one lake one accumulation of frustules was discovered in the bottom zone below the epilimnetic water movements, and another in the sediment just above the chemocline. The latter accumulation suggests that the frustules float on the denser water mass of the monimolimnion. Clear indications of the dissolution of frustules were found in the monimolimnetic sediments of all the lakes, the phenomenon being very distinct in one. Since the frustules are not deposited uniformly on the bottom of such lakes, one or a small number of random sediment samples can hardly be sufficient for an interpretation of the lake ecology.
23727876|We examined 15 species of the genus Ligusticum (Apiaceae) from China using LM (light microscopy) and SEM (scanning electron microscopy). Different species have irregular and polygonal epidermal cells and four different stomatal types. Almost all species have different types of stomata on the same leaf surface. Ridges and striations on the cuticular membrane are common features in Ligusticum, and special striation papillae are found in three species. Regarding its epidermal characters, Ligusticum is not supported as a natural genus. Tilingia is suggested as being restored from Ligusticum. The monophyly of Ligusticopsis is not supported and it cannot be segregated from Ligusticum by epidermal characters. We confirm a very close relationship between Ligusticum and Conioselinum and discuss some of the valuable taxonomic characters of Ligusticum.
23727641|Twelve chrysophyte stomatocysts are reported from sediments in a man-made water reservoir in the village of Wymysw in central Poland. Three morphotypes are described as new to science: stomatocysts #40, #41 and #42. The descriptions of two other stomatocysts, 161 Zeeb & Smol 1993 emend. Pitek J. and 198 Duff & Smol 1994, forma APla 2001 emend. Pitek J., are emended to include some additional morphological characters, which had not been observed previously. The two morphotypes are also newly reported from Poland. Stomatocyst 171 Zeeb & Smol 1993 is recorded in Poland for the first time from extant material.
23728009|Cyanus ouramanicus Ranjbar & Negaresh sp. nova (Asteraceae) is described and illustrated from Kermanshah Province, W Iran. It resembles C. woronowii, but differs from it by having an erect to ascending stem, branched at the base and often from median to upper parts, elliptic to oblanceolate or oblong, rarely linear or oblanceolate stem leaves, lower and median stem leaves with entire margins, pubescent phyllaries, and lanceolate peripheral floret lobes.
23726788|Artificial deacclimation was provided for the bilberry (Vaccinium myrtillus) in Oulu, northern Finland (65N) in mid-winter 1995. The aim was to study the susceptibility of the bilberry to deacclimate in constant temperatures elevated just above the realistic levels (+5 and +10 C). Frost resistance (LT50) of the bilberry stem and bud phenology were followed. The results so far indicate that the bilberry is susceptible to complete deacclimation in mid-winter. However, this deacclimation requires unrealistic temperature elevations or unrealistically prolonged periods of scarcely realistic temperatures.
23725788|The distributional relations of aquatic macrophytes were examined by correlation analysis, and floristically homogeneous areas were delimited by multivariate principal component analysis and non-hierarchical agglomerative multivariate clustering (grouping) techniques, using data on the presence/absence and abundance of the species. Species having the same or opposite distribution patterns were easily distinguished and also species that were evenly distributed throughout the waters studied. Particular vegetationally homogeneous areas could be distinguished. The results remained largely the same when the data were treated differently or restricted. The data on the species' abundance made no important difference to the results yielded by the presence/absence data. The homogeneous areas delimited according to the floristic similarities largely agreed with the areas distinguished on the basis of the environmental conditions, mainly water properties. The vegetation of the homogeneous areas was examined with respect to the occurrence of the life-forms and of categories of species indicative of the water quality. The results yielded by the mathematical techniques agree well with those reached by conventional methods, clustering procedures are suitable for this kind of study, but complicated mathematical methods are not essential of reaching correct results. Moreover, average accuracy and reliability can be attained with only a selected fraction of the total vegetational data, and general trends can be revealed using only a few indicator species.
23726124|The effects of zinc on growth and acid phosphatase activity were studied for 12 days in pea seedlings (Pisum sativum L.) grown on nutrient and on nutrient-deficient agar media. The zinc concentrations were: 1.0, 0.1 and 0.01 mM (64.50.65 mg/l), superimposed on the micronutrient level (0.08 mg/l) of zinc in the nutrient agar medium. The anatomical responses of the roots were studied only in the seedlings on nutrient-deficient medium. In the presence of the nutrients, the 1.0 and 0.1 mM concentrations decreased the growth of the shoot more than that of the roots. On the nutrient-deficient medium the growth of the roots was decreased by the 1.0 mm concentration. The epidermis of the zinc-treated roots was lignified, and the endodermis also possessed lignified cells. The frequency of calcium oxalate crystals in the pericycle was increased by the zinc treatment. The acid phosphatase activity was assayed daily by the p-nitrophenyl phosphate method on cotyledons grown on nutrient-deficient medium, and at the end of the 12-day culture period on cotyledons grown on the nutrient medium. The 0.1 and 0.01 mM concentrations of zinc at first enhanced, but later inhibited the activity. In the absence of nutrients, the acid phosphatase on the 12th day of culture was inhibited by 40, 33 and 15 %, at the 1.0, 0.1 and 0.01 mM concentrations, respectively. The corresponding values for the cotyledons grown on nutrient medium were 13, 10 and 11 %.
23728183|Cerasus xueluoensis C.H. Nan & X.R. Wang, a new species from Hubei and Jiangxi provinces, China, is described, illustrated and compared with its congeners. It is somewhat similar to C. tomentosa and C. tianshanicae, but it is distinguished by its 24-flowered umbellate inflorescences, much longer pedicels (0.62.5 cm), a glabrous pistil and black drupes. A key to distinguish it from the other species of subgen. Microcerasus in China is provided.
23726776|The following genera of the tribe Vandeae (Orchidaceae, Vandoideae) are described as new to science: Barombiella Szlach., Blumeorchis Szlach., Lacroixia Szlach., Neocribbia Szlach., and Ormerodia Szlach. New combinations proposed in Vandeae are Coenadenium (Summerh.) Szlach., stat. & comb. nov. and Acampe Lindl. sect. Sarcophyton (Garay) Szlach., stat. & comb. nova. Twenty-six new combinations at the species level are validated.
23724937|The distribution of Dichelyma capillaceum is amphi-Atlantic and mainly hemiboreal and temperate; however, in North America it extends farther south than in Europe, to the subtropics. In Europe D. capillaceum is much rarer and almost always sterile. The possibility is discussed that the species achieved its present distribution in Fennoscandia by vegetative propagation.
23727833|Using isozyme analysis, we studied the genetic diversity among 316 Bromus hordeaceus (Poaceae) accessions of different geographic origin and belonging to five subspecies. Eight putative isozyme loci revealed remarkable allozyme variation. The isozyme variation occurred as different fixed homozygous and heterozygous phenotypes without segregation among the seed progeny. We detected no subspecies-specific allozymes. Two isozymes tend to differentiate among subspecies, indicating that subspecies of B. hordeaceus are still undergoing contemporary process of divergence. The differentiation into 65 multilocus isozyme lineages (MLILs) was not related to the geographic origin of B. hordeaceus accessions. Bromus hordeaceus did not lose genetic variation towards its range margins: we found 7.7% out of total MLILs in the northernmost part of a core distribution range and 7.740% in the southern part. We recorded silencing of one homeoallelic isozyme gene in the allotetraploid genome of B. hordeaceus for accessions of different geographic origins.
23724632|The external and anatomical characters of Epilobium alsinifolium, E. hornemannii, E. lactiflorum and E. anagallidifolium have been analysed in 77 north Fennoscandian populations. Comparisons with cultivated controls were made. The reproductive biology, growth rhythm and ecology have been studied. Although very closely related the treated taxa proved to be clearly different, fairly uniform and constant species.
23727906|Glyptopetalum pallidifolium (Hayata) Q.R. Liu & S.Y. Meng, comb. nova (Celastraceae) is proposed here based on Euonymus pallidifolia Hayata from Pingtung Hsien, Taiwan. Glyptopetalum is a new generic record for Taiwan. The characters of capsule and flower of this species are described, and the difference between Euonymus and Glyptopetalum is discussed.
23728083|Campylocentrum christensonii Szlach. & Kolan. and C. cuyuniae Szlach. & Kolan. (Orchidaceaea) are described as new species based on examination of herbarium material. The new taxa are also illustrated. A dichotomous key to the species of Campylocentrum reported from the Guianas is provided. A new combination, Campylocentrum weigeltii (Rchb.f.) Szlach. & Kolan., is proposed.
23724194|Counts have been made of the somatic numbers of 18 strains of Thymus collected in the wild. The chromosome numbers not previously reported are as follows: T. glaucus Friv. One Yugoslavian sample. 2n =28. T. illyricus Ronn. f. nyaradyanus (Lyka) Nyr. One Romanian sample, which showed the number 2n=58. T. longicaulis Presl. 3 Yugoslavian samples. 2n =30. T. pseudo-atticus Ronn. One Yugoslavian sample. 2n =26. This number is now reported for the first time for any member of the genus. T. striatus Vahl ssp. neapolitanus (Strobl) Ronn. 2 Yugoslavian samples. 2n =54. Confirmation of previous counts: T. marschallianus Willd. Two Romanian samples. 2n =28. T. pulegioides L. One sample from the Venetian Alps (Alpi Venete), Italy. 2n =28. 7 samples from the North Italian Dolomite Alps belonging to the polyploid Thymus complex of the Alps showed numbers ranging between 50 and 56, and thus agreeing with earlier counts for this group.
23727135|Adenophora urceolata Y.Z. Zhao sp. nova (Campanulaceae) is described from Inner Mongolia, China. It appears most closely related to A. polyantha, A. gmelinii and A. coronopifolia. The distinguishing characters are given in a key to the four species.
23727275|Colocasia tibetensis J.T. Yin is described and illustrated as a new species of Araceae from southeast Tibet, China. Morphological characters of C. tibetensis and morphologically similar species C. fallax are compared. Colocasia tibetensis differs from C. fallax in its erect (not reflexed) spathe limb, the junction between the lamina and lower convolute part of the spathe being not constricted, having three placentae and stolons 1535 cm long.
23725156|The paper describes a new species, Epilobium laestadii Kytv., and reports the results of comparative studies made with the closely related E. palustre L. and with E. davuricum Fischer ex Hornem., by the aid of measurements, and cultivation and crossing experiments. The distribution in Fennoscandia is mapped. Epilobium laestadii, which in cultivation proved to be uniform and constant through several generations, is a northern boreal, slightly continental, mesoeutrophic fen species, characterized by filiform stolons, basally crowded leaves, long uppermost internode, long pedicels, small whitish flowers and appressed hairs.
23726514|Two laboratory experiments were conducted to examine the effects of seed weight on growth, reproduction and competitive ability of Linum usitatissimum L. seedlings. In the first experiment, seedlings from light (3.54.0 mg), medium (5.05.5 mg) and heavy (6.06.5 mg) seeds were allowed to grow individually in pots for three or six weeks following germination. Seedlings from heavy and medium seeds were significantly larger than those from light seeds after growth of both three and six weeks. In the second experiment, seedlings from heavy (6.57.0 mg), medium (5.05.5 mg) and light (3.54.0 mg) seeds were allowed to grow for three months in pots either individually or in competition with one or three individuals of mustard (Sinapis alba L.). Increase in intensity of interference from the S. alba seedlings significantly reduced plant growth and number of flowers produced in each of the three seed size classes in L. usitatissimum. Seed weight did not affect final root or shoot biomass among seedlings with the same status of competitive conditions in any of the three competition treatments. In the same competitive conditions, seedlings from the heaviest seeds produced significantly more flowers than those from medium or light seeds. However, flax seedlings from the heaviest seeds grown in competition with three mustards did not produce more flowers than seedlings from lighter seeds grown in competition with only one mustard or free of interference.
23727197|We investigated how the timing and direction of low-pressure and short-term trampling influences revegetation of plant lifeforms at subalpine heath vegetation in northern Finland. Two trampling experiments were applied during summer 1999 to simulate the influence of unofficial trails that are common in popular recreation areas. Timing of trampling had no impact on the vegetation. Downward trampling reduced the total vegetation cover and the cover of evergreen dwarf shrubs more than did upward trampling, but only during the trampling year. The cover of vascular plants decreased directly after trampling, while the bryophytes showed a slower response to the treatment. Also the recovery of the vascular plants occurred more rapidly compared with the bryophytes. The cover of lichens increased in all treatments, apparently due to crumbling into smaller pieces. Although trampling impacts occur rapidly even under very low levels of use, revegetation is rapid if the trampling pressure is removed.
23728273|We studied the natural history as well as the conservation status of the first-known population of Polygala balansae in Europe (Granada, SE Spain). In the study area, we located only one population occupying a small patch of 1920 m2, between 120 and 160 m a.s.l., with 246 mature individuals. The species is classified as Critically Endangered (CR), under the following criteria: severely fragmented, inferred continuous decline, small population size, and continuing decline inferred from the number mature individuals. The main threats over the population are: spreading subtropical tree-crops and encroachment of human settlements for tourist purposes, plus natural causes (drought, wild or human-mediated fire, limited dispersal, poor recruitment/reproduction/regeneration, high juvenile mortality, low densities and restricted range). Finally, passive and active conservation measures are proposed in order to guarantee the survival of the species.
43922142|The sedimentation and energy flow to the profundal area of Lake Pjrvi was studied during 1972 and 1973. Most of the sedimentation (70 %) took place during the summer months (June-August). About 10 % of the primary production sedimented during the summer. A second sedimentation maximum, observed in the autumn, was found to be irregular, depending greatly on the allochthonous input. The rate of sedimentation was low in winter, when only 6.6 % of the yearly sedimentation reached the bottom. The proportion of the total yearly carbon input that sedimented was 5.8 %.
23728224|A new species, Rhododendron cochlearifolium Xiang Chen & Jiayong Huang (Ericaceae), from Guizhou Province, China is described and illustrated. It differs from the most morphologically similar species R. irroratum and R. agastum mainly by having small and spoon-like leaf blades, a more floriferous inflorescence, a shorter rachis, a corolla with no nectar pouches, glabrous filaments and a densely tomentose, eglandular ovary.
23724163|The taxonomic results are briefly summarized below. Diphasium complanatum (L.) Rothmaler, 1944, in Fedde: Repertorium Regni vegetabilis 54, p. 64. D. complanatum (L.) Rothm. subsp. complanatum var. complanatum var. polystachyum Lindberg emend. Kukkonen Syn.: Lycopodium complanatum f. polystachyum Lindberg, 1906, in Schedae operis quod inscribitur Plantae Finlandiae Exsiccatae, Fase. I, p. 5, pro parte. var. montellii n. var. Planta humilis, altitudine 4  13 cm; ramis densis et aequae altitudinis; angulus inter ramos parous; nullus truncus praecipuus. Pedunculi breves; spicae plerumque singulares, multae in surculo ario, parvae. Rhiza super terram. D. complanatum (L.) Rothm. subsp. chamaecyparissus (A. Braun) Kukkonen n. comb. Syn.: Lycopodium complanatum subsp. chamaecyparissus (A. Braun) Dll, 1857, Flora des Grossherzogtums Baden, p. 79.  L. chamaecyparissus A. Braun ex Mutel, 1837, Flore Franaise IV, p. 192.
23726429|Thirteen soil samples from two excavation sites in the Qwensel house yard in the town of Turku, SW Finland, were analysed for plant remains. The oldest layers were dated archaeologically to the 17th, and the youngest to the 19th century. Sixty-eight taxa were identified. The plant remains were grouped in the following way: a. Yard weeds, b. plants used for animal fodder and c. plants used by man. Analysis showed that the weeds of the old settlement yard were the most common plants of those times. The second dominating group of plant remains was plants dispersed by domestic animals. The finds of plants used by man were charred grains of Hordeum vulgare, Humulus lupulus and Fagopyrum sp. The old settlement weeds were i.e. Aethusa cynapium, Urtica urens and an old medicinal plant Hyoscyamus niger.
23726816|The generic name Cleistogenes is invalid because it is identical with the technical term "cleistogene". According to Art. 20.2 of the current ICBN, Kengia Packer (tribe Eragrosteae, Poaceae) is the correct name for Cleistogenes. The present paper deals with the Chinese species of the genus. There are 18 species and 8 varieties of Kengia in China. Nine new combinations are proposed herein.
23725038|Mnium parvulum Mitt. from the Himalayas is conspecific with Rhizomnium minutulum (Besch.) Kop. from Japan. A new combination, Rhizomnium parvulum (Mitt.) Kop., is introduced. R. horikawae (Nog.) Kop. is reported from the mainland of China and from many localities in the Himalayas. The holotype of Mnium reticulatum Mitt. belongs to Rhizomnium hattorii Kop.
43922174|The occurrence of Carex pallens (Fristedt) Harmaja (C. digitata L. var. pallens Fristedt) (Cyperaceae) in Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia is established. The four localities reported here from these countries evidently belong to a large distribution area in East Central Europe. Several new localities are listed for the species in Finland. New differences between C. digitata and C. pallens are described. C. digitata f. eurycarpa Domin is considered to be a synonym of C. pallens. Four new localities of C. digitata x pallens are reported from Finland and the characters of the hybrid are briefly discussed.
23726521|A population of the grass Brachypodium sylvaticum (Hudson) Beauv., located in and outside a permanent quadrate (size 2  2 m) in a dense Corylus stand, was studied from 1964 to 1984. Each individual (tuft) was marked and the culms with spikelets counted every year. The vegetation of the quadrate, and the soil in its vicinity, were studied. During the study the population increased from four tufts with only one culm in one tuft in 1964 to more than 80 tufts with more than 3 000 culms in 1984. The succession of the vegetation revealed that the graminids increased continuously, especially after 1983, when all trees and shrubs were cut. The earliest observed tufts were still alive in 1984. The annual mortality of the tufts was absent, or very low during most of the time. It is suggested that B. sylvaticum is principally a stress-tolerant competitor.
23726588|Estimates of some of the most common wild berry abundances and changes in their yields compared with the previous year were made in 19561996 as a part of the annual autumn game inquiries. The berries included in the inquiry were bilberry (Vaccinium myrtillus L.), cowberry (Vaccinium vitis-idaea L.), cloudberry (Rubus chamaemorus L.), both cranberry species (Vaccinium oxycoccos L. and V. microcarpum (Rupr.) Schmalh.), crowberry (Empetrum nigrum L.), rowan (Sorbus aucuparius L.), and wild strawberry (Fragaria vesca L.). On average, 500 observers throughout the country participated annually in the inquiry. Despite the subjective nature of the berry yield estimates, the results are valid for assessing annual changes in the yields of the most common wild berries as well as in long-term trends. The results are coincident with berry researchers' observations that the yields of cloudberry and wild strawberry have declined during the last decades. The significant (p < 0.01) positive correlations between the yields of the different berry species indicate that meteorological factors influence yields of most berry species in a similar way. Nevertheless, I was not successful in explaining the differences in abundances of bilberry and cloudberry with climate variables. Contrary to expectations, the previous year's yield did not correlate negatively with the next yield, except for rowan.
23726264|Pleopsidium discurrens (Zahlbr.) Obermayer comb. nova, hitherto known only from the type and paratype localities in NW Yunnan and SW Sichuan, has been discovered in SE Tibet. Morphological characters which separate it from other taxa of Pleopsidium Koerber emend. Hafellner, TLC data and ecological notes are provided. A lectotype of Acarospora discurrens Zahlbr. is selected.
23726170|Open-pollinated seed was collected from several plants in 20 Finnish and Norwegian populations of Angelica archangelica L. subsp. archangelica. Experimental cultivation showed considerable variation in several characters, e.g. stem number and height, stem and flower colour and the number of flowers on the primary umbels. Fruit size showed high phenotypic plasticity, but some of the variation is apparently genetic. In principal component analyses applied to 23 quantitative characters, the disjunct Somerniemi population from South Finland differed most widely from the others. No definite clinal variation could be demonstrated along the latitudinal gradient. The obscure pattern of variation revealed by the principal component analyses is evidently mainly due to heterogeneity in the selective forces operating in the different localities and the apparently low gene flow between populations. The plasticity of growth and the ability to increase the reproductive output when reproduction is delayed seem to indicate genetic differences between populations adapted to different habitats. The somatic chromosome number was determined as 2n=22.
23726670|Racomitrium norrisii Bedn.-Ochyra & Ochyra (Grimmiaceae, Bryopsida) is described as a new species of subgen. Cataracta Vilh. and sect. Stenotrichum (Chev.) Bedn.-Ochyra, and its diagnostic features are illustrated. It is closely related to the European R. hespericum Srgio, Muoz & Ochyra from the Iberian Peninsula from which it differs in its leaves with bistratose marginal border of (1)210(13) rows of cells extending from the base to the apex; unistratose laminae in the upper part; shorter, 912-celled axillary hairs; and lacking or inconspicous papillae over the cell walls. Racomitrium norrisii is a hydrophytic moss endemic to western North America where it occurs in California and Idaho.
23727182|One hundred and thirty-nine polypore species are reported from the South Urals. One of them, Skeletocutis vulgaris (Fr.) Dai & Niemel, is reported for the first time from Russia, and the westernmost known growth site of Phellinus sulphurascens Pilt is in the South Urals. The material consists of 829 collections and observations, and according to these, the most frequent species are Trichaptum fuscoviolaceum (Ehrenb. : Fr.) Ryvarden, followed by Fomes fomentarius (L. : Fr.) Fr., Fomitopsis pinicola (Sw. : Fr.) P. Karst., Trametes hirsuta (Wulfen : Fr.) Pilt and T. versicolor (L. : Fr.) Pilt. These constitute around 25% of all the observations, but only 3.6% of all the species. Fortyeight species were collected only once (34.5% of all species), 20 species twice (14%) and 12 species three times (8.6%). Some large and old oak (Quercus robur) dwelling species, like Buglossoporus pulvinus (Pers.) Donk, Hapalopilus croceus (Pers. : Fr.) Bondartsev & Singer, Fistulina hepatica Schaeff. : Fr. and Inonotus dryophilus (Berk.) Murrill should especially be included in the red-list of the South Urals when the listing becomes official. Another group threatened is the old-growth forest species like e.g., Amylocystis lapponica (Romell) Singer, Fomitopsis officinalis (Vill. : Fr.) Bondartsev & Singer, Junghuhnia collabens (Fr.) Ryvarden, and Rigidoporus crocatus (Pat.) Ryvarden. The collecting sites are described, the host trees listed, and descriptions and illustrations of some species given.
23726814|Androsace septentrionalis L. (Primulaceae) is recorded as a new species for the Balkan flora on the basis of herbarium material collected several times from Mt. Prokletije, situated near the borders of Serbia (Metochia and Kosovo province), Montenegro and Albania. The locality marks the southernmost limit of the species' range in Europe. The existence of A. septentrionalis in the Balkans may be the result of migration of the tundra-steppe flora from central and East Europe towards the mountains of the peninsula during the Ice Age.
23724690|The apical and radial growth of Norway spruce seedlings was followed in conditions where the natural photoperiod of the growing season had been shortened by covering the nursery beds with tarpaulins. The experiment was carried out in western central Finland in 1967 and 1968. The height growth of the uncovered seedlings was significantly greater than that of the covered seedlings, the difference developing when the day length of the covered beds was 13 hours and that of the uncovered ones 19 hours. The total shoot length and the width of the annual ring also proved to be significantly smaller in the covered seedlings than in the uncovered ones. The treatment given during one year did not affect growth during the following year. As a result of covering, double layer formation occurred in most of the seedlings.
23725353|The combination Neolindbergia vitiensis (Bartr.) Enroth (Prionodontaceae, Musci) is made. It is based on Pinnatella vitiensis Bartr.
23725873|On the Huon Peninsula the family Haplomitriaceae is represented by one species, Haplomitrium blumii (Nees) Schust., and the family Lepicoleaceae by two highly variable species, Lepicolea rara (Steph.) Grolle and Mastigophora diclados (Brid.) Nees. Lepicolea loriana Steph. 1922 is treated as syn. nov. of L. rara (Steph.) Grolle 1909. The family Herbertaceae has two genera, Herbertus and Triandrophyllum. Herbertus is represented by three species: H. armitanus Steph., H. circinatus (Steph.) H. A. Miller and H. longifissus Steph. The species H. divaricatus (Herz.) H. A. Miller and H. zantenii Hatt. & Grolle are treated as new synonyms of H. armitanus. Triandrophyllum heterophyllum (Steph.) Grolle is the only species of the genus in New Guinea. Temnoma setigerum (Lindenb.) Schust. and Pseudolepicolea grolleana (Schust.) Grolle, comb. nov., of the family Pseudolepicoleaceae were met in this material. Trichocolea breviseta Steph. and T. tomentella (Ehrh.) Dum. s. lat. represent Trichocoleaceae. Western Melanesia is a speciation center of Schistochilaceae. Only 7 species were met in this material of the 18 previously known species. Balantiopsis ciliaris Hatt. subsp. novoguineensis Hatt. and Isotachis armata (Nees) Gott. are known of the family Balantiopsaceae. Pleurozia gigantea (Web.) Lindb. and P. conchifolia (Hook. & Arnott) Aust. represent Pleuroziaceae. Four species of Porella are known from Western Melanesia of the family Porellaceae.
23727706|Heliotropium samoliflorum was formerly regarded as an endemic species of Iran until the collection of the species from Erzurum (Turkey). Due to the presence of clavate intercalary lobes of corolla and hairy indumentum of the nutlets, the Turkish material is described as H. samoliflorum subsp. erzurumicum Dnmez subsp. nova and illustrated. Description of H. samoliflorum is given with observed new characters. Identification key to the species of Heliotropium in Turkey is reorganised by inserting two species, based on H. samoliflorum as well as on other species recorded by previous authors.
23727982|Stomatanthes reticulatus M.A. Grossi & J.N. Nakaj., an endemic to Serra da Canastra (Minas Gerais, Brazil), is described and illustrated. It resembles in appearance S. subcapitatus but differs by the coriaceous leaves and 7-ribbed achenes.
23724613|1. Das Untersuchungsmaterial stammt zu et wa zwei Dritteln aus dem Kirchspiel Luopioinen in Sd-Hme und zu etwa einem Drittel aus den umgebenden Gemeinden. Das Untersuchungsgebiet ist im Zwischengelnde der Hainzentren von Pirkkala, Hollola und Hmeenlinna gelegen. Im Lichte der Reichswaldabschtzungen und des vorliegenden Mateterials vereinigen sich diese drei Hainzentren zu einem einzigen grossen Hainzentrum von Sd-Hme, das durch einen verhltnismssig hohen Hufigkeitsgrad der Hainpflanzen und anderer kologisch anspruchsvoller Pflanzenarten sowie der Hainvegetation im ganzen gekennzeichnet ist. 2. Das Artenmaterial der Hainprobeflchen wurde gemss dem Korrelationsverfahren von Tuomikoski (1942) zu kologischen Gruppen geordnet (Tab. 1 und 2). Diese haben dann als Hilfsmittel bei der Abgrenzung und Charakterisierung der Haintypen gedient. 3. Es wurden im Untersuchungsgebiet sechs Haintypen unterschieden, nmlich der Filicesoder Farn-Typ (FT), der Athyrium  Oxalis -Typ (AthOT), der Dryopteris  Hepatica -Typ (Dr-HeT), der Rubus  Hepatica -Typ (RHeT), der Vaccinium  Rubus -Typ (VRT) und der Oxalis Majanthemum -Typ (OMaT). Von diesen sind der DrHeT und RHeT aus dem HeOT Linkolas (1929) zusammengesetzt, der dadurch also eine Aufteilung in zwei (Unter-) Typen, einen feuchteren und einen trockeneren, erfahren hat. Der AthOT wurde vorwiegend nach Linkola (op.c.) behandelt und abgegrenzt, mit Verzicht auf die Abgrenzungsweise von Mkel (1936). FT und VRT wurden etwas anders als bisher begrenzt. Fr den OMaT werden keine Beschreibung und auch keine Probeflchen mitgeteilt, sondern lediglich das Vorkommen des hauptschlich nach Ilvessalo (1922) aufgefassten Typs wird im Untersuchungsgebiet festgestellt. Ein besonderes Gewicht wurde auf die Typenbegrenzung gelegt. Der FT wurde nach Mglichkeit sowohl nach den Hainbrchern als auch nach den frischen Hainen hin begrenzt und hat dadurch offenbar einen engeren Inhalt erhalten, als bisher blich. Der AthOT setzt sich aus einem verhltnismssig anspruchslosen, floristisch ziemlich einheitlichen Material zusammen, in welchem man jedoch ein an den FT erinnerndes feuchteres und ein sich dem OMaT nherndes weniger feuchtes Ende unterscheiden kann. Der HeOT ist ein anspruchsvoller kollektiver Frischhaintyp, der sich durch die kologische Artengruppe der frischen Haine sowie durch das hufigere und reichlichere Vorkommen der alleranspruchsvollsten Hainpflanzenarten von dem bescheideneren OMaT abhebt. Von dem umfangreichen HeOT konnten ein feuchterer und ein trockenerer Untertyp abgeteilt werden. Zum VRT wurden nur anspruchsvolle Siedlungen gezhlt, was eine Rckkehr in die Nhe des ursprnglichen Typs der trockenen Haine von Linkola (1916, 1921) bedeutet. 4. Fr das Probeflchenmaterial werden einige statistische Angaben gemacht: Vertretung der kologischen Gruppen in den einzelnen Typen, Gesamtartenzahl der Typen und mittlere Artenzahl je Probeflche, mit Mittelfehler und Streuung. Diese Werte stehen in gutem Einklang mit frher (Ilvessalo 1922; Linkola 1930) verffentlichten Statistiken ber die Haine. Als brauchbares Mass fr die Homogenitt des Materials eines Haintyps hat sich das zahlenmssig ausgedrckte Verhltnis zwischen der Gesamtartenzahl des Typs und der Anzahl der konstanten Arten (Konstanzprozent 50 oder mehr) herausgestellt. Diese hat in den berhrten Fllen dasselbe Bild wie die okulare, allerdings eingehende Untersuchung der Probeflchen ergeben. 5. Die Haintypen des Untersuchungsgebietes wurden in ein zweidimensional koordiniertes Haintypenschema mit der Feuchtigkeit und dem Nhrstoffreichtum als Variablen eingetragen (Abb. 3). Die edaphisch anspruchsvolle Reihe enthlt den FT, DrHeT, RHeT und VRT und die anspruchslosere den AthOT und OMaT. Feuchte Haintypen sind der FT und AthOT, frische der DrHeT, RHeT und OMaT und trokkene der VRT. 6. Es wurde eine positive Korrelation der Haintypen zu gewissen Formen des Gelndes festgestellt. Da jeder Typ in verschiedenerlei Topographie anzutreffen ist und in derselben Topographie mehrere, allerdings gewhnlich naheverwandte Haintypen vorkommen knnen, erweisen sich die sog. topographischen Haintypen (Tapio 1953) floristisch als ziemlich uneinheitlich. 7. Die Haintypen des Untersuchungsgebietes wurden, ausser mit den vorhandenen allgemeinen Haintypenbeschreibungen (Cajander 1916, 1921 u.a.; Ilvessalo 1922; Kujala 1964), auch mit etwa einem Dutzend lokaler Untersuchungen verglichen, die in den von Kalela (1958 a und b) unterschiedenen Waldvegetationszonen von Sdfinnland und Schren-Finnland ausgefhrt worden sind. Es galt zu ermitteln, wie die verschiedenen Untersucher die Typen begrenzt haben und wie sich die eventuell ergebenden Gegentypen der im Untersuchungsgebiet unterschiedenen Haintypen voneinander unterscheiden. Im Zuge der Objektivitt wurde das in den Arbeiten verffentlichte Probeflchenmaterial nach dem Korrelationsverfahren umgruppiert. In mehreren Fllen wurde es ntig, auf die ursprngliche Identifizierung der Probeflche einzugehen, denn smtlichen Haintypennamen sind in den genannten Arbeiten in recht weitem Sinne oder in verschiedener Bedeutung gebraucht worden.
23725288|The stratigraphical variation of charcoal abundance in a postglacial peat deposit, together with palynological and sedimentological data, was used for a reconstruction of vegetation changes in Paimio, SW Finland. The in situ fires were differentiated from those which occurred outside the basin. The charcoal profile was correlated with changes in coniferous tree pollen, "sprouter" pollen and anthropogenic pollen. Natural forest fires, man-induced fires and the history of land use were inferred and related to a time scale consisting of inferred ages based on various models. The mean forest fire frequency during the last 3 000 years (after Picea migration) has been one fire every 80 to 85 years. Prior to 2 000 years B.P., forest fires were primarily natural, but later when slash-and-burn cultivation spread to the area, the interpretation of the data became complex. The vegetation succession was determined by a combination of climatic and edaphic change, species migration and competition, and natural and man-induced forest fires. Three progressive stages of human interference were revealed, viz. temporary slash-and-burn clearance (from about A.D. 300 to 700), intensive, continual slash-and-burn practice (from about A.D. 700/900 till the Middle Ages and modern times) and predominantly arable cultivation (from about A.D. 1700).
23728089|The long-term impact of natural and human-induced large-scale changes on aquatic phanerogams and charophytes has remained mostly unstudied in the Baltic Sea, largely because of a lack of historical data. A vegetation data set based on transects in an estuary in the western part of the Gulf of Finland studied in the 1930s1940s, however, exists. We re-surveyed 91 of these transects in 2005 and 2007. The historical data set included 60 species and the contemporary 52 species. The species were classified into increasing, decreasing or unchanged according to the change in their occurrence frequencies. A significant frequency change was found for 31 of the 50 (62%) species which were present in both surveys. The proportion of species/growth forms with high-nitrogen and low-light preferences increased, whereas that of species/growth forms preferring oligotrophic conditions and species of shallow waters decreased. In the area, the species expanded their distribution ranges mainly towards the open sea. Eutrophication, reduced grazing pressure and shore overgrowth by Phragmites australis are suggested as the main reasons for the observed changes. In addition, increased boating and shore-construction activities contributed to the long-term floristic changes.
23727802|A new species, Steccherinum tenuispinum Spirin, Zmitr. & V. Malysheva is described. Its closest relative is S. robustius, and it differs in having lighter-coloured spines, smaller spores, and a peculiar ecology. Steccherinum narymicum is reported for the first time after its original description in 1936. New records and some data on morphology, anatomy and ecology of S. murashkinskyi are given and S. bourdotii is reported as new to Russia.
23728261|Aiming to differentiate Turnera orientalis (2n = 6x = 30) from T. occidentalis (2n = 6x = 30), traditional and molecular cytogenetic techniques were used. Numerous hybrids were obtained from controlled crosses between T. orientalis and T. occidentalis. An analysis of their pollen viability and the failure to obtain F2 provided evidence of reproductive isolation. The present study reports for the first time the karyotype 22 metacentric + 8 submetacentric for T. occidentalis, and confirms the karyotype of T. orientalis. These species differ in a chromosome pair with secondary constriction and satellite. A FISH analysis showed six rDNA sites located on different chromosome pairs. Although the meiotic chromosome pairing of hybrids suggested a close relationship of the two species, the karyotype and mapped location of rDNA sites were different between the taxa, supporting that T. orientalis and T. occidentalis are distinct species.
23727263|The following new species of the subtribe Spiranthinae (Orchidaceae, Spirantheae) are described and illustrated: Brachystele tamayoana Szlach., Rutk. & Mytnik and Kionophyton pollardiana Szlach., Rutk. & Mytnik. Keys for determination of the Mesoamerican species of Brachystele, Kionophyton and Galeottiella are provided. The following new combinations are proposed in Spiranthinae: Deiregyne Schltr. subgenus Aulosepalum (Garay) Szlach., Rutk. & Mytnik stat. & comb. nova, Microthelys hintoniorum (Todzia) Szlach., Rutk. & Mytnik, comb. nova and Galeottiella orchioides (Lindl.) R.Gonzalez T.
23727851|A new species, Aspidistra chishuiensis S.Z. He & W.F. Xu (Ruscaceae), is described and illustrated from northern Guizhou, China. It is similar to A. flaviflora, but differs in its purple perianth, 3.5 mm long lobes, stamens that are adnate at the middle of the tube, stigma that is ca. 8 mm in diam., and the berry that is nearly smooth.
23727656|Aro wetlands are a poorly-known, hydrologically extreme inland habitat type outside permanent waterbodies, often occurring in weekly paludified parts of peatlands. They are characterized by alternating flood and drought periods. We studied these habitats in the mid-boreal zone in the coastal part of Northern Ostrobothnia (65N). We made classification (Cluster analysis) and ordination analyses (NMDS) with small-sized relevs and measured the water table fluctuations from four sites over a seven-year-period in order to reveal the depth and duration patterns of flooding and the durations of dry periods in various aro communities. These were compared with Ellenberg's indicator values for moisture. Ellenberg's indicator values for soil reaction (checked from Finnish material) and nitrogen were applied for evaluating the significance of pH as an ecological gradient in aro wetlands and their fertility and productivity characteristics. A hydrological habitat template for aro wetlands could be compiled on the basis of the depth and duration characteristics of flooding and the duration characteristics of dry periods. A gradient comparable to the poor-rich gradient of mires was also detected. All the aro wetland types proved to be low-productive. The most essential ecological factor for aro wetlands was named "flood and desiccation influence". It seemed to cause a decrease in species number as a result of natural disturbance.
23728102|Gyalecta titovii sp. nova is described from Abkhazia and Russia from the Black Sea coast in the Caucasus region. It is morphologically and anatomically similar to G. flotowii and G. truncigena. It mainly differs from G. flotowii in having ellipsoid and more muriform ascospores (612 cells visible in optical view). Gyalecta truncigena has similar ascospores, but the apothecia of G. truncigena are larger (0.30.7 mm diam.) and their margins are dark.
23727796|We studied the understorey vegetation (including both herbaceous and moss layers) during the Norway spruce (Picea abies) colonization of an abandoned grassland community along a transect established in the direction of spruce dispersal from a linear source (former plantation). We measured a set of climatical, biological, pedological and soil microbiological variables to reveal their effect on the understorey vegetation during the colonization process. Three factors exhibited significant effects  needle and litter accumulation and reduction of light availability. The percentage cover of needles explained 35.8% of the variance in the species data in the RDA and its pure effect (after setting all other significant variables as covariables) exceeded 12%. This factor exhibited the strongest correlation with the first PCA axis representing the colonization progress of spruce. Light conditions (measured as canopy openness by hemispherical canopy photographs or calculated on the basis of tree size and density) explained much lower proportion of the variance (marginal effect about 21.5% and 2.7% pure effect). We discuss the relationship between environmental factors and species abundance (of vascular plants and bryophytes) along the colonization gradient. The results highlight the importance of litter accumulation in controlling the community structure during the successional development of woodland from previous grassland.
43922166|Macrofungus communities were studied in 1981-1983 on 10 virgin mire site types at Korpilahti in Central Finland. The diversities and fruit-body biomasses were highest on three spruce mire types. Much lower diversities and biomasses were found on a Rubus chamaemorus spruce mire and on the bog and fen mire types. The highest diversity (29 fungus genera) and the highest average annual dry biomass (14.2 kg ha) were yielded by a Vaccinium myrtillus spruce mire. The lowest diversity (6 genera) and the lowest dry biomass (63 g ha) were found in a minerotrophic short-sedge fen. In general, the macrofungus fruit-body productivity on the 10 site types agreed well with the known vegetative productivity of these types. The values calculated with a similarity index for the different fungus communities were all low (37.5% or less). However, in a dendrogram based on these percentage similarities, the arrangement of the 10 mire site types in three groups agreed fairly well with the vegetation-based classification of mire types.
23725644|Presence in Bulgaria confirmed: Ranunculus carinthiacus, R. pseudomontanus, R. strigulosus. To be omitted from the flora of Bulgaria: R. oreophilus (the meterial being referable to R. carinthiacus, R. pseudomontanus and R. sartorianus). Earlier identifications revised: R. sardous subsp. subdichotomicus, Thalictrum minus subsp. olympicum (instead of T. minus subsp. minus). List of Bulgarian localities: Adonis aestivalis subsp. provincialis (only one locality), A. annua subsp. cupaniana (the only subspecies present), Ranunculus carinthiacus (less common than given earlier). Validation of a new nomenclatural combination: Thalictrum simplex subsp. rhodopaeum (Rech. fil.) Panov.
23726973|The importance of scale and temporal variation in measured environmental factors is often underestimated in searching for vegetationenvironmental correlations in mires. Since different ecological processes can be dominant at different spatial scales, we compared species distribution patterns along environmental gradients in Carpathian spring fens at two scales: among and within vegetation types. At the large scale, four distinct vegetation types along the poorrich fen gradient were identified: poor Sphagnum fen, moderate-rich fen, extreme-rich tufa-forming fen and rich fen meadow. The results confirm that environmental factors related to water and soil mineral concentrations determine fen vegetation composition at a large spatial scale. The crucial role of base saturation for large-scale variation in mire vegetation is not always evident at a smaller spatial scale. At a within-vegetation-type scale, we found a clear pattern in water level variation which was significantly related to vegetation composition. Organic matter was detected to be the most important factor for explaining variation in rich-fen meadow vegetation. Further, periodical measurements of water level and physical-chemical properties of water (i.e. pH, conductivity, redox potential, and temperature) permitted the role of their temporal variation among vegetation types along the poorrich fen gradient to be assessed. Water pH was the most stable variable in all vegetation types, while conductivity was more stable in the rich than in the poor and moderate-rich fens. Water temperature showed the smallest fluctuation in the extreme-rich fen. In poor and moderate-rich fens, water temperature exhibited smaller temporal variation than did conductivity. Poor and moderate-rich fens generally exhibited a lower mean water level as compared with extreme-rich habitats. Independently of vegetation type, water level decline was associated with an increase in conductivity and temperature and a parallel decrease in redox-potential. Water pH remained unchanged during water level fluctuation.
23726691|Five samples of Seville orange (Citrus aurantium) fruits from trees growing in the cities of Seville (Spain) and Palermo (Italy) were analysed for metal concentrations. Ten elements (Al, Ba, Cd, Cr, Cu, Mn, Ni, Pb, V and Zn) were determined by simultaneous inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry. A sample from a rural area was also analysed for comparison. The effect of washing on accumulation capacity was also investigated, as well as the correlation between contaminants. The data show that Seville orange fruits do not retain high concentrations of heavy metals, except for barium, cadmium and zinc. Mesocarp accumulates less heavy metals than epicarp. Washing has a different effect on accumulation depending on the element. There is a positive correlation between lead and manganese concentration values.
23726477|Twenty-five new, rare or little-collected species of Aphyllophorales, mainly Corticiaceae, are reported from Finland. New to Finland are: Candelabrochaete verruculosa Hjortstam, Cejpomyces terrigenus (Bres.) Svrek & Pouzar, Christiansenia pallida Hauerslev, Hyphoderma echinocystis J. Eriksson & Strid, Hyphodontia efibulata J. Eriksson & Hjortstam, H. pilaecystidiata (Lundell) J. Eriksson, Lazulinospora cyanea (Wakef.) Burds. & M.J. Larsen, Lindtneria chordulata (D.P. Rogers) Hjortstam, Membranomyces spurius (Bourdot) Jlich, Paullicorticium pearsonii (Bourdot) J. Eriksson, Phlebia subochracea (Bres.) J. Eriksson & Ryv., P. tristis (Litsch. & Lundell) Parm., Suillosporium cystidiatum (D.P. Rogers) Pouzar, Thanatephorus cucumeris (Frank) Donk, T. orchidicola Warcup & Talbot, and Vuilleminia coryli Boidin, Lanq. & Gilles. New finds of the following species are included: Athelopsis lembospora (Bourdot) Oberw., Coniophora fusispora (Cooke & Ellis) Sacc., Efibula deflectens (P. Karsten) S. H. Wu, Hypochniciellum subillaqueatum (Litsch.) Hjortstam, Hypochnicium vellereum (Ellis & Crag.) Parm., Irpicodon pendulus (Fr.) Pouzar, Membranomyces delectabilis (Jackson) Kotiranta & Saarenoksa, Stereopsis vitellina (Plowr.) Reid, and Xenasma rimicola (Karsten) Donk. Distribution maps are given for I. pendulus, S. vitellina and V. coryli. Twenty-three species are illustrated by drawings. The new combinations Efibula rosea (P. Henn.) Kotiranta & Saarenoksa, Efibula verruculosa (Hjortstam & Ryv.) Kotiranta & Saarenoksa and Membranomyces delectabilis (Jackson) Kotiranta & Saarenoksa are proposed.
23726418|Thymbra neurophylla Rech. fil. (Labiatae) is transferred to the genus Thymus as Thymus neurophyllus (Rech. fil.) Rech. fil., comb. nova, with an emended description.
23727260|Ulota gymnostoma S.L. Guo, Enroth & Virtanen (Orthotrichaceae) is described as a new species from Hunan Province of China, and illustrated in line drawings. It is distinguished from all congeners mainly by the gymnostomous capsule. A lectotype is designated for U. macrocarpa Broth. Ulota crispa (Hedw.) Brid. and Orthomitrium tuberculatum Lewinsky-Haapasaari & Crosby are reported as new for Hunan.
23727689|Begonia tetralobata Y.M. Shui sp. nova (Begoniaceae) is described and illustrated from Yunnan, China. It differs from B. cucurbitifolia mainly in the 4-palmate and oblique lamina and smaller tepals of male flowers ca. 1 cm long ca. 0.7 cm wide. The two species are a closely related pair, each occuring at a different altitude range.
23728247|Dendrobium hekouense Z.J. Liu & L.J. Chen sp. nova (Orchidaceae) is described from southeast Yunnan of China. It belongs in the section Dendrobium and is more or less akin to D. wangliangii, from which it differs by its dorsal sepal larger than petals, lateral sepals broader than long, cylindrical mentum 1.21.3 cm long, and a trilobed lip.
23727956|Sagittaria species have been reported to display remarkable variation in gender expression. Here, we investigated gender variation in Sagittaria pygmaea, the smallest sized monoecious species in the genus. We used the midvein length as an indicator of plant size and production of male and female flowers as an indicator of gender variation in a single inflorescence. We counted the total number of inflorescences to assess the effect of inflorescence variation on the gender variation pattern. Our results showed that variation in inflorescence number did not affect gender variation. Male flower production increased with increasing plant size, but female flower production did not. Plants of S. pygmaea might enhance their paternal reproductive success by increasing the number of male flowers with increasing plant size.
23725640|Metal analyses performed with atomic absorption spectrophotometry revealed no differences in Vaccinium myrtillus growing in Myrtillus-type forest in the catchment areas of an acidified and nonacidified lake in Espoo, southern Finland. Earlier, higher contents of Al, Zn and Cd were found in plants collected over the whole catchment area of the acidified lake (where barren forest types predominate). This suggests that the proportions of different vegetation types in the catchment area determine the degree of lake acidification. This conclusion was supported by the observation that the contents of Cd were significantly higher in plants growing in the more barren forest site types. No significant differences were found for Al. The plant nutrients Fe and Zn showed the highest levels in the most fertile forest type. The contents of Al and Fe in V. myrtillus leaves increased with decreasing distance from the shoreline of the lakes, but no such increase was noted for Zn Cd or Hg. Clearly higher contents of Al, Fe and Hg were observed in V. myrtillus leaves in autumn than in spring, whereas Zn showed higher levels in the spring. In future work, attention should be paid to seasonal changes in the contents of metals in plants.
23727180|Campanula pamphylica (Contandr., Quzel & Pamuk.) E. Akiek & Vural comb. & stat. nov., previously regarded as a synonym, is shown to be a distinct species. Campanula pamphylica subsp. afyonica E. Akiek & Vural subsp. nova is described as a new subspecies from Anatolia, Turkey. Campanula pamphylica subsp. tokuri (A. Ocak) E. Akiek & Vural comb. & stat. nov. is proposed as a new combination. Diagnostic, morphological and molecular data are discussed for the taxa.
23727926|Astragalus gines-lopezii is a perennial herb, endemic to the south of the Iberian Peninsula. It has been classified as 'Endangered' by the Extremadura Regional Catalogue and placed in the equivalent category (EN D) of the National Red List because only one population in the world is known. Conservation of A. gines-lopezii requires a greater understanding of its population size, seed ecology and germination conditions. The latter issues are particularly important when establishing a reintroduction programme. This species was observed in nine colonies on the same mountainside, the largest of which consists of 60 plants. In this study, we compare the ability of the seeds to germinate under various conditions. Unlike most other members of the Fabaceae, the seeds of A. gines-lopezii do not need physical or chemical pre-treatment in order to germinate; instead they require a photoperiod for optimal germination. This study will facilitate a more in-depth understanding of this rare and poorly known species.
23726971|Studies of non-poroid Aphyllophorales in China are briefly reviewed, and an annotated catalogue, based mostly on literature, documents 401 species from the country. Based on our collections, five species, Asterodon ferruginosus, Crustoderma dryinum, Meruliopsis albostraminea, Phanerochaete galactites and Scytinostroma galactinum, are newly recorded from China. A condensed description of these species is included in the catalogue. The host(s) and distribution of each species are given in the list.
23725769|The moss family Mniaceae consists of 9 genera and 71 species. The species are listed together with the geographical areas in which they occur.
23726236|Six mire sites were analyzed in the suboceanic region of Sweden, between 5 and 25 km from the coast in the provinces of Halland, Vstergtland and Bohusln. Only bogs and poor fens were used and all were treeless. The vegetation, including vascular plants, bryophytes and lichens, was sampled by restricted random methods. Prominence values were calculated on the basis of frequency and cover and were used in ordinations. Water samples were collected in all the mires and analyzed for pH, conductivity, Ca, Mg, Na and K. In occurrences of both species and some community types, these mires differ from mires further inland, and have some similarities to mires of truly oceanic regions. The community types included those dominated by Nathecium ossifragum, Molinia coerulea and Myrica gale, or Calluna vulgaris and Erica tetralix, Rhynchospora alba and Eriophorum angustifolium. Certain species of Sphagnum and other bryophytes were equally characteristic of most of these community types. Within the western coastal region, species and community types respond to differences in both water chemistry and topography or water depth.
23725023|The accumulation of sulphur in the lichen Hypogymnia physodes (L.) W. Wats. was studied around the fertilizer factory of Kemira Ltd. at Siilinjrvi, central Finland, by the isotope excited X-ray fluorescence method. The total sulphur content of the lichen varied significantly with the host tree, and showed a significant correlation with the damage index of the lichen. A close correlation was also found between the sulphur content of the lichen and that of spruce needles. The total sulphur content of lichens can be used as an index in estimating the amount of sulphurous pollutants in the air.
23725755|The vegetational and fire history of the Paimionjoki River area has been elucidated at two sites by pollen and charcoal analysis, 22 14 C datings and 210 Pb determinations. A palaeoecological reconstruction was made on the basis of the deposits in a lake basin (10.5 ha) in Halikko, and in an ombrotrophic peat basin (c. 30 ha) in Paimio. Both sites are located in rocky upland country nowadays surrounded by forests. Difficulties were encountered with the radiocarbon dates quoted for the lake basin, as they were consistently too old, possibly due to a hard-water effect. Radiocarbon dates obtained for the uppermost sections in the peat profiles proved to be inconsistent and too old, evidently having been affected by human activity. However, when the dates regarded as reliable are combined with the results of the pollen analyses and knowledge of the sedimentation processes, a consistent picture is obtained of the vegetational history of the area. The lake was isolated from the Ancylus Lake around 8500 B.P., at which time plants typical of open habitats grew with pine and birch on the solitary island. The pollen spectra in the basal organogenic layers of the lake profile reveal the forest succession of the middle Atlantic Chronozone, c. 6500 B.P. By then the initial lake stage of the bog basin had been followed by a luxuriant reed fen with ferns and Salix and later by an alder swamp stage with grasses and e.g. Myrica. Within the following thousand years or so, it experienced oligotrophication and became ombrotrophic. Apart from the gradual regression of the broad-leaved deciduous trees in the following two millenia, the primeval forest showed little change. During the Subboreal Chronozone, forest fires were frequent, preventing the expansion of spruce. In the same period in the lake profile, disturbances are indicated by irregular changes in the minerogenic matter and the pollen concentration. These were possibly due to changes in the ground water table or removal of forest vegetation from the watershed, with accelerated erosion. The peat growth of the late-Holocene section was likewise disturbed by natural or man-made fires and land use. The earliest sporadic evidence of human influence in the pollen diagram can be dated to c. 3500 B.P., the evidence becoming continuous from the early Iron Age onwards. In contrast to the palynological data from the peat bog, which largely represent the local vegetation, the lake pollen diagram shows the general regional contribution, but in the long term the curves are smoothed by depositional processes in the lake.
23725316|The two peat profiles investigated at the N and SE edges of the bog Lemunsuo provided evidence of early agricultural activity on two sides of the bog, while the frequencies of pollen indicative of settlement were lower at the two sites inside the bog. The earliest traces of cultivation were 14C-dated to the Merovingian period. After a decline during the Viking period, the indicator pollen reappears and increases towards the Crusade period. Another weaker decline separates this phase from the final rise of Cerealia, 14C-dated to the early Middle Ages, ca. A.D. 1300. Comparison of the pollen curves of Carpinus betulus with other QM pollen curves, particularly those of Quercus robur, which still grows in Pernio, suggests that Carpinus was native in the area till early historical times.
23726833|Molecular analysis of a portion of the large ribosomal subunit was performed with Phellinus nigrolimitatus (Romell) Bourd. & Galzin and ten other species in Phellinus Qul. s. lato and Inonotus P. Karst. s. lato in order to establish their generic relationships. The microscopy of P. nigrolimitatus was revised. The species turned out to differ enough to be separated into a new genus, Phellopilus Niemel, Wagner & Fischer. At the very onset of sporulation the spores are much longer and narrower (proterospores) than later on; this phenomenon is discussed. Morphological and anatomical characters were studied for a somewhat similar species from the Americas, Fomitiporia punctatiformis Murrill (Phellinus punctatiformis (Murrill) Ryvarden); it seems to fit best in the genus Fuscoporia. A new species, Fuscoporia montana Y.C. Dai & Niemel, is described from Yunnan, China.
23727380|Astragalus hekmat-safaviae F. Ghahremani. sp. nova (Fabaceae) is described and illustrated in line drawings. It is endemic to the Khorassan province of eastern Iran. The morphological characters (bifurcated trichomes, connate stipules, imparipinnate leaves, few leaflets, campanulate-tubular calyx) support a placement in Astragalus sect. Ammodendron, and the species appears to be most closely related to A. badghysi.
23725046|Diel periodicity was studied in the phytoplankton community of the oligotrophic lake Pjrvi in Lammi commune, southern Finland, during three 24-hr sampling periods, on 15  16 June, 20  21 July and 30  31 August 1972. The sampling station was located in Pappilanlahti Bay, at the landward limit of the pelagial (14 m). Attention was paid to the diel variation in the productivity of the phytoplankton community during 24- and 4-hr exposures, with special reference to the environmental conditions, such as thermal stratification, radiation and water movements, and to the structure and quantity of the producer pool. The environmental factors varied markedly during the sampling periods: they were affected by strong wind, which disturbed the thermal stratification in experiment I, by strong radiation and vigorous internal seiche movements in experiment II, and by a long dark period and continuous turbulent circulation in the epilimnion in experiment III. The chemical factors clearly varied with time and depth, the variations being connected with thermal stratification. Primary production showed strong diel variations, the sum of the production of the short exposures being greater in all the experiments than the production of the long exposures; the difference was most pronounced in June, 49 %, and smallest in August, 16 %. The diel course of the surface inhibition, dark fixation and respiration was also traced, and the related factors examined. The vertical distribution of the phytoplankton biomass in the trophogenic layer showed pronounced diel variation: the effect of the migration of motile species from the surface during strong illumination was evident in the distributions of both the total phytoplankton community and the dominant species. This diel migration rhythm was also reflected in the total particulate volume measurements (T.P.V.), whose relations to phytoplanktonic biomass and species composition and to the thermal stratification of the water body were examined on the basis of parallel biomass and T.P.V. measurements. Ecological efficiency values, such as production efficiency (%), the P/B and 1/R coefficients and the V/O quotient were calculated; their relations to phytoplanktonic production were examined and their value in the elucidation of production dynamics was assessed. The relations of various factors to primary production were studied by calculating linear regressions. The factors affecting the diel course of production were studied separately in the short and long exposures.
23725003|This study concerns the following perennial vetches: Vicia incana Gouan (2n = 12), V. dalmatica Kern. (2n = 12), V. tenuifolia Roth (2n = 24) and V. cracca L. (2n = 14, 2n = 28). These have all at some time or other been included in the last or the last two species. The two cytodemes of V. cracca differ in certain quantitative characters but cannot always be distinguished morphologically. One triploid and one tetraploid hybrid were obtained between them, suggesting the possibility of gene exchange. The taxa with the basic numbers 6 and 7 form two distinct evolutionary lines, each with its own basic karyotype. Within the 6-chromosome sub-group, V. tenuifolia combines many of the characters of the two diploids, which suggests a close evolutionary relationship between these three taxa.
23725283|The seasonal variation of phytoplankton production, species composition and biomass in the coastal waters off Kemi were investigated in 1976. Changes in chemical and physical properties of the water, and their relation to the phytoplankton succession were also studied. Part of the study area is heavily loaded with wood-processing effluent and sewage, and another part is strongly influenced by river water. The mean salinity of the growing season at the different stations ranged from 1.1 to 2.7 . Throughout the study area the primary production had two peaks. The midsummer minimum was of short duration and was difficult to distinguish in the biomass values obtained in the vicinity of the town. Except at the outermost station, nitrate was depleted by the early summer maximum, and consumption of ammonia was also discernible. At the stations influenced by abundant organic loading, water transparency was poor and primary production low. The values for annual production in the study area were the lowest so far recorded in the Baltic Sea: 817 g C ass/m2.a.
23728001|A new species, Bilacunaria aksekiensis A. Duran & B. Doan (Apiaceae), is described and illustrated from Anatolia, Turkey. It grows in open Pinus brutia forests and on calcareous stony slopes of the Taurus Mountains in the district of Akseki (C3 Antalya province). Bilacunaria aksekiensis is morphologically close to B. microcarpa. The diagnostic morphological characters of B. aksekiensis are discussed. In addition, the pollen characteristics and mericarp surface of B. aksekiensis and B. microcarpa are examined by SEM. The geographical distribution of the new species and the morphologically related species is mapped. Bilacunaria aksekiensis is diploid with the chromosome number of 22.
43922132|Radula lindenbergiana Gottsche ex Hartm. f. is the correct name of the species generally called R. lindbergiana Gottsche.
23727927|Scorzoneroides palisiae, S. salzmannii, and S. muelleri (Asteraceae) are phylogenetically close annuals with dimorphic achenes. Although these three species are characteristic to areas with some degree of disturbance, S. palisiae and S. salzmannii grow in Mediterranean environments, whereas S. muelleri preferentially grows in semi-arid environments. This study compared the germination characteristics of central and peripheral achenes subjected to different storage times. Both central and peripheral achenes of the three Scorzoneroides species were completely dormant immediately after dispersal. This dormancy was reduced after six months in dry storage, and practically disappeared after more than a year in storage. Six-month central achenes of S. palisiae and S. salzmannii displayed lower dormancy levels than peripheral achenes did, producing a mixed germination pattern. However, 6-month central achenes of S. muelleri displayed the same dormancy levels as those of peripheral achenes. Furthermore, there was a nearly significant negative correlation among germination and the annual aridity index in the studied populations. We suggest that this increase in dormancy may be interpreted as an adaptation to semi-arid ecosystems.
23725874|A thin-layer chromatographic study of the oxidized anthraderivatives in Frangula alnus Miller (syn. Rhamnus frangula L.) was made on herbarium specimens (n 354) from Eastern Fennoscandia. The anthraglycosides (frangulin A and B, emodinglucoside B, glucofrangulin A and B) were studied separately, ad the total anthra-aglycones were determined. The composition of the anthradervatives varied greatly, both quantitatively and qualitatively. The glucofrangulin A and emodinglucoside B chemotypes distinguished earlier in fresh material could not be identified, because of chemical alteration of the anthraglycosides during storage (autoxidation, hydrolysis, etc.). In spite of long storage, the main glycoside in most of the bark investigated was glucofrangulin A. The amount of emodinglucoside B was distinctly larger than in fresh bark. Frangulin B was not detected.
23725478|The effects of lake acidification on the accumulation of heavy metals in aquatic macrophytes were studied in two lakes in Espoo, S. Finland. One of these (Hauklampi) is known to be acidified and the other (Kurkijrvi) has a fairly good buffer capacity. The concentrations of aluminium, manganese, iron, copper, zinc, cadmium and mercury were determined by atomic absorption spectrometry in: 1) submerged mosses (Sphagnum sp. in Hauklampi, Fontinalis hypnoides Hartm. and Drepanocladus trichophyllus (Warmst.) Podp. in Kurkijrvi), 2) Nuphar lutea (L.) Sibth. & Sm. and 3) Phragmites australis (Cav.) Trin. ex Steudel. Material was gathered from five points in both lakes. The lake sediments were also analysed. The levels of the metals (except manganese) were higher in the macrophytes of the acid Hauklampi than in the more alkaline Kurkijrvi. Nuphar lutea, which obtains a considerable part of its nutrients through the leaves, showed the clearest differences between the two lakes. Its leaves and petioles are suitable indicators of metal accumulation. Phragmites australis, which takes its nutrients through the roots from the sediments, showed the weakest response in its metal accumulation to acid lake water. Other factors than water pH and alkalinity (for example humus content) can complicate the comparison between the two lakes. It seemed, however, that metals accumulated in plants significantly more in the acidified than in the non-acidified lake.
23728133|Liriope zhejiangensis G.H. Xia & G.Y. Li (Asparagaceae), from Zhejiang Province, eastern China, is described and illustrated as a new species. It is similar to L. muscari, but differs by the yellow, fleshy and odorous rhizome; soft and narrow leaves with an acuminate apex and lower surface pale green when dry; articulate pedicel apex; and by the purple filaments, stigma and ovary.
23727237|Floristic studies of four different habitats in Warsaw were carried out: two habitats strongly transformed by man (tramlines and the exterior horizontal surfaces of the highest building in the city, the Palace of Culture and Science), and two green areas (cemeteries and botanical gardens). A floristic list, which included only the spontaneous vascular flora, was compiled for each habitat. The aim of the study was to analyse the differences between the floras of the four habitats. The richness and composition of the flora were investigated with respect to the historical-geographical groups of species, the spectrum of life forms, and the mode of plant dispersal. The richness of the flora of cemeteries and botanical gardens reflected the particular land use of those habitats. There was a higher incidence of therophytes in the strongly transformed habitats (tramlines, Palace). A high incidence of tree seedlings (mostly species producing light seeds) and anemochorous species was observed in the flora of the Palace.
23727714|The hybrid between the aquatic plants Sagittaria natans, of boreal Eurasia, and S. sagittifolia, of temperate Europe and W Asia, is widespread in the area of N Europe (Sweden, Finland, Russia) where the ranges of the two species overlap. The hybrid, which is variously intermediate between its parents, is described as S.  lunata C.D. Preston & Uotila. Its known distribution is mapped and its habitat, reproduction and dispersal are summarised. In Norden (= Fennoscandia and Denmark) it occurs in many watercourses in the absence of one or both parents, suggesting that it has a relict distribution, and it extends further north than S. sagittifolia and further north and south than S. natans. In the Finnish provinces at the northern end of the Gulf of Bothnia there is a hybrid complex which includes plants which approach S. sagittifolia, but only a single specimen of typical S. sagittifolia is known from these regions. S. sagittifolia forma xanthandra Holmberg, described from Sweden, appears to have been a non-persistent variant of S. sagittifolia with yellow anthers rather than a hybrid with S. natans.  Flora Nordica Notes 34.
23724640|Thelocarpon epibolum Nyl. is reported as new to North America (excl. Greenland) from Newfoundland, British Columbia and Michigan. All the collections are thallicolous on Peltigera aphthosa (L.) Willd. or P. leucophlebia (Nyl.) Gyeln. and probably represent T. epibolum var. epithallinum (Leight. ex Nyl.) G. Salisb. (T. epibolum f. longisporum Magn., nom. inval.).
23725199|A hybrid with unisexual  flowers is described. The hybrid resembles R. chamaemorus. Evidence is presented that R. chamaemorus has female heterogamety.
23727604|Daniellia pilosa (J. Ponard) Estrella, comb. & stat. nov. (Leguminosae, Caesalpinioideae) is proposed. This mountain primary forest tree species is endemic to Gabon in Central Africa.
23725631|The purpose of this study was to note the natural background levels of some metals in indicator plants used in forest die-off studies. Seven species of plants were collected from 16 observation points in Finnish Lapland. For each species, the material from the different points was combined in one homogenized sample, representing the mean for Lapland. The samples of the epiphytic lichen Hypogymnia physodes (L.) Nyl., however, were analysed separately for the different localities. The levels of metals were in general lower in Lapland than in South Finland and Central Europe, but aluminium in coniferous trees was higher in Lapland than in South Finland. In H. physodes, zinc tended to show the highest contents at the highest elevations. The contents of aluminium and iron in this lichen showed a close positive correlation, as did also those of cadmium and zinc.
23725416|The aim of the study was to analyse the variation of the urban vegetation in Helsinki and the neighbouring suburban city of Espoo in relation to land use, and to provide a classification of urban habitats. The study sites covered a gradient from the urban centre to suburban and recreational forests. The variation between urban and forested sites formed the most important compositional gradient of the vegetation. The second most important gradient was the gradation from shaded moist sites to dry and open ones within the urban areas. The samples were divided into nine vegetation classes, four of which were forest and five urban types. The division of the forests was determined by the fertility of the site, which was connected with human influence. The division of the urban sites was mainly determined by land use. The vegetation of the urban areas was more heterogeneous than that of the forest sites. The urban vegetation consisted predominantly of species groups which tolerate frequent disturbance, e.g. annuals, grasses and species originally living beside water. Species originating from herb-rich forests were also common. We discuss the degree of urbanization of the vegetation of Helsinki and its surroundings.
23725854|Extracts prepared from tops of young seedlings of Hippopha rhamnoides L. were analysed by two-dimensional thin-layer chromatography. The 20 progenies studied represented 18 different populations in the Eurasian range of the species, and belonged to 6 subspecies. A total of 55 fluorescent spots could be distinguished in the chromatograms, only 20 of which were common to all populations. The maximum number of spots in a population was 39 and the minimum was 25. The chromatograms were compared with the aid of similarity coefficients. The most deviating subspecies was subsp. rhamnoides. Subsp. sinensis and to some extent subsp. fluviatilis also showed distinctive chemical features. Some spots were specific to a population or even to one of the progenies within a population.
23725386|Seasonal variations in the epigeal biomass and necromass were studied in the peat-bog of Cte-de-Braveix at 1 350 m altitude in the Monts du Forez in the east of the french Massif central. Maximum primary production was achieved during summer in every stage of evolution, fen or bog. The total annual primary production measured in the three main stages of evolution in 1987 was between 900 et 1 000 g(dw) m-2 y-1. Maximum biomass ranged from 1 000 to 1 200 g(dw) m-2. Considering the confidence interval yielded by the results, the biomass and the primary production of the fen were not significantly different from those of the bog. Nitrogen flux varied between 9.7 and 10.7 gNm-2 y-1, values which are very close to those of N supply (from 9.7 to 10.9 gN m-2, depending of the facies). A comparison of the productions of dry matter and of epigene, hypogene and bryophytic nitrogen fluxes in the fen and bog showed an evolution in the mode of functioning of the peatland. The hypogene stratum increased to the detriment of the bryophytes and there was a decrease in the ratio of production and biomass, and of nitrogen flux and supply along the gradient from fen to bog. This suggests that reserves and recycling nutriment in the plant were of increasing importance in the process. The plant community of the bog, which is an environment lacking in sources of nutriments, accumulated a considerable biomass to meet the plants' requirements. In the fen, these needs are more fully satisfied by the environment, and the biomass accumulated in the roots was smaller.
23727660|Potentilla sterneri T. Gregor & Karlsson sp. nova (Rosaceae) from southeastern Sweden is described and illustrated. The morphological characters of P. sterneri are compared to those of P. argentea, P. crantzii, and P. neumanniana. For nearly 200 years P. sterneri was known under misapplied names, P. collina, P. wimanniana (often as "P. Wiemanniana"), or P. sordida. Potentilla sterneri is mainly associated with grazed low-productive grassland. On land and Gotland it still exists in many populations, but few remain in Blekinge and Smland. Names associated with the Potentilla collina group in Sweden are typified.  Flora Nordica note no. 33.
23726840|Genus Quercus (Fagaceae) has a problematic taxonomy because of widespread hybridization between the infrageneric taxa. The pattern of morphological leaf variation was evaluated for evidence of hybridization in Bolu, Turkey, since previous studies suggested that in oaks leaf morphology is a good indicator of putative hybridization. Principal components analysis was applied to data sets of leaf characters from five populations to describe variation in leaf morphology. Leaf characters analyzed in this study showed high degrees of variation as a result of hybridization between four taxa (Q. pubescens, Q. virgiliana, Q. petraea and Q. robur) of subgenus Quercus while Q. cerris as a member of subgenus Cerris was clearly separated from the others.
23726845|Phlomis  ekimii M.Y. Dadand & H. Duman, a natural hybrid between P. bruguieri and P. capitata from SE Turkey is described as new to science and illustrated. The morphological characteristics of P.  ekimii are compared with those of its parents.
23725639|The study was undertaken to develop a microscopic observation system for estimating the degree of damage caused by air pollution in Norway spruce forests. One-year-old Picea abies (L.) Karst. needles were collected from three sites in Southern Finland. The morphology of the epicuticular wax of the needles was investigated by scanning electron microscopy. A classification of the epicuticular wax forms was created, and the abundance of each wax type was estimated. A significant correlation was observed between the proportion of eroded wax types and the level of air pollution in the site of origin. The method was found promising, as the differences between study sites were clear and readily identified with the help of simple statistics. Preparation of samples for SEM is also easy, which enables the use of a large needle material.
23727732|The name Sempervivum ekimii F. Karaer nom. et stat. nov. is proposed for S. minus var. glabrum (Crassulaceae) from Turkey based on examination of type material and other specimens. An amplified description of the taxon is provided.
23728190|A new fern species, Polystichum hubeiense Liang Zhang & Li Bing Zhang (Dryopteridaceae), is described and illustrated from limestone cliffs in western Hubei Province, China. Polystichum hubeiense is most similar to P. lanceolatum in having relatively small leaves and pinnae and similar pairs of pinnae per lamina. The new species is distinguished by having overlapping and papery pinnae that are dull adaxially and repand on the margin, while P. lanceolatum has contiguous and leathery pinnae that are lustrous adaxially and dentate and with hard spines on the margin.
23727235|This study investigates the dispersal ability of seeds and fruits of plant species in three adjacent plant communities  xerothermic grassland, brushwood and woodland  through analysis of the soil seed bank and its changes at the borders of the communities. I tested the following null hypothesis: effective seed dispersal leads to negligible differences in the richness and structure of the seed bank among these plant communities. However, considerable differences, both quantitative and qualitative, were observed among the seed banks of the neighbouring plant communities. I noted the highest average density of seeds, 32 450 per square metre, within the brushwood, half of that density (14 058) in the grassland seed bank, and less than a tenth of that density (2245) in the woodland bank. Most of the seeds remain in the close vicinity of their parent plants. In the analysed arrangement of plant communities, the most effective methods of seed dispersal seem to be myrmecochoria and endozoochoria. Seeds and fruits of the last type of dispersal are the most abundant in the woodland seed bank, where tree crowns host a lot of birds. Very effective dispersal is also exhibited by Betula pendula, an anemochorous pioneer species, and Hypericum perforatum.
23727645|Centaurea glabro-auriculata Uysal & Demirelma sp. nova (Asteraceae) is described and illustrated from Central Taurus, Turkey. The species grows in stony places in Derebucak (C3 Konya Province). It is morphologically most similar to C. drabifolioides and C. cheirolepidoides, which are likewise endemic to a restricted area within Turkey.
23725226|Pollen and charcoal analyses were made on samples from the annually laminated sediment of Lake Ahvenainen, southern Finland, both the pollen percentages and absolute deposition values being studied. The results indicate that man cleared the forests in Neolithic times, between ca. 3500 and 2600 B.C. The first signs of agriculture, in the samples fall in the Bronze Age (about 1450 900 B.C.). From the pre-Roman Iron Age onwards (ca. 550 B.C.), systematic clearance with regular burn-beating cultivation took place in the area, and the land under cereal and fibre-plant crops increased. A recent decline in human influence has resulted in regeneration of the forests (A.D. 1925). The first cultivation of rye is dated to 40 B.C. and that of flax to A.D. 415. Hemp was cultivated some 1 000 years before the introduction of flax. Burning-over was important throughout the Iron Age and medieval times. In the late 1700s woodland covered only a small part of the region. It was not possible to determine accurately the beginning of field cultivation by pollen analysis. The rhythmical successions in the vegetation caused by rotational burning-over were evident only in pollen influx diagrams constructed from analyses of contiguous subsamples. The intervals between burning-over decreased from ca. 75125 years in the older Iron Age to 5080 years in the 13/14th century, and to 1520 years at the beginning of the 18th century.
23727994|Whether road verge vegetation can be manipulated to resemble traditionally managed grassland has been much debated. This short-term study compared management effects on road verge and pasture vegetation in western Norway. We quantified vegetation change and explored whether it occurred along underlying environmental gradients. We found management-related variation in species richness and vegetation physiognomy, but high resistance in species composition prevented directional changes in vegetation dynamics. Initial differences between the habitats indicated historical management effects on traditionally managed pastures and road verges. Given proper management, road verges may have a nature conservation potential. Moreover, their linear structure may enable fine-scale mosaic management that allows the coexistence of a wide range of grassland species.
23726493|Viola parnonia Kit Tan, Sfikas and Vold (Violaceae), a new species endemic to the peak of Mt Parnon in the Peloponnese, southern Greece, is described and illustrated. Its affinities are with V. euboea (Halcsy) Halcsy and V. graeca (W. Becker) Halcsy.
23727608|Hedysarum jaxartucirdes Y. Liu ex R. Sa sp. nova (Fabaceae) is described from Xinjiang, China. It belongs to sect. Subacaulia and appears to be close to H. fenganense. The diagnostic characters, as well as a full description and a detailed illustration are provided. The seed ultrastructure was examined by SEM.
23726774|Astragalus hamzaoglui O. Ketenoglu & Y. Menemen (Fabaceae), a new species from Turkey is described and illustrated. It belongs to section Hypoglottoidei DC. and resembles A. viciifolius DC. and A. viridissimus Freyn & Sint., from which it differs in the habit, indumentum of stem and leaf, and floral features.
23727770|Daphne hekouensis H.W. Li & Y.M. Shui sp. nova (Thymelaeaceae) from China (Yunnan Province, Hekou County) is described and illustrated. The new species with its axillary inflorescence and 5-lobed white calyx tube is most similar to D. axillaris, but can be easily distinguished by the larger leaves (1321  58 cm), longer calyx tubes (1525 mm), larger elliptic or oblong calyx lobes (1015  34 mm), and upper whorl of stamens located 34 mm below the mouth of the tube.
23726171|Five species of Atrichum P. Beauv. occur in China: A. crispulum Schimp. ex Besch., A. rhystophyllum (C. Mll.) Par., A. subserratum (Hook.) Mitt., A. undulatum (Hedw.) P. Beauv. and A. yakushimense (Horik.) Miz. A. henryi Salm. is synonymized with A. crispulum and Catharinea gracilis C. Mll. with Atrichum rhystophyllum. A. yunnanense (Broth.) Bartr. (Catharinea yunnanense Broth.) and A. yunnanense var. minus (Broth.) Wijk & Marg. (Catharinea yunnanensis var. minus Broth.) are synonyms of A. undulatum var. gracilisetum Besch. Lectotypes are selected for Catharinea gracilis C. Mll., C. parvirosula C. Mll. and C. rhystophylla C. Mll. The types are given, the taxonomy, distribution and nomenclature of the taxa are discussed.
23725439|The macrolichen vegetation on Pinus sylvestris L., and the contents of S, K, Ca, Ti, V, Fe and Zn in the lichen Hypogymnia physodes (L.) Nyl. and needles of Pinus sylvestris were investigated in relation to air pollution at 55 study stations in and around the industrial town of Valkeakoski, southern Finland. The air pollutants are emitted mainly by the wood pulp industry. The parameters of the lichen vegetation (occurrence of species, number of species, cover of the vegetation and the damage index) did not give a good picture of the distribution of air pollutants, because the environmental conditions were not exactly the same at the different study stations. The accumulation of the elements was more effective in the lichen than in pine needles and the lichen element contents agreed better with the pattern of the prevailing winds. The correlations between the contents of the different pollutant elements were also stronger in the lichen than in pine needles. The most reliable indices of pollutant substances originating from combustion of fuel oil and the wood pulp industry were the sulphur and vanadium contents of the lichen, while the calcium, titanium and iron concentrations of the lichen gave a good idea of the distribution of dust raised from the roads by traffic.
23726057|Descriptions are given for the following new taxa: Thymus cherlerioides var. isauricus Jalas and var. oxyodon Jalas, T. leucotrichus var. austronatolicus Jalas, T. brachychilus Jalas (from the Cilician Taurus and mountains of E. Anatolia), T. cappadocicus var. globifer Jalas, T. canoviridis Jalas (from the vilayet Erzurum, Inner E. Anatolia), T. cariensis Huber-Morath & Jalas (from S.W. Anatolia), T. striatus var. interruptus Jalas, T. leucostomus var. argillaceus Jalas and var. gypsaceus Jalas, T. pubescens var.cratericola Jalas, T. longicaulis var. alternatus Jalas. The new combinations are Thymus pectinatus var. pallasicus (Hayek & Velen.) Jalas, T. eigii (M. Zohary & P. H. Davis) Jalas, T. kotschyanus var. eriophorus (Ronniger) Jalas, T. fedtschenkoi var. handelii (Ronniger) Jalas, T. sipyleus subsp. rosulans (Borbs) Jalas, T. praecox subsp. skorpilii var. laniger (Borbs) Jalas, T. praecox subsp. grossheimii (Ronniger) Jalas, T. praecox subsp. grossheimii var. medvedevii (Ronniger) Jalas, T. thracicus var. longidens (Velen.) Jalas, T. longicaulis subsp. chaubardii (Boiss. & Heldr. ex Reichenb. fil.) Jalas, T. longicaulis var. antalyanus (Klokov) Jalas. Epithets reduced to synonymy are Thymus pseudohirsutus Klokov (= T. leucotrichus), T. sintenisii elak. (= T. zygioides; correction of an earlier synonymization), T. parvifolius C. Koch and T. rariflorus C. Koch (= T. sipyleus subsp. rosulans), T. caucasicus Willd. ex Ronninger (= T. praecox subsp. grossheimii), T. longidens var. proponticus Ronniger (= T. thracicus var. longidens). The hexaploid chromosome number 2n = 90 counted in two strains from Turkey-in-Europe and earlier referred to T. longedentalus actually belongs to T. zygioides var. lycaonicus (elak.) Ronniger.
43922391|Descriptions are given of Leotia lubrica Pers., Cudonia circinans (Pers. ex Fr.) Fr., C. confusa Bres., Spathularia flavida Pers. ex Fr., S. rufa Cooke and Neolecta vitellina (Bres.) Korf & Rogers, and of their habitats and phenology in Finland. Their distributions in the eastern part or the whole of Fennoscandia are mapped. S. rufa and N. vitellina are reported as new to Finland.
23727766|Neckera hymenodonta Mll. Hal. is reinstated from the synonymy of N. pennata Hedw. and treated as a distinct species. The morphological differences between the two are elaborated and N. hymenodonta is illustrated in line drawings. It is known from New Zealand and Australia. Neckera pennata var. tasmanica Hampe, N. aurescens Hampe and N. leptotheca Mitt. are synonymized with N. hymenodonta. Neckera pennata is excluded from the New Zealand flora.
23726883|Drepanolejeunea subacuta (Horik.) H.A. Mill. et al. and Lejeunea lancistipula (Steph.) H.A. Mill. et al., previously known only from Taiwan and New Guinea, respectively, are proposed as synonyms of Lejeunea exilis (Reinw. et al.) Grolle. Lejeunea exilis is a highly variable species and its diagnostic characteristics include (1) dimorphic underleaves (bilobed and subulate-ovate), (2) very small size of plants, (3) eplicate perianths always strongly emergent, (4) highly variable shape of leaves, (5) acute to apiculate leaf apex of the leaf in well developed plants, and (6) asexual reproduction usually by means of ribbon-like marginal regenerants. Lejeunea exilis is reported for the first time for China. A detailed description and illustrations of Lejeunea exilis are provided. The occurrence of ribbon-like marginal regenerants in the Lejeuneaceae is discussed.
23726581|Nine shrubby Usnea species are reported from East Fennoscandia: Usnea diplotypus Vain., U. fulvoreagens (Rsnen) Rsnen, U. glabrata (Ach.) Vain., U. glabrescens (Nyl. ex Vain.) Vain. ex Rsnen, U. hirta (L.) F. H. Wigg., U. lapponica Vain., U. subfloridana Stirt., U. substerilis Motyka and U. wasmuthii Rsnen. New chemotypes are reported in U. glabrescens, U. substerilis and U. wasmuthii. Some chemotypes have geographical tendencies in their distribution. For instance, the thamnolic acid strain of U. subfloridana is the main chemotype of the species only in some southern coastal regions. Several poorly known taxa described especially by V. Rsnen are identified and lectotypified. A key to the shrubby Usnea species in East Fennoscandia is provided.
23725202|Circumpolar Carex lachenalii Schkuhr and the closely related C. furva Webb from the Iberian Peninsula are compared on the basis of gross morphology, leaf epidermis and the details of leaf and perigynium surface studied by SEM. The results indicate that C. furva is specifically distinct from C. lachenalii. The distribution of both species in the Iberian Peninsula is briefly discussed.
23728181|Dyckia mezii Krapp nom. nov. replaces D. argentea Mez 1894, which is a younger homonym of D. argentea G. Nicholson 1885 and therefore an illegitimate name.
23725364|The history and temporal dynamics of planktonic diatoms for the period 15391956 were studied with a sample from the varved sediment of Lake Lovojrvi. The temporal resolution of the analysis approximately equals biweekly sampling of the plankton community throughout the 418-year period. We identified over 140 000 frustules, representing 24 plankton diatom taxa. On the longest temporal scale, three major periods can be defined according to the dominant taxon: 1539 to 1690 (Aulacoseira italica v. tenuissima); 1691 to 1850 (Cyclotella pseudostelligera) and 1851 to 1956 (Aulacoseira granulata v. angustissima). However, the species composition of the community varied greatly from one year to another, and the long-term patterns of the taxa are highly individualistic. The dominant and uncommon species have similar distributional variances of the log-transformed annual abundances, in spite of the difference in the mean. Species richness was high from 1539 until 1600. Aulacoseira italica bloomed in the plankton, producing a mass of frustules in the 1601 varve, from which year onwards a single species tended to be strongly dominant in the community and species richness was low. Analysis of the seasonal occurrence patterns of the species within the varves revealed a relatively constant successional ranking order; the taxa have retained their specific seasonality despite major changes in the community. The dominant taxa have not occurred especially early or especially late in the season.
23727594|Four categories of DNA markers were used to determine genetic similarity of three species of Polygonatum, i.e. P. multiflorum, P. odoratum and P. verticillatum, occurring in Poland. Four populations per species, represented by ten plants per population, were collected in north-eastern Poland. In this study 111 RAPD and 35 semi-random ISJ markers were detected. Moreover the application of primers complementary to bacterial sequences IS6110 and katG gene enabled the detection of 9 and 34 markers, respectively. Each of the four marker categories gave species-specific bands. The highest conservativeness was observed for sequences of the katG gene. The degree of genetic similarity between P. multiflorum and P. odoratum was 0.57, and between these taxa and P. verticillatum 0.40 and 0.37, respectively. Most of the primers applied in the study enabled molecular species identification, and three of them turned out to be section-specific markers. The taxa showed no considerable intraspecific diversity, and the populations of P. verticillatum were almost identical. The results are consistent with the commonly accepted division of the genus Polygonatum into sections Polygonatum and Verticillata.
23726330|A new polypore species, Phellinidium aciferium Y. C. Dai, is described and illustrated. It belongs to the P. ferrugineofuscum (P. Karst.) Fiasson & Niemel group, but is separated from the other species by having perennial, woody hard basidiocarps, and cylindrical spores. The status of the genus Phellinidium (Kotl.) Fiasson & Niemel is summarized, and it is shown to bear many fundamental characters that support its separation from both Inonotus P. Karst. and Phellinus Qul. As a conclusion, the following combinations are proposed: P. lamanse (Murrill) Y. C. Dai, P. sulphurascens (Pilt) Y. C. Dai, and P. weirii (Murrill) Y. C. Dai.
23728079|A new species of Grimmia (Grimmiaceae), G. ulaandamana J. Muoz, C. Feng, X.L. Bai & J. Kou, from several localities in China, is described and illustrated. It is distinguished from all congeners in having 24(5)-stratose and V-shaped lamina, semi-terete to terete costa consisting of almost homogeneous cells and with four guide cells at mid-leaf, and a long plication in lower part on one or both sides of the leaf.
23728060|This study examined whether recruitment of Sorbus aucuparia under conspecifics and heterospecifics differs in: (i) seed-bank longevity, (ii) seedling emergence rate, (iii) seedling survival rate, and (iv) density-dependent mortality. I studied the first three cohorts of seedlings that emerged after the 2009 mast year using pairs of plots located under conspecific and heterospecific (Norway spruce, Picea abies) trees. The interannual pattern of seedling emergence did not follow the fruit production pattern. In 2010 and 2011, there was no difference in the density of emerged seedlings among the plots under rowans and under spruces. Survival of the 2010 and 2011 seedling cohorts was higher under spruces than under rowans. Under either tree species seedling survival was not correlated with the density of emerged seedlings. The survival pattern of rowan seedlings in subalpine spruce forest seems to follow the Janzen-Connell model in temperate forest.
23726281|Thaumatomastix (Thaumatomastigaceae, Protista incertae sedis) is a genus of swimming or gliding heterotrophic protists sporadically reported from both marine and freshwater habitats. The cell carries two flagella, one of which is covered by scales, while the other is naked. Both flagellar scales and body scales are produced in vesicles located in close proximity to the outer membranes of the tubulocristate mitochondria. Scales are silicified. In addition to spineless, oval or triangular body scales, in most cases formed by the partial fusion of two almost equally sized plates, some species also possess species-specific spine scales. The genus at present comprises seven species. Six of these are found in samples from the brackish Baltic Sea. However, only T. salina (syn. Chrysosphaerella salina) has been frequently observed in electron microscopical whole mounts. Three new species are described: Thaumatomastix spinosa sp. nov., Thaumatomastix dybsoeana sp. nov. and Thaumatomastix formosa sp. nov.
23726270|The paper discusses 11 polypore species mostly described from the Russian Far East by A. S. Bondartsev and L. V. Lyubarsky, or by one of them. New data and specific characters on these polypores are given. Fomitopsis mellea Bondartsev & Ljub. is considered to be a synonym of F. maackiae Bondartsev & Ljub. The following new combinations are proposed: Cyclomyces xeranticus (Berk.) Y. C. Dai & Niemel, Nigroporus ussuriensis (Bondartsev & Ljub.) Y. C. Dai & Niemel, Oxyporus bucholtzii (Bondartsev & Ljub.) Y. C. Dai & Niemel, Parmastomyces taxi (Bondartsev) Y. C. Dai & Niemel, and Perenniporia maackiae (Bondartsev & Ljub.) Parmasto. Among the species, N. ussuriensis, P. taxi, P. mollissimus (Maire) Pouzar and Phellinus vaninii Ljub. are new to China.
23724933|Acrylic plastic and Jena glass bottles were used when phytoplanktonic primary production was measured by the 14C method. Certain differences were found between the results obtained with the two bottle materials. The inhibition of production occurring in the surface layer was greater in the light acrylic bottles than in the Jena glass ones down to a depth of one metre. This is attributed to the greater transmission by acrylic plastic of light in the visible and the UV-B parts of the spectrum and to the more favourable shape of the acrylic bottles. Differences were also found in dark fixation.
23728185|Primulina lutvittata Fang Wen & Y.G. Wei, a new species of Gesneriaceae from Guangdong, China, is described and illustrated. It is morphologically similar to P. fengshanensis, but differs by several characters of the leaves, cymes, bracts, corollas and anthers.
23727850|Type materials of 15 polypores described from China by Ji-Ding Zhao and other mycologists were re-examined. Nine of the 15 names are synonymized, two species are accepted, and one name is a nomen dubium; two species belong to other genera according to modern taxonomy, and one name is illegitimate. One new combination, Funalia thujae (J.D. Zhao) Y.C. Dai & H.S. Yuan, is proposed, and an illustrated description of it is given.
23725002|Organelle formation has been followed in embryos of Bidens cernua L. (Compositae) germinated in a) water, b) 10 and 100 ppm of cycloheximide, c) actinomycin D, and d) chloramphenicol. The dormant embryos do not contain cell organelles, and initials of these, if they exist, are not visible, but during germination in water chloroplasts and mitochondria are formed rapidly in both cotyledons and roots. Cycloheximide, which inhibits protein synthesis in cytoplasmic ribosomes, inhibited proteolysis, lipolysis and organelle formation even in the low concentration. Under the influence of a high concentration of actinomycin D proteolysis and lipolysis were rapid and chloroplasts and mitochondria were found in the cotyledons. In the dividing root tip cells, in contrast, plastid formation was clearly disturbed, although mitochondria and ribosomes were abundant. Thus apparently nuclear RNA synthesis is not needed for organelle formation or for synthesis of proteolytic or lipolytic enzymes. Chloramphenicol, which inhibits protein synthesis in 70 S ribosomes of chloroplasts and mitochondria, did not inhibit the formation of these organelles, but at higher concentrations the thylakoids formed close-packed stacks in the chloroplasts. These results indicate that organelle formation is not dependent on RNA synthesis or protein synthesis in the 70 S ribosomes but requires the function of 80 S ribosomes. The development of chloroplasts and mitochondria is dependent mainly on cytoplasmic ribosomes. The cytoplasm of dormant cells already contains m-RNA coding degradative enzymes.
23725449|Leiocolea alpestris (Schleich. ex F. Web.) Isov. (basionym Jungermannia alpestris Schleich. ex F. Web.) is proposed to replace Leiocolea collaris (Nees in Mart.) Schljak. [or L. muelleri (Nees ex Lindenb.) Jrg.].
23726064|The growth of stem callus cultures of Atropa belladonna L. was studied when amino acids of the glutamate and aspartate families were used as sole nitrogen sources, together with inorganic nitrogen or in combinations of amino acids. The effect of the amino acids depended on their concentrations, the form and concentration of the inorganic nitrogen in the growth media and the age of the callus strain. When given as sole sources of nitrogen, glutamic and aspartic acids (5 mM) were used as effectively as NH4NO3 (2.5 mM) and NaNO3 (5 mM), but growth was more or less strongly retarded by the end products of biosynthesis, arginine, ornithine, hydroxyproline, lysine, threonine, isoleucine and methionine, an exception being formed by proline. The inorganic nitrogen giving the best growth in combination with the amino acids was nitrate. Both glutamic acid and aspartic acid (5 mM) formed good combinations with ornithine (0.5 mM). The inhibitory effect of hydroxyproline (1 mM) on growth could be almost completely counteracted with proline (5 mM). Growth was strongly retarded by all combinations of amino acids containing homoserine, threonine, isoleucine or methionine (1 and 2.5 mM).
23725453|Terminal buds of Scotch pine were collected and fixed during the active growth period, in July  September. Microsporangiate strobilus primordia and spur shoot primordia were separated and squashed in acetic acid. In addition to conventional staining methods, a new Chlorazol black E-Giemsa double-staining procedure was used, which visualized the chromatin structure more clearly than is usual in plant material. The course of interphase was followed by noting the alternations in a number of characteristics of nuclear structure. The observations suggested that the chromatids are multistranded. The nuclei of the rapidly growing tissues under study had few nucleoli. The behaviour of the nuclei was not observed to differ between the vegetative and floral tissues.
23727620|Based on a study of approximately 1300 herbarium specimens, 12 species are recognized in the genus Herbertus Gray (Herbertaceae, Marchantiophyta) in Asia: H. aduncus (Dicks.) Gray subsp. aduncus, H. armitanus (Steph.) H.A. Mill., H. buchii Jusln sp. nova, H. ceylanicus (Steph.) Abeyw., H. circinatus (Steph.) H.A. Mill., H. dicranus (Taylor ex Gottsche et al.) Trevis, H. guangdongii P.J. Lin & Piippo, H. kurzii (Steph.) R.S. Chopra, H. longispinus Jack & Steph., H. pilifer (Steph.) H.A. Mill, H. ramosus (Steph.) H.A. Mill., and H. sendtneri (Nees) Lindb. Nine binomials are proposed as new synonyms. Herbertus subrotundatus X. Fu & Y.J. Yi does not belong to the genus Herbertus. The ranges of H. aduncus subsp. aduncus, H. dicranus, and H. sendtneri extend to other continents in addition to Asia. Four species are shared by Asia and Australasia. The distribution areas of five species are restricted to Asia. Of those five, two are known only from their type localities: H. buchii from Amur province, Russia, and H. guangdongii from Hainan Island, China. A key to the species is presented. Descriptions, illustrations, and distribution maps are presented for each species.
23726800|In this study of 130 sites with different management we investigated whether vascular plant species richness is significantly reduced when traditionally managed hay meadows are abandoned and reforested. We also compared the effects of reforestation with those of intensified land-use to see which have the largest effects on species richness. Finally, we investigated the relative importance of relevant ecological factors for species richness. While the use of artificial fertilizers in traditionally managed hay meadows has resulted in significantly lower species richness, and intensive cultivation in even lower species richness, abandonment with reforestation has not decreased the species richness significantly. Productivity and habitat diversity have determined the species richness of meadows on the scale (0.035.1 ha) of this study. Low productivity is a prerequisite for high species richness in meadows. Maximum species richness was observed in unproductive, old, traditionally managed hay meadows with a high soil pH and high habitat diversity. The high species richness of these meadows suggests that they are in urgent need of conservation.
23725865|The structure of the inflorescences of the Cyperaceae is described in the light of a few examples representing the three subfamilies. The structures found in the different subfamilies differ widely and great difficulties are encountered in applying the descriptive terms. An attempt is made to reach terminological stability by using the descriptive method of W. Troll and F. Weberling.
23726732|Limonium silvestrei Aparicio (Plumbaginaceae) is described and illustrated from the only known population located within an agricultural landscape in southern Spain. Based in the single A pollen/Cob stigma combination, male sterility, jumbled 3x karyotype and high seed set and germination, L. silvestrei should be regarded as a new agamospecies in Limonium. The number of long metacentric chromosomes observed in the karyotype of this species is in conflict with Erben's theory about the evolution in the genus. The discovery and characterisation of this species stresses the relevance of forest fragments of natural vegetation in agricultural landscapes as biodiversity reservoirs.
23726636|In two papers, of which this is the first, the authors present a macro- and microscopic study of 45 Myxomycetes collected on the Peninsula of Baja California, Mexico. This part treats 24 species, in alphabetical order, from Arcyria affinis Rostaf. to Fuligo septica (L.) F. H. Wigg. SEM photographs of spores and capillitial threads are provided. The following taxa are reported as new to Mexico: Arcyria affinis Rostaf., A. minuta Buchet, Craterium scyphoides (Cooke & Balf) Lizrraga, Illana & G. Moreno, and Dictydiaethalium plumbeum var. cinnabarinum (Berk. & Br.) Shirai & Hara. We propose the following new combination: Craterium scyphoides (Cooke & Balf) Lizrraga, Illana & G. Moreno.
23724938|Time is frequently used to describe the developmental stage of a plant or animal in biomathematical models. However, there is often a notable discrepancy between the chronological age and 'the biological age' of an organism, owing to different rates of development under different environmental conditions. In the present paper a variable is defined that should serve better than age to denote the stage of development. The physiological stage of development defined here can be used to construct and test various hypotheses concerning growth and development. As an example, an application of the physiological stage of development to a mathematical model of the daily increment of pine seedlings is presented. The same variable (physiological stage) should be equally useful in many other biological models.
23726884|A new species of pleurotoid agaric, Panellus edulis Y.C. Dai, Niemel & G.F. Qin, is described from NE and SW China, Japan and the Russian Far East. It is closely related to P. serotinus (Schrad. : Fr.) Khner, with which it was previously confused. The new species differs from P. serotinus mainly by its larger size, ventricose cystidia, and, in particular, mild taste; the European P. serotinus is bitter-tasting. Panellus edulis is one of the best-ranked edible mushrooms in NE Asia.
23726234|The herbicide trichloroacetic acid (TCA), one of the atmospheric airborne oxidation products of C2-chlorocarbon solvents, was found in conifer needles from five different regions of Finland. Trichloroacetic acid was extracted with ether from homogenized tissue, derivatized to the corresponding methyl ester, and determined quantitatively by capillary gas chromatography and electron capture detection. The concentrations in conifer needles ranged from 3 to 126 ng/g fresh weight. The levels seem to correlate with the extent of needle loss of the trees. At a location in Northern Finland, the TCA levels monitored over one year exhibited slight seasonal variation.
23725084|The pollen morphology of the male sterile gene mutant msg6cf of Hordeum vulgare was studied. The mutant has anther behaviour similar to that of the fertile barley. The pollen proved to be inaperturate. Only an elevation was sometimes seen under the SEM at the evident pore site. The crossing and selfing behaviour has been studied in Finland. A new technique is described for the preparation of barley pollen for SEM.
43922131|Twenty five species of Peltigeraceae are reported from insular Newfoundland. Lichens reported from the island for the first time are: Massalongia carnosa (Dicks.) Krb., Nephroma resupinatum (L.) Ach., Peltigera degenii Gyeln., P. elisabethae Gyeln., P. evansiana Gyeln., P. horizontalis (Huds.) Baumg., P. polydactyla (Neck.) Hoffm. var. hymenina (Ach). Flot., P. polydactyla var. neopolydactyla Gyeln. Polychidium muscicola (Sw.) S. Gray. Some critical taxonomic comments are presented on North American Peltigera. A composite Peltigera morphotype consisting of both lobes with blue-green algae and lobes with green algae is reported from Miquelon.
23727931|Wind-induced mechanical stimulation and water shortage are important stresses in arid/semiarid regions. However, little is known about the combined effects of mechanical stimulation and water availability. Since the effects of high water availability on biomass and allocation are opposite to those from mechanical stimulation, it is hypothesized that high water availability suppresses the effects of mechanical stimulation. To test this hypothesis, seedlings of Lolium perenne were subjected to two levels of brushing (non-brushing versus brushing 60 seconds d-1) and two levels of water availability (200 ml d-1 versus 400 ml d-1). Brushing had no effects on the total biomass of L. perenne, indicating that brushing is not a stressful factor. However, brushing significantly decreased plant height and dramatically increased the root/shoot ratio. The differences in biomass allocation between brushed and non-brushed plants at high water availability were significantly smaller than those at low water availability, showing that the effects of brushing are suppressed by high water availability. These results suggest that L. perenne may have evolved some traits to cope with frequent mechanical disturbance.
23726041|The effect of different concentrations (10-3 mM  1 mM) of lead and cadmium on the growth of Sphagnum fimbriatum Wils. has been studied with long-term aseptic cultures. This bog moss proved to be relatively tolerant towards the pollutants. Cadmium was more poisonous than lead; a 1 mM (112 ppm) concentration of Cd was lethal and a 10-1 mM solution strongly inhibited growth. A 1 mM (207 ppm) concentration of lead did not completely inhibit growth, and a 10-1 mM solution was not growth retarding. In nature, amounts corresponding to the concentrations causing strong growth retardation occur only in very polluted areas. Low (10-2 and 10-3 mM) concentrations of lead and cadmium did not promote growth in the present experiments. The situation is complicated by the low solubility of lead ions both in nature and in nutrient solutions.
23727859|A new species in Pteridaceae, Pteris changjiangensis X.L. Zheng & F.W. Xing (sect. Pteris) from Hainan Island, China, is described and illustrated. It is similar to P. simplex and P. subsimplex in appearance, but differs by having an adscendent, tenuous rhizome, homomorphic, separate and simple fronds, and a preference to calcareous habitat.
23725491|The relationships between species richness (S), Shannon diversity (H) and above-ground biomass (B) were analysed with data from southern boreal mires in Finland and Soviet Karelia. The field and ground layers were treated separately and together. B showed a significant negative relationship with both S and H in the ground layer and combined understorey; in the field layer, this negative relationship was weak. Both S and H were found to be somewhat lower in the sites with small or large biomass. This was attributed to stress (e.g. drainage, shade) in the case of smaller biomass and to dominance in the case of larger biomass. In sites whose biomass lay between these two extremes, S and H were higher, due to an increase in microhabitat fertility and variation. On drained sites, S and H usually decreased in the field layer and combined understorey. This was mainly connected with the increasing dominance of dwarf shrubs and cottongrass. In the ground layer, S and H increased in most cases after drainage, which was connected with a decrease in the earlier dominants, i.e. Sphagnum mosses, and colonization by pioneer species and later by forest mosses. The different ecological strategies of the dominant species in the different vegetation layers contribute greatly to the differences in the change of biomass and diversity after drainage.
23727769|Pimpinella isaurica V.A. Matthews subsp. sumbuliana R.S. Gktrk subsp. nova (Apiaceae) is described and illustrated from Anatolia, Turkey. It is closely related to P. isaurica subsp. isaurica, also an endemic of Anatolia. The diagnostic morphological characters of subsp. sumbuliana and subsp. isaurica are discussed and their geographic distributions are presented.
23726048|Study of the mineral, organic, and microfossil composition of different sediment layers and their comparison with the present day sedimentation in the meromictic lake Lovojrvi led to the conclusion that the laminae reflect seasonal variations in sedimentation, i.e. they are varves. The sediment was sampled by freezing the core in situ. The frozen core of length 1.6 m contained ca. 600 varves. Five clay layers recognized in the upper 30 cm could be related to recent human activity. The variations in varve thickness in the lower sediment was correlated with crop failure years on the basis of historical records. It is suggested that variations in varve thickness might prove to be a potential tool in the study of short-term climatic fluctuations.
23727593|The almost complete elimination of fire from forest management practises in Scandinavia has made post-fire succession rare and, consequently, generated conservation problems. The importance of fire in conjunction with slash-and-burn cultivation has been recognised as a management strategy. It is a potential tool for managing forest structure and regeneration processes in nature reserves. In this study we observed the first decade of vegetation succession after slash-burning. Prior to the study, most trees at the study site were felled and burned. The monitoring was carried out in three burned areas of different age and an unmanaged control forest. In addition to describing the responses of different plant species and plant functional groups to fire, multivariate methods were applied to illustrate community level changes. The results indicated succession processes at each hierarchy level in the recovering community. In general, the community switched from pioneer bryophyte mass abundances to graminoid dominance within ten years. Moreover, plant diversity seemed to have increased due to slash-burning. A total of 88 plant taxa (i.e. vascular plants, bryophytes and lichens) were observed in the sample plots during the study period, as compared with the 44 taxa observed in control plots. We concluded that slash-burning is an appropriate method for mimicking natural fires, at least from a botanical perspective, and may therefore be a forest renewal practise worth considering in special areas.
23727727|Salicornia freitagii Yaprak & Yurdakulol sp. nova (Chenopodiaceae) is described as a new species from Central Anatolia, Turkey. It is characterised by having a fastigiate habit, an acuminate leaf apex and short terminal spikes. It is considered to belong to section Dolichostachyae. Contrary to other members of the section, it is distributed in inland salt lake shores at relatively high altitudes.
23725020|The lectotype is selected for Mnium rhynchophorum Hook. A new combination. Plagiomnium elimbatum (Broth.) Koponen, is introduced. Mnium burmense Bartr. is conspecific with Plagiomnium succulentum (Mitt.) Koponen.
23724305|Nygaard's (1956) method, based on Hustedt's (1939) pH spectrum, for computing the functional pH of the water of a lake from the composition of the diatom flora was used by the author in a study of the diatom flora of 14 Finnish lakes and ponds. For each lake Indices a, , and  were computed and plotted against the pH scale (Figs. 2 and 3). The results confirm the significance of Nygaard's method in paleolimnological investigations.
23727981|A new species, Crataegus zarrei Dnmez (Rosaecae) is described and illustrated from Kermansah, western Iran. It is allied to C. azarolus, but distinct among the Eurasian species by having finely dentate leaves, a relative abundance of teeth per leaf lobe, and a small and dark-orange fruit.
23725853|The storage of phytoplankton chlorophyll a samples and the effect of MgCO3 addition to the samples were examined. The final results were calculated by different equations based on mono- or trichromatic methods. Acetone solution was used as solvent. Storage of the phytoplankton chlorophyll a samples in the cold (+4C) and dark was possible for 24 h or even longer, without significant changes in the results. The presence of MgCO3 did not improve the keeping properties of the samples. The chlorophyll a concentrations calculated using the equation based on the monochromatic measuring method (665 nm) were identical with the results calculated by the Parsons-Strickland equation based on the trichromatic measurement.
23725786|Ombrotrophic bog samples of Cladonia arbuscula, C. mitis, Sphagnum fuscum and S. balticum were analysed for sulphur by the X-ray fluorescence method. In all the study sites, the S concentration of Sphagnum fuscum was distinctly greater than that of Cladonia arbuscula or C. mitis. In both Sphagnum and Cladonia the S levels were positively correlated with the atmospheric deposition rates of SO4. In southern Finnish bogs, a comparison between the annual retention rates of sulphur and the atmospheric deposition rates showed that while closed carpets of Sphagnum fuscum and S. balticum retained on average 27 and 35 % of the total sulphur fallout, respectively, the corresponding percentage for Cladonia arbuscula was only 4 %. The results suggest that in raised bogs, most of the annual deposition of sulphur is not retained by living moss or the lichen layer.
23728068|Sobralia quadricolor Endrs & Rchb. f. ex Szlach., Kolan. & Baranow sp. nova (Orchidaceae) is described and illustrated. It was discovered by A. R. Endrs and H. G. Reichenbach, but they did not publish the description but just attached a note and illustration to the type specimen. Based on our observations and on the documentation prepared by Endrs and Reichenbach, we here describe S. quadricolor as a new species to validate the name. It is a member of the Sobralia-leucoxantha complex, resembling especially S. blancoi, but differs in the shape of the staminodes and in the colour of the lip.
23725468|The phytoplankton in a small, 7.5-m-deep, eutrophic lake was monitored from the beginning of March to October 1983, using microscopic, direct spectrophotometric and paper chromatographic methods. The phytoplankton community consisted mainly of green algae and diatoms together with cryptomonads, dinoflagellates and euglenophytes. The phytoplankton biomass had two maxima (6070 mg chlorophyll a/m3), in late April and September. The summer biomass was 1020 mg chl. a/m3. In the summer green algae dominated in the phytoplankton, but during the plankton maxima diatoms prevailed. The chromatography indicated that the main features of the phytoplankton community structure are reflected in the pigment composition, and it thus offers a rapid means of obtaining information on the physiological state of algae. The relative contribution of chlorophyll a to the total pigment extract was higher in rapidly increasing than in declining populations. The proportion of chlorophyll a was also higher in the dark season than in summer (4050 and 2535%, respectively). The carotenoids/chlorophyll a ratio increased from ca. 1 to 2.54 during the nutrient depletion and decline of biomass after the spring maximum in May. According to paper chromatography, phaeophytin a is much rarer in phytoplankton than is indicated by direct spectrophotometry after acidification. The other degradation products, such as chlorophyllides, which can be determined only by chromatography, were more common and abundant.
23726539|Phylogenetic relationships and genetic differentiation among eleven diploid annual brome species were evaluated by cladistic and phenetic analysis of the allozyme diversity of eight enzymes detected by PAGE. All species lacked heterozygous allozyme phenotypes, indicating prevalent autogamy and self-fertilization. Bromus japonicus Thunb. and B. squarrosus L. had the same allozymes, supporting their close genetic affinity. The placement of B. pumilio (Trin.) P. M. Smith in its own section Boissiera (Hochst. ex. Steudel) P. M. Smith was supported by its basal position in a separate clade. Morphologically uniform B. intermedius Guss. was the most polymorphic species, revealing six isoenzyme lineages. The diploids of the section Genea Dum. were distinguished in a separate cluster on both cladistic and phenetic allozyme trees.
23727703|Salix anatolica J. Zieliski & D. Tomaszewski sp. nova (Salicaceae) from central Turkey is described and illustrated. It is compared with the two morphologically closest species, S. pedicellata and S. pseudomedemii.
23727626|Nine taxa of Actinidia previously recognized as species from Guangxi, China are taxonomically reviewed. We recognize four species and additionally one is treated as a dubious species.
23726334|Chlorophyll fluorescence induction was measured under field conditions on Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) needles in seven stands in the City of Helsinki. The contents of chlorophylls a and b, total carotenoids and total nitrogen were determined, as well. At three sites, the FV/FM ratio of chlorophyll fluorescence induction was exceptionally low (<0.8), indicating reduced quantum yield of photosystem II. The chlorophyll, carotenoid and nitrogen contents of the needles were highest at the same three sites. The nitrogen content correlated positively with the chlorophyll and carotenoid contents and negatively with FV/FM. Oxides of nitrogen (NOX) and traffic emissions are discussed as possible factors affecting the light reactions of photosynthesis and the pigment content of pine needles in an urban environment. Measurement of chlorophyll fluorescence under field conditions seems to be a suitable method for the detection of damage caused by air pollutants.
23726058|The phytoplankton composition was well diversified. During the study period (June-July 1974) 142 taxa, or 118 species, were observed. The greatest number of species was found in Chlorophyceae, but Dinophyceae and Bacillariophyceae had the greatest biomass values. The biomass of blue-green algae was usually rather low. The mean total biomass was 1.0 gm-3 (fresh wt), the highest values (2.8 gm-3) being observed in the open-water areas. At the river stations and near the peat islands the biomasses were low (usually below 0.5 gm-3). The most frequent genus was Cryptomonas.
23726522|Response surfaces along gradients of water-table depth and water pH were obtained for the commonest vascular and bryophyte species in a nutrient-poor mire on the southern Alps of Italy. Depth to the water table was the major factor, whereas the chemical gradient was of lower importance in structuring vegetation. The distributional pattern of vascular plants is considered to be determined by physiological tolerance along the gradient in depth to the water table. Hence, interspecific competition in the field layer is considered of minor importance, except for interactions between ericaceous shrubs. Bryophytes probably interact to a greater extent, especially in lawns and carpets. Sphagnum species appear to be better competitors, as they almost totally exclude other mosses from those habitats. Interactions between species mainly result in dominance patterns, rather than in a clear habitat partitioning along the water-table gradient. Strong dominance by single species rather than clear habitat partitioning along the water-table gradient is interpreted as a result of interactions between species. Species showing ruderal traits are more typical of wet habitats (carpets and hollows), where disturbance is likely to play a major role in structuring the vegetation in the bottom layer.
23724965|In this paper a new subspecies is erected: Diphasium complanatum (L.) Rothm. subsp. montellii Kukk. and the nomenclature of D. complanatum subsp. complanatum var. polystachyum (H. Lindb.) Kukk. is discussed.
23727683|Arctic breeding barnacle geese use brackish marshes along the coastline of the Baltic Sea intensively in spring, during short stopovers on their migration to breeding sites in northern Russia. We mapped the vegetation of one important spring staging and brood rearing site on the Swedish island of Gotland and investigated the habitat use of barnacle geese. The geese mainly use plant communities with a high cover of edible species and a low canopy height. These vegetation characteristics are best maintained through livestock grazing and the maintenance of current grazing practices will be responsible for future site use by small herbivores.
23724233|1. The most important literature on the vegetational geography of northwestern Europe and the use of some phytogeographic concepts are reviewed. The special purpose of the paper is to link together the divisions proposed by a great number of authors and in various languages, particularly in the Scandinavian countries, Finland and the Soviet Union. 2. The concepts vegetation zone and vegetation section are used as the main units of vegetational divisions in the study area. Their application is discussed from the viewpoint of comparative transcontinental and intercontinental ecology. The great parallelism of the horizontal and altitudinal zonations is emphasized. It is proposed that the affinity of the corresponding horizontal and altitudinal zones may be shown nomenclaturally by adding the prefix oro- to the names of the altitudinal zones (e.g. boreal  oroboreal). 3. Three main categories of phytogeographical divisions are distinguished, viz. edaphic-topographic, bioclimatic and floristic. The bioclimatic divisions are preferred from the point of view of comparative ecology. 4. The use of various criteria  climatic, edaphic, floristic, ecological (biological) and phytosociological  for the delimitation of vegetation zones and sections is discussed. The dominant communities of regional vegetation are of special importance in defining vegetational divisions. It is essential that the classification of the regional communities should be based on qualitative and quantitative ecological analyses of the whole vegetation rather than on dominant species (e.g. trees) or schematic physiognomy alone. 5. The following zones are distinguished and mapped (Fig. 9) in northwestern Europe (excl. the North Atlantic islands): 1. Northern Temperate 2. Hemiboreal (and orohemiboreal) 3. Southern boreal (and lower oroboreal) 4. Middle boreal (and middle oroboreal) 5. Northern boreal (and upper oroboreal) 6. Orohemiarctic 7. Lower oroarctic 8. Middle oroarctic 9. Upper oroarctic Their detailed delimitations and preliminary sectional divisions are outlined. 6. The taiga zones, widely used in the Soviet Union, correspond to our zones approximately as follows: southern taiga = hemiboreal middle taiga = southern boreal northern taiga = middle + northern boreal This correspondence does not apply in certain areas, which the present writers interpret differently from most authors 7. The middle boreal zone, in particular, is extended on the west coast of Norway and on the White Sea farther north than has been done by previous authors. On the other hand, in sweden this zone is considered less extensive than before. 8. The birch-dominated mountain and lowland sections of western and northern Fennoscandia do not generally belong to the hemiarctic (forest-tundra) zone or form an independent zone but represent oceanic sections of all the boreal zones. However, an altitudinal forest-tundra zone, the orohemiarctic zone, is distinguished between the northern (upper) boreal and the lower oroarctic zones. It is only the uppermost parts of the mountain birch stands that may belong to the orohemiarctic. 9. No horizontal arctic or hemiarctic zone is distinguished in northern Fennoscandia but even the north coast (sea level) of the Kola Peninsula is referred to the northern boreal zone. 10. The nature of the plurizonal section groups and the position of small coastal sections in the system are briefly discussed.
23725784|Saplings and young maiden trees of Tilia cordata Miller occur in some localities in southern Finland, and have clearly originated from seed which must be formed quite frequently and in sufficient quantities to allow regeneration. Fruits collected close to the northern limit during September 1978 contained a large proportion of seeds with the embryos apparently arrested in their development before reaching maturity. It seems that in the relatively continental climate of Finland, temperatures during August are high enough to allow fertilization, but the rapid fall of temperature during September and October may prevent complete development of the embryo and endosperm.
23728006|Different environmental conditions can cause specific modifications during the development of plants. In this study, we investigated the effect of contrasting habitats (a Zn-Pb dump and a forest site) on morphological and reproductive traits of 154 plants of the perennial herb Arabidopsis halleri. Base on the results of our preliminary investigation we distinguished morphological and functional traits, which differentiate populations of A. halleri from forest and dump habitats. Discriminant analysis distinguished the seed number and the length of the longest rosette leaf as the most distinctly variable traits.
23727782|To evaluate the phylogenetic relationships among Roegneria amurensis, R. ciliaris and R. japonensis, hybridizations among them were carried out. In the hybrids of R. amurensis  R. ciliaris, R. japonensis  R. amurensis and R. ciliaris  R. japonensis, average chromosome associations were 0.38 I + 13.83 II, 0.18 I + 13.90 II and 0.15 I + 13.91 II, respectively. All the hybrids were partially fertile with stainable pollen grains and the fertility was 82%, 88% and 95%, respectively. The results indicated that the three species share the same basic genomes, StStYY and they are closely related. Combined with morphology and geographic distribution, R. amurensis and R. japonensis are treated as a subspecies and a variety of R. ciliaris, respectively.
23728191|Pterichis moralesii, a new orchid species from Colombia, is described and illustrated. The differences between P. moralesii and similar species are briefly discussed and a key to the Colombian species of Pterichis, as well as information on the ecology and distribution of P. moralesii are provided.
23726414|The phenolic compounds present in 40 species of the lichen genus Cladonia Hill ex Browne, section Cocciferae (Delise) A. Evans, were screened by means of high-performance liquid chromatography and thin-layer chromatography. New data on the chemical composition are given for 21 species. Quantitative data on the phenolic compounds present are reported for the first time for 33 species. The major compounds detected in sect. Cocciferae include barbatic, squamatic and thamnolic acids (all depsides of the -orcinol series), as well as usnic and didymic acids (dibenzofuran derivatives). Obtusatic acid was found to be the major substance in Cladonia meridionalis Vainio. In addition, the red naphthoquinone pigment rhodocladonic acid that is produced in the hymenia of most species, is absent from a group of species (the group Ochroleucae) that is also included in the Cocciferae. The total contents of the phenolic substances in individual samples ranged from 0.8 up to 13.9 (mean 4.2%) of lichen dry weight. Taxonomic notes are given for many species. Cladonia favillicola Trass is synonymous with C. botrytes (Hagen) Willd.
23726687|Two populations of the orchid species Listera ovata localised on mineral islands in the Biebrza National Park (NE Poland) were genetically examined with 32 allozyme loci. Genetic diversity was low (P = 9.4%; A = 1.09; Ho = 0.058). A moderate but significant genetic differentiation among the two populations was found (FST = 0.101). The observed low genetic variation was most likely a result of small population size and genetic drift. Because the populations are on islands and have a low allozymic variation, they are prone to extinction. Loss of any single genotype would lead to a substantial reduction in the overall genetic diversity of the populations.
23727925|Aiming to analyze the evolutionary relationships between the diploid species Turnera grandiflora (2n = 2x = 10) and the octoploid T. fernandezii (2n = 8x = 40), interspecific hybrids were recovered by in vitro embryo rescue methods. The full-grown plants obtained were all pentaploids (2n = 5x = 25) confirming their hybrid nature. The chromosome associations observed in the hybrids during meiosis were indicative for an autopentaploid, suggesting that T. fernandezii carries the genome of T. grandiflora (CgCg) but at the octoploid level (CgCg CgCg CgCg CgCg). This fact confirms a close evolutionary relationship between the species and supports the hypothesis that T. grandiflora is the progenitor of T. fernandezii. A tentative hypothesis regarding the autopolyploid origin of T. fernandezii is finally formulated.
23725864|The dynamics of the water table and soil water tension in the surface peat was studied in a raised bog. Comparisons were made between hummocks and hollows in two consecutive summers, and also between virgin and drained sites. In most cases a linear regression gave a good fit for the relationship between soil water tension in the surface peat and the distance to the water table. An exception was the relationship in the drained hummock, where the water table was lower; when rain occurred as infrequent showers, the relationship between the soil water tension and the water table level was logarithmic. Under such conditions, the moisture tension in the drained hummock was mainly regulated by the rain and not by the height of the water table. Hollows which are wet in the virgin state remain rather wet even after drainage. The relationship between the height of the water table and soil water tension was similar at different depths in the surface peat; only the magnitude of the tension changed with the depth in the peat. There was also a clear relationship between the levels of the water tables in virgin and drained sites. Heavy rain, however, caused deviations from this relationship, due to the difference in the rate of runoff from the two sites. The regression was slightly curvilinear, because the levels in the two sites converged when the water table was deep. The paper ends with a discussion of the biological consequences of the soil water conditions in virgin and drained sites.
23725266|The growth and temporal variation of the blue-green alga Oscillatoria agardhii Gomont was studied during four summers in a hypertrophic brackish-water bay. The alga had a pronounced biomass maximum in early summer. During the exponential phase of growth, the specific growth rate of O. agardhii was determined by water temperature. The course of the biomass was explained by the difference between the specific growth rate of the alga and the dilution rate of the bay. When the specific growth rate exceeded the dilution rate, pronounced biomass accumulation occurred. When the specific growth rate was smaller than the dilution rate, a slow wash-out of O. agardhii was observed. Limitation of O. agardhii by nitrogen or phosphorus did not occur during the exponential phase of growth, but may have operated later in the summer.
23725359|Anthyllis vulneraria L. subsp. danica Lampinen, subsp. nova, is described from the N coast of Jutland Peninsula, Denmark. It is so far known from a single population on a wind-exposed limestone cliff by the seashore. Subsp. danica is morphologically closely similar to subsp. lapponica (Hylander) Jalas, and it is suggested to be a relict of the early postglacial flora.
23726689|We attempted to reconstruct the phylogeny of the generic complex Chiloscyphus LophocoleaHeteroscyphus (Geocalycaceae, Hepaticae) by using sequence data from three regions of the chloroplast genome, rbcL, trnL-trnF and psbT-psbH, and 17 morphological characters, and to explore character evolution. Twenty-one taxa exemplars were selected and 2141 characters from both sequence and morphology were applied for parsimony-based analyses. The combined molecular data set, the morphological data set and the combined molecular and morphological data set were analysed. Our results identify the monophyly of the ChiloscyphusLophocoleaHeteroscyphus complex and support combining Chiloscyphus and Lophocolea into a single genus, Chiloscyphus. Our results also reveal that Chiloscyphus s. lato forms a sister group to the genus Heteroscyphus. Chiloscyphus s. stricto is closely allied to both subgenus Lophocolea section Heterophyllae and section Lophocolea, although morphologically section Lophocolea has a very different leaf form, leaf insertion and male and female inflorescences. The analyses compiled from the combined morphological and sequence data suggest that Heteroscyphus is the most derived group among the complex. The generic complex here includes the genus Chiloscyphus, consisting of sub-genera Chiloscyphus and Lophocolea, and the genus Heteroscyphus. Heteroscyphus section Connatus is synonymized as section Heteroscyphus based on both morphological and molecular data. The analysis of morphological variation in combination with molecular data reveals that the individual morphological characters of the ChiloscyphusLophocoleaHeteroscyphus complex vary in their utility for classification.
23727280|Filago pertomentosa F. Ghahremani. & Akhundzadeh sp. nova is described from Iran and illustrated. It is compared with the morphologically close F. arvensis.
23725812|The distribution of 250 species of anthropochorous plants by the number of villages inhabited is bimodal: most species are either regionally common or rare (in an old but extensive set of data collected by K. Linkola). This paper attempts to explain this observation. Population dynamic processes influence the patterns of species richness and site similarity: species richness decreases with increasing isolation of the village but it increases with village size, and the similarity in the species composition between two villages decreases with increasing distance between them. Some species are restricted to one part of the study area, possibly because of their limited geographical range and/or habitat selection (climate, soil, type of agriculture, etc.), though an alternative population dynamic explanation, based on the density of suitable sites (villages) in space, is also possible. The rarity of other species appears to be due to stochasticity in regional population dynamics. The core-satellite species hypothesis predicts that if the average net rate of dispersal of species (colonization minus extinction) is low, and if the stochasticity affecting dispersal is large, the species tend to be either regionally common or rare, as was observed here.
23725151|Gyromitra longipes Harmaja n. sp. (Pezizales: Helvellaceae) from Finland is a close relative of G. ambigua (Karst.) Harmaja. The monotypic genus Nannfeldtiella Eckbl. is removed from the family Sarcoscyphaceae and reduced to synonymy with Pseudombrophila Boud. (Pezizales: Pyronemataceae). As a result, the new combination Pseudombrophila aggregata (Eckbl.) Harmaja is made. Nannfeldtiella aggregata' was also found to be collective and to comprise four species: Pseudombrophila aggregata s. str., Pseudombrophila minor Harmaja n. sp., Pseudombrophila tetraspora Harmaja n. sp., and Pseudombrophila microtetraspora Harmaja n. sp.
23726881|Little is known about the breeding systems and pollination biology of terrestrial orchids in northeastern Asia. We investigated the breeding system of Cremastra appendiculata and Cymbidium goeringii in populations (26 individuals, 120  120 m for Cremastra appendiculata; 87 individuals, 200  500 m for Cymbidium goeringii) on Oenaro Island, South Korea. The two orchid species showed little fruit set in natural conditions (1.3%2.0% for Cremastra appendiculata and 0.4%0.6% for Cymbidium goeringii). However, a great increase in fruit set was achieved by hand-pollinations: artificial self-pollination and geitonogamous pollination, with fruit set of 95.7% and 96.6% for Cremastra appendiculata, respectively, and 95.5% and 95.6% for Cymbidium goeringii, respectively, indicating that the two species are highly self-compatible. Fruit set for pollinator-excluded flowers of Cremastra appendiculata and Cymbidium goeringii was 0%, indicating that the two species were neither autogamous nor agamospermous. The extremely low fruit set observed in the two species under natural conditions may be attributable to pollinator limitation.
23725708|Cladina stygia (Fr.) Ahti, described from Sweden and generally included in C. rangiferina (L.) Nyl., is characterized by the production of red slime in the conidiomata and strong melanization in the necrotic tissues. C. stygia is particularly common in wet, boggy habitats throughout the boreal zone, extending to the arctic and temperate areas of Europe, Asia and North America as well (a map of the total distribution is presented). The major phenolic components are atranorin (rarely absent) and fumarprotocetraric acid.
23725200|Viable hybrids were obtained from reciprocal crosses of Vaccinium microcarpum (Turcz. ex Rupr.) Schmalh. and V. vitis-idaea L. About half of the seedlings were lost at the cotyledon stage, due to red chlorosis. This chlorosis is probably one of the hybrid barriers between these species. The hybrids appear highly intermediate, show some hybrid luxuriance, and are self-sterile.
23724653|The description of Phellinus laevigatus (Fr.) Bourd. & Galz. is amended mainly on the basis of new information on the anatomy and cultural characters, and a new species, P. lundellii Niemel, is described. A neotype is selected for P. laevigatus. Their distributions in Fennoscandia are presented, and P. lundellii is reported also from Canada. The following species are included in the synonymy of P. laevigatus: Fomitiporella betulina Murr., Fomitiporia pereffusa Murr., Fomitiporia prunicola Murr. f. betulicola Peck and Fuscoporella ludoviciana Murr. The following species are excluded from its synonymy: Fomitiporia prunicola Murr., Phellinus rhamni (M. Bond.) H. Jahn and Phellinus spiculosus (Campb. & Davids.) Niemel, n. comb. (basionym: Poria spiculosa Campb. & Davids.). The hyphal arrangement in the trama is found to be especially important in the taxonomy of this group of polypores.
23726811|Six species of the genus Basidiodendron are reported from Finland: B. caesiocinereum (Hhn. & Litsch.) Luck-Allen, B. cinereum (Bres.) Luck-Allen, B. deminutum (Bourdot) Luck-Allen, B. eyrei (Wakef.) Luck-Allen, B. radians (Rick) P. Roberts and B. rimosum (H.S. Jacks. & G.W. Martin) Luck-Allen. All but B. cinereum are reported for the first time. The most common species in the genus seems to be B. caesiocinereum followed by B. eyrei and B. cinereum. Descriptions and illustrations of each species are given as well as a key to the Finnish species. A few reference collections from Russia are also included.
23726607|Electron microscope scanning results of Bolboschoenus maritimus (L.) Palla sensu lato (= Scirpus maritimus L.) achenes, collected from natural populations in The Netherlands and investigated earlier by Irene Robertus-Koster, are given. Speculative conclusions suggest the variability observed may be the outcome of introgression through earlier generations influenced by ecological effects not adequately understood.
23725751|The vascular plant and bryophyte flora of a large rock-pool on the small island of Hertronklubb was mapped in 1981, and compared with a study made in the 1930s. The rock-pool, which was a marsh in the 1930s, had changed towards a Sphagnum pool. The free water surface had disappeared and the rock-pool had developed into a fen dominated by Typha latifolia and Sphagnum species. Lemna minor had disappeared, while some fen species, e.g. Drosera rotundifolia and Lythrum salicaria were probably new in 1981. Some small individuals of Betula spp. were growing on the fen. The rock-pool is suggested to be a type of its own, namely a fen-pool. It is compared with fairly similar rock-pools in other areas in S Finland, and its future succession is outlined.
23725398|Specimens under fourteen names of Caliciales (Ascomycotina; mainly lichens) in the herbarium of William Nylander in Helsinki (H-NYL) were revised. Ten taxa described by Nylander are also lectotypifed, viz. Calicium diploellum, C. pallescens f. betulinum, C. pallescens var. interruptum, C. parietinum subsp. subparietinum, C. quercinum var. subcinereum, C. retinens, Pyrgillus cubanus, P. sodalis, Sphinctrina fuscescens and S. gomphilloides. Three new combinations are proposed: Phaeocalicium betulinum (Nyl.) Tibell, Phaeocalicium interruptum (Nyl.) Tibell and Chaenothecopsis retinens (Nyl.) Tibell. Sphinctrina fuscescens is considered a synonym of S. tubaeformis, Calicium quercinum var. subcinereum a synonym of C. lenticulare and C. parietinum subsp. subparietinum a synonym of Chaenothecopsis viridireagens. Pyrgidium montellicum is reported new to Java, Calicium leucochlorum new to Peru and C. tricolor new to Asia.
23727627|Buddleja microstachya E.D. Liu & H. Peng, a new species of the Buddlejaceae from SW Yunnan, China, is described and illustrated. The morphology, geographical distribution and habitat ecology of B. microstachya are compared with the morphologically close B. yunnanensis.
23725892|Six species of Dicranoloma occur in the Philippines: D. assimile (Hampe) Ren., D. blumii (Nees) Ren., D. billarderi (Brid. ex anon.) Par., D. fragile Broth., D. reflexum (C. Mll.) Ren. and D. brevisetum (Dozy & Molk.) Par. with two varieties, var. brevisetum and var. samoanum (Broth.) Tan & T. Kop., comb. nova. A key to the species is given, their taxonomy and nomenclature dealt with and the related taxa in the neighbouring areas discussed. Fifteen new synonyms are proposed and two new combinations made. Lectotypes are selected for Dicranoloma braunii var. samoana Broth., D. formosanum Broth., D. subenerve Broth., Dicranum blumii var. laxifolium Broth. & Geh., D. braunii Dozy & Molk. fo. mindanense Fleisch., D. nematosum Broth. & Geh., D. novoguineense Broth. & Geh. and D. sumatranum C. Mll.
23726047|Thymus serpyllum L.  vulgaris L. has been found in a herb garden in Finland. The paper describes the morphology and chromosome number of the hybrid and the chemical composition of its essential oil. In respect of these characters, the hybrid is intermediate between its parent species. Some new information is presented about the composition of the essential oils of the parents.
23726184|The following ten species of Cladonia Hill ex Browne (Ascomycotina: Lecanorales) are described as new: Cladonia bangii Ahti (Bolivia), C. congesta Ahti (Vietnam), C. crassiuscula Ahti (Venezuela, Guyana, Brazil), C. minarum Ahti (Brazil), C. robusta Ahti (Puerto Rico), C. spinea Ahti (Venezuela, Guyana, Colombia, Brazil), C. steyermarkii Ahti (Venezuela), C. rugulosa Ahti (Venezuela) and C. vareschii Ahti (Venezuela). The following new nomenclatural combinations are published: Cladonia granulosa (Vainio) Ahti, C. pachyclados (Vainio) Ahti, and C. spiculata (Ach.) Ahti. C. bahamensis Ahti is included in C. dilleniana Flrke. Cladonia endiviella Nyl. is placed into the synonymy of C. spiculata. The aromatic secondary products of each species are reported.
23724274|It is shown that Juncus gerardii Lois. ssp. atrofuscus (Rupr.) Printz is a good taxon and occurs on seashores in northern Fennoscandia (Fig. 3) and northern Russia but not in inner Asia (contrary to earlier reports). Its distinguishing characters are compared with those of ssp. gerardii in Table 1. Juncus gerardii in northern Finland is very variable in appearance and also grows far from the seashore (Figs. 3, 4). The species seems to have migrated to this area both from the east (as ssp. atrofuscus, which perhaps does not occur there in pure form any more) and from the south (as ssp. gerardii). These two subspecies have apparently hybridized and an adaptation to non-saline habitats has also taken place. The taxonomic status of J. gerardii on the northern Gulf of Bothnia and northern Finland is still open. The inland occurrences are anthropochorous rather than postglacial relics.
23725758|The Finnish records of the genus Scenedesmus Meyen from coastal waters and rock-pools are critically reviewed, and a check-list is presented of the Scenedesmus taxa found in the Finnish area of the Baltic Sea. Of the 105 reported taxa 51 were found to be valid.
23728170|The white stork can affect plant population and community dynamics and structure in an agricultural landscape. It is a vector transporting large numbers of seeds along with nest material, and it is an ecosystem engineer which builds nests that function as specific habitats for plants. The following questions were asked: (i) What is the structure of the seed pool in the nest material? (ii) Can nests be treated as a habitat enabling plants to complete their life cycle? (iii) What is the probability that seeds produced in the nests reach suitable habitats in the nests' closest vicinity? Seed pools of ten white-stork nests were analysed using the seedling germination method. The average number of seedlings detected in the nest material was 9937 per one nest (870 per 10 000 g of dry weight); they belonged to 97 taxa. Majority of the species present in the nests created persistent seed banks (62.5%); 62.2% of the seedlings represented annual species. Significantly higher percentage of weeds and significantly lower of woodland and peat-bog species in the nests as compared with the respective percentages of these species groups in the regional pool, indicated arable fields and ruderal sites as the main sources of seeds as well as the nest material. Since ruderal species and weeds dominated in the seed pool found in the nests, and such habitat types were most common in the vicinity of the nests, the probability that seeds produced in the nests would disperse into a suitable habitat was high.
23727164|Adenophora biloba Y.Z. Zhao sp. nova (Campanulaceae) is described from Inner Mongolia, China. It appears most closely related to A. gmelinii. The distinguishing characters are given in a key to the two species.
23727628|Begonia guaniana H. Ma & H.Z. Li sp. nova (Begoniaceae) is described and illustrated. It resembles B. labordei H. Lv., differing mainly in that its leaves are almost glabrous, its inflorescence is definite, dichasial cymose, its usually symmetric, carpellate flower pedicel is compressed, and its three tepals and styles are only fused at their bases.
23727680|Frugivores functioning as seed dispersers may have fundamental effects on the reproductive success of fruiting plants. Studies on this interaction have, however, mostly ignored possible within-season and between-year variations in seed germination behaviour. The aim of this study was to assess how berry ingestion by thrushes (Turdus spp.) affects seed germination of bilberry (Vaccinium myrtillus). Specifically, we studied if the timing of dispersal within the fruiting season affects germination success of seeds and whether these effects vary between years. The germination rate of intact seeds declined in the course of the fruiting season both in 1997 and in 1999. Ingestion by thrushes accelerated the germination rate of passed seeds and the final germination percentages of passed seeds were higher than or similar to those of intact seeds. These effects varied within season and between years. Thus, when effects of frugivores on seed germination success are studied, experiments should not rely on the data collected at a single time in the season and in a single year.
23726121|Stratigraphical, macrofossil and pollen analytical data, complemented by radiocarbon datings, were used to reconstruct the development of the local vegetation at a site on the SW Finnish coast. A 200-cm-long core, covering over 5 000 years, was obtained from a small mire at Salo, Pukkila (6020N, 2310E), at an elevation of 29 m. Six pollen assemblage phases show how the local forest developed during the land uplift from herb-rich Alnus carr to woodland with Betula and Pinus. In upland forest around the basin, lime, hazel and later oak predominated before the area was invaded by spruce. By the time of the last-mentioned event, the marshy basin had changed to a forested Sphagnum mire. In the last phase, after the regional decline of QM, a slight increase took place in the pollen types considered to indicate human activity. In spite of the proximity of the site to prehistoric settlement, however, it proved difficult to demonstrate human activity in the palynological data. Pollen types suitable for use as indicators of the earliest human influence in a coastal environment appear to be lacking. It is suggested that in such an area macroscopic and microscopic charcoal analysis may reflect the course of human settlement.
23725703|The lichen Parmelia omphalodes subsp. glacialis Skult, subsp. nova, is reported from the Arctic; it is particularly common on the arctic islands. Its major phenolic constituents are salazinic and norstictic acids and atranorin.
23726042|New combinations Plagiomnium carolinianum (Anderson) T. Kop., P. ecklonii (C. Mll.) T. Kop., Plagiomnium novae-zealandiae (Col.) T. Kop., P. prorepens (C. Mll.) T. Kop. and P. rostratum (Schrad.) T. Kop. var. americanum (Hampe) T. Kop. are made.
23726542|Three new polypore species, Rigidoporus eminens Y. C. Dai, Skeletocutis subvulgaris Y. C. Dai, and Wolfiporia curvispora Y. C. Dai, are described and illustrated based on recent collections from Northeast China. Rigidoporus eminens is closely related to R. undatus (Pers.: Fr.) Donk, but differs by its soft corky to fragile basidiocarps, lacerate tube dissepiments, thin-walled tramal hyphae, and thicker cystidia, strongly penetrating the hymenium. Skeletocutis subvulgaris is similar to S. vulgaris (Fr.) Niemel & Y. C Dai in its ecology, morphology and shape of basidiospores, but it has no stellate crystal clusters on the hyphae, and its generative hyphae are covered with fine, sharp-pointed encrustations (the typical characters of Skeletocutis Kotl. & Pouzar). Wolfiporia curvispora is distinguished from the other species of the genus by its biennial habit, small pores, curved cylindric spores, and uninflated subicular hyphae. All the Chinese species in the genera of Leucophellinus Singer, Oxyporus Donk, Rigidoporus Murrill, Physisporinus P. Karst., Skeletocutis and Wolfiporia Ryvarden & Gilb. were studied, and keys for these species are given. Statistical variation of spore dimensions are included in the keys. The combination of Physisporinus xylostromatoides (Berk.) Y. C. Dai is proposed. Oxyporus bucholtzii (Bondartsev & Ljub.) Y. C. Dai & Niemel is new to China.
23725028|This rust species, which has been spreading rapidly in Europe, was recorded in three towns in Finland (1971  73) on zonal pelargoniums (Pelargonium  hortorum L. H. Bailey). A short survey is given of its distribution in Europe and elsewhere. It is also reported from Madeira (1969). Uredo pelargonii Rauhala (nom. inval.) belongs to this rust. Only urediospores were found in all the specimens examined.
23725047|The horizontal distribution of the biomass and production of five isoetids, Isotes lacustris L., Lobelia dortmanna L., Eleocharis acicularis (L.) Roem. & Schult., Ranunculus reptans L. and Subularia aquatica L., was studied on three types of bottom in Lake Pjrvi (61.1N, 25.1E), a dysoligotrophic Finnish lake. The vertical distribution of the biomass of Isotes lacustris and Lobelia dortmanna was studied, with special reference to the proportion of the underground organs. The seasonal changes in the biomass of Isotes were also investigated, and its turnover time was estimated.
23726558|Cuscuta rausii M. A. Garca, a new species of Cuscuta L. subgenus Cuscuta (Convolvulaceae) from the southern Aegean island of Karpathos is described and illustrated. A key is proposed to distinguish it from the other species of the subgenus with pedicellate flowers in the Mediterranean area.
23727701|Eurya phaeosticta C.X. Ye & X.G. Shi sp. nova (Theaceae) from Yunnan Province, China, is described and illustrated. It is morphologically most similar to E. megatrichocarpa, from which it differs by having 45 locellate anthers, smaller fruits ca. 3 mm in diam., four distinct styles, and glabrous bracteoles and sepals.
23725862|Cultivation is a practicable tool in taxonomical research of algae. It shows, whether forms collected in nature are permanent or mere genetic abnormalities or temporary structural variations. In addition, the modifications in culture often exhibit structural variation useful in studies on structure formation and maintainance. Studies on desmids and specially on Micrasterias species are often fruitful due to the highly (both bilaterally and bipolarly) symmetric cell form, and the exact quantitative interrelation between the nucleus and the cytoplasm that controls the basic structure of the cell. The morphogenetic process of Micrasterias is rather well known, and it can clearly be shown, how many different variations these plants are able to produce, and how numerous the different factors and changes in living conditions are, that may cause variation and even more or less permanent new symmetrical ecophenotypes.
23727780|A taxonomic revision of the genus Dienia (Malaxidinae, Orchidaceae) is completed. Determination keys for closely similar Asian Malaxidinae genera and Dienia species, as well as descriptions and illustrations of the two accepted species are provided.
23726771|This work presents the basis for typological study of the inflorescences in Cyperaceae. Inflorescence variation in this family are analyzed and discussed from the typological point of view. However, this review does not intend to comprise all of the variation present in the inflorescence structure of the Cyperaceae.
23725712|Four new species of Taraxacum are described: T. aganippeum Sonck, sp. nova and T. refectum Sonck, sp. nova, both belonging to the section Palustria Dahlst., and T. lacistophylloides Sonck, sp. nova and T. magnesicum Sonck, sp. nova of the section Erythrosperma Lindb. fil. New localities are listed for T. scaturiginosum G. Hagl. Taraxacum salonikiense Sonck is validated.
23726114|Two genera and two species of the Mniaceae, viz. Orthomnion elimbatum (Nog.) T. Kop. and Plagiomnium novae-zealandiae (Col.) T. Kop., occur in Australia and New Zealand. Their nomenclature and distribution are given and the taxa excluded from the area are discussed. A lectotype is selected for Mnium novae-zealandiae Col.
23724629|The aquatic macroflora of the eutrophic lake Vanajavesi (133 km2) is studied, special attention being paid to the ecology and distribution of the species. The results are compared with some earlier local investigations. Attention is paid to the effect on the flora of changes in the environment, i.e., the heavy pollution caused by municipal sewage and trade wastes, principally effluents from food-stuff factories, the regulation of the water level, the decrease of pasturing, and the increase of summer cottages and boat traffic.
23725450|The habitats of Eurhynchium angustirete (Broth.) T. Kop. on Taiwan are similar to those in Europe. Racopilum spectabile Reinw. & Hornsch. and Sasaokaea aomoriensis (Par.) Kanda are recorded as new for Taiwan. S. aomoriensis is more closely related to the genera Cratoneuron (Sull.) Spruce and Cratoneuropsis (Broth.) Fleisch. than to the genus Drepanocladus (C. Mll.) Broth. The lectotype is selected for Sasaokaea japonica Broth.
23727221|The seasonal dynamics of the biomass, elongation growth and primary production rate of the green alga Chara tomentosa were measured in Rame Bay (NE Baltic Sea) during the vegetation period of 2002. The measurements showed extremely high plant height (up to 142 cm) and biomass values (5.2 kg(w.w.) m-2), indicating the importance of C. tomentosa for the whole coastal water ecosystem. The apical part of the thallus grew more intensively from early spring to midsummer. The growth rate of the subapical section was very low during the entire observation period. The plant's diurnal net primary production rate peaked in July (43.4 mgO g(d.w.)-1 24h-1); remarkably lower rates were measured in May and September. The elongation growth and primary production were not correlated with water nutrient concentrations and water temperature. As the active growth of C. tomentosa takes place during a relatively short period at the beginning of summer, the amount of available solar radiation and the temperature levels during this sensitive time can have a significant effect on the community in the same year.
23726856|Magnolia shangsiensis Law, R.Z. Zhou & H.F. Chen sp. nova (Magnoliaceae) is described and illustrated from Guangxi, China. It differs from M. championii mainly by its longer and more glabrous leaves with an inconspicuous reticulation of nerves, by its pendulous peduncles, and compressed cylindrical, pubescent gynoecium.
23725876|The occcurrence of late-glacial pollen, diatoms and plant macrofossils, including bryophytes, was examined in the basal sediments of four basins in the eastern coastal region of Maine, U.S.A. The finds are evaluated ecologically and chronologically in the light of 14C datings. Before some 11 000 years B.P., formation of freshwater sediments or peats was prevented by an unfavourable environment, connected with a cold and dry climate. There was evidently a general delay of one to a couple of thousands of years between the retreat of the Wisconsian ice margin and development of lakes and wetlands in the area. Unstable, more or less pioneer plant communities still existed between ca. 11 000 and 9 000 years B.P. The first "biogenic" stage encountered was a sedge-dominated herb-spruce pollen assemblage, with a very low pollen density, which suggests that the primary vegetation cover was sparse. The assemblage chiefly consisted of Cyperaceae, Artemisia, Ambrosia and other composites. Interest also attaches to the presence of ChenopodiaceaeAmaranthaceae, Saxifraga and Thalictrum. This phase is interpreted as a mosaic of open or partly open herbshrub vegetation with spruce stands (evidenced by macroscopic remains), existing around 10 500 B.P. Minor patches of tundra-like elements may have existed, for the macrofossils included remains of Dryas integrifolia, Vaccinium uliginosum var. alpinum, Salix reticulata and the arctic-alpine moss species Aulacomnium turgidum. The frequency of grasses was notably trivial. A spruce-dominated phase persisted for a short time, and was followed by abundant evidence of first larch, then fir. There was no evidence of poplars. At all sites the development of closed boreal forest was transitional, and this pine-birch forest was fairly rapidly succeeded by species of temperate character. The primary phases of the succession of aquatic macrophytes and diatoms in the isolated freshwater basins are very similar to those recorded in northern Europe. Though the aquatic flora was usually relatively poor in species, several of these indicate alkaline waters, rich in nutrients (e.g. Ceratophyllum demersum, Myriophyllum exalbescens). Similarly, the moss assemblages show only a few species of acidic substrata, and most of them are today restricted to calcareous sites.
23726203|Atomic absorption analyses were performed on plants growing in the catchment areas of an acidified lake (Hauklampi) and a non-acidified lake (Kurkijrvi) lying near each other in an uncultivated, uninhabited area in Espoo, S Finland. The material comprised 14 species of the Fungi, 7 Lichenes, 11 Musci, 5 Pteridophyta, 2 Gymnospermae and 25 Angiospermae. In spruce and pine, the contents of metals other than zinc were 23 times as high as the roughly natural levels measured in Lapland. The contents of mercury in the plants did not differ between the two study areas, but aluminium, zinc and cadmium clearly tended to have higher contents in the more acidic surroundings of Lake Hauklampi and iron in the surroundings of the nonacidified Lake Kurkijrvi. Many Rosaceae showed higher cadmium contents in the more alkaline catchment area of Kurkijrvi. Plants that appeared to be specially sensitive indicators were the rock moss Ceratodon purpureus for iron, the fungus Rozites caperata for cadmium and possibly Anemone nemorosa for the springtime movements of aluminium.
23728269|Optimal understanding of biodiversity threats must consider the effects of population size and habitat quality on population viability. I examined the effects and relative importance of these factors for the performance of two endangered hemiparasitic plants, Melampyrum cristatum and M. arvense in Finland. I surveyed 18 M. cristatum and 14 M. arvense populations. Both habitat quality and population size influenced the performance of M. cristatum. By contrast, the performance of M. arvense was determined by habitat quality, but not influenced by population size. Habitat quality was improved in managed M. cristatum populations, which translated into greater hemiparasite performance in these populations. Degradation of suitable habitats has likely decreased the performance of the two endangered hemiparasites, resulting in reduced population sizes. The results highlight the importance of considering simultaneously population size effects and habitat quality. Habitat management seems to be the key to sustain or increase the viability of the hemiparasite populations, but the timing and intensity of management should be considered.
23726123|The biomass and species composition of the phytoplankton were studied together with some chemical parameters in 32 brown-water lakes in southern Finland, during three open-water periods. The waters form four lake chains, and the results are presented as the means of the chains. Of the lake chains, two are meso-eutrophic, two oligotrophic. Flagellated species made important contributions to the biomass in two of the brown-water chains, where cryptomonads and chrysomonads predominated. The ecology of flagellated phytoplankters in brown-water lakes is discussed and some hypotheses on their dynamics are presented.
23726516|Seven new species of Echinops L. (Asteraceae), all endemic, are described from the Arabian peninsula. They are placed in the sections Echinops, Ritropsis Greuter & Rech. fil. and Oligolepis Bunge. Six of the species are illustrated in line drawings.
23726432|The composition of the lichen-dominated epiphytic vegetation in central Finland was studied in relation to three major external factors: the vertical location of the community on tree, the forest habitat type, and the phorophyte. The data are derived from Koskinen's field records made in the 1940s. In (detrended) correspondence analysis, the impact of the different factors cannot be clearly identified, but the most important ones seem to be location on tree bole and habitat type. In canonical correspondence analysis, a clear pattern appears: The greatest variation is caused by the location on the bole. The clearest distinction is that of tree base vs. bole and branches. The second most important factor is the habitat type. The habitats are ordered from man-influenced and nemoral forests to heath forests and spruce mires. However, shore forests are strikingly deviant and do not fit the unidimensional ordering. Phorophyte is of minor importance. It is presented in a triangular ordination in which the corner points are conifers, Alnus incana and Populus tremula. The epiphyte species characteristic of the different external classes are identified by the joint plot technique in (canonical) correspondence analysis.
23727775|Rigidoporopsis tegularis Juan Li & Y.C. Dai and Skeletocutis fimbriata Juan Li & Y.C. Dai are described as new from Hubei Province, central China. Rigidoporopsis tegularis is characterized by thick-walled, finely ornamented, amyloid and subglobose basidiospores, and monomitic hyphal structure without clamp connections. Skeletocutis fimbriata is distinguished from the other species in the genus by coarsely fimbriate margin basidiocarp and very narrow basidiospores.
23728182|On the basis of field collections and herbarium specimen studies, two new species and one new variety are described and illustrated here: Elatostema bomiense W.T. Wang & Zeng Y. Wu, E. daxinense W.T. Wang & Zeng Y. Wu and E. daxinense var. septemcostatum W.T. Wang & Zeng Y. Wu. The morphological differences between the new taxa and their morphologically closest species are also provided.
23725059|The growth of the planktonic diatom Nitzschia holsatica Hust. was studied in the presence of four detergents: sodium dodecyl sulphate, Triton X-100, sodium desoxycholate and cetyl trimethylammonium bromide. The detergents were used alone and in two-component mixtures (1:1). The experiments were performed at 15C and 25C, and growth was much slower at 15C. The inhibitory effects of the detergents are more marked at the lower temperature, which is closer to that of Finnish waters in summer. N. holsatica can tolerate higher concentrations of sodium desoxycholate and sodium dodecyl sulphate than of cetyl trimethylammonium bromide. The combinations of two detergents were generally more harmful than only one of them at the same concentration.
23727967|Hoya baishaensis S.Y. He & P.T. Li sp. nova (Apocynaceae) from Hainan, China is described and illustrated. The morphological characteristics of H. baishaensis and the fairly similar H. griffithii and H. radicalis are compared. Hoya baishaensis differs in its leaf shape, pedicel, calyx and corolla color.
23727202|Arisaema tsangpoense J.T. Yin & G. Gusman is described and illustrated as a new species from southeast Tibet, China. The morphological characters of A. tsangpoense and other morphologically close species, such as the Sino-Vietnamese A. victoriae, the Indian A. setosum, the Chinese A. lihenganum and the Thai A. smitinandii are discussed.
23726853|Dynamics of a pristine and fire-free treeline population of Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris) over the past millennium was reconstructed at a site in the southern Swedish Scandes. At the broadest temporal scale, population change was analysed from radiocarbon-dated megafossil wood remains (stumps, trunks, etc.) lying on the ground surface. Recent stand history was derived from age structure analysis and repeated photography of the living pine population. The study population has undergone gradual and total demise (deforestation) between the 11th and 19th centuries AD, implying a transformation from a sparse forest structure to near tundra conditions. Pine establishment in the past 50 years has increased tree density to levels that might have existed more than 1000 years ago. The inferred course of pine population change broadly concurred with local, regional and hemispheric paleoclimatic proxies and paleotreeline histories, as well as instrumental temperature records. Little establishment occurred during the cold conditions of the Little Ice Age, while pine recruitment in the latter half of the 20th century was inferred to be exceptional in the context of at least the past one thousand years.
23727886|The name Malva subovata (DC.) Molero & J.M. Monts. subsp. bicolor (Rouy) Iamonico, comb. & stat. nov. (Malvaceae) is proposed according to current generic concepts in the tribe Malveae.
23727752|An adequate understanding of an old-growth forest structure and its variability is needed for forest conservation and restoration. We studied the local scale structural variability of boreal old-growth forests on a HylocomiumMyrtillus site type in the Pallas-Yllstunturi National Park in northern Finland. Principal component analysis (PCA) revealed that the main directions of structural and compositional variability were related to variables describing the total volume of coarse woody debris (CWD), volumes of living and dead Pinus sylvestris and volume of deciduous CWD. An average, living tree volume was 141.5 m3 ha-1, varying among the 252 sample plots from 15.3 to 442.0 m3 ha-1. The mean CWD volume was 30.0 m3 ha-1 (099.3 m3 ha-1). Downed and standing CWD comprised on average 64.6% and 35.4% of the total CWD volume, respectively. In general, the diameter distributions of living, standing and downed dead trees followed a negative exponential shape. Our results demonstrate high variability in structure and composition of old-growth forests on a northern boreal mesic HylocomiumMyrtillus site type. This natural variability should be taken into account in forest restoration and management at landscape level.
23725899|The nitrogen fixation of the microbenthic blue-green alga (Cyanobacterium) Calothrix scopulorum (Weber & Mohr) C.A.Ag. was studied on the island of Hiddensee during 1981 and at Tvrminne zoological station in autumn 1982. The method used in measuring nitrogen fixation was the reduction of acetylene to ethylene. The amount of nitrogen fixed during the day was estimated to vary from 87.0 mg N m-2 to 2.0 mg N m-2. The highest values for nitrogen fixation were measured during the summer months, when the concentration of inorganic nitrogen was lowest. The maximum acetylene reduction, recorded in July, corresponded to 9.3 mg N m-2 per hour. From the records made in MarchNovember, the annual nitrogen fixation in Hiddensee was estimated at 7.6 g N m-2. Near Tvrminne zoological station, the maximum nitrogen fixation recorded in the outer archipelago in October was 5.5. mg N m-2. The primary production was measured concurrently by the 14C method. The correlation of nitrogen fixation with primary production was significant. The annual primary production in Hiddensee amounted to 107.7 g C m-2. Die Stickstoff-Fixierung der mikrobenthischen Blaualge Calothrix scopulorum wurde auf der Insel Hiddensee im Jahr 1981 untersucht. Die Untersuchungen wurden im Jahr 1982 in der zoologischen Station Tvrminne fortgesetzt. Die N2-Fixierung wurde mit der Azetylen (C2H2)-Reduktionstechnik gemessen. Die grsste Tagessumme der Stickstoff-Fixierung von 87.0 mg N m-2 wurde auf Hiddensee im Juli registriert, die niedrigste von 2.0 mg N m-2 im November. In den Sommermonaten, als der anorganische Stickstoffgehalt am geringsten war, wurde die grsste N2-Fixierung gemessen. Im Juli wurde das Maximum von 9.3 mg N m-2h-1 mit der Azetylenreduktionsmessung erreicht. Aus den im Versuchszeitraum (MrzNovember) durchgefhrten Messungen auf Hiddensee lsst sich fr die N2-Fixierung ein Wert von 7.6 g N m-2 errechnen. In der usseren Zone des Schrenhofs in Tvrminne wurde das Maximum der Stickstoff-Fixierung von 5.5. mg N m-2h-1 im Oktober gemessen. Die Primrproduktion wurde mit der konventionellen 14C-Methode simultan gemessen. Die Korrelation der N2-Fixierung mit der Primrproduktion war signifikant. Die jhrliche Menge (Mrz-November) der Primrproduktion auf Hiddensee betrgt 107.7 g C m-2.
23726565|Several Merismopedia-like forms were observed and collected from the microbial mats at Mellum and Norderney Islands. The formation of giant cells and giant cell aggregates in otherwise smaller Merismopedia cultures was often observed in all cultures. In the course of this study it was possible to show, that accelerated and delayed division occurs in Chroococcales not unlike the multiple fission pattern in Pleurocapsales. On the basis of the existence of the terms baeocyte and nanocyte for cell size decrease in one clone and our observation of delayed division in Merismopedia isolates we suggest the following terms: (1) baeocyte for rapid, multiple fission resulting in very small individual cells (motile and non-motile), (2) nanocyte for accelerated division resulting in considerably smaller cell sizes, and (3) megacyte for considerably enlarged cell sizes upon delayed division. Nanocyte formation and megacyte formation when occurring under stable environmental conditions may actually have been and still be misinterpreted as separate species in field samples and herbarium materials.
23725502|"Small green algae" were collected in the sea of the Tvrminne area on higher plants, macroalgae, a bryozoan, mussel shells, and stones. Three freshwater and 15 marine species were noted; 13 were new records for the area. Ochlochaete hystrix Thwaites ex Harvey was the most common species and probably the best adapted to the brackish water conditions. The algae were studied as they occurred in nature and in culture; Planophila microcystis (Dangeard) Kornmann & Sahling was observed for the first time on a natural substrate. Two of the species were found not to belong to the genera in which they had been placed, and after transfer are called: Acrochaete polymorpha (L. Moewus) R. Nielsen comb. nov. and Epicladia heterotricha (Yarish) R. Nielsen comb. nov.
23727816|Forests growing on talus slopes of the North-Estonian Klint were studied. According to the soil-cover properties, the studied sites of the klint can be divided into six soil complexes. Eleven vegetation types were established: (1) Ulmus glabraFraxinus excelsiorAegopodium podagraria, (2) Ulmus glabraAlnus incanaMatteuccia struthiopteris, (3) Tilia cordataHepatica nobilisActea spicata, (4) Ulmus glabraAcer platanoidesAllium ursinum, (5) Ulmus glabraMercurialis perennis, (6) Ulmus glabraBrachythecium rutabulumThuidium philibertii, (7) Alnus glutinosaAthyrium filix-feminaImpatiens noli-tangere, (8) Alnus incanaUrtica dioicaDryopteris expansa, (9) Tilia cordataPicea abiesOxalis acetosellaEurhynchium angustirete, (10) Ulmus glabraAlnus glutinosaLunaria rediviva, and (11) Alnus glutinosaTilia cordataImpatiens parviflora. The first type embraces the largest number of communities and is presented along the klint in many sites. The soil variables affecting vegetation variation most, are the specific surface area and strongly correlated with it, the nitrogen and carbon content. The Estonian klint forests have rather good affinity with south Scandinavian respective stands growing on slopes or screes on calcareous base rich soils. Certain similarity can be followed also with central European communities of FraxinoAceretum, AceroTilietum and AlnoFraxinetum associations.
23726556|Centaurea kunkelii Garcia-Jacas, a new species from Andalusia, Spain, is described, akin to the Iberian complex of Centaurea ornata Willd. (sect. Acrocentron (Cass.) DC.). The new species is an endecaploid with 2n = 110, the highest ploidy level hitherto known in the genus Centaurea L. On the basis of morphological evidence (especially some features of the cypselas) and polyploidy, the hybrid origin of C. kunkelii between species of sections Acrocentron and Chamaecyanus is hypothesized.
23727717|Cirsium handaniae Yldz, Dirmenci & Arabac (Asteraceae) is described as a new species from northeastern Anatolia, Turkey. It belongs to the section Epitrachys and appears to be close to C. macrobotrys and C. lappaceum s. lato. Diagnostic characters, as well as a full description and figures are provided. Its morphological characters are discussed and compared with the related species.
23728221|A new species, Dyckia inflexifolia Guaroni & M.A. Sartori (Bromeliaceae), is described and illustrated as a species restricted in the ferruginous rocky soils vegetation in the municipality of Srro, Minas Gerais, Brazil. The new species forms a complex with D. ursina and D. sordida, being compared to the latter, to which it appears most closely related.
23724149|The pollen grains of 202 species representing 50 genera of Mimosaceae are described. For taxonomic and phyletic discussion the species investigated have been classified into five groups and these into 25 pollen types in all. The classification has been based mainly on the pollen characters supposed to have taxonomic and phyletic significance. This division distributes the majority of tribes of the Mimosaceae between the groups and pollen types, indicating that from the standpoint of pollen morphology the subdivision of the family into the tribes generally adopted is not justifable. Moreover, some genera are clearly heterogeneous. The taxonomic and phyletic relationships between several genera and species within the family, for example those of Pentaclethra, Aubrevillea, Entada, Prosopis, Leucaena, Desmanthus, Neptunia, Dichrostachys, Dinizia, Parkia, Archidendron, Piptadenia, Acacia, Affonsea, and Inga are discussed on the basis of pollen morphology.
23728165|We describe three new species of Pilosella (Asteraceae) from the Cantabrian Mountains (N Spain): P. adenogaliciana Mateo & Egido, P. orogaliciana Mateo & Egido and P. tardogaliciana Mateo & Egido. All of them are intermediate species of P. galiciana, endemic to the NW Iberian Peninsula. For each species, we provide a detailed description, together with a discussion and a table with the diagnostic morphological characters used to separate these species from their morphologically closest species. We also provide images of type material.
23726160|Two well-defined indigenous taxa of the Juncus effusus aggregate are recognized in eastern North America, viz. Juncus pylaei Laharpe (syn. J. effusus L. var. costulatus Fern., J. effusus var. decipiens auct. non Buchenau) and J. effusus subsp. solutus (Fern. & Wieg.) Hmet-Ahti comb. nova (syn. J. griscomii Fern.). The European taxa J. conglomeratus L. and J. effusus subsp. effusus are present in the area as locally established aliens. Putative hybrids within the group are considered to be very rare. Some introductions of all these taxa in western North America are also reported.
23724688|Chromosome numbers counted for 15 taxa.
23724224|The study is based on sample plot material of the vegetation of Finnish railway embankment slopes. Different ecological species groups are distinguished according to exposure, embankment height, and the surroundings. Besides the plant cover of old, undisturbed banks, that of disturbed and new banks is also examined. The chief vegetation units and their ecology are described. In the peculiar type of grassland plant cover studied, the ruderal character and human influence are aspects of minor importance.
23726882|The seed bank of four sites representing different stages of semi-natural meadow succession in a west Estonian floodplain was investigated using the seedling emergence method. For 40 species, seed bank persistence types could be determined. Most grassland species were found to have a short-term persistent or a transient seed bank. Sites where management had ceased were found to have a significantly higher number of seeds of Carex spp., and, at least at the long-term abandoned site, a significantly lower number of seeds of grassland herbs. The highest number of grass seeds was found at the managed site, although this was non-significant. Similarity between seed bank and vegetation decreased with increasing time since abandonment and with soil depth. Implications for restoration are discussed. This study confirms that only on recently abandoned sites can the seed bank play a significant role in meadow restoration.
23727855|Chirita nandanensis S.X. Huang, Y.G. Wei & W.H. Luo sp. nova (Gesneriaceae) is described and illustrated from Guangxi, China. The new species is similar to C. floribunda in the leaf and flower shape, but differs by its leaves being densely villous on both surfaces and along the margin, and by having villous pedicels and a 2-parted stigma.
23727666|When Myrsine chaffanjonii H. Lv. is united with M. yunnanensis (Hu) C.Y. Cheng & T.C. Kao ex Q. H. Chen, the epithet chaffanjonii has priority at specific rank. Therefore, a new combination, Microtropis chaffanjonii (H. Lv.) Y.F. Deng is proposed herein.
23728082|Argostemma glabra Joongku Lee, T.B. Tran & R.K. Choudhary, a new species of Rubiaceae from Khanh Hoa Province of Vietnam is described and illustrated. It is morphologically similar to A. apiculatum, but differs in its creeping habit, 46 flowered inflorescence, bigger and triangular bracts, smaller peduncle, bigger and broadly triangular calyx lobes, and non-apiculate and smaller corolla. Color photographs, a line drawing and a taxonomic key are provided to facilitate identification.
23726721|Seventy-eight names of apomictic Hieracium taxa described from Sweden and Estonia are typified with specimens kept in S and UPS. Some nomenclatural problems are briefly discussed. Accepted names are given for synonyms.
23726631|Minimum epidermal conductance (gmin) of Picea abies (L.) H. Karst. needles was estimated for various positions and age classes. The values of gmin showed a lognormal distribution. There were no universal trends in correlation between gmin and shoot position in the crown. The values of gmin increased significantly in the course of needle ageing. All sample series displayed high variability, which may be caused by differences in stomatal closure and/or in cuticular conductance sensu stricto.
23725256|The seasonal patterns of the phytoplanktonic biomass, species composition and chlorophyll a were studied in the NE part of the Bothnian Bay, off Oulu, in 1975 and 1976. Information on the phytoplankton of the area is available from 1968 onwards. In the 1970s the discharge of wastes to the area was greatly decreased. The study area (salinity 13 ) receives river water polluted by industrial and domestic effluents. The outermost sampling site represents a transitional zone between the coastal waters and the unpolluted sea area, where the influence of river and waste waters is relatively small. The effect of river water and the waste water load is reflected in the abundance and species composition of the phytoplankton. In late winter and in spring, the polluted coastal area was characterized by an abundant Chlamydomonas community. The biomass increased towards an early summer maximum (June  early July), when the highest biomass values for the year were recorded throughout the area. This maximum was chiefly caused by Diatoma elongatum. A low-production stage in late July and early August was followed by a second biomass maximum in late summer and autumn, caused first by blue-green algae and later by diatoms. The most important change occurring during the 1970s is that evident in the late summer phytoplankton community, where the abundance of the blue-green alga Oscillatoria agardhii has decreased significantly.
23726621|Subgenus Plicaticalyx (Mll. Frib.) H. Buch is a sharply defined group of Scapania (Dumort.) Dumort. delimited primarily on the stem and perianth characters. The species composition of Plicaticalyx is revised to include only three species, Scapania ferruginea (Lehm. & Lindenb.) Gottsche, Lindenb. & Nees, S. orientalis Mll. Frib., and S. ciliatospinosa Horik. A key to the recognized species of Plicaticalyx with revised descriptions is provided. Phylogenetic relationships of Plicaticalyx with other Scapania are considered.
23725031|The pollen grains of 103 species in 43 of the 49 genera of the family were investigated by light and scanning electron microscopy. From the point of view of the taxonomy, the most important characteristics of the pollen grains of the family lie in the structure and size of the pores, and the different types of exine relief, but these can be distinguished only with the scanning electron microscope. The characteristics studied with the light microscope, viz. the number of pores and the shape and size of the grains, show a wide range of variation, which does not correlate with the subdivision of the family in the material investigated. The features of the pollen morphology in the five tribes of the family are discussed with reference to the taxonomy.
23726424|The alkaloid content and composition were studied in seven strains of Papaver somniferum (2n=22), eight strains of P. bracteatum (2n=14), six strains of P. orientale (2n=28) and 11 strains of P. pseudo-orientale (2n=42). They were also studied in 40 interspecific hybrid strains, which all had P. somniferum as mother and one of the three other species as father. All the strains were grown in the Botanical Garden of the University of Turku and their chromosome numbers were confirmed. The material of P. somniferum consisted of four chemotypes, including the recently produced low-alkaloid cultivar 'Soma', and the material of P. bracteatum consisted of two chemotypes, the thebaine chemotype and the thebaine-alpinigenine chemotype. P. orientale and P. pseudo-orientale showed remarkably similar alkaloid compositions and were interpreted as belonging to the isothebainealpinigenineoripavine chemotype. In the interspecific hybrids studied all appeared to have neatly additive alkaloid patterns; i.e. alkaloids from both parents were present in the hybrids. This fact is taxonomically important and can be used in studying material of unknown origin. The influence of P. somniferum on the interspecific hybrids is evident from the occurrence of relatively high contents of morphine and mostly from small amounts of papaverine and noscapine. The influence of P. bracteatum can be revealed by small amounts of thebaine and in most cases alpinigenine. Isothebaine and oripavine are inherited from the P. orientale and P. pseudo-orientale parents, sometimes being accompanied by traces or small amounts of mecambridine, orientalidine and salutaridine. In line with the great similarity between the parent species P. orientale and P. pseudo-orientale, their hybrids with P. somniferum show similar alkaloid patterns and cannot be distinguished by the TLC methods employed.
23726673|Three new species of Hyphodontia J. Erikss., H. borealis Kotir. & Saarenoksa, H. erastii Saarenoksa & Kotir. and H. tuberculata Kotir. & Saarenoksa are described. The first one is characterised by small, white aculei, thin-walled hyphae, narrow, sting-like cystidia and wide apical hyphae of aculei. Hyphodontia tuberculata is yellowish, tuberculate, has fairly thin-walled hyphae, bears long, thin-walled hyphoid cystidia and gloeocystidia. Hyphodontia erastii is closely related to H. sambuci (Pers.) J. Erikss., but has mostly smaller capitate cystidia and subcylindrical spores. Species resembling the new species are described and illustrated, and a key to the species treated is given.
23726593|One hundred and forty and 100 individuals were mapped and sampled in a natural habitat (11 45 m) of Chimaphila japonica and Pyrola japonica, respectively, to analyze the spatial distribution of genotypes using spatial autocorrelation analysis of enzyme polymorphisms. Chimaphila japonica is a rhizomatous evergreen subshrub, whereas P. japonica is an evergreen herbaceous perennial. Populations of these species have discontinuous distributions and occur in conifer forests in northeastern Asia. For C. japonica, Moran's I values were significant in 16 out of 40 (40%) cases, and for P. japonica, in 26 out of 50 (52%), indicating that a significant small-scale genetic substructuring within a population existed for both species. The mean correlograms of C. japonica and P. japonica indicate that the patch widths of both species were approximately 57 m and 910 m, respectively. A nonrandom distribution of genotypes may be a reflection of restricted gene flow, patchy establishment of genetically related individuals, and/or clonal reproduction. The pattern of the average Moran's I values of C. japonica for each distance class was similar to that of P. japonica. The similar pattern of genetic substructuring found in both species reflects their similar life history and ecological traits (e.g., insect pollination, similar habitat and habit, seed dispersal mechanism, and low fecundity).
23727184|Microsporogenesis and male gametogenesis of Musella (Musaceae), a monotypic genus endemic to Yunnan, China, are described for the first time. The anthers are tetrasporangiate. The formation of the anther wall is of the basic type. The mature anther wall consists of an epidermis, an endothecium, many middle layers and a two-layered glandular tapetum with uninucleate cells. The old anther wall consists of an epidermis with annular and helical thickenings and reduced endothecium. Successive cytokinesis follows meiosis of the microspore mother cell thence forming a T-shaped or isobilateral tetrad of microspores. Pollen grains are 2-celled. The generative cell nucleus is clavate in shape. Some special features and relationships between anther structure and pollinator type are discussed.
23726118|The following changes of rank are proposed: Arenaria filicaulis Fenzl. subsp. teddii (Turrill) Strid (based on A. teddii Turrill), A. conferta Boiss. subsp. serpentini (A. K. Jackson) Strid (based on A. serpentini A. K. Jackson), and Minuartia hirsuta (Bieb.) Hand.-Mazz. subsp. eurytanica (Boiss. & Heldr.) Strid (based on Alsine eurytanica Boiss. & Heldr.).
23725706|The paper proposes and comments on the following new nomenclatural combinations: Dianthus trifasciculatus Kit. subsp. pseudobarbatus (Schmalh.) Jalas, Aconitum lycoctonum L. subsp. moldavicum (Hacq.) Jalas, A. napellus L. subsp. scarisorense (G. Grin.) Jalas and A. burnatii subsp. pentheri (Hayek) Jalas.
23726095|The exospore and perispore characters of the spores were studied by light and scanning electron microscopy in eight of the 11 taxa belonging to the recently revised fern genus Gymnocarpium. The monotypic subgenus Currania is separated by its verrucose, Polypodium-type perispore from the rest of the taxa, in which the perispore is folded, smooth, pitted or foveolate to foveo-reticulate. The perispore characters divide the rest of the taxa into two groups, which fit well with the grouping recently proposed by J. Sarvela on the basis of the gross morphology. Diagnostic value, at species or subspecies level, may also attach to the perispore characters in G. dryopteris subsp. disjunctum, G. jessoense subsp. jessoense and subsp. parvulum, and G. robertianum.
23725498|Three new Taraxacum species are described from Albania: T. ohritense Sonck, T. oppidanum Sonck and T. skanderbegii Sonck. They have all been cultivated in Finland, from 1983 to 1986 and are considered to belong to sect. Vulgaria Dahlst. New species should not be described from the first-year appearance, which may be misleading. Prolonged observation is recommended.
23725817|Litter decomposition was studied in a reserved field in Central Finland, which had been unmanaged for 9 years. When plant material was enclosed in 1-mm-mesh nylon bags, Achillea ptarmica litter disappeared most rapidly and Deschampsia cespitosa litter most slowly. Agrostis capillaris and unsorted litter had intermediate rates. The proportion of the new plant litter disappearing during the winter ranged from 18 % (Deschampsia) to 36 % (Achillea). The cellulose sheet method indicated that the rates of decomposition were highest in late summer. Moisture was more important than temperature in determining decomposition activity. The amount of dead plant material that disappeared during the snow cover period corresponded to ca. one third (140150 g/m2) of the net aerial primary production. Weighed litter heaps were introduced into the field and the weight loss was measured after 24 weeks. However, this new method gave obvious overestimates of decomposition due to losses caused by other factors, e.g. wind. The litter turnover time after 4 and 9 years of secondary succession was estimated at 2 and 3.5 years, respectively. There are some indications that organic matter accumulates in moist abandoned fields during the first years of succession.
23726298|Twenty-eight species of lichens of the family Cladoniaceae are reported from the Falkland Islands. Twelve species and one subspecies are new records for the area. The new species Cladonia anserina Ahti is described. New reports on chemistry include thamnolic acid in C. luteoalba Wheldon & A. Wilson and isousnic acid in C. subchordalis A. Evans. The taxa include 59% of bipolar elements, while 41% are austral in distribution.
23725455|The list of 125 mosses and 34 hepatics presented in the paper is based on about 450 specimens collected in the Soviet Far East, mainly in the Khabarovsk Territory. Of these 36 species of mosses and 21 species of hepatics do not seem to have been reported earlier from the present Khabarovsk Territory. The list includes taxonomic, nomenclatural and phytogeographical notes. A new species, Frullania koponenii Hattori, is described. Bryhnia ussuriensis Broth. [Okamuraea ussuriensis (Broth.) Broth.] is a synonym of Okamuraea brachydictyon (Card.) Nog. The world distribution of Isopterygiopsis muelleriana (Schimp.) I wats., which is new for the Soviet Far East, is mapped.
23726181|The aromatic compounds in 42 species of the lichen genus Cladonia Hill ex Browne, section Unciales (Delise) Oxner, were screened by means of thin-layer chromatography and high-performance liquid chromatography. Essentially new data on the chemical composition are given for 18 species, the rest of the analyses chiefly confirming the previous reports. Quantitative data are presented for the first time for 37 species. Usnic acid was present in all samples, the average amount being 3.0% of lichen dry weight. The most frequent medullary substances are the -orcinol depsides barbatic acid (0.5%), squamatic acid (2.3%) and thamnolic acid (1.2%). The total contents of aromatic lichen substances in individual samples ranged from 1.2% up to 14.0%. Several species which contain -orcinol depsidones, or no secondary medullary substances at all, should perhaps be removed from sect. Unciales. The taxonomy of several species is discussed. Cladonia medusina (Bory) Nyl. and C. peltastica (Nyl.) Mll. Arg. are lectotypified.
23728189|Saussurea bijiangensis Y.L. Chen ex B.Q. Xu, N.H. Xia & G. Hao (Asteraceae), a new species from Yunnan, China, is described and illustrated. This species is similar to S. delavayi var. hirsuta and S. atrata; the distinctions among them are presented in a table. We show that the name S. hirsuta has been misapplied.
23726541|The variation of the spore size and wall ornamentation in the European species of the lichen genus Solorina Ach. was studied. Sixty one samples were analyzed using statistical analyses (ANOVA, PCA). SEM micrographs of the taxa are provided. The results show that Solorina monospora Gyeln. is a distinct species and S. bispora Nyl. consists of ssp. bispora and ssp. macrospora (Harm.) Burgaz & Martnez comb. nov.
23726300|The genus Himantocladium (Mitt.) Fleisch. (Neckeraceae, Musci) comprises eight species: H. plumula (Nees) Fleisch., H. giulianettii (Broth.) Fleisch., H. implanum (Mitt.) Fleisch., H. pacificum (Broth. & Par.) Broth., H. submontanum Enroth, H. cyclophyllum (C. Mll.) Fleisch., H. formosicum Broth. & Yas., and H. warburgii (Broth.) Fleisch. The taxonomy of the species is discussed and a key to them is provided. Himantocladium is subdivided into two sections, a description being given of the new sect. Cyclophyllum Enroth. The following names are reduced to synonymy: Thamnium liguliferum Bosch & Sande Lac. and Pinnatella lingulata Dix. with Himantocladium plumula, Neckera ascensionis Besch. and N. flagellifera Broth. with Himantocladium implanum, and Neckera rugulosa Mitt. and Himantocladium flaccidum Fleisch. with Himantocladium cyclophyllum. Himantocladium urocladum (Mitt.) Fleisch. is transferred to the genus Pinnatella Fleisch. as P. uroclada (Mitt.) Enroth comb. nov. Lectotypes are selected for Neckera implana Mitt., N. loriformis Bosch & Sande Lac., Himantocladium flaccidum, and Pinnatella corrugata Card. & Thr. The distinctions between Himantocladium and its close relatives Neckeropsis Reichardt and Pinnatella are discussed.
23726415|Anthracoidea hostianae B. Lindeb. ex Nannf., a rare smut fungus parasitic on Carex section Ceratocystis, was found for the first time in Finland, in two localities in Kuusamo, in the northeast of the country. The host taxa were Carex flava L., C. flava  jemtlandica (Palmgren) Palmgren, C. flava  viridula Michx. and C. jemtlandica; the first three have not been reported before as hosts of this smut. Investigation of Finnish herbarium material of the Carex flava group revealed one additional find in Finland, also from Kuusamo, and the first find from North America (Eastern Canada). The host of the Canadian specimen, C. flava  lepidocarpa Tausch, is also new for A. hostianae. The North American specimen differs from the Fenno-scandian material in some spore characteristics. The field observations suggest that A. hostianae prefers hybrid plants. The reasons for its rarity and preference of hybrids are discussed. The spore morphology of A. hostianae is described on the basis of the Finnish material.
23726900|Dioscorea lijiangensis C. L. Long & Y. H. Li, a new species from Lijiang, northwest Yunnan, China, is described and illustrated. The morphological characteristics of Dioscorea lijiangensis and its related species are compared.
23726442|Needle lipids of Pinus sylvestris L. were studied by microscopical and chromatographical methods in two differently polluted industrial areas and one background area. The needles from the industrial areas showed an increase in either the size or number of lipid bodies and changes were also detected in the internal membrane system of the chloroplasts of their mesophyll cells. Increases in the total lipids of these needles were found when they were compared with the material from the non-polluted area. A decrease of triacylglycerol (TG) was found in the area polluted mainly by SO2 emissions, while a decrease of digalactosyldiacylglycerol (DGDG) was evident in the industrial area polluted with F, SO2 and NOx. The results suggest that the factors studied were affected by air pollution together with winter stress, needle age and the season.
23727273|Seed yield reductions upon self-pollination in comparison to cross-pollination can be caused by either self-incompatibility or inbreeding depression. Several ericaceous species have shown partial self-sterility, most probably due to inbreeding depression expressed at seed maturation. We conducted pollination experiments in Vaccinium myrtillus (the bilberry) in a northern boreal forest and used the results on seed production in a regression model to examine the occurrence of inbreeding depression vs. prezygotic self-incompatibility. We also estimated the magnitude of inbreeding depression and the number of lethal equivalents per zygote for bilberry. We estimated an inbreeding depression of  = 0.8 and a mean of 7.8 lethal equivalents per zygote (range of 114). These figures are comparable to the estimates made for bilberry at a location in central Europe and for other long-lived plants, and support the observation that longevity is associated with high genetic load.
23725489|Biostratigraphical studies, including pollen and charcoal analyses, were performed on a shallow peat deposit at Oinilanmki in the Paimionjoki valley, SW Finland. These show that during the last 4 500 years there was a long-term primary vegetation succession from mesic deciduous forest to dry pine heath forest, which began on geologically young soil as a result of isostatic land uplift and regression of the Baltic Sea. Minor and more frequent secondary vegetation changes can also be recognized in the pollen sequence. Forest fires were probably the main reason for these local short-term vegetation changes. This investigation demonstrates a close relationship of variations in the frequency of spruce with fires and human activity. The effects of man on the landscape increased progressively, beginning at about 1000 B.P. The pollen concentration values corroborate the percentage pollen values, which are interpreted to indicate widespread destruction of upland forest for cultivation at this time around the basin. Evidence of human activity in the preceding period, between 1000 and 4500 B.P., is obscure but nevertheless exists. The pollen counts for herbs were extended to over 100 grains, thereby involving sums for tree pollen of 2 000 to 10 000 grains. This was found necessary to pick out indicators of cultivation in the pollen assemblage. Conventional pollen analysis was not adequate for tracing the history of human activity at this site, and it is pointed out that palynological techniques for Quaternary studies may have to be modified and refined to suit the objectives of the research.
23726885|Genista vuralii A. Duran & H. Dural sp. nova is described from the transition territory of Central and North Anatolia in Turkey. It is related to G. lydia and G. sandrasica, from which it mainly differs in its leaves, calyx and legumes.
23726729|Vegetation changes following the cessation of grazing of highly productive pasture in the Jizersk Mountains in 1997 were studied. The experiment included three replicate pairs of plots and data were collected before and after grazing was ended. Cover was estimated in 1-m2 permanent plots. Abandonment of the pasture resulted in a significant decrease in plant species diversity. Annuals and perennials such as Trifolium repens and Poa trivialis disappeared within three years of the end of grazing. Species scores on the first ordination axis of RDA analyses, where time was the only explanatory variable were highly positively correlated with species heights obtained from the local flora and species height was the single parameter that best explained the reaction of species to the cessation of grazing. Within five years of abandonment, differences among swards caused by continuous stocking and rotational grazing had disappeared and tall grasses and shade-tolerant forbs dominated all swards. No new species were recorded after the abandonment of the pasture. If the abandoned grasslands will not reforest, alternative management regimes must be practiced in order to prevent their degradation and spread of tall dominants.
23724934|Current investigations on the coevolution and codistribution of pathogens and their hosts have disclosed some post-glacial migration routes of rust fungi into northern Europe. The distributions of Phragmidium andersonii, P. arcticum, P. acuminatum, Puccinia melicae, P. asperulae-odoratae, P. saniculae, and P. asarina are discussed together with those of their hosts.
23726618|We studied the soil seed bank of Lachemilla pinnata (Ruiz & Pav.) Rothm. (Rosaceae) in the main vegetation patches that make up mountain grasslands on granitic substrate in central Argentina: moist swards, tall-tussock grasslands and stony grasslands. Ten compound soil samples from each community at two soil depths (05 cm and 510 cm) were taken. In general, the density of the germinable seed bank of L. pinnata was larger in autumn after the seed rain, increased with its relative cover in the established vegetation, and sharply decreased with soil depth. The seed bank of L. pinnata was classified as short-term persistent. Its density was higher in moist swards, where it was abundant and could produce flowers and fruits, than in stony grasslands where its cover was very low, or tall-tussock grasslands, where no flowering events were recorded. On those bases, moist-sward patches are expected to play a more important role than, tall-tussock grasslands or stony grasslands in the maintenance of local populations of L. pinnata.
23725405|Vegetational changes between 42 and 67 years after forest fire were studied on eight permanent plots in mesic cultivated Scots pine stands in Northern Finland. Canonical correspondence analysis was used to show the effects of the environmental variables. The first axis was interpreted as an age gradient, and the second axis as an altitude gradient. The first two axes explained the major variation in the vegetation. The number of species increased from 52 to 90, and the dominance-diversity curve in the 67-year-old forest was less steep than that in the 42-year-old one. In the field layer the coverage of herbs and grasses, especially Deschampsia flexuosa and Maianthemum bifolium, was found to increase. The coverage of Linnaea borealis increased. In the bottom layer the coverage of Pleurozium schreberi especially increased. However, the subjectivity of visual cover estimation may have affected the results presented.
43922141|Dicranum drummondii C. Mll, is the correct name of the Eurasian species generally called D. robustum Blytt ex Bruch & Schimp. or D. elatum Lindb.; all three names are homotypic and the last two illegitimate. The North American counterpart, D. drummondii Sull. ex Lindb. (nom. illeg.), should be named D. ontariense Peterson. Their taxonomy and distribution are briefly discussed, full synonymies are presented and lectotypifications are made for D. drummondii Sull. ex Lindb. and D. robustum Blytt ex Bruch & Schimp.
23726656|The vegetation of two boreal mires drained for forestry was studied prior to and after restoration (removal of tree stand and filling in of ditches). The restoration induced a rapid rise in the water table level and caused relatively rapid changes in plant species composition and cover. On the minerotrophic fen site, the number of forest species declined and the cover of Eriophorum vaginatum increased five-fold, reaching over 50% cover in three years. On the ombrotrophic bog site, the terrestrial lichens disappeared, while the cover of Empetrum nigrum, Calluna vulgaris, Eriophorum vaginatum, and Sphagnum balticum increased. Changes in water table level and vegetation indicate a change towards a functional mire ecosystem.
23728147|Angelica dabashanensis C.Y. Liao & X.J. He, a new species of Apiaceae subfamily Apioideae from the Daba (Ta-pa) Mountains in the Shaanxi Province of southwest China, is described and illustrated. The most important diagnostic character of the new species is the short-rectangular mericarp with thick lateral wings. The distinguishing characters of the new species, with a comparison to two morphologically similar species, A. polymorpha and A. tianmuensis, are presented. The sequence data from the nuclear ribosomal DNA internal transcribed spacer indicate that the new species is most closely related to A. tianmuensis.
23725260|Detailed morphological analysis shows many minute, but constant differences in both inflorescence and perigynium characters between the disjunct New Zealand population and the northern hemisphere population of Carex lachenalii Schkuhr and the taxa are considered to be subspecifically distinct. A new subspecies  Carex lachenalii Schkuhr subsp. parkeri (Petrie) Toivonen comb. & stat. nov.  is proposed, and the neotype specimen for C. parkeri Petrie is selected. The origin of the New Zealand population is briefly discussed.
23728071|A new species, Scorzonera pacis Guzel, Kayikci & S. Yildiz (Asteraceae) from Hatay Province, South Anatolia is described. It is a very distinct species with its saw-toothed, winged achenes. SEM micrographs of the achenes, notes on the habitat and distribution, and a comparison with its morphologically closest species are provided.
23727159|Taxonomic status of the Turkish members of the sections Hololeuce and Synochreati of Astragalus (Fabaceae) was analysed using variation of morphological features, seed proteins and RAPD markers. Dendrograms based on Nei's genetic distance method UPGMA were used to compare the species. The results of cluster analysis were in broad agreement with morphological classifications of these species, and they were slightly different to the arrangement of these species in Flora of Turkey. Based on RAPD, seed protein and morphological analyses, A. vuralii H. Duman & Ayta is synonymized with A. andrasovszkyi Bornm., A. cylindraceus DC. with A. globosus Vahl, A. alindanus Boiss. with A. hirsutus Vahl, A. paecilanthus Boiss. & Heldr. with A. sibthorpianus Boiss., A. squalidus Boiss. & No with A. amoenus Fenzl, A. kangalicus Kit Tan & Sorger with A. fragrans Willd., and A. seydishehiricus Kit Tan & Ocakverdi, A. isparticus Kit Tan & Sorger and A. ocakverdii Kit Tan & Sorger with A. acmonotricus Fenzl. In addition to these, A. karputanus Boiss. & No should be treated as a subspecies of A. bicolor Lam.
23727759|The understorey vascular plant cover and its relations with the overstorey tree species and site properties in young silver birch and hybrid aspen plantations were studied. Understorey vegetation was similar in both plantation types in terms of species richness, diversity, sensitivity to human impact, life-span and habitat preference. Nevertheless, in denser silver birch plantations some signs indicated a faster vegetation development overall, e.g., a higher share of shade tolerant plant species. The concentration of total N was higher in the humus layer of silver birch plantations consequently affecting the nutritional status of the understorey vegetation. The significant impact of the plantation type on the understorey vegetation was confirmed by the NMDS analysis. The hypothesis that semi-exotic hybrid aspen plantations may support the spread of alien species or may show a tendency towards smaller indigenous species richness was not confirmed. Irrespective of the overstorey tree species, a strong previous land use impact, i.e. disturbance history, on the ground vegetation was eminent.
23726253|A red-leaved Alnus incana (L.) Moench has been found in two localities in Finland and is described as a new form, A. incana f. rubra Palmn. Likewise, the small-leaved Betula pendula Roth f. palmeri HmetAhti is known from two localities in Finland and its name is validated.
23727913|The aim of the present work is to characterize the glandular hairs and the secretory ducts of Matricaria chamomilla (Asteraceae) morphologically, anatomically and histochemically. The glandular hairs are multicellular and biseriate with two basal cells, two peduncle cells and a secretory head composed of six cells. The histochemical tests show that the glands are positive for lipids, essential oils, sesquiterpene lactones, and pectic-like substances. The secretory ducts show a lumen surrounded by a layer of specialized cells, with the exception in the root where the ducts do not show any secretory epithelium. The histochemical tests show that the ducts are always positive for lipids, while the tests for the presence of essential oils and sesquiterpene lactones are heterogeneous in the plant organs considered.
23728223|Magnolia hookeri var. longirostrata D.X. Li & R.Z. Zhou, a new variety from Yunnan, China is described and illustrated. Its pollen morphology is also analyzed. It is morphologically closely allied to M. hookeri, but differs in its smaller carpels, longer and narrower gynoecia, longer and glabrous peduncles, longer fruit aggregates, and small-tuberculate follicles with longer beaks at the apex.
23728176|Allium serpentinicum . Gen & N. zhatay and A. kandemirii . Gen & N. zhatay (sect. Melanocrommyum) are described and illustrated as new species from East Anatolia, Turkey. The morphological characters of these taxa are discussed and the distributions of the taxa are mapped. The diploid chromosome numbers are: A. serpentinicum 2n = 16, 32; A. kandemirii 2n = 16.
23727962|Two species of Taraxacum new to science are reported from Spain. Taraxacum ayllonense A. Galn & Vicente Orell. was found in the Spanish Central System, and T. cantabricum A. Galn & Vicente Orell. was collected in the Cantabrian Mountains in northern Spain.
23725057|Chromosome numbers have been counted for 13 strains of Thymus belonging to five taxa originating from SE Bulgaria, N Greece and European Turkey. There are no previous counts for T. comptus Friv. (2n = 26, 52), T. longedentatus (Degen & Urum.) Ronniger (2n = 30, 90) and T. sibthorpii Bentham (2n = 28). The hexaploid level (2n = 90) is reported for the first time. Stained bodies, possibly representing supernumeraries or satellites, were commonly observed.
23725056|Four modifications of agglomerative hierarchic non-overlapping clustering methods were used on a previously published material of south Finnish peatland vegetation: nearest-neighbour, furthest-neighbour, group average and minimum variance. The dendrogram of the nearest -neighbour clustering proved unsatisfactory, while the others were in reasonably good agreement with the earlier subjective classification. Ordination of mire types was carried out with factor analysis. The resulting two-dimensional diagram was in concordance with the agglomerative clustering. Factor analysis was found to be a useful method for the summarization of the major structure of the material studied, while for a detailed classification the hierarchic clustering was preferable. The results of clustering and ordination suggest that wooded fens should be divided into several major types. The position of some transitional mire types is also discussed.
23727192|Field investigations on wood-rotting fungi in Fenglin Nature Reserve, northeastern China, were made in 19992002, and nearly 700 specimens were collected by the authors. Based mostly on the collected material, 161 poroid wood-inhabiting species were identified, and this paper gives a checklist of our results. Substrates and collecting data of each species are supplied in the checklist. Five species, Junghuhnia semisupiniformis (Murrill) Ryvarden, Postia ceriflua (Berk. & M.A. Curtis) Jlich, Postia rancida (Bres.) M.J. Larsen & Lombard, Skeletocutis papyracea A. David, and Tyromyces canadensis Overh. ex J. Lowe, are new to China. Antrodia hingganensis Y.C. Dai & Penttil and Postia amurensis Y.C. Dai & Penttil are new to science. The species diversity of polypores in Fenglin Nature Reserve is very high in regional, stand and tree species level when compared with North European data. The number of endemic species is much higher than that known from Europe. A high number of host tree species, lack of Pleistocene glaciations and favourable geography are the likely explanations to the observed high species diversity and level of endemism.
43922331|The relationships between 26 chemical and biological properties of mire water were studied in 51 mire complexes in Finland during the autumns of 19721974. Altogether 312 water samples were analysed. The fen/bog limit  as determined in the field with vascular plant and moss indicators  was seldom clearlyreflected in the concentrations of individual chemical elements, but clearer differentiation was obtained when the chemical parameters were combined. The means of the total material of ombrotrophic and poor minerotrophic mire waters differed significantly with respect to 14 chemical or biological parameters (particularly pH, Ca, Mg, Fe). The algal flora showed good correspondence with the water chemistry of the different hollow types. The average algal growth potential (AGP) recorded with Ankistrodesmus falcatus (Corda) Ralfs and Selenastrum capricornutum Printz. was clearly higher in bog water than in fen water. In the former AGP was near to that reported for the most oligotrophic Finnish lakes and in the latter it was near to that of mesotrophic lakes. The growth of Ankistrodesmus correlated best with the Cl concentration of the water.
23727209|Flowers with pink or red tubular corollas have been traditionally viewed as adapted for pollination by birds. However, tubular flowers frequently suffer illegitimate visits by nectar robbers. Campsidium valdivianum (Bignoniaceae) is an endemic hummingbird-pollinated climber with pinkish-red tubular flowers, which suffers high levels of floral larceny by a native bumblebee. We studied two populations of C. valdivianum in an Andean forest in South America and found that they differ significantly in their mean corolla length but not in their mean corolla width. The proportion of robbed flowers, as well as the mean number of holes per robbed flower was higher in the population with higher mean corolla length. Although robbing levels also differed between individuals within populations, corolla length was only significantly related to robbing frequency in the population with longest corollas. The positive relationship between corolla length and nectar robbing observed here might affect the fitness in this species and thus the direction and magnitude of selection of the floral trait.
23727279|A new section in the genus Malus Miller (Rosaceae), sect. Yunnanenses (Rehd.) G. Z. Qian, is segregated from the sect. Sorbomalus Zabel ex Schneid. The new section differs from sect. Sorbomalus mainly by the leaves with more than five shallow lobes (or non-lobed), persistent calyx, five styles in flowers, and subglobose fruits with grit-cells and dots. Four species are placed in sect. Yunnanenses, all of them endemic in China: M. honanensis Rehd., M. yunnanensis (Franch.) Schneid., M. ombrophila Hand.-Mazz. and M. prattii (Heml.) Schneid.
23725310|The following new combinations are made: Betula pendula var. carelica (Mercklin) Hmet-Ahti, Ribes spicatum subsp. hispidulum (Jancz.) Hmet-Ahti, Pyrola rotundifolia subsp. norvegica (Knaben) Hmet-Ahti, Huperzia selago var. appressa (Desv.) Kukk., Diphasiastrum complanatum subsp. chamaecyparissus (A. Braun ex Mutel) Kukk., Diphasiastrum complanatum subsp. montellii (Kukk.) Kukk.
23726200|The effects of air pollution on the structure of the forest floor vegetation were investigated on six transects radiating from the metal, chemical and fertilizer plants at Kokkola. In addition attention was paid to the injuries visible on conifers and epiphytic lichens on each transect. The effects of pollution (mainly SO2 and heavy metals) were evident throughout the study area in all the plant groups examined, being most pronounced in the NE, the direction of the prevailing winds. The factories were surrounded by a treeless zone measuring about 5 km2. The limit of the forest floor vegetation was closely linked with the tree limit; a 5-km2 area around the factories was devoid of normal forest vegetation. The size of the total lichen desert was 7 km2 and when an area with stunted Hypogymnia was included, it measured 10 km2. In the forest floor vegetation the most sensitive plants were the common forest bryophytes (Hylocomium, Pleurozium, Dicranum), which were absent up to 1.5 km from the factories. The next most sensitive were reindeer lichens and dwarf shrubs. Beyond the limit of the treeless area, the cover of Deschampsia flexuosa increased markedly. Farther away from the factories, some pioneer mosses (Ceratodon purpureus and Pohlia nutans) were frequent. The IAP (index of atmospheric purity) was a good measure of pollution in the forest floor vegetation, correlating significantly (p<0.001) with distance from the factories. When the forest plant species were sorted by the index value q (IAP) and weighted average ordination, the most tolerant were Arctostaphylos uva-ursi, Cornus suecica, Vaccinium uliginosum, Deschampsia flexuosa, Empetrum nigrum and Trientalis europaea.
23724311|According to a revision of the Solanum collections of the group Morella in Finnish herbaria, the following taxa appear to be present in Eastern Fennoscandia: Solanum nigrum ssp. nigrum S. nigrum ssp. nigrum var. atriplicifolium f. atriplicifolium and var. atriplicifolium f. pallidum Wessely S. nigrum ssp. schultesii (Opiz) Wessely S. luteum Mill. S. luteum var. procerum Wessely S. alatum Moench S. sarachoides s. lat. S. nitidibaccatum Bitter All except S. nigrum ssp. nigrum are rare casuals. Chromosome counts have been made of S. nitidibaccatum (2n = 24) and of S. nigrum ssp. nigrum (2n = 72); these are in conformity with earlier counts. The typification of S. sarachoides Sendtn. was checked and the cause of the disagreement between Anglo-Saxon and European floras, etc., in their concept of S. sarachoides and S. nitidibaccatum was cleared up.
23726506|Damage to the shoot apex commonly causes release of lateral meristems from apical dominance in plants. This has been shown in some species to promote increased seed and/or biomass production (i.e. overcompensation) by stimulating lateral branching, primarily in plants growing free from competition for light. This may represent a potential fitness cost when apical dominance is left intact in non-competing plants. In this study, shoot apices of three herbaceous species, Hypericum perforatum L. (Hypericaceae), Melilotus alba Medicus (Fabaceae) and Ambrosia artemisiifolia L. (Asteraceae) growing in open habitats were removed in order to determine if a potential fitness cost of apical dominance was evident. We predicted that in such open habitats, where competition for light is relatively weak, there should be relatively little evidence for a potential cost of apical dominance; since there should be relatively little benefit in having apical dominance here, selection should minimize any potential fitness cost of apical dominance, or minimize apical dominance directly. This prediction was supported: all of the species compensated but none overcompensated for shoot apex removal in terms of biomass or flower production.
23726137|The photosynthesis of Sphagnum fuscum (Schimp.) Klinggr. and S. angustifolium (Russow) C. Jens. (S. parvifolium Warnst.) at different water contents was measured in the laboratory. Maximal net photosynthesis was achieved at water contents of 6001 000 % in S. fuscum and 9001 300 % in S. angustifolium. Photosynthesis decreased more steeply when the water content sank below these values than when it rose above the optimal range, and in both cases the decrease was somewhat steeper in S. fuscum. The natural water content of the living parts of both species was measured during two growing seasons in two mires in eastern Finland. In S. fuscum the water content mostly lay within the optimal range for photosynthesis, but in S. angustifolium it was often outside this range. The ecological significance of the differences observed between these two species is discussed.
23725705|The phloroglucinol composition of Dryopteris tokyoensis (Matsum. ex Makino) C. Chr., a diploid species of distinctive morphology from Japan, was investigated. It contains considerable amounts of desaspidin and trisdesaspidin. The chemistry, morphology and ploidy level (n = 41), strongly suggest that D. tokyoensis is the missing genome B in both the allotetraploid, widespread species D. cristata and D. carthusiana. These taxa have probably once evolved through chromosome doubling from the diploid interspecific hybrids, D. ludoviciana  tokyoensis and D. intermedia  tokyoensis, respectively.
23728184|Saussurea wenchengiae B.Q. Xu, G. Hao & N.H. Xia, a new species from Qinghai, China, of Saussurea subg. Amphilaena sect. Pseudoamphilaena, is described and illustrated. It is similar to S. polycolea, but differs in its shorter stature, narrowly elliptic middle and upper stem leaf blade with a denticulate margin, and a cylindrical or narrowly campanulate involucre. A color plate, line drawings, a distribution map of S. wenchengiae, and SEM microphotographs of the leaf surfaces of S. wenchengiae and S. polycolea are provided.
23726045|Twenty-one strains of Phellinus tremulae (Bond.) Bond. & Borisov were cultured at twelve constant temperatures, ranging from 13 C to 33 C. In culture, the species can produce two mycelial types, which can change from one to another in successive inoculations. The Bleaching type grows 3 to 4 times as fast as the Staining type at temperatures under the optimum, which is 2425 C for the Bleaching type, and 23 C for the Staining type. The Staining type is more tolerant of higher temperatures, still showing distinct growth at 31 C, at which temperature the Bleaching type does not grow. At 33 C no growth was detected in either type. The Bleaching type is dominant around the temperature optimum, the Staining type being commoner at both extremes. The mechanism of the change between the two types is discussed.
23727903|Based on field studies of morphology and the study of type specimens, a Chinese species of bamboo previously recognized as Drepanostachyum exauritum W.T. Lin is treated as Dendrocalamus exauritus (W.T. Lin) N.H. Xia & Y.B. Guo, comb. nova.
23727632|Cypripedium bouffordianum Y.H. Zhang & H. Sun is described and illustrated as a new species of Orchidaceae from western Sichuan, China. It is compared with the morphologically similar C. guttatum and C. yatabeanum.
23726553|The present study reports 31 species new to Yunnan, including ten new to China: Acrolejeunea recurvata Gradst., Cheilolejeunea ventricosa (Schiffn.) X.-L. He, C. vittata (G. Hoffm.) R. M. Schust. & Kachroo, Cololejeunea serrulata Steph., C. yakusimensis (S. Hatt.) Mizut., Lejeunea alata Gottsche, L. infestans (Steph.) Mizut., L. neelgherriana Gottsche, L. obscura Mitt., and L. stevensiana (Steph.) Mizut. Male plants and perianths of L. subacuta Mitt. are reported and illustrated for the first time. Lejeunea cocoes Mitt. and Lejeunea tuberculosa Steph. are newly reported for Papua New Guinea and Indonesia, respectively.
43922215|Anthriscus sylvestris (L.) Hoffm., a monocarpic, rosette-forming plant, has increased in abundance the last few decades to become dominant in many habitats in western Europe. Changing land-use pattern and an increase in the airborne deposition of nitrogen are considered to have contributed to the species' success, but so far there is no evidence supporting these views. From a conservation viewpoint there is good reason to suppress the species since its increase in many habitats threatens much of the flora worth preserving. Two field experiments and one transplant experiment were designed to study the population dynamics and growth of A. sylvestris. In the field experiments cutting time and frequency were varied, while in the transplant experiment the combined effects of nitrogen addition and different cutting regimes were investigated. Year-to-year fluctuations in population size and demographic variables were more pronounced than the response to the applied cutting regimes in the field experiments. However, in the transplant experiment where only flowering adults were cut, cutting enhanced clonal growth, thereby stimulating population growth, which was reinforced by an increase in nitrogen supply. These findings suggest that a single mowing in late July together with increased airborne nitrogen deposition or fertiliser drift can explain the increased abundance of A. sylvestris. Our results indicate that it would be difficult to develop easy and effective measures for suppressing the species.
23726968|Colocasia menglaensis J.T. Yin, H. Li & Z.F. Xu is described and illustrated as a new species of Araceae from southern Yunnan, China. The morphological characters of C. menglaensis and the related C. lihengiae are compared. Colocasia menglaensis differs from C. lihengiae in its spadix with an appendix of 3.5 cm long, pubescent peduncle and petiole and the puberulous lower surface of the leaf blade.
23727812|The morphology, anatomy and ontogeny the floral nectaries of two species of Sapindaceae (Paullinieae), viz. Cardiospermum grandiflorum and Urvillea chacoensis. were studied using light and scanning electron microscopy. Both species are monoecious with oblique monosymmetric flowers. The floral nectaries are located at the base of the androgynophore. Vascular tissue supplying the nectaries consists of phloem. Cardiospermum grandiflorum has a posterior nectary with two lobes without any specially differentiated tissue, and with nectarostomata. In Urvillea chacoensis the nectary has four lobes; two posterior ones with distinctive nectariferous tissue with nectarostomata on the abaxial side, and two minor anterior ones that are histologically similar but lack nectarostomata. The nectaries in both species have a common base with the petals. Since the nectaries are macroscopically differentiated they are considered as structural nectaries.
23727661|It is commonly agreed that landscape history is important for species distributions today. Here, we studied present-day regional population distribution and performance of four grassland species, the perennials Ranunculus bulbosus and Succisa pratensis, and the monocarpic "biennials" Carlina vulgaris and Tragopogon pratensis, in a Swedish rural landscape. We analysed the management history of their population patches, using vegetation maps from 1945 and 2001. Distributions of Succisa pratensis reflected the grassland occurrences in 1945 and Tragopogon pratensis was associated with the road network 60 years ago. Performance in different habitats also suggested an impact of land use on species distributions. For Ranunculus bulbosus and Carlina vulgaris the impact of landscape history was less obvious. Our results indicate that present-day distributions of some grassland species partly may be a legacy of previous semi-natural grassland patterns in rural Sweden, an insight that has valuable implications for assessments of long-term vulnerability of grassland species.
23725882|Dicranodontium forbesii Broth. ex Fleisch. from Java and Hainan (China) is reduced to a synonym of D. fleischerianum Schultz-Motel var. clemensiae (Bartr.) Schultze-Motel, originally described from Mt. Kinabalu in Borneo. Another synonym of D. fleischerianum is the Philippine taxon D. uncinatum (Harv.) Jaeg. var. merrillii Bartr., which becomes D. fleischerianum var. clemensiae forma merrillii (Bartr.) Tan, comb. nov. & stat. nov. Caducous leaves with an abnormally swollen costa are reported for two species of Dicranodontium and their significance is discussed.
23725307|The spatial distribution and numbers of leaves, flowers and achenes were studied in a Ranunculus glacialis L. population in 1982. Within a 4  10 m rectangle, the density was 8.56.9 (SD) individuals/m2. The distribution of the individuals was clumped and small-sized plants predominated. Among the individuals, there was a close linear relationship between the number of leaves and the number of flowers, both being negatively correlated with density. On average, flowering individuals (49 % of the population) produced about 500 achenes each. The smallest individuals did not flower at all. The great reproductive capacity of R. glacialis is considered an adaptation for colonization and avoidance of competition with other plants.
23725014|The fruit anatomy and endocarp morphology of P. robbinsii Oakes, an extreme representative of the genus Potamogeton, sectio Adnati Hagstr., are described and illustrated. Its taxonomic affinities are discussed from the carpologic point of view. Its fruits are closest to those of P. crispus.
23727630|The original material of Hieracium stenolepis Lindeb. is analyzed and a lectotype (GB) is designated.
23726189|The macroscopic changes caused by abiotic factors and senescence in ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa Laws.) needles were examined in areas with varying degrees of air pollution and the corresponding changes in the tissue and cell structure were studied with light and electron microscopy. In chlorotic mesophyll only part of the cells were disintegrating. Most of them had retained their integrity, but these could show less starch, central vacuoles with coarsely granular contents or electron-dense deposits accumulated along the tonoplast, and generally poorly defined cytoplasm and chloroplasts. In later stages of chlorosis degenerated cells were observed which had a simplified thylakoid structure, abundant plastoglobuli and droplets of lipid-like material. In senescent cells of the less sensitive trees, large droplets of lipid-like material were observed and the chloroplasts contained large starch grains. The needles of some trees showed minor flecks occurring independently of chlorosis. The flecks were associated with stomata and were formed by a few to many injured cells. The occurrence of the flecks did not appear to accelerate the abscission of the needles. The outer wall of the endodermal cells showed special thickening, which has not been described earlier in anatomical literature.
23726198|The occurrence of some isozymes detectable in Finnish and Swedish populations of Parmelia omphalodes (L.) Ach. s. lat. is explored and compared with the isozymes observed in P. saxatilis (L.) Ach., P. sulcata Taylor and P. conspersa (Ach.) Ach. The proteins in crude extracts were separated by isoelectric focussing, and tests were made for seven enzyme systems and for total protein banding patterns. In several systems clear interspecific differences in banding patterns evidently exist. Differences were also observed between the subspecies of Parmelia omphalodes, viz. subsp. omphalodes, subsp. pinnatifida (Kurok.) Skult, and subsp. discordans (Nyl.) Skult, earlier separated mainly on the basis of their phenolic constituents. The infraspecific differences in isozyme number and pattern appear to be of approximately the same magnitude as those between species. For instance, the similarity percentage of the isozyme phenotype (based on four enzyme systems) for P. omphalodes subsp. omphalodes versus subsp. discordans was 48.6, and for the former versus the species P. saxatilis, P. sulcata and P. conspersa 37.1, 50.0 and 42.9, respectively.
23727763|Five South American species of Sarcocornia (Chenopodiaceae) are accepted, four of which are new combinations in that genus: S. ambigua (Michx.) M.A. Alonso & M.B. Crespo, S. andina (Phil.) Freitag, M.A. Alonso & M.B. Crespo, S. magellanica (Phil.) M.A. Alonso & M.B. Crespo, and S. neei (Lag.) M.A. Alonso & M.B. Crespo. Synonyms and types are cited for the accepted taxa, and three lectotypes, an epitype and a neotype are designated to establish a correct usage of the names. Main diagnostic characters, ecological features and distributions are also reported for each taxon, and a key is provided to facilitate identification.
23728178|Astragalus kamarinensis C. Brullo, Brullo, Giusso, Miniss. & Sciandr. sp. nova (Fabaceae) is described and illustrated from Sicily. It grows exclusively on sandy soils, near the ruins of Kamarina, located in the southern part of Sicily. Morphologically, it shows close relationships with A. stella, A. raphaelis and A. tribuloides, all belonging to A. sect. Sesamei. Several morphological features, chiefly regarding the flowers, legumes and seeds, as well as the micromorphology of the pod indumentum and seed coat, allow to well distinguish this species from the other taxa in the section. A phenetic analysis based on the morphological characters supports our taxonomic conclusions.
23726260|The ecological structure of boreal mire margin vegetation (paludified forests, mire margin forests and forested pine and spruce mires) in South and Central Finland was examined using ordination (DCA) and classification (TWINSPAN) techniques on the vegetation data of 92 sample plots from the 8th National Forest Inventory (198586). The first DCA axis was interpreted as respond to a complex-gradient of nutrient availability on the basis of site classification, species composition and correlation with all measured tree stand variables. According to the distribution of species ecological groups along DCA1 axis the mire margin/mire expanse gradient was one of the main factors determining this nutrient availability. The second axis was interpreted in terms of paludification on the basis of species composition, site classification and its correlation with peat depth. Seven clusters resulted from a TWINSPAN classification of the vegetation data. These could be arranged into a sequence along the nutrient availability gradient by their species composition: three clusters represented ombro-oligotrophic, three clusters meso-oligotrophic and one cluster mesotrophic vegetation. The clusters corresponded only weakly to the traditional Finnish forest and mire site types as determined in the field.
23726976|A new species of Thesium is described from Crimea, and its affinities to closely related taxa are discussed. Thesium is represented in Crimea by four taxa: T. arvense, T. dollineri subsp. simplex (including T. caespitans), T. brachyphyllum and T. krymense sp. nova. Thesium dollineri subsp. moesiacum is excluded from the flora of Crimea. Thesium procumbens and T. brachyphyllum are closely related taxa, which should be recognized as different species, but only the latter is present in Crimea.
23727814|The study presents a phylogenetic analysis of species of the moss genus Orthotrichum. ITS1 and ITS2 for 30 species were sequenced. The results do not fully reflect the current division of Orthotrichum into subgenera and sections. Molecular data divide the genus into two groups of species with superficial and immersed stomata, and indicate a clear distinctness of dioecious species. This suggests that a previous concept postulating that the subgenus Orthophyllum should be excluded from the genus Orthotrichum might be justified.
23725236|The properties of ethanol as an extraction solvent for chlorophyll a and phaeopigment determinations were studied. Ethanol was almost as effective an extraction solvent as methanol. The extraction efficiency varied in ethanol as a function of time. After two hours the efficiency was about 90 % of the 24 hours' efficiency at room temperature. 99.5 %, 94 % and denatured (tert-butylalcohol) ethanol (94 %) were equally good extraction solvents, but 70 % was less efficient. At room temperature the mean absorbance of the samples at 665 nm wavelengths was about 20 % higher than in the refrigerator, when the extraction time was 1.5 hour. When phaeopigments were estimated the acidification procedure was not so sensitive in ethanol as in methanol. The pure chlorophyll a and phaeopigments relation was 1.7, when the final acid concentration was 0.01 M.
23727840|Epimedium pudingense S.Z. He, Y.Y. Wang & B.L. Guo (Berberidaceae), a new species from Guizhou, SW China, is described and illustrated. It is similar to E. sagittatum in its nodose rhizome, two opposite ternate leaves and saccate petals, but differs by the size and shape of the four inner sepals and by the leaves pilose or glabrous on the abaxial surface.
23728064|Schistidium ignatovae C. Feng, X.L. Bai, J. Kou & W. Li (Grimmiaceae) is described and illustrated as a new species from Sichuan Province, China. It closely resembles S. trichodon, but differs by the green to yellow-green plants; slightly flexuose, broadly and long-decurrent, denticulate leaf hair-point; narrower perichaetial leaves that have frequently narrowly recurved margins to 1/22/3 way up the leaf; shorter peristome teeth; and larger spores. The relationships of this new species with other species of Schistidium are discussed.
23725083|Snow and ground frost measurements were made on 14 mire types at Muhos, Finland (64 54 N, 26 05 E). The development of ground frost progressed most rapidly in the early winter and stopped at the beginning of March. The presence of ground frost showed the strongest regression on snow thickness, and after that, on air temperature. The snow density, the presence of water in the rimpis (flarks) and the water content of the peat had very little influence on ground frost development, but the water covering the rimpi surface in spring was of great importance for the melting of the ground frost. Thus, the ground frost melted rapidly from the complex mire types with a pronounced microrelief produced by the alternation of hummocks and rimpis, and a light tree cover; only a thin layer of ground frost developed in the rimpis, and its melt water accelerated the melting of the frost lenses in the hummocks. The ground frost melted most slowly from the sites with large hummocks and the drained mire types.
23724312|The ratios between the stomatal frequencies on the lower and upper epiderms of 110 specimens of Thymus have been counted. High ratios found in T. pulegioides L. are in accordance with earlier counts. The following taxa proved to have high ratios too: T. froelichianus Opiz, T. marschallianus Willd., T. kosteleckyanus Opiz, T. nummularius M. B., T. teucrioides Boiss. & Sprun., T. richardi Pers. and T. nitidus Guss. The length of the stomatal guard cells was measured in 42 specimens. Some correlation was found between the stomatal lengths and the chromosome numbers known for the specimens. Thus, providing the chromosome number of a taxon is known, the stomatal length may be suggestive of the ploidy level of other taxa of the same group. The variation in stomatal densities was wide and no clear correlation was found between stomatal density and chromosome number. The degree of anticlinal cell wall undulation seems to vary within one species and thus hardly allows any taxonomic conclusions.
23727664|In a revision of the nearly 3000 specimens of Oenothera in the 21 Nordic herbaria, a total of 46 species and 16 supposed hybrids were identified. From the 46 species, 23 were collected from cultivation in gardens and 23 were collected in the field. The commonest (with over 100 sheets) were: O. biennis (over 1000 sheets), O. rubricaulis, O. glazioviana, O. depressa and O. ammophila (over 100 specimens mainly from Denmark). Two new species, O. scandinavica and O. rubricauloides, are described and the previously published name O. wratislaviensis is validated.
23728234|The morphological variability of Centaurea langei Nyman (Centaurea sect. Centaurea), an endemic to the north-central and north-west Iberian Peninsula, was studied. Seven subspecies with reasonably well-defined areas are recognized, of which C. langei subsp. dominguezii E. Lpez, Devesa & Arnelas is described as new, and for the others the following combinations are proposed: C. langei subsp. exilis (Arnes) E. Lpez, Devesa & Arnelas, C. langei subsp. coutinhoi (Franco) E. Lpez, Devesa & Arnelas, C. langei subsp. geresensis (Arnes) E. Lpez, Devesa & Arnelas, C. langei subsp. kheilii (Pau) E. Lpez, Devesa & Arnelas, and C. langei subsp. rothmalerana (Arnes) E. Lpez, Devesa & Arnelas. Nomenclatural and taxonomic synonyms are provided for each taxon, most of which are typified. For C. langei subsp. dominguezii, the chromosome number was also studied (2n = 18).
23726599|A collection of bryophytes by a FinnishChinese expedition in northwestern Sichuan in September 1991 includes 50 species of liverworts. The major collecting areas were in Minshan Range in Songpan and Nanping Counties. A smaller collection comes from the valley of the River Suo-Mo North of Qiong-Lai Range in Ma-Er-Kang County and from Hongyuan County from the vicinity of Shua-Jin Temple. Chiloscyphus itoanus (H. Inoue) Engel & Schust. is reported for the first time for China, and Calypogeia cordistipula (Steph.) Steph. is synonymized with C. neesiana (Mass. & Car.) K. Mll. Twenty-six liverworts are for the first time reported for Sichuan. The checklist of Sichuan hepatics is given. A total of 139 species are known to occur there. The flora is remarkably diversified. The major elements of the flora are widely distributed circumpolar boreal taxa, which occur in the humid oroboreal zone in Sichuan. Boreal species of the lichen genera Cladonia Hill and Peltigera Wild. and the species of the moss families Cinclidiaceae, Mniaceae and Plagiomniaceae show a similar altitudinal distribution in the study area. Species of widely distributed temperate southeast Asiatic taxa occur with an intermixture of some endemic and tropical species. The list includes discussions on the nomenclature, taxonomy, and distribution.
23725702|Net CO2 exchange was measured in samples of Sedum telephium L. subsp. ruprechtii Jalas in the laboratory during gradual drying and after rewatering. All the specimens fixed CO2 on the first night after watering. Daytime fixation of CO2 gradually decreased as the plants dried out, and fixation at night increased. From day 6 onwards CO2 fixation took place almost exclusively at night, with a negative exchange balance by day. The maximum rates of CO2 exchange were about 0.9 mg g(DW)-1h-1 by day and 0.25 mg by night. The net daily cumulative exchange after watering was 48 mg CO2 g(DW)-1 and from day 6 onwards about 1 mg g-1. Watering on day 13 restored the initial rhythm of CO2 exchange.
23725269|Five fractions of phosphorus compounds (the acid-soluble orthophosphate-polyphosphate, the dilute KOH-soluble polyphosphate, the 2 M KOH-soluble polyphosphate, the nucleic acid-polyphosphate and the phospholipid fraction) were separated from the diatom Nitzschia actinastroides (Lemm.) v. Goor, grown in the presence of four detergents: sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), Triton X-100 (Tx), sodium desoxycholate (NaDOC) and cetyl trimethylammonium bromide (CTAB). The effects of phosphate starvation were also assessed. The acid-soluble fraction was found to increase with increasing phosphate starvation and CTAB concentration, and simultaneously the nucleic acid-polyphosphate fraction became smaller. The acid-soluble fraction diminished in the presence of SDS and Tx. The 2 M KOH-soluble polyphosphate fraction showed an increase in the presence of SDS, and in the early phase of phosphate starvation. The dilute KOH-soluble polyphosphate fraction was very small in most experiments. The phospholipid fraction showed an increase at 510 mg/1 concentrations of SDS and Tx. The total amount of phosphorus extractable with the method used remained quite stable in all experiments, except in the presence of NaDOC, when an increase was observed. The level of this phosphorus was not markedly affected by phosphate starvation. The possible explanations for these findings are discussed.
43922228|A new species of Gesneriaceae, Oreocharis jinpingensis W.H. Chen & Y.M. Shui from the Xilong Mountains of Jinping County in southeastern Yunnan, China, bordering North Vietnam, is described and illustrated. Its morphological distinctiveness from the most similar species O. auricula is discussed. Pollen and seed morphological characters are also reported for O. jinpingensis.
43922143|Morphogenesis was studied in Micrasterias torrey Bail, and M. thomasiana Arch. with UV microbeam irradiation, puromycin, cytochalasin B, enzymes affecting the cell wall metabolism (cellulase, pectinase, hemicellulase) and chemicals disrupting microtubules (colchicine and trifluraline). UV microbeam irradiation indicated that the structural continuity of the Micrasterias cell is plasmatically controlled, the development of new wings being dependent on the old ones. Continuity is maintained by plasmatic macrotemplates in the wings, and is transmitted from the parent semicell to the new semicell via non-nuclear growth centres, organized by the macrotemplates in the daughter semicell wall during early cell division. The main components of the growth centres are evidently cellulose microfibrils, and the enzyme experiments showed that cellulose synthesis has a decisive significance for growth. The differentiation of the cell is controlled by the nucleus. The puromycin treatment indicated that this control is primarily connected with the production of cell wall material and takes place through protein synthesis. The experiments with colchicine and trifluraline indicated that the microtubules have no role in differentiation, but that they participate in septum formation and growth centre organization.
23725477|A comparison was made of the results of three vegetation surveys (1947, 1975 and 1985) on the shallow eutrophic Lake Taivallampi. Between 1947 and 1985, the lake was subjected to heavy eutrophication and lowering of the water level. The recent vegetation in the lake is clearly different from that in the 1940s, and most of the dominant macrophytes had changed between the three surveys. The submerged vegetation decreased markedly and earlier dominants (Stratiotes aloides, Myriophyllum verticillatum) were replaced by more resistant species (Ceratophyllum demersum, Potamogeton obtusifolius). The helophyte vegetation expanded greatly after the lowering of the water level. In pioneer stands on mud-flats, Typha latifolia, T. angustifolia and herbaceous helophytes (especially Lythrum salicaria) were abundant; later the vegetation was dominated by T. latifolia and T. x glauca.
23726548|As a result of a worldwide taxonomic revision of Cuscuta L. subgenus Cuscuta, C. castroviejoi M.A. Garca is described as a new species endemic to Ethiopia. The taxonomic status of some little known African species of the subgenus that appear in Ethiopia is discussed. Two previously recognized species of the subgenus, C. approximata Bab. and C. pedicellata Ledeb., are excluded for the country while C. pretoriana Yunck. and C. somaliensis Yunck. are recorded for the first time. A key to the species of the subgenus in Ethiopia is provided.
23726587|The paper describes two new Taraxacum species from southern Finland: Taraxacum glossodon Sonck & H. llg. (sect. Ruderalia) and Taraxacum nylandicum Sonck & H. llg. (sect. Boreigena), and one new species from northern Finland, Taraxacum porcellisinus Sonck & H. llg. (sect. Ruderalia). The species are illustrated in black and white photographs.
23725257|The aquatic vegetation in the small, shallow mesotrophic Lake Keskimminen (the Finnish Lake District, 62 53'N, 28 15'E) was studied and mapped with the aid of air photographs in 1959 1960 and reinvestigated in 19761977. Supplementary air photographs and floristic data were available for the period from 1941 onwards. The helophyte and hydrophyte vegetation is diverse and vigorous, due to the shallowness of the lake and its rapid water renewal. Both long- and short-term changes in the vegetation became evident during the study period. The stands of Equisetum fluviatile had expanded greatly in the shallowest parts of the lake, and Typha latifolia had invaded the margins of the reedy stands. Most of the stands of Phragmites australis and Schoenoplectus lacustris, and also some stands of Equisetum, had considerably diminished. Mixed stands of herbaceous helophytes and floating rafts of vegetation had become more numerous. Marked changes were also observed in the stands of some floating-leaved (e.g. Nuphar pumila and Sagittaria natans) and submerged plants. The short-term changes in the aquatic vegetation, e.g. the invasion by Typha and the reduction of Phragmites and Schoenoplectus, may be mainly ascribed to the impact of muskrats, which spread to the area in the late 1930s. The phases of the succession in some depleted reedy communities are briefly described. The lakeward expansion of the Equisetum belt is probably a phase of the hydrosere, occurring as the substrate is built up by sedimentation.
23726731|Camellia euphlebia is rare and endangered in China, distributed in a small region in Guangxi province. We studied the level and pattern of the genetic diversity of 84 individuals from four natural C. euphlebia populations by inter-simple sequence repeat (ISSR) markers. Our results indicate a relatively low level of genetic diversity in C. euphlebia at the species level (polymorphic loci = 55.38%, HT = 0.1537 and HSP = 0.24) and at the population level (polymorphic loci = 24.23%, HE = 0.11), and a relatively high degree of differentiation among populations (GST = 0.3147, Shannon's index analysis = 37.5%, AMOVA analysis = 35.88%). Gene flow among populations was 0.5443. Inbreeding and limited gene flow might be the key factors resulting in the observed genetic structure of C. euphlebia. Strategies are proposed for the genetic conservation and management of the species.
23727957|Potassium antimonite was used to locate calcium in the anthers of lettuce (Lactuca sativa). There are no calcium precipitates in young anthers. After meiosis of microspore mother cells, calcium precipitates first appear in the tapetal cells, from which some small secretive vesicles containing many calcium precipitates are secreted into the locule. At a late stage of the microspore, tapetal cells completely degenerate and their protoplasts move into the locule with many calcium precipitates. The calcium precipitates increase in the early microspores, and in the exine. When the microspores form some small vacuoles containing calcium precipitates, and those vacuoles then fuse to form a large one, the calcium precipitates evidently decrease. The large vacuole of bicellular pollen grain discomposes and calcium precipitates again appear in the cytoplasm and then decrease. When the pollen matures, most calcium precipitates are located in its exine with only a few in the cytoplasm.
23728084|Dichoropetalum schottii is a species that lives at low to medium altitudes in the southern European mountain ranges, from the Balkans (N Greece) to the Pyrenees. Its legal protection status is not homogeneous along its distribution range, as only some of its edge populations, in the Pyrenees, are protected. Here, by means of allozyme electrophoresis, we examine the genetic variability of populations representing four different regions within its distribution area (Pyrenees, Maritime Alps, Karst Plateau in the SW SloveniaNE Italy border region, and Pindus Mountains in Greece). The species as a whole exhibits relatively high levels of genetic diversity, partly due to the occurrence of several duplications among the loci surveyed. Genetic differentiation among populations and regions was low, which could be interpreted as the result of recent allopatric fragmentation. We conclude that the species as a whole is not threatened, and that the currently protected populations are, paradoxically, the least valuable from the genetic point of view.
43922216|Morphological, phenological, and ecological characters of Platanthera bifolia (L.) L.C.M. Richard were studied in two populations in the Aland Islands, and in museum material from southern Finland. Most of the characters of the Alandian populations were intermediate between P. bifolia subsp. bifolia and subsp. latiflora (Drejer) L0jtnant. On the basis of morphological characters, a few specimens of one of the Alandian populations and some of the museum specimens could be assigned to subsp. bifolia, while the majority of the museum specimens studied could be assigned to subsp. latiflora. Intermediates occurred as well, and none of the morphological characters could distinguish the two subspecies in Finland definitely. The distinguishing morphological characters seem in fact to be quantitative, i.e. they are dependent on the size of the plant. A fairly strong positive correlation was found between the height of the plant and the length of the spurs of the 2-4 (mostly 3) lowermost flowers. The difference in flowering time was significant between two small groups of SW Finnish herbarium specimens, one which could be assigned on the basis of morphology to subsp. bifolia, and the other to subsp. latiflora. The range of the flowering time of the two groups was almost the same, however. The habitat amplitude of Platanthera bifolia in Finland is wide: plants that could be assigned to subsp. bifolia on morphological criteria mostly grew in dry and open habitats of the archipelagos and coastal areas, whereas those that could be assigned to subsp. latiflora grew in moister and shadier habitats, mostly in woods. In summary, it seems that it is not possible to distinguish between the two subspecies of Platanthera bifolia in Finland.
23726829|Leaf morphological and physiological traits of the broad-leaved evergreen shrub species Quercus ilex, Phillyrea latifolia, Pistacia lentiscus, Arbutus unedo and Cistus incanus of the Mediterranean maquis were studied. Specific leaf mass (SLM), leaf tissue density (LTD), leaf life-span (LLS) and water use efficiency (WUE) were the most representative key traits resulting from discriminant analysis. Cluster analysis was used to identify the affinity among the species by statistical linkage. Dendrograms show two clusters characterised by a different integration of morphological and physiological leaf traits: Quercus ilex, Phillyrea latifolia and Pistacia lentiscus were in the same cluster, significantly different from that formed by Arbutus unedo and Cistus incanus.
23726890|Recent nomenclatural changes in Caladeniinae (Orchidaceae, Thelymitroideae) are briefly discussed. Caladenia R. Br. sect. Caladeniastrum Szlach. is elevated to generic rank and six new combinations at species level are proposed.
23728274|A taxonomic revision of Hedysarum species (Fabaceae) recognized as a part of the H. gmelinii complex is presented. One widespread species is recognized here and two new combinations are proposed: H. gmelinii var. dahuricum (Turcz. ex B. Fedtsch.) R. Sa and H. gmelinii var. setigerum (Turcz. ex Fisch. & Mey.) R. Sa, based on morphological studies of herbarium specimens and seed coat sculpturing characteristics. The name H. gmelinii is lectotypified. A taxonomic conspectus for the three taxa, including a list of synonyms, information on type specimens, morphological differentiation, ecological characteristics, and distribution data are given. Additionally, the problems of former treatments of sections Multicaulia and Subacaulia within Hedysarum are discussed.
23725070|The aquatic flora and some environmental properties were studied in 304 lakes in eastern Finnish Lapland. The mean pH and conductivity values are very similar in the northern and southern parts of the area, but transparency is greater and the value for colour lower in the northern part. The aquatic flora includes 69 phanerogam taxa and four species of Charales. The flora is richest in the southern part, but some elodeids (chiefly Myriophyllum alterniflorum, Ranunculus peltatus and Potamogeton gramineus) are more abundant in the northern part, evidently owing to the clearness of the waters. Extremely southern distribution patterns are shown by Alisma plantago-aquatica, Nymphaea tetragona, Elatine triandra, Limosella aquatica and Lobelia dortmanna. New localities are presented for Potamogeton friesii, P. compressus, Stratiotes aloides, Ceratophyllum demersum and Myriophyllum verticillatum. These lie in the "gap" between the floristically rich regions of Kittil and KuusamoSalla, and support the theory that the exacting aquatic flora of Kittil is of eastern provenance. However, migration evidently happened later than has previously been thought.
23726411|Jungermanniaceae is represented by Jungermannia and Notoscyphus in Western Melanesia. Notoscyphus has N. lutescens (Lehm. & Lindenb.) Mitt. (= N. paroicus Schiffn.) on the Huon Peninsula. 13 species of Jungermannia are present in the area of the 20 Western Melanesian ones. J. confertissima Nees, J. pseudocyclops Inoue, J. sphaerocarpa Hook., J. stricta (Schiffn.) Steph. and J. virgata (Mitt.) Steph. are newly reported for Western Melanesia. Gymnomitriaceae has only Marsupella revoluta (Nees) Dum. on the Huon Peninsula.
23726596|We examined variation in the floral morphology of Petrocoptis grandiflora Rothm. (Caryophyllaceae), a plant endemic to the northwest Iberian Peninsula. First, we investigated whether peduncle length, calyx length and petal-limb length influence reproductive success (as measured by seed production). Second, we investigated whether floral morphology varies with position in the inflorescence and/or among the six populations studied. Peduncle length and calyx length showed no significant relationship with seed production; however, petal-limb length was significantly and positively correlated with the number of seeds produced by the flower. All three morphometric characters, and the number of ovules per ovary, varied significantly with position in the inflorescence, but not among populations.
23726154|A total of 1 384 specimens of Lecanora frustulosa (Dickson) Ach., s. ampl., (lichenforming fungi, Lecanorales) was revised; 463 of these were tested with standard lichen thin-layer chromatographic methods. Study of type materials showed that L. frustulosa has been commonly misunderstood, e.g., in continental Europe and in North America, and that L. frustulosa and L. argopholis (Ach.) Ach. are distinct species. L. frustulosa, s. str. [= L. ludwigii (Sprengel) Ach.], differs from L. argopholis in having narrower spores and containing usnic acid with traces of only few fatty acids as constant chemical products and stictic acid with possible derivatives as accessory products. L. argopholis has broader spores and contains atranorin, epanorin, zeorin, and several fatty acids as  constant chemical products. L. hydrophila Sommerf, and L. ludwigii (Sprengel) Ach. are typified and reduced to synonymy under L. frustulosa s. str. L. blyttii (Fr.) Schaerer, L. oregana Tuck., L. subventosa Nyl. and L. thiodes Sprengel are typified and reduced to synonymy under L. argopholis. L. occidentalis (Lynge) Lynge is included in L. argopholis as a chemodeme containing only atranorin and traces of fatty acids. The material identified as L. frustulosa s. str. is divided into six chemodemes, and as L. argopholis into nine chemodemes. Distribution maps of material studied for both species are given.
23727704|Limonium gueneri Dogan, Duman & Akaydin sp. nova (Plumbaginaceae) is described and illustrated from Patara (C2 Antalya, Turkey), where it grows on calcareous slopes on the coast. It is probably closely related to L. ocymifolium (Poir.) Kuntze, an East Mediterranean species. The diagnostic morphological characters are discussed. A taxonomic key for the coastline species of Turkish Limonium without sterile braches is also presented along with some notes on the ecology and biogeography of the new species.
23726677|Seven new combinations in Kryptostoma (Summerh.) Geerinck emend. Szlach. and Renzorchis Szlach. & Olsz. (Orchidaceae, Habenariinae) are proposed.
23725722|Light and scanning electron microscopy were used to examine pollen samples of 52 representative species and one hybrid of 25 subsections in Potamogeton L. and the one species of the monotypic Groenlandia Gay (Potamogetonaceae). The genera are stenopalynous: The pollen grains are in monads, are inaperturate and have a finely reticulate exine, in which the muri are nanodentate or, more rarely, nanogranular. To facilitate taxonomic discussion, the taxa investigated were classified into five pollen types, the grouping being based on the pollen grain size, form and shape, and on the size and density of the reticulum. The pollen morphology corroborates the division of Potamogeton into subg. Coleogeton (Reichenb.) Raunk. and subg. Potamogeton. The majority of the subsections of the subgenus Potamogeton are distributed among several pollen types and subtypes. This indicates that the subdivision of the genus based mainly on the anatomy is not justifiable from the standpoint of the palynology. On the other hand, the pollen types of subg. Potamogeton were found to correlate better with the fruit morphology, and, in general, with the subdivisions made on the basis of the vegetative habits of the plants. The pollen grains of P. robbinsii are closely similar to those in sect. Chloephylli Koch of subg. Potamogeton. The separation of P. crispus as in its own section, Batrachoseris, is well justified by the pollen morphology. Groenlandia has a pollen type of its own, being intermediate between subg. Coleogeton and sect. Chloephylli. The taxonomic and phylogenetic relationships of the subsections and other taxa are discussed. The pollen morphology seems to provide some support for the hypothesis that the submersed-leaved species of subg. Coleogeton are more primitive than the floating-leaved plants.
23725670|A permanent plot, measuring 7  8 m, situated in a coastal acidic dune at the border between the fixed dune and the dwarf shrub heath, has been restudied 45 years after establishment. The dwarf shrubs, the epiphytic lichens and lichens growing on litter have increased in frequency and cover. The genus Cladina as a whole has decreased through the years. Lichens of open sand have not changed substantially in cover during the period. Two species (Cetraria islandica and Dicranum scoparium), occurring on open sand and among the dwarf shrubs, have increased considerably.
23725433|The family Cyrtopodaceae includes the monotypic genera Cyrtopus (Brid.) Hook. f. and Bescherellia Duby. Only B. elegantissima Duby occurs in Western Melanesia (West Irian, Papua New Guinea, the Solomon Islands). The previous record of Cyrtopus setosus (Hedw.) Hook. f. from New Guinea was based on a misidentification, and the species is excluded from the flora. Bescherellia cryphaeoides (C. Mll.) Fleisch. is reduced to synonymy with B. elegantissima. Of the family Cryphaeaceae, three genera occur in Western Melanesia, each genus being represented by one species: Cyptodontopsis obtusifolia (Nog.) Nog., Cryphaea clandestina Enroth spec. nov., and Schoenobryum concavifolium (Griff.) Manuel. Keys to the Western Melanesian genera and species of the Cyrtopodaceae and the Cryphaeaceae are given. The species dealt with are described and illustrated, their Western Melanesian as well as their total ranges are presented, and their taxonomy and ecology are discussed.
23724307|The nomenclatural type specimens have been selected fot two Mnium species. The type of Mnium affine Funck is Dillenius' specimen corresponding to Fig. 79 M in Table 53 in Dillenius' (1741) work. It was evidently collected by Vaillant in the neighbourhood of Paris. The type of Mnium medium Bruch, Schimp. & Gmb. was collected by Funck in Germany (Fichtelgebirge) and distributed by him as no. 356 in his exsiccate, under the name Mnium affine Bland.
23728159|In this study, three species of Lessingianthus saltensis complex are described and illustrated, including two new species. The new taxa L. membranifolius and L. coriarius are diploid (2n = 2x = 32), while L. saltensis is tetraploid (2n = 4x = 64). Lessingianthus membranifolius is distinguished from the other taxa in the complex by the membranaceus leaves, phyllaries with a rounded apex and leaf blades basally obtuse with serrate margins. Lessingianthus coriarius can be easily separated from the other taxa of the group by the combination of coriaceus leaves, phyllaries apically acute and leaf blades acute at the apex, with entire margins. A lectotype is designated for L. saltensis.
23726745|The elemental composition of the aquatic bryophyte Platyhypnidium rusciforme (Neck.) Fleisch. growing in streams embedded in trachybasalts (melaphyrs) and rhyolites (porphyrs) in the Polish and Czech Republic part of the Sudety Mts. was studied. Water from trachybasalt streams contained significantly higher concentrations of Ni as compared with water from rhyolite streams. Plants from rhyolite areas contained significantly higher levels of Mg and significantly lower levels of Co and Ni as compared with those from trachybasalt areas. The molar ratio of calcium and magnesium (Ca:Mg) in water (1.01.6 in trachybasalt streams and 0.51.8 in rhyolite streams) in some of the streams was different from the values presented in the literature. The Ca:Mg ratio in the plants was within the range of values calculated for serpentinite for plants in rhyolite streams, and higher than this range for plants in all trachybasalt streams. Concentrations of microelements in the plants were greater than the background values; however, there were no morphological aberrations in the plants. The relationships between all the variables concerning the chemical composition of mosses from the two areas were tested with the principal component analysis (PCA).
43922100|Some aspects of host-pathogen coevolution were studied in relation to the biological specialization of rust fungi on legume plants. The present geographical distribution of legumes and their rusts is reviewed in the light of plant migrations and floristic changes caused by climatic fluctuation and continental drift. The extensive rust flora on the Leguminosae is not indigenous to this family, but is assembled from fungi that have spread from various other plant groups to the legumes. Many heteroecious rusts on papilionaceous plants are still associated with their primary hosts, which are grasses or spurges. These rusts provide important clues to the evolutionary pathways of rust fungi. Other rusts show adaptive dispersion on their secondary hosts and transition to autoecism. The origin and evolution of many autoecious rusts on tropical Leguminosae are still obscure.
23726604|The soil seed banks of three roadsides, one horsetrack, one stream verge and two agricultural fields were sampled in an agricultural landscape in southern Norway. Altogether 61 different vascular plant species germinated from soil samples from the five linear habitats, while only 16 species germinated from the agricultural fields. The low species number and low seed densities in the fields probably reflect modern weed management. Each linear habitat contained more or less specific subsets of plant species. The relative abundance of the different species exhibited an approximately log-normal distribution. Species composition in the seed banks of the linear habitats was compared with the aboveground vegetation. The seed bank had a higher frequency of annual species than the vegetation. Surveys restricted to the aboveground vegetation will tend to underestimate the number of species present by 1530%.
23728120|A new species in Basidiomycota, Aurantiporus priscus Niemel, Miettinen & Manninen, growing on large, long-ago fallen and decorticated conifer trunks, is described from old virgin forests. We report it from Finland, Poland and Sweden. Its fresh tubes are fleshy, soft and pale salmon-coloured, contrasting with a cottony and orange- to tan-coloured subiculum. With KOH, the tubes only darken, while the subiculum and fruitbody margin of fully-grown basidiocarps become bright cherry-red. This species has been confused with Hapalopilus aurantiacus and H. ochraceolateritius, which have cylindrical spores, while the spores of A. priscus are ellipsoid. The type of Polyporus salmonicolor was reviewed.
23724156|1. Das Untersuchungsgebiet ist an der Westkste Finnlands an der Nordgrenze der Eichenzone gelegen. 2. Das untersuchte Schrengebiet ist durch weitgehende Inselarmut und geringe Grsse der Inseln gekennzeichnet. Der berwiegende Teil des Untersuchungsgebietes fllt dem Granitgebiet von Uusikaupunki zu, im Norden gibt es auch Gneis. Kalkstein ist nur auf einer Insel bekannt. Lose Bodenablagerungen sind wenig vorhanden, die Morne dominiert; im Nordabschnitt gibt es einige aus Osmaterial aufgebaute Inseln. Die Kleinformen des Reliefs weisen wegen der sprlichen Ausbildung der Bodendecke einen bedeutenden Abwechslungsreichtum auf. Klimatisch schliesst sich das Untersuchungsgebiet an das sdlich angrenzende Schrenmeer an. In bezug auf den Maritimittsgrad bertreffen die kleinen Inseln des letzteren (Slskr, Ut) das Untersuchungsgebiet. Die durchschnittlichen Sommerniederschlge sind sprlicher als auf entsprechender Hhe des Festlandes. Der mittlere Salzgehalt des Meerwassers betrgt an der Oberflche 5.75 ; er ist im Sdabschnitt um 0.25  hher als im Nordabschnitt. Eine sdnrdliche Oberflchenstrmung verbindet das Gebiet mit dem Schrenmeer. Im grssten Teil des Untersuchungsgebietes bildet die intensive Beweidung der Inseln die einzige bemerkenswertere Form der menschlichen Ttigkeit; im Innenschrenhof gibt es sowohl auf Landwirtschaft und Fischerei basierte Besiedlung als auch Sommerwohnungen der Stdter. 3. Die maritime Waldgrenze wird zur Hauptsache von Kiefer und Fichte, nur im Sden von der Birke (Betula pubescens) gebildet. Schuld an der Waldarmut des Untersuchungsgebietes ist neben der Bodenbeschaffenheit und die exponierte Lage der Inseln die intensive Beweidung. 4. Von den Schrenzonen Hyrns knnen im Gebiet nur der Aussen- und der Innenscharenhof unterschieden werden. Eine Meereszone ist im ersteren nur teilweise erkennbar. 5. Die in der Untersuchung durchgefhrte Einteilung in Standortstypen bezieht sich ursprnglich auf den zentralen Teil des Gebietes, auf das Meergebiet und die dort herrschenden Verhltnisse. Sie grndet sich in erster Linie auf die Bodenbeschaffenheit. Die Standortstypen des Litorals sind die Gerll-, Wiesen-, Sand- und Felsenufer sowie die Tangwlle und die Erlensume der Ufer, die des Supralitorals die Gerllwiesen, Wacholder-Gerllwiesen, Felsichte und Felsenreisichte, die Waldinselnwlder und die Birkensmpfe des Meergebietes sowie die Innenschrenwlder. 6. Auf Grund der Standortstypen und deren verschiedener Kombinationen werden sodann die Inseln des Meergebietes in Inseltypen eingeteilt. Die Einteilung grndet sich also sowohl auf den Aufbau der Inseln als auch auf ihre Vegetation. Es werden unterschieden die felsigen Inseln mit den Felsenklippen, Felsenschren, Felseninseln und Waldinseln und die kiesigen Inseln mit den Kiesschren, Kiesriffen und Innenschren. Am ausgeprgtesten sind diese Inseltypen im zentralen Teil des Untersuchungsgebietes, im Schrenhof von Pyhmaa und Pyhranta. Ein Vergleich zeigt, dass sie sich auch floristisch voneinander unterscheiden. 7. Die gefundene Artenzahl der Gefsspflanzenflora im Gebiet unter Ausschluss des nur teilweise untersuchten Schrenhofes von Uusikaupunki betrgt nur 352. Ursache ihrer Niedrigkeit ist die Aussenscharendominanz des Gebietes, die allerdings von bestimmten Artengruppen durch ein  extrataeniates Auftreten gehrig ausgenutzt wird. Hierher gehren gewisse Arten der Felsen, der Felsichttmpel und -smpfe sowie der Tangwlle. 8. Die abweichenden Bodenverhltnisse im Bereich der nrdlichen glazifluvialen Bden des Gebietes spiegeln sich in dessen Flora wider. Am deutlichsten an den Osboden gebunden findet man Silene nutans und Artemisia campestris. Die Bodenverhaltnisse begrenzen auch das Auftreten von Psammophilen, Juncus arcticus ssp. balticus, Minuartia peploides, Cakile maritima und Lathyrus maritimus. Die erstgenannte befindet sich offensichtlich erst auf Einwanderung in das Gebiet. Das von den anderen Inseln durch seine Kalkvorkommnisse im Felsgrund abweichende Stenskr unterscheidet sich floristisch nicht von diesen. Abweichend ist das supramarine Vorkommen von Linum catharticum auf kalkhaltiger Unterlage. Auf den anderen Inseln, mit Ausnahme von D 92 Vekara, besiedelt diese Art die Meeresufer. 9. Die Flora umfasst eine Anzahl Arten, die in ihrem Auftreten aus klimatischen Grnden den Schrenhof bevorzugen. Wegen der Aussenschrennatur des Gebietes bestehen fr den sdlichen, im allgemeinen edaphisch anspruchsvollen Artenbestand keine grossen Mglichkeiten zur Ausnutzung des Schrenklimas hier. Eine deutliche, vorwiegend klimatische Konzentration auf den Schrenhof findet man dagegen bei den gengsameren Arten, wie etwa bei Allium schoenoprasum, Cardamine hirsuta, Hypericum perforatum, Myosotis hispida und Senecio silvaticus. Fr die nrdlichen, im allgemeinen anspruchsloseren Arten stellen in dieser Hinsicht die Bodenfaktoren keine Hindernisse in den Weg. Die hufigsten, Alopecurus aequalis und Cornus suecica, zeigen ein extrataeniates Auftreten. Ein Teil des nordlichen Elementes (Carex globularis, Polygonum viviparum, Rubus arcticus, Cirsium heterophyllum) meidet aus klimatischen Grnden den Schrenhof.
23725232|Three brackish-water inlets were studied in Nagu, Central Archipelago Sea, in 195254. One of these was semi-enclosed (5 km long) and two had recently been closed by the land uplift. The narrow inlet Gennarbyviken (16 km long), at the eastern border of the Archipelago Sea, was studied in 195778. The water exchange in these inlets was hampered by sills, and late in 1957 Gennarbyviken was dammed and converted into a freshwater lake. In all the inlets haptophytic (attached) Fucus vesiculosus L. was restricted to the areas outside the sills or entrances. Its size remained normal right up to these limits. In Gennarbyviken, benthopleustonic (lying loose on the bottom) Fucus stands continued 10 km inwards from the haptophyte limit, occurring outside a dense reed belt, at 2 m depth. Beyond both these limits suitable habitats apparently exist, though no Fucus was observed. The limits cannot be determined by salinity, but may be due to some other chemical factors connected with poor water circulation. Like some other aquatic plants, F. vesiculosus shows a preference for moving water at its distribution limits.
23726409|The height of the flowering stems, number of flowers and stage of flowering were recorded in four years for a population of 1128 white and 1026 green individuals of a terrestrial orchid, Epipactis helleborine (L.) Cranz, growing in SE Finland. The number and size of the leaves were determined on 20 white and 56 green plants. The anatomy of the plants was studied by light microscopy and the ultrastructure of the plastids by electron microscopy. The stem of the white plants was slender, while that of the green individuals was rigid. In every year, the average height of the flowering stem of the white plants was smaller than that of the green ones and the leaves were narrower and shorter. The general anatomical organization of the stem and the leaf were similar in the two forms, but smaller numbers of sclerenchymatous cells were present in the stem and leaf of the white plants. The mesophyll cells of the white individuals contained, ovoid to ameboid leucoplasts, which were usually 14  12 m and entirely lacked thylakoids, but contained vesicles of various sizes and osmiophilic globules. The green plants had normal lens-shaped chloroplasts, 47  23 m, with well-developed grana. The pinkishwhite flowers of the white individuals were normal, but their pollen grains were not assembled in compact pollinia as in the flowers of the green plants. The number of flowers per shoot was usually lower in the white individuals than in the green ones. In the white individuals flowering occurred slightly later than in the green, though some of the flowers were open at the same time. White individuals occasionally formed mature capsules with seeds, which were of normal size and morphology.
23727902|We describe two new species, Elaeocarpus gaoligongshanensis Y. Tang & Z.L. Dao and E. dianxiensis Y. Tang & H. Li, from western Yunnan of China. Having two ovules per loculus, the new species belong to sect. Elaeocarpus. The distinguishing characteristics separating them from the morphologically closest relatives are discussed.
23728208|Calamus is the largest genus in the palm family (Arecaceae) and contains many species of high ecological and economical value. In this study, we assessed the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer region (ITS), matK, rbcL, trnHpsbA, as well as two combinations, matK + rbcL and matK + rbcL + trnHpsbA, as DNA barcodes for Calamus using 15 species or varieties distributed in China. ITS may exist as multiple copies in the examined Calamus species, and was eliminated from consideration as a possible barcode. The trnHpsbA spacer had the most variation, followed by matK and rbcL. No separations between intraspecific variation and interspecific divergence (barcoding gaps) were found in the remaining candidate barcodes. At the species level, the discrimination rates of the candidate barcodes based on neighborjoining (NJ) trees were significantly different: matK (37.5%), rbcL (6.3%), trnHpsbA (56.3%), matK + rbcL (43.8%) and matK + rbcL + trnHpsbA (62.5%). Furthermore, the discrimination rates of trnHpsbA would improve to 91.7%, if the varieties of C. nambariensis and C. yunnanensis were treated as one species in the NJ tree. Thus, trnH-psbA may be an appropriate single DNA barcode for Calamus useful in the species identification.
23725870|Diversity (Shannon index, Hill's numbers) was calculated from the biomass of plant species in different microsites on virgin, drained and drained/fertilized sections of an ombrotrophic bog in southern Finland. On virgin bog the diversity increased from wet and moist hollows to low hummocks. On high hummocks the diversity was decreased by the dominance of Scots pine and ericoid dwarf shrubs. On drained bog the diversity was lower in all plant communities than on virgin bog, except in the moist hollows, where the proportion of the dominant species had decreased. On drained/fertilized bog the diversity was lower in all plant communities than on virgin bog, except in the hollows, where the proportion of the dominant species had decreased and which had been colonized by typical hummock species. The total (gamma) diversity decreased from virgin to drained and fertilized bog, reflecting a general trend in eutrophicated or disturbed ecosystems. During the succession following drainage, biomass and production usually increase, but diversity decreases.
23726056|Concentrations of eight elements were analysed in the tissues of 13 species of Sphagnum mosses collected from the ombrotrophic raised bog Kurjenrahka in southern Finland. The material included four species from wet hollows: S. majus (Russow) C. Jens., S. balticum (Russow) C. Jens., S. magellanicum Brid. and S. papillosum Lindb.; three species from dry hummocks on open sites: S. russowii Warnst., S. fuscum (Schimp.) Klinggr., S. nemoreum Scop.; three species from hummocks of the treed bomargin: S. girgensohnii Russov, S. squarrosum Crome and S. centrale C. Jens.; and three species from "intermediate" microhabitats: S. tenellum (Brid.) Brid., S. rubellum Wils. and S. angustifolium (Russow) C. Jens. The nutrient concentrations of the tissues decreased in the order K > Ca > Mg > Na > Fe > Mn > Zn > Cu. The highest total cation concentrations were recorded in S. majus, whereas S. rubellum and S. balticum were poorest in nutrients. Relationships between tissue nutrient concentrations were studied using principal components analysis (PCA). This procedure indicated similar patterns in the levels of Ca, Mn and Cu. The patterns of K, Fe and Zn also showed obvious uniformity. Species  species differences were summarized with a PCA procedure that was based on the species' mineral element composition. This analysis resulted in ordination patterns that separated the species of dry microhabitats from those occupying wet and moist sites. The ordination pattern of the Sphagna also demonstrated obvious similarities in the mineral element accumulation according to the systematic sections of the genus.
23726284|Changes in vegetation composition after clear-cutting of pine forests were studied along two gradients: increasing moisture on acidic soil and increasing pH on dry soil. The changes in species frequencies after cutting were site-dependent; the behaviour in one location did not allow prediction of the dynamics of the same set of species in another location. On calcareous soil, the development of the communities in two sites of different type after clear-cutting was slightly convergent. The stands on wet acidic soil showed the smallest differences between mature and successional communities on the ordination biplot. On acidic soils, greater richness and diversity were characteristic of disturbed communities, especially in wetter sites. On calcareous soil, diversity decreased after cutting, but richness did not change much. The site-dependent successional dynamics of pine forest plant communities can be explained by the historical factors shaping the local species pool. This conclusion is supported by differences in distribution type spectras between the communities.
23726756|Astragalus aytatchii Akan & Civelek sp. nova (Fabaceae) from middle Anatolia, Turkey, is described and illustrated in line drawings. It is compared with the closely related A. elatus Boiss & Bal. Both species belong to Astragalus sect. Alopecuroidei DC. (= Alopecias Bunge).
23725858|The lichen-rich vegetation of Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris) forests on deep mineral soil in Finland is described. In the northern boreal subzone, the forests in Finland are divided into 5 noda, mainly according to reciprocal averaging ordination. (1) The Vaccinium myrtillus  Cladina nodum of the northern part of the subzone has a submesic character, e.g. the cover of mosses is fairly high. (2) The Vaccinium uliginosum  Cladina nodum, found mostly in the pine forest outliers of the Betula pubescens woodland region in the northern part of the subzone, has a fairly low number of lichen species. (3) The Stereocaulon  Cladina nodum of W Lapland is evidently a mainly climatically controlled, xeric type, with a high number of minerophilous species. (4) The Calluna  Cladina nodum, distributed throughout the subzone, is strongly grazed by semi-domestic reindeer, and consequently the cover of Cladina spp. is reduced and several species of Cladonia and microlichens are encountered. (5) The Empetrum  Cladina nodum, also distributed throughout the subzone, is a rather species-poor unit. In the middle and southern boreal and hemiboreal subzones the variation of the vegetation is smaller and more continuous than in the northern boreal subzone. The only well-defined unit is (6) the Thymus  Cladina nodum of sunny esker slopes, characterized by a fairly rich vascular flora. The bulk of the material is grouped into (7) the Cetraria islandica  Cladina nodum. This is divided into middle and southern boreal and hemiboreal variants, and the two first-named are each divided into two successional stages. The hemiboreal variant is more distinct, but the segregation is based on limited material. The variation due to succession seems to be greater than that due to zonal distribution. The provisional position and status of the noda in the syntaxonomy of the Braun-Blanquet system and the Finnish forest site type theory are discussed.
23726950|Heracleum platytaenium (Apiaceae) is an endemic species in the Central Black Sea region, in the north of Turkey. Its foliar N and P dynamics and absolute and proportional N and P resorptions along an elevation gradient were investigated. The foliar N and P concentrations varied along the elevation gradient and during the growing season in basal leaves. N and P concentrations of stem leaves did not change significantly during the growing season, although significant changes were observed along the topographic gradient. N and P concentrations of basal leaves declined during May and June, and increased through July. Absolute and proportional resorptions were usually higher in slope positions in both basal and stem leaves, except for N resorption in stem leaves. N and P resorptions were more effective in the slopes between the upper and lower parts of the gradient. Absolute and proportional N and P resorptions in basal and stem leaves were significantly correlated with foliar N and P concentrations. Soil fertility varied significantly along the elevation gradient, but no consistent pattern was found between soil fertility and resorption. Foliar resorption was significantly correlated with soil moisture, and nutrient resorption probably reflected topographic differences in soil moisture rather than in soil fertility. fertility. Root/shoot ratio was comlow paratively at the beginning of the growing season and increased towards the end of the growing season.
23728080|Centaurea orumiehensis Ranjbar & Negaresh sp. nova (Asteraceae) is described and illustrated from western Azerbaijan Province, NW Iran. The characters that distinguish it from the morphologically closest species are given. In addition, C. zangulensis Ranjbar & Negaresh stat. & nom. nov. is proposed to replace C. elegantissima Bornm. var. albiflora Bornm.
23727261|Trichotosia dongfangensis X.H. Jin & L.P. Siu, a new species of Orchidaceae from Hainan, China, is described and illustrated. It is related to T. microphylla, from which it differs in having two purple callosities in the center of the lip and in lacking a conical callus at the apex of the lip.
23725351|Pannaria confusa P.M. Jrg. is described as new. It is a boreal species confined to very humid localities, found mainly on twigs of Picea, near waterfalls. It is known from Finland, Sweden, Norway and Austria. Fatty acids are reported for the first time for the genus. Previous records of Pannaria hookeri (Borrer ex Sm.) Nyl. in Finland and the adjacent part of the Soviet Union represent abnormally developed specimens of P. leucophaea (Vahl) P.M. Jrg. The distribution and ecology of P. mediterranea C. Tav. is re-evaluated. Corticolous specimens from its northern-most distribution all proved to be P. confusa, which grows in wetter, more shaded habitats than P. mediterranea.
23727805|Three new species belonging to Hieracium sect. Hieracium, viz. H. argentarium, H. irmae and H. mucrodentatum, are described from the Swedish province of Vrmland. In addition, H. acidolepis is described anew to accommodate the taxon hitherto known as H. acidotum (Dahlst.) Dahlst., because the type specimen (from Vrmland) for that name has been shown to belong to a different species.
23724278|Cladonia nemoxyna (Ach.) Arnold is stated to be widespread in Finland, particularly on railway banks. The chemical strain that contains fumarprotocetraric acid is less frequent than the one that lacks this acid. The name C. nemoxyna is typified but nomenclaturally it should probably be replaced by the older C. rei Schaer. at species level. Cladonia glauca Flrke has not been collected in Finland; the published records are shown to be erroneous. Cladonia polycarpoides Nyl. is reported as new to Finland from a single locality. The species has usually been called C. subcariosa Nyl. but the type of the latter proved to be identical with C. polycarpia Merr., an American species. Nomenclaturally C. subcariosa Nyl. em. Ahti replaces C. polycarpia, and C. polycarpoides Nyl. seems to be the correct name for what has been called C. subcariosa.
23725203|The effects of lead and arsenate on the growth and acid phosphatase activity of pea seedlings (Pisum sativum L.) were studied for 12 days in sterile agar cultures. The toxicant concentrations were 1.0, 0.1 and 0.01 mM. Two culture media were used: one without mineral elements and another with full Arnon & Hoagland nutrient solution. In the absence of mineral nutrients, all three concentrations of lead and arsenate inhibited the growth of the seedlings. In the presence of nutrients, the 0.1 mM (20 mg/1) lead treatment was tolerated fairly well. Arsenate was more toxic than lead, and the 0.1 mM (7.5 mg/1) treatment was growth-retarding even when nutrients were provided. In the mineral-deficient medium even the 0.01 mM arsenic concentration had a harmful effect. In general growth was less readily inhibited in the shoot than in the roots. The acid phosphatase activity of the cotyledons was enhanced by both toxicants during the first days of culture, and by the 0.1 and 0.01 mM lead treatments on the 6th day as well. The high enzyme activities coincided with an increase in the soluble protein contents of the enzyme extract. After the 7th day of culture the acid phosphatase activity was clearly decreased by both toxicants.
23728187|Cordiglottis longipedicellata Joongku Lee, T.B. Tran & R.K. Choudhary, a new species of Orchidaceae from Vietnam is described and illustrated. It is morphologically most similar to C. pulverulenta, but differs in its floral morphology and in having a longer pedicel. Colour photographs, a table comparing the floral structure of the new species with supposedly closely allied species and a key are provided to facilitate species identification. The present paper is also the first report of the genus Cordiglottis in the Indo-Chinese region.
23725768|One genus of the Mniaceae, Plagiomnium T. Kop., and two species, P. cuspidatum (Hedw.) T. Kop. and P. rhynchophorum (Hook.) T. Kop., occur in tropical and southern Africa. The latter species is represented by the varieties rhynchophorum and reidii (Dix.) T. Kop., comb. nova. The total range of P. rhynchophorum is pantropical and it occurs in Africa, SE Asia, the Hawaiian Islands (Mnium prorepens C. Mll. and M. reptile C. Mll., syn. nov.), South and Central America, and the Southern Appalachians of eastern North America (Plagiomnium rhynchophorum var. carolinianum (Anderson) T. Kop., comb. nova). Lectotypes are selected for Mnium australe Besch. and M. rostratum var. reidii Dix., and 7 names are presented as new synonyms.
23728030|A new species, Hedyotis xinyiensis X. Guo & R.J. Wang (Rubiaceae), from the west of the Guangdong province, China, is described and illustrated. It belongs to Hedyotis sect. Diplophragma due to its septicidal dehiscence of mature capsules. The morphological characters that distinguish it from the two similar species, H. consanguinea and H. matthewii, are listed in a table. The ultrastructure of pollen grains, seeds, and leaf epidermis was examined by SEM.
43922144|Stachys macrantha (C. Koch) Jalas, Rumex alpestris subsp. lapponicus (Hiitonen) Jalas, Euphrasia rostkoviana var. fennica (Kihlman) Jalas, E. rostkoviana var. onegensis (Gajander) Jalas, E. strida var. curta (Fries) Jalas, E. strida var. tennis (Brenner Jalas, Silene vulgaris var. litoralis (Rupr.) Jalas.
23727946|Rhododendron qiaojiaense L.M. Gao & D.Z. Li sp. nova (Ericaceae) is described from northeastern Yunnan, China, and illustrated. The new species is compared with the morphologically similar R. decorum and R. vernicosum.
23724593|1. Die Flechten scheinen im allgemeinen sehr langsam zu wachsen. Der jhrliche Lngenzuwachs der einzelnen Thalluslappen wechselt weitgehend herrhrend von vielen vorlufig nicht genauer geklrten Standortsfaktoren. An vertikalen Felsenwnden scheint in einigen Fllen die Richtung der Lappen eine Rolle zu spielen, indem seitwrts und abwrts gerichtete Lappen fters rascher wachsen. 2. Eine gengende und gleichmssige Feuchtigkeit hat bei den von mir untersuchten Arten sowohl zuwachsfrdernd als ausgleichend gewirkt. 3. Die feuchtespeichernden Eigenschaften der Begleitflora, besonders der Felsenmoose, haben bei Parmelia saxatilis ganz deutlich die Wachstumsgeschwindigkeit beeinflusst. 4. Gengende Feuchtigkeit zusammen mit aus den Vogelexkrementen gelsten Stoffen frdern wesentlich den jhrlichen Zuwachs. 5. Eine konzentrierte Exkrementlsung vertrugen von meinen Versuchsflechten nur Candelariella coralliza, Physcia caesia und Xanthoria parietina, die alle im allgemeinen als stark ornithokoprophile oder ammonophile Flechten bekannt sind. 6. Die verwendete sehr schwache Exkrementlsung vertrugen alle Versuchsflechten, jedoch nicht Cetraria pinastri, Parmelia olivacea und auf Gestein auch nicht Parmeliopsis ambigua. 7. Die schwache Exkrementlsung vergrsserte den jhrlichen Lngenzuwachs der einzelnen Thalluslappen bei allen mindestens whrend zwei Jahre gemessenen Flechtenarten. Nur bei der ornithokoprophilen Candelariella coralliza und bei Xanthoria elegans wurde keine solche Erhhung der Wachstumsgeschwindigkeit beobachtet. 8. Meine Untersuchungen zeigen, dass die Wachstumsgeschwindigkeit der Flechtenindividuen und der einzelnen Thalluslappen nach Massgabe der Standortsfaktoren sehr verschieden ist, sowie dass diese Verhltnisse als durchaus individuell zu betrachten sind und m.A.n. auf keinen Fall eine weitgehendere Verallgemeinerung erlauben.
23727228|Nomenclatural notes for Juncus welwitschii Hochst. ex Steud. are provided and the name is synonymized with Juncus bulbosus L. subsp. bulbosus. Welwitsch's exsiccate No. 324 is discussed.
23727183|We studied the floristic changes in Quercus coccifera macchia after a fire that occurred in 1986. Floristic changes in the study area were observed during the first five years and the fourteenth year after the fire. Most of the pre-fire species (98.6%) returned back within the first three years after the fire. In the fifth year, the species similarity in the burned and unburned areas was 93.8%, and the vegetation nearly reached the prefire physiognomy. At the end of the fourteenth year, no significant differences in terms of floristic composition and physiognomy were observed.
23728243|A new hybrid combination Pilosella onegensis Norrl.  P. praealta (Vill. ex Gochn.) F. Schultz & Sch. Bip. is recognised on the basis of its intermediate morphological characters, and described under a new binomial name, P.  tambovica Sennikov. All old records of P. caespitosa (Dumort.) P.D. Sell & C. West and many such of "Hieracium nestleri Vill." from the Tambov Region of European Russia are found referable to P. onegensis.
23727919|The karyotypes of three species of the genus Thinouia (Sapindaceae, Paullinieae) from southern Brazil and Bolivia are analyzed. New counts and karyotypes are reported for the first time for T. ventricosa and T. paraguayensis, both with 2n = 28. The karyotype formulae of T. mucronata, T. paraguayensis and T. ventricosa are 8m + 14sm + 6st, 10m + 8sm + 10st, and 14m + 4sm + 10st, respectively. In all the species investigated, the prophase chromosome condensation was always proximal and the pattern of the interphase nuclei was non-reticulate. These results are discussed in relation to previous chromosome studies for Paullinieae in order to infer the phylogenetic relationships within the tribe.
23727799|SDS-PAGE profiles of whole cell proteins were used to differentiate among 13 Azolla accessions belonging to six species in section Euazolla. Azolla mexicana, A. microphylla, A. rubra, A. filiculoides and A. caroliniana showed highly identical protein profiles except A. caroliniana 3001, in which two distinct bands of molecular weight 81 kDa and 97 kDa were absent. This can be a useful marker for distinguishing this strain among accessions belonging to section Euazolla. The protein profiles of two accessions of A. pinnata, placed in section Rhizosperma consisted of unique bands in the range of 1217 kDa, which were absent in all species of section Euazolla. The distinct SDS-PAGE profile, especially those of A. caroliniana and A. pinnata, provide useful fingerprints for identification of strains belonging to these species among mixtures.
23725710|In the 1970s the vegetation of Fucus vesiculosus L. (Phaeophyta, Fucales) declined strongly in many parts of the Archipelago Sea. The decline coincided with a rise in the salinity and nutrient levels and an increase in the production of littoral filamentous algae. The occurrence of attached Fucus was studied throughout the area in 19811982. Besides ordinary field techniques, aerial photography was used. The decline was most evident in moderately exposed localities in the middle archipelago zone and in outer archipelago areas directly influenced by water from the Baltic proper. In strongly exposed localities in the outer archipelago and in the sheltered inner archipelago, little or no change was apparent. Since 1982 signs of a recovery have been observed in the area.
23726174|As a result of cultivation and breeding experiments, within the Silene section Otites two groups are recognised, viz. the Cyri group (seven genetically isolated species in Europe) and the Otites group (six partly interfertile species). The combination S. velebitica (Degen) Wrigley is proposed, and two new taxa are described: S. otites (L.) Wibel subsp. hungarica Wrigley and S. colpophylla Wrigley. S. cyri Schischkin, S. donetzica Kleopow and S. chersonensis (Zapa.) Kleopow are accepted as good species. S.  pseudotites Besser ex Reichenb. (S. colpophylla  otites) merits a binomial as occupying alone an extensive area south of the Alps. Old taxonomical and nomenclatural confusions, largely centred around S. wolgensis and S. pseudotites, are demonstrated. In several cases the synonymy has been critically revised.
23724203|Chromosome numbers have been counted for 11 strains of Thymus originating from Spain, Yugoslavia and Romania.
23726659|The genus Leproloma Nyl. ex Cromb. is reduced to a synonym of Lepraria Ach. and all taxa of the former are transferred to the latter. The following new combinations are proposed: Lepraria diffusa (J.R.Laundon) Kukwa comb. nova var. diffusa, L. diffusa var. chrysodetoides (J.R.Laundon) Kukwa comb. nova and L. sipmaniana (Kmmerling & Leuckert) Kukwa comb. nova.
23727854|Linum ertugrulii O. Tugay, Y. Bac & Uysal sp. nova (Linaceae) from Cihanbeyli (B4 Konya, Turkey) is described and illustrated. It is closely similar to L. flavum, L. pamphylicum and L. ciliatum, from which it differs mainly in having a stoloniferous stem, and in the leaf and floral features. Notes are presented on its habitat ecology and biogeography.
23725261|The description of Mnium andrewsianum Steere is based on two different elements, M. andrewsianum [= Rhizomnium andrewsianum (Steere) T. Kop.] and R. gracile T. Kop. The holotype specimen represents R. andrewsianum s.str.
43922138|The lakes studied numbered 304 and the material comprised 40 bryophyte species. The local distribution of the species is presented and their ecology briefly discussed. The commonest species are Drepanocladus procerus (Ren. & H. Arn.) Warnst, (found in 99 lakes, max. depth 6.0 m), Scorpidium scorpioides (Hedw.) Limpr. (43, 5.6 m), Fontinalis antipyretica Hedw. (38, 3.5 m), Drepanocladus tricho phyllus (Warnst.) Podp. (35, 3.2 m), Calliergon megalophyllum Mikut. (31, 5.6 m), Drepanocladus tenuinervis (29, 5.6 m), D. capillifolius (Warnst.) Warnst. (29, 3.5 m) and Sphagnum platyphyllum (Braithw.) Warnst. (26, 5.2 m). The other species observed to reach a depth of over 3.0 m were Fontinalis hypnoides Hartm. (5.6 m) and F. dalecarlica B.S.G. (3.5 m).
23724617|The phytogeography (Figs. 1  4) and ecology (Fig. 5) of the species of Plagiomnium sect. Rosulata in northwestern Europe has been studied. Plagiomnium affine is a species of mesic grassherb woods and its distribution is southern in northwestern Europe. P. elatum is found throughout the area but is rare in the northern vegetation zones. Its occurrances are concentrated in calcareous districts, and it grows in eutrophic fens, meadows, carrs, and springs. P. rugicum grows in a wide variety of wet habitats and its range includes the whole area. P. medium is represented by two subspecies in northwestern Europe. Ssp. medium inhabits hemiboreal and southern boreal moist grass-herb woodlands, being rare or absent in the more southern and northern zones. Ssp. curvatulum occurs mainly in arctic and hemiarctic zones, growing on fertile soils or on rock ledges. Partly overlapping distribution patterns and partial ecological isolation of the taxa are in accord with the evidence of their taxonomic differentiation.
23727990|Serjania Iittoralis Somner & Ferrucci sp. nova (Sapindaceae) is described from Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. It belongs to Serjania sect. Serjania. The new species is illustrated and compared with its putative closest relatives S. dentata and S. faveolata. It is known only from restinga vegetation. In addition, the micromorphological characters of the pollen grains are described.
23724171|The regional variation of the cation content of the Cladonia alpestris thallus prompted a study of the mechanism of translocation of 137Cs and 90Sr ions within the thallus. The results of this paper refer to the dead thallus. The unexpectedly rapid translocation observed seems, with respect to Cs, to fit the simple diffusion equation in unidimensional form. Silica gel, used as a simulator of wind, had a certain accelerating effect on the translocation of both cations. The results of these experiments could also be approximately reproduced with a diffusion model. The characteristic difference in the vertical distributions of Sr and Gs ions demonstrates the cation exchange ability of the thallus. The concentration distribution of the Sr ions fits a diffusion model in which the diffusion coefficient passes through a maximum between the base and the top of the thallus. The introduction of the concept of reflection at a boundary in connection with the results of the lichen simulator experiments makes it easier to understand the shape of the curves showing the accumulation of cations at the tops of the thalli and also supports the assumption that translocation of Cs and Sr along the Cladonia alpestris thallus is primarily diffusive in character but complicated by cation exchange, especially with respect to Sr ions.
23727989|Centaurea kaynakiae Dakn & Ylmaz sp. nova (Asteraceae) is described and illustrated from northwest Anatolia, Turkey. It is closest to C. odyssei, but differs by its distinctly petiolate and longer basal and median leaves, and spheroidal rather than prolate pollen grains.
23727605|Cerasus hefengensis X.R. Wang & C.B. Shang sp. nova (Rosaceae) from SW Hubei, China, is described and illustrated. It is compared with a morphologically similar species.
23724685|The principal features of the regional occurrence of 38 Sphagnum species (three of them collective) found in Eastern Fennoscandia are presented, with special reference to their presence in the different phytogeographical provinces and vegetation zones. Numerous records are the first for the province in question, among them that of S. subfulvum Sjrs from Finnmark (Norway).
23726196|Two North American races of Juncus alpinoarticulatus Chaix in Vill. are recognized, viz. subsp. americanus (Farwell) Hmet-Ahti, comb. & stat. nova, ranging from southernmost Greenland and Newfoundland to Alaska and Northeast Asia, Chukotka and Kamchatka, and subsp. fuscescens (Fern.) Hmet-Ahti, stat. & comb. nova, occurring only in the northeastern part of the United States of America.
23726561|Field and ground layer vegetation in a mature Norway spruce (Picea abies L.) forest of Myrtillus-type in Kuorevesi, southern Finland, was sampled on 31 plots of sizes 0.5, 1 and 2 m2 to find optimal balance among sampling effort, number of observed species, and accuracy of mean species-cover estimates. Rarefaction and bootstrapping were used in the data analysis. According to the results, the addition of species is slow yet continuous after the first few plots. The expected number of species in samples taken with the different plot sizes decreases in the following order: 2 > 1 > 0.5 m2. Results implied that plant species have different optimum plot sizes with respect to the accuracy of the mean cover estimates. However, representative registering of species present needs a larger sample and plot size than a relatively accurate estimation of the mean cover of the individual species. Consequently, representative registering of species sets the minimum limits for the number and size of the sample plots.
23726580|Astragalus tuna-ekimii N. Adgzel from East Anatolia, belonging to sect. Macrosemium Bunge, is described as a species new to science and illustrated.
23726475|This study investigates the type material of some taxa of Geocalycaceae from Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines. Chiloscyphus argutus (Reinw. et al.) Nees var. subtilis Nees and C. variabilis Steph. are synonymized with Heteroscyphus argutus (Reinw. et al.) Schiffn., Chiloscyphus balnetii Herz. with Heteroscyphus diestianus (Sande Lac.) Piippo, Chiloscyphus aequifolius Steph. with Saccogynidium muricellum (De Not.) Grolle, Chiloscyphus modigliani Steph. with Heteroscyphus splendens (Lehm. & Lindenb.) Grolle, Chiloscyphus porrigens Schiffn. with Heteroscyphus coalitus (Hook.) Schiffn., Lophocolea crenulifolia Steph. with Chiloscyphus kurzii (Sande Lac.) Engel & Schust., and Lophocolea kehdingiana Steph. with Heteroscyphus succulentus (Gott.) Schiffn. Two new combinations, Heteroscyphus merapiensis (Steph.) Piippo and H. rectangulatus (Herz.) Piippo, and three new lectotypifications are presented. Chiloscyphus salacensis (Steph.) Engel & Schust., Heteroscyphus caesius (Schiffn.) Schiffn., H. diestianus, H. fragilicilius (Schiffn.) Schiffn., H. merapiensis, and H. rectangulatus are discussed and illustrated.
23725885|Seven new species of Taraxacum are described from southern France (Haute-Pyrnes and Pyrnes Atlantiques), viz. Taraxacum agrarium Sonck, T. cuneatum Sonck, T. etchebarnei Sonck, which belong to section Taraxacum (sect. Vulgaria Dahlst.), as well as T. sublime Sonck, T. rigescens Sonck, T. spilosum Sonck, and T. teres Sonck, which are thought to belong to section Hamata llgaard.
23726768|The chromosome numbers of six diploid (2n = 16) and two triploid (2n = 24) populations of Allium scorodoprasum and eight tetraploid (2n = 32) populations of A. vineale were studied in Finland and western Ukraine. Tripliid A. scorodoprasum has not previously been found in Finland. These are the first chromosome counts of A. vineale from Finland.
23727213|As a precursor to a revision of Malagasy endemic tribe Coleeae (Bignoniaceae), eleven species are described from the Masoala Peninsula as new (Colea resupinata, C. gentryi, C. ramiflora, C. rosea, C. sytsmae, Ophiocolea vokoanensis, Phyllarthron nocturnum, P. vokoanensis, P. sahamalazensis, Rhodocolea multiflora, R. lemuriphila). A key to Bignoniaceae of Masoala is provided.
23727823|Dendrocalamus xishuangbannaensis D.Z. Li & H.Q. Yang (Poaceae: Bambusoideae), a new species from southern Yunnan, China, is described and illustrated. It is characterized by branching from the nodes ca. 0.51.0 m above ground, white hairs on lower surface of leaf blade, yellow-green pseudospikelets, four or five florets per pseudospikelet, and only four fertile florets.
23727207|A bioclimatic study of Tenerife, supported and clarified by PCA and DCA analyses, was performed in order to map the bioclimates, ombrotypes, thermotypes, bioclimatic belts and climatophilous vegetation series. Commentaries and synoptic tables of the terminal communities of each climatophilous series are given. A new map of the potential natural vegetation shows significant differences from the climatophilous series map, mainly due to salic substrates and recent lava flows.
23725497|Using repeat photography from fixed points in the terrain, the demography and vigour change of more than 2 m high Pinus sylvestris L. were monitored in the forest-alpine tundra ecotone of the Swedish Scandes for the period 1972/731985/86. Additionally, altitudinal tree-limit change for the same period was estimated from old records. Despite declining summer temperatures during the study period, mortality was nil, vigour improved on the whole, and the tree-limit advanced altitudinally in certain localities. Sexual regeneration, however, did not occur. It is concluded from the incongruence of vegetative growth and summer thermal conditions that the altitude of the P. sylvestris tree-limit is not merely a function of summer temperature. It is deduced that late winter/spring weather conditions are of great importance in this respect. The progressive trend of vegetative P. sylvestris growth during the study period was evidently due to relatively favourable weather conditions during that season. The suggestion is made that general tree-line theories should consider mechanisms of winter/spring weather resistance.
23728107|Aspidistra longituba Yan Liu & C.R. Lin (Ruscaceae) is described and illustrated as a new species from the limestone areas in the Guangxi Zhuangzu Autonomous Region, China. The new species is similar to A. claviformis, but differs in its longer perianth tube that is up to 1.62 cm, suberect or incurved lobes with basal appendages, and in the articulate style base.
23726151|The autumnal fruit body production was studied in 15 localities (42 stands). The average proportion of edible fungi out of the total crops was ca. 68% of dry weight, and the proportion of the commercial fungi of the total was 37%. The average annual production of the commercial (cleaned) fungi was estimated to be 150000 tons in mature and advanced-aged forests in northern Finland. The most frequent and productive edible species were Suillus variegatus (639 g/ha, dry weight) and Lactarius rufus (368 g/ha). Leccinum versipelle (244 g/ha), L. scabrum (111 g/ha), Russula decolorans (110 g/ha), R. vinosa (90 g/ha), and Lactarius trivialis (66 g/ha) were productive, as well. The commercial fungi were relatively more abundant in infertile forests than in forests on better soils. The average duration of the autumn season of the fruit body production in northern Finland was 2.5 months in 1976, four months in 1977 and three months in 1978.
23724178|The vegetation of 57 sample plots containing Pulsatilla patens is analysed and some ecological factors affecting this species are discussed. A dot map is provided to show the distribution of Pulsatilla patens in Finland and the changes which have occurred in its area during the last 30 years are discussed. Special attention is paid to the influence of human activities.
23725281|Five metals (Pb, Cu, Zn, Fe, Mn) were studied in moss samples collected from ombrotrophic sites in southern Finnish raised bogs. The manganese, lead and iron concentrations (ppm) were higher in the hummock species Sphagnum fuscum (Schimp.) Klinggr. than in the hollow species S. balticum (Russow) C. Jens. and S. majus (Russow) C. Jens. In all the vertical profiles, Pb, Zn and Fe increased with depth (from living to dead moss). In the hummocks, Mn showed a regular decrease with depth (07 cm), while in the hollows no vertical Mn gradient was observed. Compared with northern Finnish material, Sphagnum fuscum samples from southern Finland showed elevated concentrations of Fe, Pb, Cu and Zn.
23724150|The external and anatomical characters of Epilobium davuricum and E. palustre have been analysed and compared in 14 populations. Comparisons with cultivated controls were made in respect of all the characters. The ecology of the species has been studied. The distribution of E. davuricum in Eastern Fennoscandia is presented.
23727947|Silene dumanii Kandemir, G. Ecevit Gen & . Gen sp. nova (Caryophyllaceae) from East Anatolia (Turkey) is described and illustrated. Diagnostic characters, detailed illustrations and taxonomic comments on the species as well as its geographical distribution are given.
23726804|A new phylogenetic classification of the fern family Vittariaceae, based on molecular and morphological characters, necessitates the following new combinations in Haplopteris: H. amboinensis (Fe) X.C. Zhang, H. linearifolia (Ching) X.C. Zhang, H. mediosora (Hayata) X.C. Zhang, and H. plurisulcata (Ching) X.C. Zhang. The names Haplopteris forrestiana (Ching) E.H. Crane and H. modesta (Hand.-Mazz.) E.H. Crane are reduced to synonyms.
23727940|The aim of this study was to characterize the spatial structure, density and distribution of shoots within the individual clumps of Myrica gale, and the sexual structure in the populations of this species. The area of most clumps varied from 0.02 to 20 m2. The density of shoots in the clumps was negatively correlated with the size of the clump, the mean value being 23.31 shoots per m2. The density of shoots in different parts of the clumps was higher in the peripheral parts of the clumps than in their centers. There were more male than female shoots in the clumps (75.87% and 24.13%, respectively). In the 57% of the clumps both male and female shoots were recorded. The occurrence of monoecism and synoecism was common.
23725329|Rinodina endophragmia Lamb is reported as the only lichen so far detected at Basen, Dronning Maud Land, Antarctica, in a region with an annual mean temperature of ca. -20C. The locality is the second one known in Antarctica for this saxicolous species. These two specimens were growing on the fine mineral matrix (glacial till) among wind-worn and polished basaltic pebbles. The specimen contains zeorin.
23727218|The exogenous application of cytokinins through seed pre-treatment is reported to be involved in plant tolerance to salt stress. It was hypothesized that cytokinins could regulate the salinity-induced changes in hormonal balance for adequate physiological adaptation to stressful environments in plants. Thus, the present studies aimed to assess the effects of pre-sowing seed treatment with varying levels (100, 150 and 200 mg l-1) of cytokinins, namely kinetin (Kin) and benzylaminopurine (BAP), on growth, yield, and leaves' endogenous levels of salicylic acid and polyamines (putrescine, spermidine and spermine) in two spring wheat (Triticum aestivum) cultivars, MH-97 (salt intolerant) and Inqlab-91 (salt tolerant). The primed and non-primed seeds were sown in a field in which NaCl salinity of 15 dS m-1 was developed. The experiments were conducted during the years 2002 and 2003. Of the different priming agents, Kin was very effective, particularly in improving growth and grain yield in both cultivars. Priming with mild concentration (100 mg l-1) of Kin in the salt intolerant and moderate concentrations (150 mg l-1) of BAP and Kin in the tolerant cultivar increased leaf free salicylic acid under saline conditions. BAP priming increased leaf free polyamines (Spermidine and Spermine) in both cultivars under salt stress. Plants of the salt tolerant cultivar raised from non-primed seeds accumulated more putrescine in the leaves as compared with plants raised from primed seeds. In conclusion, seed priming with moderate concentration of Kin showed a consistent beneficial effect on growth and grain yield in both cultivars under salt stress. The mechanism by which Kin-priming induced salt tolerance in wheat plants remains unclear.
23726569|Litter cover is known to protect ground surfaces from raindrop impact and therefore reduces soil erosion. Significant differences were found to exist in the abundance, composition and size of trees, in their litter production rates, and in the resulting potential for soil erosion of the foreshore (020 m from shorelines) compared with the backshore (2050 m upslope) regions of riparian zones around four boreal lakes located in northwestern Ontario, Canada. These findings support a global pattern wherein litter production adjacent to waterbodies is often considerably reduced compared with that characteristic of upland forests. This study therefore raises questions of the presumed effectiveness of existing forestry guidelines concerning widths of protective buffer strips around boreal, coldwater lakes in Ontario, which are presently based on an erroneous assumption of uniform tree cover and litterfall throughout riparian zones.
23725538|Iwatsukia jishibae (Steph.) N. Kitag. of the Cephaloziaceae subfam. Alobielloideae is reported as new for Western Melanesia. Cephaloziellaceae has Cephaloziella (1 species) on the Huon Peninsula. Antheliaceae was not present on the Huon Peninsula. Lophoziaceae has 10 genera in Western Melanesia in subfamilies Gottschelioideae, Jamesonielloideae and Lophozioideae. Sphenolobopsis is newly reported for Western Melanesia with S. pearsonii (Spruce) Schust. S. himalayensis N. Kitag. and S. kitagawae Schust. are treated as new synonyms of S. pearsonii; and Jungermannia iwatsukii Amak. of Cryptochila grandiflora (Lindenb. & Gott.) Grolle. Andrewsianthus koponenii Va & Piippo is described as new. Anastrophyllum squarrosum Herz. and Andrewsianthus bidens (Mitt. ex Steph.) Schust. are reported as new for Western Melanesia. A. auritum (Lehm.) Steph. is reported as new for Sumatra, A. bidens (Reinw. et al.) Steph. for Australia, A. borneense Herz. for Ceram, and A. revolutum Steph. and A. squarrosum for the Philippines. Keys to the genera and species, and ranges are provided for all the species of Western Melanesia, and descriptions and illustrations for all the species occurring on the Huon Peninsula.
23726176|The following two new nomenclatural combinations are proposed: Silene uniflora Roth subsp. cratericola (Franco) Franco and Dianthus laricifolius Boiss. & Reuter subsp. marizii (Samp.) Franco.
23725170|Five new species are described, viz. Taraxacum bifalcatum Sonck, T. glandiforme Sonck, and T. infradentatum Sonck, all three from France, T. diversicolor Sonck from Hungary, and T. perrigidum Sonck from Italy. The first four species belong to the section Taraxacum (Vulgaria Dahlst.), and T. perrigidum probably belongs to a so far undescribed section (Mediterranea ined.).
23726172|A population of Epipactis helleborine (L.) Cranz growing on a woody hill in Lappeenranta contains both normal green plants and abundant white chlorophyll-free individuals. An individual with white and green striped (variegated) leaves and several plants with chlorotic, yellowish-green leaves were also observed. As far is known, the first white specimen was collected from the area in 1969. Observations were made in 1981  1984 between 19 and 31 July. The number of white plants in an area of about 2.3 ha was estimated at 180, the number observed yearly varying between 141 and 13. In every year about 90% of the white plants were flowering at the time of the count. Half of the white individuals had only one shoot. In 1982, 118 white plants (283 shoots) were found in an area of 0.42 ha, whereas in 1984 this area did not contain a single white individual in the latter half of July. In the same years the number of normal green plants of E. helleborine in a randomly chosen area of 50 m2 increased. About 70% of the white individuals in the 0.42-ha plot were seen only once. The percentages seen in two, three and four successive years were 27, 4, and 0, respectively.
23726161|Rhodobryum roseum (Hedw.) Limpr. is lectotypified so as to retain its traditional prevalent usage in Europe, i.e. to exclude the more widespread R. spathulatum (Hornsch.) Pcs (syn. R. ontariense (Kindb.) Kindb.).
23726744|I studied colonies of Lophozia silvicola Buch on wood, rock and soil in an old-growth forest in southern Finland. The frequency of fertile colonies is highest on wood. Rock is considered suboptimal on the basis of rare occurrences and lowest frequency of fertile colonies on boulders. On logs, L. silvicola is most frequent on Picea abies in late stages of decay and on middle-sized logs. The colonies were on average 1.94 m apart from each other, what indicated relatively good colonization ability. The overall distribution pattern of L. silvicola colonies is aggregated. Sexual and asexual colonies do not differ in a distance to the closest neighbouring colony.
23725361|The pollen grains of Empetrum nigrum L., including both subspecies in Finland, are described using light and scanning electron microscopy. E. nigrum subsp. nigrum possesses tetrahedral tetrads with 12 compound costae. This is the typical tetrad form of most Ericales. E. nigrum subsp. hermaphroditum (Hagerup) Bcher tetrads are larger than those of subsp. nigrum. This paper reports polymorphism for the number of compound colpi in E. nigrum subsp. hermaphroditum, the tetrads of which proved to possess the normal 12 compound colpi, to as many as 16 compound costae per tetrad. Although earlier observations report pollen polymorphism for size in E. nigrum, this paper reports for the first time, the occurrence of pollen polymorphism for the number of apertures in E. nigrum subsp. hermaphroditum. We believe pollen polymorphism in E. nigrum subsp. hermaphroditum is related to polyploidy.
23727686|Michelia multitepala R.Z. Zhou & S.G. Jian sp. nova (Magnoliaceae) from Yunnan, China is described and illustrated. It appears to be allied with M. macclurei, but differs mainly in having longer leaves, more tepals (1112) in 4 (or 34) series, and in its longer, aggregate spicate (815 cm) fruit. Also Michelia ingrata resembles M. multitepala, but differs mainly by its longitudinally furrowed bark, bigger leaves that are glaucous beneath, fleshy and glabrous tepals, and by its unpleasant flower odor.
23725898|Phytoplankton primary production, cell volume and species composition were studied together with some chemical parameters along two transects in Lokka reservoir during the period 1617 July 1976. The brown water colour caused rapid changes in water temperature and the shallow basin produced continuous circulation of the water. Diatoms predominated in the phytoplankton in the deepest layers at the Lokka dam, but flagellates, mainly cryptophytes, were dominant at the surface. Over 50 % of the total cell volume was composed of flagellates. The primary production showed a steep vertical gradient, but the horizontal variation was small.
23724610|1. It has been shown experimentally that Anthracoidea paniceae and the imperfect Crotalia stage of Anthracoidea heterospora cause a local flower infection in their hosts, Carex panicea and C. nigra, respectively. 2. The successful inoculation and the production of smut sori in these spikelets demonstrate that the Crotalia stage in question is part of the life cycle of Anthracoidea heterospora. 3. The results of the inoculation experiments and the anatomical studies of the Carex ovary and seed both seem to indicate that infection occurs in the early stages of the flowering of the host plant. 4. Infection is likely to take place in the upper parts of the ovary, or perhaps through the style and stigmas. 5. The results of the inoculations, as well as the structure of the central columella in the smut sorus, seem to suggest that seed setting must begin before the further development of the fungus is possible within the infected flower.
43922326|Samples of Sphagnum fuscum (Schimp.) Klinggr. (from hummocks) and of S. balticum (Russow) C. Jens, and S. majus (Russow) C. Jens, (from hollows) were analysed for growth characteristics and for the quantities of some macronutrients (N, P, K, Ga, Mg) and ash in ombrotrophic conditions. The annual growth in length and net production per unit area of full moss cover were lower in S. fuscum than in the two hollow species. The hollow Sphagna contained significantly less calcium per unit dry weight than S. fuscum. The relative accumulation of elements in live Sphagnum was studied by calculating the ratio of the nutrient consumption by moss to the atmospheric input (both per unit area), which gave the ranking K > P > N > Mg > Ca. This suggests that the element most actively recycled by the moss layer is potassium. The same ranking was obtained with the ratio of the concentrations of these elements in Sphagnum to those in bog pool water. In vertical profiles all three species had higher concentrations of potassium, nitrogen and phosphorus in the live green portion than in the dead brown moss below.
23726937|Samples of mature vegetation and seedling flora were taken in 15 plant communities at Kilpisjrvi, subarctic Finland. The first aim of the study was to investigate seedling densities in different plant communities. The second, was to explore the importance of different regenerative groups, severe disturbances, altitude as well as cover of vegetation, bryophytes and litter in the prediction of seedling densities. Contrary to a common prediction, seedlings were abundant in many plant communities. The mean seedling density was closely related to the cover of the regenerative groups in the mature vegetation types and not related to the environmental factors. The densities did not decrease with altitude. Severe disturbances did not usually lead to higher seedling density, either. Thus estimating the cover of the regenerative groups in mature vegetation is a most useful tool in the prediction of seedling densities. By exploring the cover of the regenerative groups it is possible to map the landscape in terms of the seed regeneration for the purpose of restoration plans.
23724680|A new dynamic model of the daily height increment of plants is presented. It does not place any preconceived restrictions on the growth curve, but permits free analytic treatment of various data for studies on the influence of environmental factors on plants growth.
23727824|Hesperis ozcelikii A. Duran sp. nova (Brassicaceae) is described and illustrated from South Anatolia, Turkey. The species grows in landslipped places, open forest, roadsides and serpentine, pebbly slopes in Stler (C3 Isparta province). It is closely related to Hesperis aspera, an endemic confined to southwest Anatolia. Diagnostic morphological characters, ecology and biogeography of H. ozcelikii are discussed. The pollen characteristics and seed coat surface of H. ozcelikii and H. aspera were examined by SEM. Hesperis ozcelikii is diploid with a new chromosome number of 2n = 12.
23726495|Epiphyllic microbial cover on Norway spruce (Picea abies) needles has increased in recent years in Denmark and in neighbouring countries. Based on a survey of 2445 needles from seven localities in Denmark and Poland, the development of the microbial crust through 11 needle generations was analysed. An algal crust consisting of mainly Apatococcus lobatus (Chodat) Boye-Petersen and Desmococcus viridis Brand is built up during the first four years, peels off during the subsequent three years whereafter a new crust starts accumulating. These crusts are frequently colonized by two fungi, Scolecotheca cornuta Schting & Sutton and Capronia sp. The amount of microbial cover on the needles did not reflect the varying levels of nitrogen deposition within the area.
23726775|One new combination at the section level and nine combinations at the species level are proposed in the genus Pseudoliparis (Orchidaceae, Malaxidinae).
23725415|Seven spontaneous populations of Arabidopsis suecica (Fries) Norrlin from Finland were examined. Four of them yielded 2n = 26, two 2n = c. 22 and one 2n = 20. The number was not fully fixed in some cases. These are the first reports of the chromosome number of the species in Finland. The numbers 2n = 20 and 2n = c. 22 are new to the species and have not even been reported before for the genus Arabidopsis (DC) Heynh., also being very infrequent in the family Brassicaceae.
23724191|Two Finnish ornamental strains of Cerastium tomentosum L. and one strain of C. Biebersteinii DC. of wild Crimean origin have been studied. The main results of morphological and anatomical analysis, chromosome counts and garden experiments are as follows: The flatness of the capsule-tooth margins, which is commonly used as a differential character between C. Biebersteinii and C. tomentosum, does not seem a valid distinction in all cases, as both flat and revolute tooth margins seem to exist within C. tomentosum. On the other hand, C. Biebersteinii can be separated from C. tomentosum by means of a number of other characters, e.g. the structure of the capsule wall and the size of the seeds. The chromosome number of the Crimean C. Biebersteinii is 2n = 36 and that of the C. tomentosum strains studied 2n = 72. The latter number has earlier been reported for ornamental strains called C. Biebersteinii. Previous counts on C. tomentosum have given the somatic numbers 36, 38, 72 and 108, the last being the only record for material of wild origin. The progeny after open pollination of the two ornamental strains showed wide variation, and a number of new recombination types were noticed. One of the ornamental strains is, to judge from its morphology and weak seed-setting, most probably the hybrid C. arvense  tomentosum.
23727997|Some corrections to the nomenclatural checklist of Cotoneaster (Rosaceae) in eastern Europe and the Caucasus are proposed. Cotoneaster uralensis B. Hylm & J. Fryer is treated as a synonym of C. cinnabarinus Juz., and C. soczavianus Pojark. as a synonym of C. tomentosus (Aiton) Lindl. For the sake of stability, the established use of the name C. integerrimus Medik. is maintained according to the lectotype designated by B. Hylm and contrary to the conserved type belonging to C. scandinavicus B. Hylm. The name C. pyrenaicus Gand. is found applicable to C. integerrimus sensu Hylm if the conservation is followed. Cotoneaster mamajevii Knjaz. and C. estiensis J. Fryer & B. Hylm are reduced to the synonymy of C. integerrimus. The second-step lectotypes of C. antoninae Juz. and C. cinnabarinus Juz. are designated. Cotoneaster cinnabarinus is reported as new to the Tyumen Region of Russia and Siberia as a whole. Some records of casual and naturalised alien species of Cotoneaster in the European Russia are revised and corrected.
23727984|Clinopodium hakkaricum Dirmenci & Frat (Lamiaceae) sp. nova from Hakkari province, SE Anatolia, Turkey is described and illustrated. It clearly differs from the other Clinopodium taxa in Turkey and adjacent areas. Affinities to and differences from C. insulare, C. menthifolium, C. molle and C. nepeta are elaborated. These related species are revised for Turkey and adjacent areas and an identification key is provided.The geographic localities of the examined specimens are presented in a distribution map.
23727758|Tree survival, as affected by tree and stand variables, was studied using the Estonian database of permanent forest research plots. The tree survival was examined on the basis of remeasurements during the period 19952004, covering the most common forest types and all age groups. In this study, the influence of 35 tree and stand variables on tree survival probability was analyzed using the data of 31 097 trees from 236 research plots. For estimating individual tree survival probability, a logistic model using the logit-transformation was applied. Tree relative height had the greatest effect on tree survival. However, different factors were included into the logistic model for different development stages: tree relative height, tree relative diameter, relative basal area of larger trees and relative sparsity of a stand for young stands; tree relative height, relative basal area of larger trees and stand density for middle-aged and maturing stands; and tree relative height and stand density for mature and overmature stands. The models can be used as preliminary sub-components for elaboration of a new individual tree based growth simulator.
23727195|Systematic searching through the botanical and bryological literature has clarified correct author citation for the names of the four main classes of division Bryophyta: Sphagnopsida Schimp., Andreaeopsida J. H. Schaffn., Polytrichopsida Doweld, and Bryopsida Pax. In addition, three subclasses of Bryopsida should be correctly cited as follows: Tetraphididae Doweld, Buxbaumiidae Doweld, and Dicranidae Doweld. These citations are discussed in the context of long-standing ambiguity in the I.C.B.N. in treatment of suprafamilial names.
23728256|The paper describes a new taxon, Juncus bulbosus f. submucronatus J. Prokw, designates an epitype for J. bulbosus L. f. bulbosus, and details the distribution of both forms. The new form is native to most of Europe, NW Africa and Azores, and introduced to E Canada, SE Australia and S Chile. It is more frequent in western, central (excluding Poland) and southern Europe, contrary to f. bulbosus which is more common in northern Europe (excluding Iceland and Faroe Islands) and in Poland. A detailed key to all the infraspecific taxa of J. bulbosus is given. The new taxon differs from its closest relatives by the presence of dorsal (i.e. localised just below the apices of perianth segments) mucros usually pronouncedly or at least distinctly exceeding the perianth tops. The chromosome number for the new taxon (2n = 40) and ecological differences between the forms are given. In Poland f. submucronatus grows in eutrophic ponds and f. bulbosus thrives in oligotrophic Lobelia lakes.
23727932|Tiselius' outstanding collection Potamogetones suecici exsiccati is reviewed and re-evaluated from the viewpoint of the present nomenclature and taxonomy. All 150 gatherings issued in this collection are listed and interpreted taxonomically. In a few cases new taxonomic findings are given based on molecular investigation of plant material from the type localities. All new names proposed in this collection are listed and checked for their nomenclatural validity and legitimacy. Lectotypes are designated for 64 valid names and authentic specimens listed for 27 additional invalid designations. Two names (and their types) are of particular importance for contemporary plant taxonomy because these are the correct names for recognized and confirmed Potamogeton hybrids: P.  torssanderi for the triple hybrid P. gramineus  P. lucens  P. perfoliatus and P.  lanceolatifolius for P. gramineus  P. nodosus.
23728025|Chirita ningmingensis Yan Liu & W.H. Wu, a new species of Gesneriaceae from Guangxi, China, is described and illustrated. It is similar to C. baishouensis but differs in the peduncle and pedicel glandular-pubescent, bracts broadly lanceolate, the corolla 33.5 cm long, outside glandular-pubescent, filaments ca. 6 mm long, anthers glabrous, staminodes 3, the pistil glandular-pubescent, stigma cordiform, and apex retuse.
43922234|Dipelta (Caprifoliaceae) is endemic to China, and comprises 3-4 species. Here we used DNA sequences, and SSR and AFLP data to investigate relationships among these taxa. Cluster analysis of all the data showed that D. elegans, an endangered species, was early separated from the others. Both SSR and AFLP data indicated that individuals of D. wenxianensis and D. floribunda were mixed together, suggesting that they were conspecific. STRUCTURE analysis revealed the introgression between D. floribunda and D. yunnanensis, which might produce new "taxa" like D. wenxianensis.
43922177|A single evidently native tree having the leaflets with yellowish margins was found in Helsinki, S. Finland, and is described as given in the heading.
23726293|Branches of Norway spruce (Picea abies) with epiphytic lichens were transplanted to several sites in the vicinity of a fertilizer plant and a strip mine at Siilinjrvi in Central Finland. Accumulation of fluoride, sulphur and plant nutrients N, P, K, Ca and Mg was found in Hypogymnia physodes, the concentrations depending on the distance from the emission sources. Within 4 to 6 months, the element concentrations reached the levels measured in local lichens in the same sites. The highest levels of sulphur, up to 3000 ppm, were measured at sites close to the plant. High levels of fluorides, up to 360 ppm, were found at several sites close to both the plant and the strip mine, pointing to the importance of both those sources as emittors of fluorides. The accumulation of sulphur increased towards the autumn, while the accumulation of fluoride was highest in summer and declined in autumn. The concentration of fluoride was significantly decreased by washing the thalli. In the ultrastructure of the photobiont cells of H. physodes and Bryoria capillaris, injuries typical of exposure to sulphur developed within two weeks of transplantation, before the sulphur concentrations of the thalli were significantly elevated. Ultrastructural injuries typical of exposure to fluoride were found when the thallus fluoride concentrations reached 30-40 ppm dry weight. According to the present observations, the transplantation technique is easy to apply and useful in biomonitoring studies, especially when standardization of sites and study material is needed.
43922102|The taxon has been grown at least since 1885 in several parks and gardens in south Finland, mainly in the southeast. Its cultivation is evidently directly derived from Russian sources. A new nomenclatural combination is proposed: Philadelphus coronarius L. var. glabratus (Hu) Jalas, comb. nova.
23728109|Magnolia bidoupensis Q.N. Vu sp. nova (Magnoliaceae) from Bidoup-Nuiba National Park, Lam Dong Province, S Vietnam is described and illustrated. It is morphologically close to M. odoratissima and M. albosericea, from which it differs chiefly by having a thickly leathery, broadly elliptic or ovate leaf blade with a broadly rounded base and an obtuse apex, smaller flowers, clavate stamens with an obtuse apex, and irregularly 3-winged ovules.
23726757|Astragalus dumanii M. Ekici & Ayta, sp. nova (Fabaceae) from South Anatolia, Turkey, is described and illustrated in line drawings. It is compared with the closely related A. cataonicus Bunge. Both species belong in Astragalus sect. Hololeuce Bunge.
23726169|Twenty-one populations of the monocarpic umbelliferous plant Angelica archangelica L. subsp. archangelica were cultivated in an experimental field. The parental seed samples were collected from Finland and North Norway. All flowers in the primary umbel were hermaphrodite, but the frequency of functionally or purely staminate flowers rose with the order of the umbels. The flowers were strongly protandrous, which decreased the seed set in umbels isolated to prevent free pollination. Self-pollination may nevertheless serve to ensure fertilization in small sparsely distributed populations. The fruit size was highly plastic. The results show interpopulational variation in reproductive and life-history characteristics. Variation in reaching the critical size for flowering appeared to be correlated in a complicated way with latitude and local environmental factors. The reproductive output increased greatly with increasing trophic level of the original sites. This was due to development of several flowering stems in plants with delayed reproduction.
23727595|The Chinese endemic and endangered Shaniodendron subaequale (Hamamelidaceae) is restricted to a narrow distribution area, where drought frequently occurs. In order to find out soil water demand of the species, we studied its photosynthesis and other ecophysiological traits in response to soil water availability. The results showed that, when relative water content was 60%, S. subaequale had the maximal photosynthetic rate and highest light saturation point. Below 60% of soil water holding capacity, mean photosynthesis rate, mean transpiration rates, mean water use efficiency and mean stomatal conductance remarkably decreased with decreasing soil water content. Significant reduction of S. subaequale leaf area followed that of soil water content, but at the same time the chlorophyll content increased. The study indicated that relatively wet soil was more favourable for S. subaequale. Separation of its actual water niche from an optimal water niche can partly account for its endangered status.
23726801|Three new species of resinicolous ascomycetes are described from western North America. These include two species of Chaenothecopsis (Mycocaliciaceae) and the new monotypic genus Brucea, with the new species B. castoris. Deep scars and massive resin flows caused by beaver represent an important habitat type for resinicolous fungi in the Pacific Northwest. All the new fungi grow on scarred Abies grandis and Tsuga heterophylla in low elevation forests in Oregon. Chaenothecopsis montana and C. oregana are also common at higher elevations in the Cascade Range. The former species also occurs in northern Europe, where it grows on Picea abies resin in moist conifer forests.
23724151|Brief description of the main types of vegetational zonation in the bay Hollolanlahti of Lake Vesijrvi (Prov. of South Hme; 6104' N, 2527' E), revealed by a survey of 30 line transects. Vegetational as well as floristic features testifying to secondary eutrophy are present.  The flora lists contain 155 spp. of vascular plants, 6 Characeae, 43 Musci and 5 spp. of Hepatics. Chara Braunii is recorded for the first time from Finnish inland waters. Myriophyllum verticillatum, was not known from Vesijrvi before. Other interesting finds include Najas flexilis, N. tenuissima, Nitella Nordstedtiana, and Potamogeton rutilus. In der Bucht Hollolanlahti gibt es eine sehr reiche Flora und ein ppige Vegetation. Sowohl eutrophe wie oligotrophe zge treten nebeneinander auf. Durch die Ttigkeit des Menschen ist die Bucht eutrophiert worden. Auf Grund der gegenwrtigen Vegetation knnte man Hollolanlahti am ehesten als einen eigenen Seetyp, Wasserblattkruter  Phragmites -Typ, definieren. Chara Braunii ist eine neue Art fr die Binnengewsser Finnlands, Myriophyllum verticillatum eine neue Art fr den See Vesijrvi.
23727980|The current taxonomic concept of the Klasea integrifolia group (Asteraceae) is explicated, and the new combinations Klasea integrifolia (Vahl) Greuter subsp. monardii (Dufour) Cant and Klasea algarbiensis (Cant) Cant are proposed. Photographs of the type material are provided.
23727724|The spatial genetic structure in three subpopulations of the endangered clonal plant Iris sibirica from southern Poland was investigated. The subpopulations occurred in different habitats, i.e. in a Molinietum caeruleae community, a Phragmites australis patch and in a willow brushwood. Using 13 enzymatic systems, sixteen loci were evaluated. The very low genetic diversity (P = 0%18.7%, A = 1.0%1.19%, HO = 0.0000.009) observed within the subpopulations is probably due to lack of recruitment, habitat fragmentation and/or historical causes. Five distinct multilocus genotypes, detected from 148 collected samples in the subpopulations, supported this observation. This fact illustrated that only clonal growth could maintain the present low genetic variation through the domination of a single or a few clones within these sites. Moderate genetic differentiation (FST = 0.077, P < 0.001) that varies strongly between pairs of subpopulations, was observed, thereby suggesting substantial gene flow between populations.
23726089|Algal assays with Selenastrum capricornutum were made on waters receiving wood-processing effluents at Mntt and nekoski, central Finland. The water samples were taken four times during summer 1978 from three sites below the sulphite cellulose factory at Mntt and from two sites below the sulphate cellulose factory at nekoski. In both areas control samples were taken from one site upstream of the factories. Before all the assays the water samples were filtrated through Whatman GF/C filters. Before some tests the water was neutralized and/or enriched with Z 8 nutrient solution (to 5 %), nitrogen or phosphorus. In water with a high concentration of sulphite cellulose effluents and pH 4, algal growth was almost totally inhibited. The inhibition decreased with increasing dilution of the effluents (increasing distance from factories), and strongly diluted effluents had a eutrophicating effect. Neutralization increased algal growth in all the tests. Addition of nutrients (PO4 and NO3) did not eliminate inhibition at high concentrations of the effluents. In multiple regression analysis 76 % of the algal growth was explained by pH, and the concentrations of total P, total N and Na-lignosulphonate, the contribution of pH being 30 % and that of total P 26 %. In the water containing sulphate cellulose effluents the inhibition of algal growth was not so strong. Addition of PO4-P clearly increased algal growth in neutralized water, but addition of NO3-N gave only a slight increase. In the regression analysis the four above-mentioned factors explained 82 % of the algal growth, total P explaining 52 % and total N 26 %.
23725883|Four new subspecies of Ranunculus auricomus L. are described, viz. R. auricomus L. subsp. lyngei H. Sm. ex Fagerstr. & Kvist, subsp. resvoll-holmsenii Fagerstr. & Kvist, subsp. boecheri Fagerstr. & Kvist, and subsp. hartzii Fagerstr. & Kvist. In addition, one new combination [R. auricomus L. subsp. glabratus (Lynge) Fagerstr. & Kvist] is made and discussed.
43922225|Scaphyglottis baudoana Szlach. & Kolan. and S. rangeli Szlach. & Kolan., two new orchid species from Colombia, are described and illustrated. Their taxonomic affinities are discussed and information of their distribution and ecology is provided. They are placed within an identification key to species of the Scaphyglottis fusiformis complex.
23727742|Levels of allozyme variation, population genetic structure, and fine-scale genetic structure (FSGS) of the rare, endangered terrestrial orchid Pogonia minor were examined for three small and isolated populations (n = 185) in South Korea using 20 putative allozyme loci resolved from 14 enzyme systems. Of the three populations, only one was polymorphic at four loci. Thus, extremely low levels of allozyme variation within populations were found: mean percentage of polymorphic loci was 6.7%, mean number of alleles per locus was 1.07, and mean expected heterozygosity was 0.015. Polymorphic population exhibited a significant deficit of heterozygotes relative to Hardy-Weinberg expectations (FIS = 0.257), suggesting selfing (rate, s = 0.349) through autogamy and biparental inbreeding. Analysis of O-ring function revealed significant aggregation of individuals suggests restricted seed dispersal and patchy distribution of microhabitats within populations. Spatial autocorrelation analyses revealed a significant fine-scale genetic structure (up to  2 m) within a polymorphic population, and a significantly high degree of population differentiation was found among populations (FST = 0.196). These results suggest that genetic drift, coupled with inbreeding, limited gene dispersal and founder effects would be the main explanatory factors for the extremely low levels of genetic diversity and for shaping the population genetic structure of P. minor in South Korea. Considering the current genetic structure of P. minor, in situ and ex situ conservation of the known populations of the species is suggested.
23727662|Utricularia mangshanensis G.W. Hu, a new species of Lentibulariaceae from Hunan Province, China, is described and illustrated. It belongs to section Kamienskia and is very similar to U. peranomala, but differs in that its leaves are irregularly branched, its bract and bracteoles are not connate at the base, its corolla is white with a yellow dot on the palate of lower lip, and its spur is unequally 2-lobed at the apex.
23728270|Emergence of seedlings from cattle dung collected in different seasons from grasslands of the Flooding Pampa was analysed. The objective of this work was to find out (1) how high the proportion of seeds from exotic species in the seeds spread by cattle dung is, and (2) what the forage quality of the species spread through cattle dung is. Fresh dung was collected in late spring and late summer from three grasslands. Seedling emergence from dung was done in greenhouse conditions. Seedling number, forage quality and origin of the species were determined. We found 121 plant species growing in the grasslands. The number of species emerging from dung was 41. Twenty-four and 36 species emerged from dung collected in late spring and late summer, respectively. Nineteen species were common for both seasons. There were 5.33  0.26 and 1.00  0.15 (mean  SE) native and exotic species, respectively, per dung sample (22.50 g dry weight) collected in late spring. From the dung collected in late summer emerged 7.70  0.31 and 2.63  0.18 native and exotic species per sample, respectively. Carex spp., Cyperus spp. and Juncus spp. (native species) were the most abundant (95%) in dung collected in late spring. In dung collected in late summer Cynodon dactylon (an exotic species) represented 76% and Carex spp., Cyperus spp. and Juncus spp. represented 9%. The most abundant species emerged from dung were of low forage quality and thus are considered weeds in crop fields. Seed propagation through cattle dung helps to explain the increment of exotic species in the Flooding Pampa grasslands under grazing. The results are relevant for the range managers who normally move the cows between stubble crop fields and grasslands, spreading through dung seeds of species of different origin and quality.
23728157|Viable egg and synergid cells of Ceiba speciosa were isolated using enzymatic digestion and mechanical dissection. The ovules were digested by 1% (w/v) cellulase RS, 0.3%~0.8% (w/v) pectolyse Y-23, and 0.8% (w/v) hemicellulase for 4050 min and then transferred for dissection to an isolating solution containing 9% mannitol without enzymes. The two integuments of the ovules were peeled off and the nucellus was cut transversely through the middle. The three cells comprising the egg apparatus (the egg cell and two synergids) were released from the excised nucellus by pushing the micropylar end with a dissecting needle. Dissection of 50 ovules in the isolating solution yielded 19 groupings of egg apparatus cells within an hour. Following this protocol, egg and synergid cells of C. speciosa can be effectively isolated.
23725317|The basic anatomy of the stem and petiole of the palm Raphia hookeri Mann & Wendl. is described in order to help explain the differences in their technical value for the paper industry. Although the stem and the petiole both have a typical monocotyledonous stem structure, with hard vascular bundles scattered throughout softer ground tissue, they differ from each other in certain characteristics. The fibrous strands surrounding the vascular bundles are more numerous and more massive in the stem than in the petiole; the fibres in the stem are generally longer and wider than in the petiole; the sclerotic ground parenchyma cells have thicker walls and the rigid zone is broader in the stem than in the petiole. In the centre, however, the ground parenchyma is looser in the stem than in the petiole.
23727963|Schisandra parapropinqua Z.R. Yang & Q. Lin sp. nova (Schisandraceae) from Guizhou and Yunnan, southwest China, is described and illustrated. It grows only in thickets and forests on limestone hills at altitudes of 8001300 m. Schisandra parapropinqua is close to S. plena and S. propinqua; the morphological differences are discussed.
23726727|Despite a considerable research interest in relationships between abundance and distribution across species not so many studies have examined this relationship within species. We investigated the relationship between regional distribution and local abundance in the grassland plant Carlina vulgaris (Asteraceae) within and between two regions in southern Sweden. In contrast to what is usually hypothesised, no positive relationship was found between the distribution and abundance of C. vulgaris within the regions, and between regions there was a negative relationship between large-scale distribution and local abundance. A seed-sowing and transplantation experiment suggested that there is no difference in the amount of suitable but unoccupied habitats between the regions, and unoccupied sites were more favourable than occupied sites. The mechanism behind the observed abundance distribution pattern in C. vulgaris could be either a time-lag in population change response, or a negative correlation in resources between the regions.
23728140|Echinops antalyensis C. Vural and Echinops borae C. Vural (both in sect. Ritropsis) are described as new species from South Anatolia, Turkey. A revised diagnostic key of the species of Echinops sect. Ritropsis in Turkey is given. The morphological differences from the closely related species are discussed. An IUCN threat category for the two new species is proposed and observations on the ecology of the populations are provided. The geographical distributions of the new species are preseted.
23727277|Linum hirsutum L. subsp. platyphyllum (P.H. Davis) Ylmaz & Kaynak stat. nov. is proposed in the Linaceae. The taxon is a local endemic in northwest Anatolia. There are now five subspecies of L. hirsutum in Turkey.
43922148|Trachycystis ussuriensis (Regel & Maack) T. Kop., new combination (syn.: Trachycystis immarginata (Broth.) Laz.).
23724226|A method for surface sterilization of the spores of Anthracoidea paniceae and A. limosa is described. Spores sterilized with a quaternary ammonium surfactant showed a germination percentage often two to three times as high as that of the control. The probable causes of this increase are discussed.
23725077|Frequencies of the stylar length morphs long, mid and short were studied in 16 island populations of the purple loosestrife, Lythrum salicaria L., in the Tvrminne archipelago, southern Finland. In spite of the smallness and isolatedness of the populations, they were all found to contain all three morphs. The frequencies of the morphs were almost identical with the mean frequencies reported from mainland populations in Europe and North America, but differed from those for the Finnish mainland. The following general hypothesis of the population structure is formulated from the results obtained: (1) dispersal of Lythrum in the archipelago is very effective, (2) vegetative propagation is not very prevalent, (3) natural selection is a powerful factor and the populations exist in a state of dynamic balance between extinction and renewal of individuals, (4) some of the genotypes containing the gene for mid and/or the gene for short are subvital.
23728220|Klasea nana Ranjbar & Negaresh sp. nova (Asteraceae) is described and illustrated. It is confined to the Khorasan Province in northeastern Iran and closely resembles K. latifolia, but differs from it by having a shorter habit, smaller basal leaves, and arachnoid phyllaries.
23727891|Convergence in the endangered European bee-orchid species Ophrys kotschyi was studied using a molecular phylogenetic approach. We sequenced the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer (nrITS) and the Rrn5TrnR intron of the chloroplast DNA (cpIGS) to resolve conflicting interpretations of its relationships. Some authors include all morphologically similar Greek taxa in the study species, others believe that similarity results from convergent evolution driven by a shared pollinator. Parsimony-based network building and three approaches of phylogenetic tree reconstruction provided a basic insight into the phylogeny of the studied taxa, revealing that the inclusion of the various Greek taxa in O. kotschyi results in a polyphyletic species. This implies the consideration of the species as a narrow endemic to Cyprus, and corroborates the view that convergent evolution is responsible for apparent morphological similarity. Additionally, nrITS sequencing revealed additive polymorphic sites in the nrITS, which implies significant inter-specific gene flow.
23726898|This paper presents the results of a karyological analysis of 17 species of Alchemilla L. sect. Alchemilla subsect. Calycanthum Rothm. ser. Elatae Rothm. The studies were carried out on plants from northeast Anatolia (Turkey). About 75% of the species have chromosome numbers 2n = 86 to 123. A few species have a lower number. The species are polyploids like the majority of species of sect. Alchemilla studied so far from various geographic areas.
23726609|Skeletocutis lenis (P. Karst.) Niemel is a poroid basidiomycete, living on dead wood and causing a white rot. A study of herbarium material revealed that the common concept of the species includes another species, S. vulgaris (Fries) Niemel & Y.C. Dai, n. comb. Both species are described and illustrated. Skeletocutis lenis is characterized by perennial basidiocarps, fairly big pores and cylindrical, strongly curved spores; its generative hyphae lack swollen tips at dissepiment edge and hymenium; its skeletal hyphae are mostly > 3 m in diam, bear a distinct lumen, and swell in KOH. Skeletocutis vulgaris is as a rule annual, small-pored, and its spores are cylindrical, moderately curved, and narrower than those of S. lenis. Generative hyphae of the dissepiment edge and hymenium occasionally have a swollen tip. The skeletal hyphae of S. vulgaris are mostly < 3 m in diam, subsolid without a distinct lumen, and do not change or only slightly swell in KOH. The former has a northerly distribution and prefers fallen trunks of Pinus, while S. vulgaris is more southern and inhabits a wide range of both gymnosperm and angiosperm hosts. These two species have different ecology: S. lenis usually lives on very rotten wood in moist places, while S. vulgaris inhabits recently decorticated trunks, frequently in dry localities. Both species are found in Europe, Asia and North America.
23727745|Rohdea lihengiana Q. Qiao & C.Q. Zhang (Ruscaceae s. lato), a new species from Yunnan, China, is described and illustrated. It is similar to R. fimbriata in the irregularly dentate or fimbriate margin of the bracts and lobes, but differs from it by having sessile leaves, a shorter style, only one fertile bract per flower, and two inflorescences annually.
23725259|Records from the Swedish east coast extend the range to 60 22' N. The paper describes the vegetative and reproductive characters, and discusses the taxonomy, reproductive phenology, size and growth mode, ecology, and modes of dispersal. The known occurrences in the area are situated near ports where in earlier times ballast sand was unloaded and partly thrown into the sea. It seems evident that Ch. connivens Salzm. ex A. Braun has been introduced to the area as an aquatic ballast plant. The known records are listed and some erroneous reports corrected.
23726443|The effect of aphid (Cinara pinea Mordv.) infestation on the growth of Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) seedlings was tested in a simulated acid rain experiment with four different treatments: dry controls, irrigated controls, and two levels of acid rain (both sulphuric and nitric acid; pH 4 and pH 3). The biomass of pine seedlings infested by aphids was significantly smaller than that of uninfested seedlings. Significant interaction was observed between the effects of simulated acid rain and aphid infestation. On irrigated control plots, the weight of aphid-infested seedlings was only 7.5% lower than in uninfested seedlings, but on dry control plots the reduction was 28% and on acid-treated plots it was 17 to 34%. Thus, the seedlings subjected to either drought or simulated acid rain suffered more from aphid infestation than irrigated control seedlings.
23726891|Linum pamphylicum (Boiss.) Podp. subsp. olympicum G. Kaynak & . Ylmaz subsp. nova is described and illustrated from the South of Uluda Mountain (Bursa) in Turkey. It is characterised by a flowering stems with scabrid ridges, spathulate, acute basal leaves and linear or linear-spathulate cauline leaves.
23725704|The study took place in the parish of Ruovesi, West Finland (6210'N and 2353'E, coordinates 688:34) in nine summers between 1974 and 1984 (1976 and 1980 were excluded). The number of fertile shoots (Monotropa lacks sterile shoots) was counted at the end of each summer in an area of about 2 ha in Pinus sylvestris forest of the Calluna vulgaris site type. The fluctuation was great: from three flowering shoots in 1975 to 336 shoots in 1981. Comparison with the temperature and precipitation records at the meteorological station of Hyytil (32 km to the SE) indicated that the summers with maximal and minimal flowering of Monotropa were those with maximal and minimal precipitation. The precipitation of the preceding year or summer did not show any noticeable correlation with the abundance of flowering in the current summer. Likewise, it was not possible to demonstrate any direct relation between the number of flowering shoots of Monotropa and the temperatures in the same or the preceding year. The abundance of flowering also fluctuates widely from year to year in mycorrhizasymbiotic orchids, as Epipogium aphyllum, Corallorhiza trifida, Goodyera repens and Listera cordata, although they do not always show the same rhythm as Monotropa hypopitys. Die Untersuchung wurde im Kirchspiel Ruovesi, West-Finnland (ca. 6210'N und 2353'E, Einheitskoordinaten 688:34) whrend neun Sommern in den Jahren 19741984 (1976 und 1980 ausgenommen) gemacht. Die Anzahl der fertilen Sprosse (Monotropa entwickelt keine sterilen Sprosse) wurde Ende des Sommers auf einer Probeflche von etwa zwei Hektar in einem Pinus sylvestris -Kiefernwald vom Calluna vulgaris -Typ gezhlt. Die Variation war betrchtlich: von drei Bltensprossen (im J. 1975) bis zu 336 (im J. 1981). Ein Vergleich mit den auf der Meteorologischen Station Hyytil (32 km nach SE) gemachten Temperatur- und Niederschlagsmessungen zeigte, dass die Maximal- und Minimaljahre von Monotropa entsprechend auch maximale bzw. minimale Regenmengen hatten. Die Niederschlagsmenge des vorangegangenen Jahrs oder Sommers wies dagegen keine deutliche Korrelation mit dem Blhreichtum im folgenden Sommer auf. Auch konnte kein direkter Zusammenhang zwischen dem Auftreten von Monotropa und der Temperatur desselben oder des vorangegangenen Jahrs festgestellt werden. Die Reichlichkeit des Blhens der mit einer Mykorrhiza zusammenlebenden Orchideen, wie Epipogium aphyllum, Corallorhiza trifida,, Goodyera repens und Listera cordata, variiert auch recht betrchtlich von Jahr zu Jahr, ihr Rhythmus scheint aber nicht immer mit Monotropa hypopitys zusammenzufallen.
23726728|The genus Athelopsis in Finland consists of three species, viz. A. glaucina (Bourdot & Galzin) Oberw. ex Parmasto, A. lembospora (Bourdot) Oberw. and A. subinconspicua (Litsch.) Jlich. The distribution and habitats are described and the possible relation to the genus Repetobasidium is briefly discussed. The micro-morphology of each species is described and illustrated, as well as the formation of spore pairs and tetrads. A few reference specimens from Italy, Norway and Russia were studied.
23724943|Vorliegende Untersuchung will ein grob umrissenes bersichtsbild von der Entwicklung der Moore Nordkareliens geben und dadurch einen Grund fr genauere Untersuchungen im Gebiet geben. Aus methodischen und anderen Grnden haben daneben auch die Wald- und die Klimageschichte eine ziemlich weitlufige Behandlung gefunden. Die Arbeit im ganzen ist ein Teil des gegenwrtig laufenden Forschungsprogramms zur Klrung der Moor- und Waldgeschichte Finnlands. 1. Als geologisch alt, eignet sich Nordkarelien gut zur Untersuchung der Moorgeschichte, um so mehr als die Grenze zwischen den Hochmooren und den Aapamooren in Finnland u.a. gerade durch dieses Gebiet verluft. 2. Von einer Beschreibung der rezenten Vegetation der Moore ausgehend wurde versucht, nach dem Prinzip des biologischen Aktualismus die Moorvegetation der verschiedenen Klimaepochen und deren Natur mit Hilfe von identifizierten Pflanzenresten nebst anderen Subfossilien (z.B. Rhizopoden) des Torfes, in einigen Fllen auch unter Heranziehung chemischer Analysen zu rekonstruieren. Die Untersuchungen umfassen im ganzen 56 pollenanalytisch datierte Schichtenfolgen. Die Ergebnisse haben sich in den meisten Fllen auf das ganze betreffende Moorbecken bzw. den ganzen Moorkomplex bertragen lassen, und zwar unter Zuhilfenahme der makroskopischen Torfuntersuchung. Im ganzen sind 44 Moorbecken oder Moorkomplexe mehr oder minder eingehend untersucht worden. 3. Von den Naturverhltnissen des Gebietes hat das Klima einen ausschlaggebenden Einfluss auf die Gestaltung der Moorvegetation. Die absolute Hhe des Landes wiederum bestimmt ber die Temperatur- und Niederschlagsverhltnisse und wirkt sich dadurch auch auf den Wasserhaushalt der Moore aus. In vielen Einzelfllen bestimmen es die topographischen Umstnde, ob sich das Moor zu einem Hochmoor oder einem Aapamoor entwickelt. Auch der Einfluss der petrographischen und edaphischen Faktoren, desgleichen der quartrgeologischen Entwicklung des Gebietes, spiegelt sich in der Vegetation der Moore wider. 4. Die Zweiteilung der im Rahmen des finnischen Moortypensystems behandelten Moorvegetation in eine ombrotrophe und eine minerotrophe ist bis so weit verfolgt worden, wie es jeweils mglich war. Die gegenseitigen Anteile der einzelnen Moortypen weisen im Untersuchungsgebiet erhebliche regionale Unterschiede auf, die einer kausalen Betrachtung unterzogen werden. Die Hochmoore des Gebietes sind entweder weniger nasse Sphagnum fuscum-Moore oder exzentrische Kermihochmoore. In ihrem Auftreten und in der Hochmoorvegetation berhaupt ussert sich eine Regionalitt, die die von Eurola (1962) unternommene Gruppierung in die Seenplatten- und die Nordkarelien-Hochmoore rechtfertigt. 5. Die bei den Pollendatierungen in Sdfinnland bliche Einteilung in neun waldgeschichtliche Zonen (I  IX) wurde auch auf das Untersuchungsgebiet bertragen und grsstenteils mittels dem Radiocarbonverfahren datiert. Eine exakte Gleichzeitigkeit der Zonen scheint indessen in gewissen Fllen selbst nicht einmal im Bereich des verhltnismssig kleinen Untersuchungsgebietes wahrscheinlich. Darum mssen die mitgeteilten Konnektionen auf grssere Entfernungen hin vor Fertigstellung der aus verschiedenen Teilen Finnlands zu erwartenden C14-datierten Standarddiagramme als durchaus prliminr gewertet werden. Die Ergebnisse der Pollenanalysen sind, getrennt fr den Sd- und den Nordteil des Untersuchungsgebietes, in zwei Generaldiagrammen zusammengefasst, die durch das ganze Postglazial hindurch gewisse Vegetationsunterschiede erkennen lassen. Einige allgemeine Zge der Pollendiagramme wurden als klimatisch bedingt gedeutet, andere wieder auf verschiedene andere Faktoren zurckgefhrt. Whrend Zone II gab es im Gebiet noch keine Wlder, mglicherweise auch sonst keine Vegetation von Belang, sondern das Land war fortsetzungsweise wenigstens zum grssten Teil vom Landeis oder von Wasser bedeckt. Die Pollenflora ist durch Fernflugpollen geprgt, der auf subarktische Zustnde hindeutet. Bis zum Ende von Zone III hatte sich das Gebiet offenbar von seiner Eisdecke befreit, wobei der Temperaturanstieg von einer Niederschlagsarmut und mutmasslich von starken Winden begleitet gewesen ist. Die Vegetation war zum berwiegenden Teil offen und mosaikartig mit Steppen- und Zwergstrauchgesellschaften und im allgemeinen ziemlich alkalischen Wasserbecken. Im Laufe von Zone IV nahm die Feuchtigkeit bedeutend zu, offenbar auch die Temperatur.
43922192|A new polypore species of Anomoporia collected from the Changbai Mountains, northeastern China, is described as Anomoporia vesiculosa Y.C. Dai & Niemel spec. nova. It is easily distinguished from other species of Anomoporia by its rosy or pinkish colour, long, narrow spores, common vesicular hyphal apices in both subiculum and trama, and coarse crystals on the hyphae. The differences between it and related species are discussed. Externally A. vesiculosa resembles A. bombycina (Fr.) Pouzar more than the other species of the genus, and it has no rhizomorphs.
23728067|A new species Allophylus exappendiculatus Somner, Ferrucci & Frazo (Sapindaceae) from a remnant fragment of seasonal semideciduous forest in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, is here described and illustrated. It can be distinguished from other known species of Allophylus by the simple axillary thyrses closely arranged at the base of young shoots, and by the petals without appendages or rarely with vestigial ones. It is here compared with its putative closest relatives A. edulis and A. puberulus. In addition, the micromorphological characters of the pollen grains are described. Allophylus exappendiculatus is a narrow endemic currently known from six collections from the municipalities of Engenheiro Paulo de Frontin, Itagua and Santa Maria Madalena.
23725757|The developmental rate of lichens from soredia or ascospores to mature thalli is examined in cultures in the natural habitat. The time of sowing is shown to be of importance as well as the microclimate of the different habitats and the ecological amplitude of the species. Without exception the lichens investigated developed most rapidly at the location at which or in immediate proximity to which they also occur naturally.
23727878|This study was focused on identifying the impact of a ski piste on snow conditions, soil temperature, as well as phenological development and growth of Athyrium distentifolium, and examining differences in species composition between the ski piste and the natural environment. Longer snow-cover period and deeper snow were observed on the ski piste than in the natural surroundings. Lower soil temperature was found on the ski piste during the peak winter period and at the beginning of the growing period. Different environmental conditions on the ski piste caused a delay and shortening of the phenological development of A. distentifolium in the late spring. Individuals of that plant caught up the initial delay in phenological development within 36 days after the beginning of measurement. However, plants only grew to lower height on ski piste as compared with plants in control plots. Even relatively small differences in the time of snow melt and soil temperature development in stands examined on the ski piste resulted in significant changes in the species composition of the studied vegetation towards subalpine tall grasslands.
23727933|Photinia sorbifolia W.B. Liao & W. Guo sp. nova (Rosaceae) from Hunan Province, China, is described and illustrated. Its relationships with two morphologically close species P. schneideriana and P. villosa are discussed. The persistent, densely tomentose leaves with eight to fourteen pairs of secondary veins of P. sorbifolia distinguish it from P. schneideriana, which has sparsely tomentose leaves, and from P. villosa, with initially villous, then glabrous leaves; in the latter two species, the leaves have ten to fifteen and five to seven pairs of secondary veins, respectively. Both P. sorbifolia and P. schneideriana have compound inflorescences, while P. villosa has a simple corymb inflorescence.
23726945|The phloroglucinol derivatives of 26 species of Dryopteris belonging to the subgenera Erythrovaria and Nephrocystis are listed and the taxonomy is discussed based on both chemistry and morphology. The ferns of section Erythrovariae in general contain aspidin (6) in their rhizomes and petiolar bases, whereas those of section Variae have margaspidin (13) (subgenus Erythrovaria). The ferns of sections Purpurascentes and Diclisodon usually contain only minute amounts of phloroglucinols or are totally lacking these phenolics. Consequently no characteristic compounds appear to occur in subgenus Nephrocystis. In addition, 102 species (including varieties) belonging to various genera of the Dryopteridaceae, including subfamilies Dryopteridoideae, Polystichoideae, Peranematoideae and Tectarioideae as well as to the families Davalliaceae and Oleandraceae have been investigated for the occurrence of phloroglucinols and glands. Dryopsis apiciflora, D. clarkei and D. nidus differed from all other taxa in containing great percentages of ether extract (oleo-resin) and phloroglucinols (crude filicin) as well as internal secreting glands in their rhizomes and stipe bases (subfamily Dryopteridoideae). Of the other genera, Peranema, Diacalpe, Rumohra, Stigmatopteris, Arachnioides and Polybotrya usually contained small but clearly detectable amounts of phloroglucinols, whereas in Nothoperanema only traces or total lack of these compounds were recorded. The species investigated of Polystichum proved to be totally devoid of phloroglucinols with the exception of P. tsus-simense and P. rigens (subfamilies Dryopteridoideae, Peranematoideae and Polystichoideae). Of the genera Ctenitis and Lastreopsis (subfamily Tectaroideae), only few species contained trace amounts of phloroglucinols, the great majority were totally lacking these compounds. Also in Pleiocnemia some unknown phenolics were observed. In the other tectaroid genera no clear indications of phloroglucinols were found. The same was true of the genus Davallia (Davalliaceae) and the genus Arthropteris (Oleandraceae). All phloroglucinol containing species contained secretory structures in parenchyma of their rhizomes and stipes or on the epidermis of these organs.
23727607|The molecular and micromorphological support for current generic concepts in the subtribe Melocanninae (Poaceae) has made it necessary to propose new combinations in Cephalostachyum. In this article the following two species are transferred from Schizostachyum to Cephalostachyum: Cephalostachyum chinense (Rendle) D.Z. Li & H.Q. Yang comb, nova, and C. sanguineum (W.P. Zhang) D.Z. Li & H.Q. Yang comb, nova, based on basionyms Schizostachyum chnense Rendle and S. sanguineum W.P. Zhang respectively.
43922218|The influence of a black-headed gull (Larus ridibundus L.) colony on the soil and the vegetation was studied on an island located on the river Vistula, Poland in 1987-89. A direct effect of the presence of a gull colony was an increase in the content of ammonium nitrogen in soil due manuring by gulls. The effect of the birds was more pronounced in the sandy part than in the earthy part, this being related to a higher fertility of the latter. The gull-affected sites had a higher percentage plant cover, and with a larger total % cover of grasses. Some plant species tended to occur in places occupied by birds, mostly species with short life cycles and ruderal species. This could be related to a higher content of nitrogen in soil and also to the mechanical effects of gulls such as, digging of scrapes, pulling out plants, treading. Generally, the effect of black-headed gulls on the vegetation was rather weak. It can be explained mainly by a higher original fertility of the site, that is, by a high suitability, in a broad sense, of the sandy Vistula islands for their colonization by vascular plants, independent of the presence of gulls. On the other hand periodic flooding, which leach out the ammonium and remove vegetation cover are important.
23724644|The hemerophilous flora of Kuusamo, a thinly populated, northern boreal, woodland district, consists of ca. 440 taxa. Ca. 170 taxa (39 %) are native (local apophytes or both aliens and apophytes) and ca. 270 taxa (61 %) are merely aliens. Ca. 95 taxa (22 %) are casual or short-persistent. All but a few of the aliens arrived after 1680, when the first Finns settled down in the area. Kuusamo was economically a borderland between Sweden/Finland and Russia for the next 240 years and hemerochorous immigrants from Russia are relatively common. More than 30 taxa are provisionally included in a 'Biarmian element', which comprises the plants that presumably arrived in north Finland with early traffic via the White Sea trading posts, especially those plants which are absent or less common in southern and central Finland. Its principal indicator species is Chaerophyllum prescottii. There are also ca. 140 polemochorous taxa, i.e. plants introduced by military troops during the Second World War. At least 120 taxa were apparently introduced by the German forces and 45 by the Soviet forces. Very few of the entirely foreign taxa will become established (like several Alchemilla spp.) but many have survived for 25 years. The polemochores which thrive best (e.g. Vicia cracca, Lathyrus pratensis, Achillea ptarmica) are species which were already present in Kuusamo or the neighbouring areas before the war. The list of species includes many taxonomic, nomenclatural, ecological and phytogeographical notes. The following new nomenclatural combinations are made: Erigeron acris ssp. brachycephalus (H. Lindb.) Hiitonen, Erigeron acris ssp. decoloratus (H. Lindb.) Hiitonen, Rumex longifolius f. callosus (Hiit.) Ahti & Hmet-Ahti, Urtica dioica ssp. sondenii (Simmons) Hylander. New to Finland are Jasione laevis, Heracleum sphondylium ssp. sibiricum var. chaetocarpum, an unidentified species of Alchemilla, and an undescribed subspecies of Ranunculus monophyllus. About 130 taxa are new to the biogeographic province of Kuusamo.
23728115|The evolutionary origin and taxonomic position of Dendroseris and Thamnoseris (Cichorieae, Asteraceae) are discussed in the light of recent molecular systematic studies. Based on the previous development of a robust phylogenetic framework, we support the inclusion of the group as a subgenus integrated within a new and broad concept of the genus Sonchus. This approach retains information on the evolutionary relationships of the group which most likely originated from an adaptive radiation process; furthermore, it also promotes holophyly in the subtribe Hyoseridinae (formerly Sonchinae). Consequently, all the former Dendroseris and Thamnoseris species must be transferred to Sonchus. A preliminary nomenclatural synopsis of the proposed subgenus is given here, including the new required combinations.
23725211|Lichens and bryophytes growing on fluorine-rich wiborgite rapakivi bedrock in SE Finland showed relatively high fluorine contents. The bryophytes had higher fluorine contents (8.584.2 ppm) than fruticose and foliose lichens (2.4 6.7 ppm) on exposed rock sites. The highest fluorine concentrations were detected in the moss Hedwigia ciliata (Hedw.) P. Beauv. and the lichen Peltigera polydactyla (Neck.) Hoffm. on rock faces with percolating water, viz. 150235 ppm and 96.1 ppm, respectively.
23726526|In Australasia the genus Cryphaea Mohr (Cryphaeaceae, Bryopsida) is represented by five species: C. ovalifolia (C. Mll.) Jaeg., C. chlorophyllosa C. Mll., C. tenella (Schwaegr.) Hornsch. ex C. Mll., C. acuminata Hook. f. & Wils. and C. parvula Mitt. Cryphaea tenella is the correct name of the taxon that has been called C. exannulata Dix. & Sainsb., and the material that has been called C. tenella represents two species: C. acuminata and C. parvula. Bryobartlettia costata Buck, previously synonymized with C. tenella, is a taxonomic synonym of C. acuminata. Cryphaea consimilis Mont. is reinstated as a species distinct from C. tenella and excluded from the Australasian flora. Lectotypes are designated for C. acuminata, C. exannulata and C. parvula. Cryphaea parvula and C. acuminata are illustrated and compared in line drawings. A key to the Australasian species is given. Three species occur in Australia and all five in New Zealand.
23725539|In 19851988 mostly sterile plants or tetrasporophytes of Polysiphonia violacea (Roth) Sprengel were observed, female organs being detected only once. More than 25 years ago, females, males and tetrasporophytes were observed in the outer archipelago, and females and tetrasporophytes further landward. The most important type of reproduction nowadays is perhaps vegetative propagation by the tetrasporophyte in deeper waters. Tetrasporangia develop mainly in late summer and autumn. Thallus differentiation and development of tetrasporangia proceed as described earlier in the literature. Some additional descriptions of the rhodoplasts are given. The tetrasporophytes and female plants seem to have the same chromosome number, 2n = 16. Polyploidy appears to occur in the genus.
23727996|Sequencing signals of the biparentally inherited ITS marker and sequence matching of the chloroplast trnK intron, matK and rbcL gene of an Indian plant identified as Nymphaea alba var. rubra contradict its identity. Additional signals depicted in chromatograms of the ITS region and the exact match of the maternally inherited chloroplast DNA sequences suggest that the Indian material is a hybrid of N. alba and N. odorata. Molecular cloning techniques resulted in the isolation of ITS alleles from the putative hybrid with DNA sequences not exclusive of either of the parental species. Such allelic DNA sequences confirmed that hybridization between N. alba and N. odorata has occurred. Our DNA sequence analyses indicate this plant is an interspecific hybrid involving N. odorata as the maternal parent, and N. alba as the paternal parent.
23725005|Mnium spinosum (Voit.) Schwaegr. (Mniaceae, Bryophyta) previously known in North America from Alaska is reported from Great Bear Lake, Northwest Territories, Canada, Mt. Evans in Colorado and from 5 localities in Alaska.
23726813|The morphology of Fucus species, such as F. gardneri (ex F. distichus), is known to respond strongly to wave exposure. Shore exposure can be described using cartographic methods in which a shore is given a numerical value. While two shores may have equal shore exposure values, they can receive different wave force due to off-shore meteorological conditions. We studied differences in Fucus gardneri morphology between two Californian shores with the same numerical exposure value but which  according to off-shore conditions  may receive different levels of wave force. Thalli were smaller and on average more fronds grew in the holdfasts of the shore considered to be subjected to stronger wave action. Although this result is consistent with earlier observations of decreasing thallus size with increasing wave exposure, we found cartographic methods used to describe shore wave force to be insufficient.
23725894|The name Brachythecium starkei (Brid.) B.S.G. has been used with different meanings in Europe, North America and Japan. In order to preserve the well-established usage of Brachythecium starkei (Brid.) B.S.G., a neotype is proposed for this name. B. oedipodium (Mitt.) Jaeg. is the earliest species name available for a related taxon, known as B. curtum (Lindb.) J. Lange & C. Jens. B. starkei var. explanatum (Brid.) Mnkem. is identical with B. rutabulum (Hedw.) B.S.G.; and B. tromsense (Kaur. & H. Arn.) Limpr. and B. bestii Grout (B. reflexum var. pacificum Ren. & Card.) with B. reflexum (Starke) B.S.G. 12 new lectotypes are selected. The diagnostic characters for B. starkei, B. oedipodium and related taxa are given. B. oedipodium and B. starkei occur in North and Central Europe, Asia and North America, the latter also in Japan and China. Maps are given of their range in Eastern Fennoscandia.
23727754|We used sequential surface photography and photo-derived data to evaluate tree mortality in a windthrow area in eastern Estonia, where a storm occurred in 2001. The study is based on photographs taken from the edge of three completely destroyed areas with total canopy destruction in which wind-felled spruce trees (Picea abies) were left after disturbance. In total, 137 spruce trees were observed over a five-year period. We used a transition matrix to examine tree mortality dynamics and patterns. At the end of the five-year period, only 25% of the spruce trees survived in areas surrounding the windthrow. The mortality was highest in the second year after disturbance and the probability of a tree falling was surprisingly high over the entire study period. According to local observations, Ips typographus caused most of the tree deaths, but the co-influences of other factors were also important as there was a large proportion of falling trees in the area.
23726743|A new species of Agaricales (Basidiomycetes), Pholiota mucigera Holec & Niemel, is described. It is characterized by fairly large size and almost white, a cup covered with very thick slime. No scales are found on the pileus surface. In the microscope the species can be identified by the absence of cystidia; spores are ca. 5.16.2  3.34 m and lack the germ pore. The species was found in a virgin spruce-dominated forest in Finland, growing on fallen Populus tremula. Differences between related species of Pholiota are discussed.
23724639|Three species of Braya, B. alpina Sternb. & Hoppe, linearis Rouy and rosea (Turcz.) Bunge (all 2 n = 42) have been cultivated simultaneously and crossed. Hybrids were obtained after crossing B. alpina and B. linearis as well as B. linearis and B. rosea. The latter hybrid proved to be sterile due to pairing disturbances while B. alpina  linearis was fertile and had normal pairing. In F2 the segregation included plants which almost matched the parent species as well as a series of different intermediate combinations bridging the gap between the parent species. In spite of the fact that the F1 variation appears to be almost continuous or clinal, it is concluded that B. alpina and B. linearis should be maintained as separate species. They are closely related taxa, however, and may descend from the same ancestor. The latter may have been west-arctic rather than east-arctic.
23726899|The population dynamics of short-lived monocarpic perennials are often considered to be influenced by disturbance, providing areas of bare soil. We studied demography of the monocarpic herb Carlina vulgaris (Asteraceae), with special emphasis on the effect of disturbance. We used deterministic and stochastic transition matrix models based on the data from eight local populations to analyse the population dynamics. In addition, a field experiment was carried out to determine how disturbance and seed availability affect recruitment. Recruitment of C. vulgaris was limited by a combination of seed and microsite availability. Only populations subjected to high disturbance have a positive growth rate. Moderately sized populations are likely to be persistent when the disturbance intensity is high.
23726858|Coelogyne weixiensis X.H. Jin sp. nova (Orchidaceae) is described and illustrated. It is morphologically reminiscent of C. gongshanensis, from which it differs in having aristate lateral sepals, petals much narrower than the sepals, and toothed lateral labellum lobes.
23728145|Astragalus khosrowabadensis Ranjbar & Karamian sp. nova and A. margonensis Ranjbar, Rahiminejad & Raufi sp. nova (Fabaceae) are described from the Zagros mountain in western Iran. They belong to Astragalus sect. Caprini, which contains species that are often stemless and with white, basifixed hairs and yellow flowers. The former resembles A.fabaceus and the latter is compared with A. managettae and A. pseudopellitus.
23727829|Allium oriento-iranicum Neshati, Zarre & R.M. Fritsch (Alliaceae) is described and illustrated as a new species from NE Iran. It belongs in sect. Megaloprason and is compared with other species in that section.
23726624|The distribution of the smut Urocystis junci Lagerheim on Juncus balticus Willd. was studied in Sweden along the Bothnian Bay of the Gulf of Bothnia. There was a marked decline in the frequency of the smut between the lower (mean 28%) and middle-upper geolittoral zones (mean 1%). Diseased ramets of J. balticus produced, on an average, more culms than healthy ramets did. The smut U. junci had a negative effect on the number and weight of capsules. The importance of environmental factors for the local and regional distribution of U. junci on J. balticus is discussed.
23724225|Grimmia anomala is reported from Finland, and its taxonomy, distribution and ecology are discussed and compared with those of the related G. hartmanii.
23725192|Pollen analysis was used to study the vegetational succession in a basin with Trapa natans L. in the vicinity of a Neolithic dwelling site (Combed Ware, Ka II, 53004800 B. P.) near the town Lahti, southern Finland. The abundance of Trapa pollen together with fragments of Trapa fruits, particularly in the sediment layers whose radiocarbon age (5 310 110 B. P., Hel-1517) corresponded to the period of settlement, points to the use of this plant by man. Despite archaeological and macrofossil evidence of the nearby settlement, it was hardly possible to deduce human activity from the pollen flora, but macrofossil analysis, carried out at the level of the Trapa maximum, revealed the occurrence of some anthropochores. Earlier conditions at the site are discussed on the basis of the ecology of Trapa.
23726592|A 45-cm thick cultural layer was analysed in the centre of the town of Helsinki. The microfossil data, comprising the results of pollen and charcoal particle analysis, were supplemented with plant macrofossil data. Together, these data reflect the local development from a closed forest to a rural community which, in the period AD 16401910, gradually grew into an urban settlement. The profile can be dated using old maps of Helsinki.
23726784|The cyanobacterial symbionts of Collema multipartitum and free-living Nostoc strains were studied by using the nucleotide sequence of the cyanobacterial tRNALeu(UAA) intron as a genetic marker. Biological specimens were collected from a series of interconnected depressions on a limestone pavement in western Ireland. In this material, free-living and lichenised Nostoc strains could be distinguished on the basis of the first variable region of the tRNALeu(UAA) intron. All the variable stem-loops had a similar heptanucleotide repeat motif, but lichenised and free-living strains differed in the number of repeats and in the presence/absence of additional sequences interrupting a single repeat. The results indicate that some filamentous cyanobacteria in rock-pool communities can be rapidly identified by using this molecular marker. The method could prove useful in ecological and environmental studies.
23725390|Porothamnium undulatifolium Tix. is transferred to the genus Neckera Hedw. as N. undulatifolia (Tix.) Enroth, comb. nov. It is endemic to northern Vietnam and closely related to N. crenulata Harv. A description and illustrations of N. undulatifolia are provided. Baldwiniella tibetana Gao is synonymized with Neckera crenulata. Neckeropsis touwii Ochyra & Enroth is reported from the Morobe Province of Papua New Guinea; it has hitherto been known only from the type specimen from the Gulf Province of that country.
23727964|Orinus longiglumis L.B. Cai & X. Su sp. nova (Poaceae) is described and illustrated. It is endemic to the south-central part of Xizang Zizhiqu (Tibet), China, occurring at an elevation of 3040 to 3650 m on sandy soils. It resembles O. thoroldii, but differs from that species by the commonly hairy culms and leaves, longer panicles, longer glumes that are sparsely spinulose and pilose, longer anthers, and the paleas that are shorter than the lemmas. Orinus longiglumis differs from all other known species of Orinus by having glumes that are longer than or subequal to the adjacent florets.
23724960|The climate of the study area and the morphometry of the lake are shortly discussed and the hydrography is introduced on the basis of measurements and analyses mainly carried out during the period 196367. A brief description is given of the higher aquatic vegetation and the rate of the phytoplanktonic primary production during a period of two years. The meromictic condition of the lake is also considered.  The diatoms of the lake Valkiajrvi were treated by the author in an earlier paper (Ann. Bot. Fennici 6. 1969).
23726645|A new form of pubescent birch, Betula pubescens Ehrh. f. columnaris T. Ulvinen f. nova found in Finland, OP, Oulunsalo, in 1992, is introduced and a detailed morphological description including scanning electron microscopy of buds is presented. The birch is characterized by a slender growth habit due to dense ramification and shortness of the branches. Almost all the buds on the distal branches burst and form short twigs. Some of these young shoots die for lack of light and space and dry up during the same summer, but the majority are preserved, giving the tree a compact, pillar-like appearance. The basic cause of this deviant crown architecture is assumed to be a mutation that leads to untimely activation of the axillary meristems, formation of bud clusters and even proleptic branching. The birch has been cloned and has aroused interest in nurseries as a potential decorative tree.
23726598|Leptocladium sinense Broth., the single species of its genus and known only from type material from Yunnan, South China, is redescribed and illustrated with line drawings. It is transferred from the Thuidiaceae (original placement) to the Amblystegiaceae and considered closely related to Platydictya Berk. Amblystegiella yunnanensis Broth. is synonymized with Amblystegium serpens (Hedw.) B. S. G. and Amblystegium sinensisubtile C. Mll. with Platydictya subtilis (Hedw.) Crum.
43922194|The epiphytic lichens on basal trunks of old Salix caprea trees were surveyed in five areas in the southern boreal and two areas in the middle boreal forests of Finland. A total of 104 lichen species were found on the 125 trees sampled, 75 species in the southern and 91 species in the middle boreal areas. Epiphyte cover, including both lichens and bryophytes, was recorded on two sample plots on each tree. The epiphyte flora was dominated by widespread generalist species (Hypogymnia physodes , Parmelia sulcata , Parmeliopsis ambigua , Platismatia glauca ), but also some specialist species were found (Arthonia incamata, Lobaria scrobiculata, Rinodina cinereovirens). The average number of lichen species per tree was lower (19 species) in the southern boreal than in the middle boreal areas (25 species), with some exceptionally high values (max. 38) in the latter area. Total epiphyte diversity was also higher in the middle boreal areas. It is suggested that the lichen diversity is best explained by high micro-habitat heterogeneity on the trunks, a bark structure favourable for lichen colonization and a mass dispersal effect from adjacent habitats. Disturbance caused by the frequent scaling of the basal bark is probably an important contributing factor. The structure of the epiphyte vegetation was analysed using DCA ordination. The substantial between-tree variation in the data was best explained by differences in the climate between the southern and middle boreal areas, the inclination of the trunk and the small-scale variation in the microhabitat structure of the trunk. The study shows that old Salix caprea trees are important components from the point of view of conserving epiphytic lichen diversity in the boreal forests of Fennoscandia.
23726054|The paper presents the distinguishing features of Gymnocarpium dryopteris (L.) Newm. subsp.  brittonianum Sarvela [subsp. et hybr. nov.; = subsp. disjunctum (Rupr.) Sarvela  subsp. dryopteris], G.  intermedium Sarvela, G.  achriosporum Sarvela and G.  heterosporum Wagner (Pteridophyta). A provisional outline is given of the distribution of the three first taxa in Canada and Alaska. Apomixis in these taxa is discussed.
23726790|Silene koycegizensis Dnmez & Vural sp. nova and S. cariensis Boiss. subsp. muglae Vural & Dnmez subsp. nova (sect. Behenantha Othh.) are described from Turkey. Diagnostic characters, description, detailed illustrations and taxonomic comments on the taxa are given. Their relationships with the allied species S. cretica L., S. tenuiflora Guss. and S. cariensis are discussed. Geographic distributions of the new taxa and other related species are shown on maps.
23727820|Morphological variation within and among populations of closely related taxa of Parnassia sect. Saxifragastrum from China was studied based on literature, specimen examinations and field survey. Parnassia angustipetala T.C. Ku, P. yulongshanensis T.C. Ku, P. longipetaloides J.T. Pan, and P. yanyuanensis T.C. Ku were reduced to synonymy of P. yunnanensis Franchet. Parnassia humilis T.C. Ku is different from P. yunnanensis, and is proposed as a new synonym of P. trinervis Drude. The geographic distribution and illustrations of P. yunnanensis and P. trinervis are also presented.
23726700|Changes in the structure of a Carex cespitosa population were studied during secondary succession on abandoned meadows near Biaowiea National Park (NE Poland) over a period of ten years (19871997). During succession the spatial relations between dominants (C. cespitosa, C. acutiformis, Filipendula ulmaria, and Salix spp.) changed. Carex cespitosa is one of the species playing a major role in the transformation of vegetation on abandoned meadows in Biaowiea. In the initial stage of the terminal phase of succession, which starts with the appearance of willows, the population of C. cespitosa begins to regress. The beginning of regression is manifested by changes in age structure of the population. The size of tussocks (diameter and height) still increased during the study, but the rate of growth was lower in patches dominated by C. acutiformis or willows than in meadows dominated by C. cespitosa.
23727591|Mowing is frequently used for restoring plant communities in abandoned meadows which were previously managed by cattle grazing and mowing. The aim of this study was to search for the most optimal mowing treatment maximising plant species richness in a dry-mesic meadow in northern Finland. In an earlier restoration attempt at the same study site, traditional mowing in mid to late August was applied for five years (19931997). Because this first attempt had negligible effects on plant community structure, a new five-year experiment was conducted (19982003) in order to test for the effects of different mowing regimes (early mowing in June, late mowing in August, late mowing + soil disturbance in August, and untreated control plots). In spite of considerable species turnover at the level of individual plots, the treatments had no statistically significant effect on species turnover and species richness per plot. Mowing did not suppress the cover of tall herbs. Late mowing even favoured the early flowering Geranium sylvaticum. Restorative mowing is ineffective against tall competitors if the propagule input from the neighbourhood remains high. Early mowing and late mowing + soil disturbance, which most strongly decreased vegetation height, tended to favour competitively inferior small herbs. A reason for a slow response in species richness may lie in seed limitation as only one new species appeared during the study. To enhance species richness, mowing could be combined with propagule addition in cases where the local species pools of meadow species have been exhausted.
23726446|The following new combinations of Fennoscandian bryophyte names are made: Anastrophyllum minutum var. weberi (Mart.) Kartt., Barbilophozia rubescens (Schust. & Damsh.) Kartt. & Sderstr., Fissidens dubius var. mucronatus (Limpr.) Kartt., Heden. & Sderstr., Homalothecium lutescens var. fallax (Philib.) Heden. & Sderstr., Lophozia bantriensis var. subcompressa (Limpr.) Sderstr., Lophozia collaris var. libertae (Hb.) Sderstr., Plagiopus oederiana var. alpina (Schwaegr.) Sderstr. & Heden., Serpoleskea confervoides (Brid.) Kartt., Sphagnum affine var. flagellare (Rll) Sderstr. & Heden., Sphagnum capillifolium var. subtile (Russ.) Kartt., Sphagnum denticulatum var. inundatum (Russ.) Kartt., Tetralophozia setiformis var. alpina (Hook.) Sderstr. The nomenclature and application of Hypnum andoi A. J. E. Smith and Lophozia ventricosa var. uliginosa Schiffn. is clarified. Many of the names involved are typified.
23725331|Ninety-two sample plots were studied on 21 glaciofluvial eskers in southern Hme, S Finland, in order to analyse relations between the forest vegetation and the major environmental factors. The material was classified with Twinspan and ordinated mainly with Canonical Correspondence Analysis (CCA) and Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA), in part with Redundancy Analysis (RDA) and Principal Components Analysis (PCA). The results of CCA suggest that esker vegetation is affected by a greater number of significant environmental variables than normal upland forests, which have one major, unidimensional (moistureacidity) gradient. The most important factor is the aspect/inclination factor complex, consisting of two variables (inclination and exposure of the slope), which are also significant per se. Other major factors are pH, thickness of the humus layer and cover of the tree canopy. The strong aspect/inclination factor complex partly outweighs the otherwise important effects of site factors such as the fraction of finer particles in the soil. Displacement of the maximal vegetational variation along the aspect/inclination scalar from south to southwest was noted. There were also some slight differences in the relative importance of variables on sunny or shaded slopes; the impact of inclination is occasionally stronger on sunny slopes, due to barrenness and erosion of the site. In the evaluation of esker forest site types, somewhat better correspondence between the results of multivariate analysis and a priori typification of the samples occurred in the case of most xeric and moist site types. In the main body of the data, however, pronounced overlapping between site types occurred. The distinct and dynamic nature of esker forests also hampers attempts to trace parallelism between esker and normal upland forests.
23725394|In connection with two large-scale rescue excavations in 1985 within the area of the medieval town of Porvoo, two cultural layers were sampled for analysis by means of pollen analysis. The dating of the profiles is based on archaeological data and distinct charcoal dust layers indicating the recorded fires of Porvoo in AD 1508, 1571, 1590, 1708 and 1760. The pollen data reflect the rapid fluctuations in the vegetation caused by these fires and by unpredictable but still essential factors typical of medieval urban communities. The urban development is reflected by decreasing pollen concentration values and by pollen indicators, such as Chenopodiaceae, Cichoriaceae, Polygonum aviculare and Centaurea cyanus which have also been interpreted in earlier contexts as representing a medieval town milieu.
23726060|Juncus alpinoarticulatus Chaix in Vill. is typified and shown to be the legitimate name for the species usually called J. alpinus Vill., which is a superfluous name. The new combinations J. alpinoarticulatus subsp. alpestris (Hartman) Hmet-Ahti and J. alpinoarticulatus subsp. nodulosus (Wahlenb.) Hmet-Ahti are introduced.
23726512|Ecology and changes in occurrences of 15 aquatic bryophyte species were examined using records made in the late 1940s and late 1970s in 54 small (0.5200 ha) lakes in southern Finland. The lakes represented a wide variation in water chemistry, aquatic vegetation and human influence. The material was classified with TWINSPAN and ordinated by Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA) and Canonical Correspondence Analysis (CCA). The parameters best explaining the occurrence of species were pH, specific conductivity, and water transparency. The species composition in the two surveys varied notably in many lakes. The lemnid-like hepatics Riccia fluitans L. and Ricciocarpos natans (L.) Corda were greatly favoured by eutrophication, and gained new occurrences. Warnstorfia exannulata s. lato (mostly W. procera (Ren. & H. Arn.) Tuom.) increased in oligotrophic lakes. Calliergon megalophyllum Mikut. and Drepanocladus tenuinervis T. Kop. had about the same frequency, and Scorpidium scorpioides (Hedw.) Limpr. and Fontinalis hypnoides Hartm. decreased between the two surveys. In heavily eutrophicated waters aquatic bryophytes had completely disappeared. In other lakes changes were explained only partially by environmental factors (eutrophication and decreased water transparency), but bryophyte populations evidently also have large quantitative fluctuations. Brief ecological accounts are given for the bryophyte species studied.
23725816|Odontites verna (Bellardi) Dumort., O. vulgaris Moench, O. litoralis Fries subsp. litoralis and O. litoralis subsp. fennica Markl. were cultivated autotrophically and on 12 different host species. Survival, onset of flowering, plant height, inflorescence length, number of branches and dry weight were recorded. Statistically significant differences in frequencies of survival were found for all Odontites taxa on different hosts. Some hosts were completely resistent to the hemiparasites, others partially so and still others not at all. The Odontites plants were modified by the hosts both morphologically and in time of flowering. Onset of flowering of all taxa except O. litoralis subsp. litoralis differed significantly on different hosts. Inflorescence length differed significantly on different hosts. Most hosts did not suffer visibly from the hemiparasites.
23727979|A new species, Silene ozyurtii Aksoy & Hamzaolu (Caryophyllaceae), is described from the north parts of western Taurus facing central Anatolia, between the Konya and Isparta provinces, in southwest Anatolia, Turkey. The species is compared with morphologically similar taxa in sect. Tunicoideae.
23728103|Cirsium yildizianum Arabac & Dirmenci sp. nova (Asteraceae: Cynareae) is described from East Anatolia, Turkey. It belongs to the section Epitrachys and is morphologically close to C. macrobotrys and C. turkestanicum s. lato. It differs from them mainly in its habit, distinctly pedunculate inflorescence, capitula number and the features of the phyllaries.
23726486|Otolejeunea Grolle & Tix. (Lejeuneaceae, Hepaticae) is a small paleotropical genus. A total of 9 species including 1 in Australia, 5 in Asia, 2 in Madagascar and 1 in Brazil is known. Otolejeunea semperiana (Gottsche ex Steph.) Grolle is reported here as a new generic record for the Chinese bryoflora. The previously known northernmost localities for the genus and species were Vietnam and the Philippines respectively. The locality recorded here for China, Shuhaijinshan (ca. 2431 N, 11721 E), is the northern-most for the genus Otolejeunea and O. semperiana and the first ones from subtropical regions. A description and illustration of O. semperiana are provided, along with a distribution map of both Otolejeunea and O. semperiana. The new combination O. schnellii (Tix.) Zhu & So (Allorgella schnellii Tix.) is made.
23726509|Polyporus mongolicus (Pilt) Y. C. Dai, earlier treated as a variety of P. arcularius Batsch: Fr. by Pilt, is erected as an independent species. It is separated from the other pale-stiped Polyporus species (the Polyporellus P. Karst. group) in having duplex context, and fairly big and freely arranged pores; it has both simple-septate and clamped hyphae in the upper hirsute layer of the cap. Its affinities with the other species in the Polyporellus group are given. Another polypore species, growing on wood of gymnosperms in NE Asia, is identified as P. tubaeformis (P. Karst.) Ryvarden & Gilb. It resembles P. melanopus (Pers.) Fr., but differs by having narrower generative hyphae, tightly interwoven tramal hyphae, thick-walled upper surface hyphae making up a palisade, and by bearing cystidioles. The differences between it and the other taxa in the black-stiped group (the Melanopus complex) are discussed. Polyporus hemicapnodes Berk & Broome, a predominantly tropical species, has been found in the Far East of Russia, and was now collected in N China (new to China). It is characterized by having small and slender basidiocarps, a black stipe, pale luteous upper surface, strongly decurrent pores and subellipsoid spores.
23727893|The relationship between the present distribution of some vascular plants in managed forests and forest history was investigated in western Poland. A forest inventory report was used as the source of data for plant distribution in the 211 subcompartments of the forest, and archive maps for the stand history assessment. The "history" of a sub-compartment (ancient vs. recent) increases the parsimony of the models, as assessed with AIC, explaining understory plant species occurrence. Occurrences of Vaccinium myrtillus and Pteridium aquilinum appeared to be most reliable predictors of forest history. Among the 110 sub-compartments where the two species were recorded, 103 were covered by ancient forest. The two plant species selected as reliable predictors of ancient forest continuity also appeared to be significant predictors of forest history in the nearby control area. The use of indicator species described in the reports may be an attractive source of knowledge on the ecosystem.
23727884|The previously invalidly published combination Homaliodendron fruticosum S. Olsson, Enroth & D. Quandt (Neckeraceae, Bryophyta) is here validated by citing the basionym.
23727264|The following new species of the Orchidaceae subtribe Stenorrhynchidinae are described and illustrated: Coccineorchis cristata Szlach., Rutk. & Mytnik, C. dressleri Szlach., Rutk. & Mytnik, C. warszewicziana Szlach., Rutk. & Mytnik, Schiedeella tamayoana Szlach., Rutk. & Mytnik, S. williamsiana Szlach., Rutk. & Mytnik, and Svenkoeltzia pamelae Szlach., Rutk. & Mytnik. A new subgenus Oestlundorchis Szlach. subgenus Mexicanthes Szlach., Rutk. & Mytnik is proposed. A new combination Stenorrhynchos vexillaris (Szlach.) Szlach., Rutk. & Mytnik, comb. & stat. nov. is validated. Keys for identification of the Mesoamerican species of Coccineorchis and Svenkoeltzia are provided.
23727834|Microsporogenesis and male gametogenesis in Psammosilene tunicoides (Caryophyllaceae) were studied and described for the first time. This species possesses essential embryological features of Caryophyllaceae, such as tetrasporangiate anthers, fibrous endothecium, glandular tapetum, two tapetal cells, simultaneous cytokinesis of pollen mother cells, and three-celled pollen grains. A majority of the microspores were arranged in tetrahedral tetrads, but rhomboidal tetrads were observed in one population. Notable differences in the tapetum degeneration were observed in different populations. Early or late degeneration may both lead to male sterility and subsequently to reproductive failure. The tapetum was dimorphic in two populations. We also included data concerning the breeding system of the species and discussed its implications for conservation purposes.
23728238|The type specimen of Parasenecio subglaber (C.C. Chang) Y.L. Chen (Asteraceae, Senecioneae) is conflicting with the protologue and belongs to the genus Ligularia. A new name and a new type are designated to accommodate the original protologue, and the distribution range of the species is widely extended.
23728026|Fargesia huizensis M.S. Sun, Y.M. Yang & H.Q. Yang (Poaceae: Bambusoideae), a new species from central Yunnan, China, is described and illustrated. It resembles F. fungosa, and is known only from the Huize County in Yunnan.
23726096|The well-defined hybrid Carex canescens L.  mackenziei Krecz. (C.  pseudohelvola Kihlman) and its parental species were the subjects of a detailed comparative study performed on herbarium material and wild populations. In most morphological and anatomical characters the hybrid plants are interparental, showing, however, heterosis in some vegetative organs. The constancy in these characters, as also that in chromatographic variation patterns, indicates that C. canescens  mackenziei is a hybrid of the F1 type. The chromosome number of the hybrid, 2n = 60, is interparental (C. canescens  2n = 56; C. mackenziei  2n = 64). Severe disturbances in meiosis, few and mostly undehisced anthers, abortive pollen and empty perigynia with undeveloped achenes reveal complete sterility. The hybrid is a plant of seashore meadows influenced by fresh water, and shows intermediacy in ecology to its parents. The taxonomic usability of various identification tools when studying difficult species and hybrid complexes, especially in the subgenus Vignea with many sterile F1 hybrids, is discussed.
23726341|Developing species concepts for Porpidia are tested in Finland and adjacent Russia, an area where the genus has been collected abundantly but has not been revised recently. Fifteen entities are included and named at the species level. Four are excluded or expected. A key is provided for included and expected taxa, and the status of each as a species is discussed. The original publications of names, basionyms, and selected synonyms are cited. The following are new to Europe: P. lowiana Gowan, P. thomsonii Gowan, and an unnamed sorediate counterpart to P. macrocarpa (DC.) Hertel & Knoph. The following are new to Finland: P. contraponenda (Arnold) Knoph & Hertel, P. grisea Gowan, P. musiva (Koerber) Hertel & Knoph, P. speirea (Ach.) Krempelh., P. superba (Koerber) Hertel & Knoph, and specimens that may belong to P. soredizodes (Lamy ex Nyl.) Laundon. Several basionyms and synonyms are typified, concentrating on taxa described by W. Nylander and E.A. Vainio from the study area. Porpidia pseudomelinodes Schwab is transferred to Hymenelia as H. ochrolemma (Vainio) Gowan & Ahti, comb. nov. An earlier lectotypification of Lecidea flavocoerulescens Hornem. is rejected and a new one proposed, in an attempt to stabilize the use of the name, as follows: Porpidia flavocoerulescens refers to a nonsorediate species. Porpidia melinodes (Koerber) Gowan & Ahti, comb. nov. refers to a sorediate species.
23724691|The somatic metaphase chromosomes of ten strains of Aucuba japonica, a tetraploid species with chromosome rearrangements, have been compared. Only slight differences in the length of the chromosomes and in the location of the centromeres have been observed between the strains studied, but some deviations within certain chromosome types have been recorded. Reinvestigation of meiosis has confirmed most of the earlier observations. The number of translocations and their location and size are discussed.
23725308|Two plotless sampling methods are employed to study cryptogam-dominated sand dune communities near Joensuu, E Finland. One method uses the nearest adjacent species (contact species), the other uses the transition sequence along a transect. The methods give largely different results, although these are in no way contradictory. Three growth-form groups of plants can be distinguished: (1) dwarf shrubs, (2) carpet-forming cryptogams, (3) other cryptogams. Dwarf shrubs differ widely from cryptogams, being rooted and having sparse shoots. As most of them occur on the north slopes, they are mainly associated with the mesic cryptogams. Carpet-forming cryptogams are not usually associated with each other when transect segments with the same dominant are compared. However, since lichens (Cladina spp.) are concentrated on the south slopes and bryophytes (mainly Pleurozium schreberi) on the north slopes, there are positive associations within these groups in the whole data set. The other cryptogams mainly colonize gaps in the lichen or bryophyte carpet. Such carpets form slowly on some sunny south slope sites, and there several minor species are frequent (Cladina mitis, Stereocaulon paschale, Cladonia spp.). Some of the gap colonizers can persist in closed carpets (Cladonia cornuta). It is suggested that Pohlia nutans can grow near shoots of Vaccinium vitis-idaea and Polytrichum juniperinum in narrow openings in patches of Cladina stellaris.
23726164|Chromosome numbers were determined in Shepherdia argentea Nutt. (2n=26), S. canadensis Nutt. (2n=22), Elaeagnus angustifolia L. (2n=28), E. angustifolia var. orientalis (L.) Ktze (2n=28) and E. argentea Pursh (2n=28) (Elaeagnaceae). The idiograms of S. argentea and E. angustifolia var. orientalis are presented, the former with C-bands. In all the Elaeagnus strains studied the karyotypes were of a similar bimodal type, with a very long metacentric pair, two medium-long subacrocentric pairs and 11 short, more or less metacentric pairs. The Shepherdia chromosomes were of relatively even size, most of them acrocentric or subacrocentric. The C-bands in Elaeagnus were mostly distal and knob-like, those in Shepherdia mostly located proximally in the chromosome arms. Together with those of Hippopha, the basic chromosome numbers of Elaeagnaceae form a complete series: x = 11, 12, 13, 14. The evolutionary direction within this series is unclear because specialized karyotypic and morphological features can be found at both ends of the scale.
23728173|Carex helingeeriensis L.Q. Zhao & J. Yang (Cyperaceae), a new species from Inner Mongolia, China, is described. It appears most closely related to C. asperifructus. The distinguishing characters are given in a key to the two species.
23728065|A taxonomic validation of Ponthieva micromystax Kraenzl. ex Szlach. & Kolan. is presented together with the description of the second species of Ocampoa, O. kraenzliana Szlach. & Kolan. Specimens of both novelties were found in the Colombian collection of Lehmann and both were labeled by Friedrich Krnzlin as Ponthieva micromystax.
23725719|Orthothecium lapponicum (Schimp.) C. Hartm. is shown to be a good species, characterized by [i.a.] the glossy, golden or yellow-brown colour, the julaceous shoots and the strongly concave, ovate to ovateoblong unplicate leaves with reflexed apices. The species is reported from seven localities in Northern Sweden. O. complanatum Kindb. is lectotypified and is considered synonymous with O. rufescens (Brid.) B.S.G.
23727975|We report a detailed study of the development and morphology of pollen in four species of the genus Pterocactus (Cactaceae), carried out by using LM and SEM. The anther is tetrasporangiate, its wall consists of epidermis, endothecium, one middle layer and a binucleate secretory tapetum. Microspore tetrads are tetrahedrical and pollen grains are shed at bicellular stage. Pollen grains are pantoporate, with a perforate tectum and supratectate spinules.
23725248|The growth period of Andromeda polifolia L. was short, growth starting rapidly in early May and ending two months later. Hari's dynamic growth model was used to study the growth rhythm. Young shoots of Andromeda were sensitive to temperatures below freezing-point, which occurred frequently in the study area during the growth period. Frost damage diminished the production and had a distinct effect on the branching morphology and shoot length. Slight frost injury, however, induced secondary growth, which resulted in a final shoot length exceeding that observed in shoots which were not subjected to frost. The regeneration ability of the shoots was always good. The secondary growth prolonged the growth period of a given branch as compared with that of an undamaged shoot. Andromeda grows better in a frost-free environment, but seems to be well adapted to summer frost. This is also reflected in the evergreen habit and clonal growth.
23726737|Alocasia hypnosa J.T. Yin, Y.H. Wang & Z.F. Xu is described and illustrated as a new species of Araceae from southern Yunnan, China. It occurs also in Thailand. The morphological characters of A. hypnosa and the related species A. odora are compared. Alocasia hypnosa differs from A. odora in its purple spathe lamina, tubercle-bearing stolons and seasonally dormant habit. An identification key to the Chinese species of Alocasia is provided.
43922098|The composition and occurrence of the littoral algal flora of a relatively oligotrophic southern Finnish lake are described. The environmental factors considered are fluctuations in the water level, shore type, depth, solarradiation and the quality of the substrate. The 43 most important taxa are presented.
23727873|A new species, Gastrodia albida T.C. Hsu & C.M. Kuo (Orchidaceae), is described and illustrated from Taiwan. Gastrodia albida is closely related to G. theana but differs by having a perianth tube indistincy striate outside, larger and oblong-ovate petals, narrower lip with truncate base, and by the absence of a rostellum. Gastrodia albida is predicted to be self-pollinated based on the morphological and ecological features.
23725541|The status of the following six species included in the so-called Cladonia coccifera group (genus Cladonia section Cocciferae) is discussed: C. metacorallifera Asah., C. lepidophora Ahti & Kashiw., C. meridensis Ahti & Stenroos, C. leprocephala Ahti & Stenroos, C. brasiliensis (Nyl.) Vainio and C. corallifera (Kunze) Nyl. A new synonym is C. subcorallifera Vainio (= C. corallifera). A lectotype is selected for C. metacorallifera var. reagens Asah., C. hypoxanthoides Vainio, Cenomyce corallifera Kunze, Cladonia corallifera f. gracilescens (Vainio) Vainio and C. substraminea var. brasiliensis Nyl. The phenolic compounds of each species are reported and the distribution of each species is mapped.
23725025|A survey is given of the contents of some ecologically and physiologically significant elements (Ca, Mg, Cu, Fe, Mn and Zn) of 90 macrofungus species. Many species of non-agaric families, Geoglossaceae, Helvellaceae and Lycoperdaceae, are particularly rich in mineral elements, but some elements are also accumulated by agaric fungi of the Agaricaceae and Hygrophoraceae. On the average, the macrofungi are very rich in copper and zinc, but poor in calcium and magnesium in relation to other plants. Comparison between juvenile and mature specimens does not reveal any general trend in their mineral contents.
23725201|The mercury contents of the epiphytic lichen Hypogymnia physodes (L.) Nyl. and needles of Pinus sylvestris L. were determined from 63 sites around a chlor-alkali works in Kuusankoski, SE Finland. The mercury content of the lichen ranged from 0.13 to 0.87 ppm and that of pine needles from 0.01 to 0.34 ppm. The concentrations evenly decreased with increasing distance from the works and the effect of the works could be noticed in the whole study area (radius about 6 km) both in lichens and in needles.
23725172|Diatom and chemical analyses of the sediments of small oligohumous forest lakes on granitic bedrock with undisturbed (two lakes) or only slightly disturbed (two lakes) watersheds gave evidence of acidification by air-borne substances (acid precipitation). The varve (one lake) and lead-210 chronology (two lakes) indicated that this process commenced less than three decades to a few years ago. At the same time there was a considerable increase in the contents and sedimentation rates of lead, zinc, titanium, cadmium, copper and mercury. In the case of lead, however, the increase in deposition started during the latter half of the 19th century. These changes were largely connected with accelerated atmospheric input. Element enrichment factors were calculated by dividing the concentrations in the surface sediments by the values in sediments deposited 150200 years ago. After correction for input due to erosion from the catchment area, the enrichment factors were: Pb +28, Cd +9.4, Ca -7.1, Ti +3.1, Zn +3.0, Hg +2.7, Fe +2.1. Mn & Al -2.0, Cu +1,6, Ni +1.2.
23726789|Tulipa gumusanica Terziolu (Liliaceae) is described as a species new to science and illustrated in line drawings. It occurs in the Vilayet Gmhane region of Turkey. The chief characters of T. gumusanica are pure yellow stamens and anthers and distinctly undulate leaves.
23725328|The objectives of this study were to determine vegetational variation and vegetationenvironment relationships, and to define trophic classes in wooded peatlands. One hundred and twenty-nine plots in wooded peatlands from the Northern Clay Section, northeastern Ontario, Canada, were analyzed with multivariate techniques. Detrended correspondence analysis (DECORANA) ordination was employed to portray vegetational variation and to identify clusters of plots. The first axis of the ordination was significantly correlated with the number of species present, groundwater pH and calcium, depth of the surface layer of fibric peat, loss on ignition, N, Ca, Mg, and site index. The first axis of the ordination was segmented into 'trophic classes'  ombrotrophic, extreme poor, transitional poor, intermediate, transitional rich and rich. Divisions between these classes were chosen to complement the divisions between vegetation types identified by two-way indicator species analyses (TWINSPAN). A key to the vegetation types and trophic classes based upon indicator species is provided.
23727590|A morphometric and taxonomic study of Pinguicula in central Italy was carried out. Six allopatric units occur in this area, all belonging to sect. Pinguicula: P. fiorii Tammaro & Pace, P. vulgaris L. subsp. vulgaris and four new taxa: P. vulgaris subsp. anzalonei Peruzzi & F. Conti subsp. nova, P. vulgaris subsp. ernica Peruzzi & F. Conti subsp. nova, P. vulgaris subsp. vestina F. Conti & Peruzzi subsp. nova and P. vallisregiae F. Conti & Peruzzi sp. nova. A key to the Italian species and subspecies of Pinguicula is provided.
23726758|A new species of Asplenium from Equatorial Guinea, A. carvalhoanum Herrero, Aedo, Velayos & Viane, is described and illustrated. This new species is similar to A. preussii Hieron., which differs in rhizome, scales and in the absence of gemmae on the apical part of the lamina. It is also similar to A. hallei Tard., which differs in frond morphology.
23727231|A new species, Lysimachia gesnerioides Y.M. Shui & M.D. Zhang (Myrsinaceae) from Yunnan and Vietnam, is described and illustrated. It is morphologically most similar to L. physaloides, L. chapaensis and L. grandifolia. The distinguishing characters are given in a key to the four species.
23726244|The second species of Prasanthus (Lindb.) Lindb., P. jamalicus Potemk., is described. It differs from P. suecieus (Gott.) Lindb. mainly in its smaller size, purplish brown to purplish black secondary pigmentation, distant leaf position on sterile shoots, thin-walled cells of sterile leaves, predominantly unelongated basal leaf cells, inner capsule wall layer with nodular thickenings and mostly 3-spiral elaters. P. jamalicus is distinguished as a new section of Prasanthus, Pseudonardia Potemk. The features differentiating it from Nardia breidleri (Limpr.) Lindb. and N. geoscyphus (De Not.) Lindb. are given.
23728248|Examination of the type material showed that Hypoestes addisoniensis Elmer ['as addisoniense'] is different from other Hypoestes in its solitary or few flowers clustered in leaf axils and bithecous anthers spurred on lower thecae and is a member of Justicia. Therefore, a new combination, Justicia addisoniensis (Elmer) C.M. Gao & Y.F. Deng, is proposed herein.
23727734|Saxifraga daqiaoensis F.G. Wang & F.W. Xing sp. nova (Saxifragaceae) grows on moist rocks in evergreen secondary forests on limestone mountains in the Guangdong province of China. It is morphologically most similar to S. mengtzeana.
23726339|The phloroglucinol compositions of D. ardechensis and D. corleyi and their putative ancestors are studied by thin-layer chromatography. D. ardechensis is a tetraploid apomictic species, which contains large amounts of flavaspidic acid and pentherin-I as well as some albaspidin, trisflavaspidic acid, and filixic acid. According to its morphology, cytology and chemistry it was most probably derived from a hybrid of the apomictic diploid D. affinis ssp. affinis and tetraploid sexual D. tyrrhena. D. corleyi is a tetraploid sexual species, which contains large amounts of aspidin and para-aspidin as well as some flavaspidic acid, phloraspin, margaspidin and trisflavaspidic acid. Its morphology, cytology and chemistry suggests that it has been formed by chromosome doubling from a hybrid of the diploid sexual taxa D. aemula and D. oreades. However, final proof of the above origins can only be obtained from experimental hybridization or other experimental work.
23726970|Verbascum tuna-ekimii Karaveliollar, Duran & Hamzaolu sp. nova (sect. Bothrosperma) is described from E Anatolia in Turkey. It is related to and compared with V. laetum, from which it mainly differs in its leaves, bracts, pedicels and capsules.
23725435|The union of the genus Ledum L. with Rhododendron L. necessitates the following new names and combinations: Rhododendron neoglandulosum Harmaja (Ledum glandulosum Nutt.), R. subarcticum Harmaja (L. decumbens (Aiton) Lodd. ex Steud.), R. tolmachevii Harmaja (L. macrophyllum Tolm.), R. columbianum (Piper) Harmaja, R. hypoleucum (Kom.) Harmaja and R. tomentosum (Stokes) Harmaja.
23728118|A new species Aspidistra jingxiensis Yan Liu & C.R. Lin (Asparagaceae) is described and illustrated from the limestone areas in the Guangxi Zhuangzu Autonomous Region, China. It is similar to A. punctatoides in the shape and size of the flowers, but differs in its perianth lobes 8 (occasionally 10), mushroom-shaped and white pistil, and the glabrous stigma upper surface with four radial, bifurcate deep grooves.
23727817|Centaurea nivea (Asteraceae) is endemic to Turkey and distributed only in the Eskiehir Province. It is under risk of extinction due to anthropogenic disturbance, so conservation strategies must be developed urgently. In this study, RAPD technique was used to estimate the level of genetic diversity of C. nivea. Twenty RAPD primers generated 234 bands, of which 215 were polymorphic (91.88%). A high level of genetic diversity was detected both at population (PPB = 72.90%, I = 0.3790, Hs = 0.2527) and at species level (PPB = 91.88%, I = 0.4510, Ht = 0.2963). A moderate level of genetic differentiation among populations was also revealed by Nei's gene diversity analysis (14.73%), Shannon's information measure (15.96%) and AMOVA (7.97%). Patterns of genetic variation among the populations of C. nivea may indicate that the closely located and fragmented populations of C. nivea were likely derived from a previously large population.
23725270|The cytology of pine and spruce needles was studied in relation to air pollution in three towns in Finland, at light and electron mircoscope level. The air pollutants are emitted mainly by wood pulp, chemical and fertilizer factories. Green second-year needles of both conifers were taken twice in each area during 1978. At the light microscope level it was possible to distinguish three different stages of cell injury and the extent of tissue damage in cross-sections of the needles. At electron microscope level four different types of injury could be discerned, which differed with the origin of the material. Reduction of the thylakoid system and presence of lipid-like material in the cytoplasm were observed in areas polluted by SO2 and other sulphurous compounds. Near the factories emitting fluorides the needles also showed curled or swollen thylakoids. The extent of the damage was greater and the stage of each type of injury more advanced in needles collected from sites with high pollutant concentrations in the air than in needles collected from less heavily polluted areas. The damage was most often more severe in spruce than in pine needles. The two conifers reacted similarly to polluted environments, showing the same types of injury in their ultrastructure.
43922145|A new subgenus, Tayloria subg. Pseudotetraplodon A. Kop., is described. The following new combinations are made: Brachymitrion moritzianum (C. Mll.) A. Kop., B. cochabambae (C. Mll.) A. Kop., B. laciniatum (Spruce) A. Kop., B. poesii (A. Kop.) A. Kop. Moseniella ulei (Broth.) A. Kop., and Tayloria stenophysata (Herz.) A. Kop. The synonymy of Brachymitrion jamesonii Tayl. includes Tayloria mandonii C. Mll., T. tortelloides Thr. and T. mexicana (Thr.) Bartr.; synonyms of Brachymitrion moritzianum (C. Mll.) A. Kop. are Tayloria spathulata (Hook. f. & Wils.) G. Mll., T. papulata Mll., T. moritziana Mll. var. carbonaria C. Mll., T. thomeana (Broth.) Broth, and T. mayorii Broth. & Irmsch; and Tayloria peruviana Williams falls into the synonymy of Tayloria scabriseta (Hook.) Mitt. Lectotypes are selected for Tayloria mandonii C. Mll., Orthomnium mexicanum Thr., Tayloria moritziana C. Mll., T. papulata C. Mll, and T. mayorii Broth. et Irmsch.
23727917|The phylogeny of the lichen genera Anaptychia (Physciaceae, Euascomycetes) and Physconia was studied using nucleotide sequences of the mitochondrial ribosomal small subunit (mtSSU rDNA) and the internal transcribed spacers of the nuclear ribosomal repeat (ITS). Phylogenetic analyses of the combined data set demonstrated that all included eight Anaptychia species formed a monophyletic group, as did the species of Physconia. The two gene regions revealed qualitatively similar relationships within the genus.
23726238|Leymus arenarius (L.) Hoechst, normally considered to be a maritime beach species, was studied at 10 sites on road verges in southern Finland. Seed dispersal may occur with traffic movement, and over short distances with machines mowing roadside vegetation. Soil pH values exceeding 9 were measured and are attributed to application of deicing salt at rates of 8 000 to 18 000 kg km-1 in recent years. The endospermal protein patterns differed in 9 of the 10 spatially separated population studied. Within-plant variation was lower (38%), suggesting a low level of heterozygosity and predominant self-pollination. Patterns of high molar mass proteins included a type not detected in coastal samples, suggesting differentiation under inland conditions. Alkaline phosphatase conjugated antibodies raised against human or mouse IgA or IgG heavy chains in goat or rabbit had specific affinity to some proteins in immunoblotted membranes from SDS-PAG's. These plant proteins may involve defence-proteins in the grain. When properly standardized, this technique may be useful for cultivar identification of man-grown cereals.
43922209|The plant impressions on two pieces of ceramics and two pieces of daub collected in 1991 from the archaeological excavation at Vasilievskoye, Novgorod, Russia, and dated to the 9th to 10th centuries AD, were studied. The total number of impressions noted was 180 of which the total number of identified plant impressions was 126. The most important finds were six imprints of grains of emmer, Triticum dicoccum. Two grains of hulled Hordeum vulgare were also identified. The most common imprints were of the awns of Hordeum sp. and pieces of unidentified ears (22). Pieces of lemmae, unidentified cereal grains, rachis segments and the seeds of Stellaria media and Chenopodium album were also common. These results indicate that in the area studied the threshing waste was mixed into the daub in order to improve its cohesion. Emmer wheat, Triticum dicoccum, must have been a very common cultivated cereal, because it, too, was used for this purpose.
23725169|A plead is presented for the conservation of the customary spelling Calypogeia against the original spelling Calypogeja of the name of this widespread and common genus of Hepaticae.
23725295|Germination studies were made on seeds of 11 populations of Angelica archangelica L. subsp. archangelica originating from Finland and North Sweden. The material was collected partly from nature, partly from experimentally cultivated plants. The germination in constant temperature conditions (27C) varied considerably between the seeds of different origin. The maximum values were usually obtained with cold pretreatment (5C) of seeds in moist sand. Seeds kept in the dark did not germinate, whereas light, especially continuous light, promoted germination. Gibberellic acid did not promote germination. The position of the seeds on the plant affected their weight and the proportion of the seeds containing an embryo. The highest germination percentage and heaviest mean weight were obtained for seeds from the primary umbel. The lower germination of seeds set later in the season was partly due to the greater frequency of empty seeds. Seeds produced on self-pollinated umbels tended to be lighter and less viable than those on freely pollinated umbels. The germinability of the viable seeds (containing an embryo) produced by self- and open pollination did not show a clear correlation with the mode of pollination. The original germination capacity of the seeds can be conserved or even increased during dry storage of two years at 5C. After storage for 40 months, the seeds had nearly lost their germination capacity. The variability in the germination characteristics of different populations grown under the same conditions suggests that ecotypic variation exists at the level of germination. The disjunct Somerniemi population from southern Finland was distinguished from the northern populations by generally having a greater demand for stratification and more rapid germination after suitable stratification. The year-to-year variation noted in the dormancy was probably determined by the temperature during seed maturation.
23726964|The temporal growth pattern, above- and below-ground biomass allocation of Eriophorum vaginatum (cottongrass) and its nutrient immobilisation dynamics were studied in a greenhouse experiment. The temporal growth pattern was also studied in a field experiment with three N and P addition levels in a restored peatland buffer in central Finland. The greatest seasonal increase in accumulated N and P occurred in roots and stems and leaf sheaths concurrently with the highest leaf elongation and new daughter tiller production. The amounts of N and P immobilised in cottongrass tissues were 73 g N m-2 (91% of the added N) and 13 g P m-2 (77% of the added P). A remarkable liberation of P into outflow water was observed at the end of the growing period. The annually increasing mass of dead organs of cottongrass, typically highly resistant to decomposition, forms a potential long-term sink for nutrients.
23725445|Hybridization between Achillea ptarmica L. and A. salicifolia Besser is fairly frequent on the shores of Lake Vanajavesi in southern Finland, and has also been observed in several localities in the northern and western parts of the European USSR, and on the western border of Poland. The morphological variation, fertility and viability of the hybrid and the parent species are discussed and compared. The characters best distinguishing the hybrid are the branching habit, size of capitula, number of ligulate flowers, and density of hairs and glandular pits on the leaves. The taxonomy and nomenclature of A. salicifolia and A. ptarmica x salicifolia are discussed. A southern Siberian  southeastern European race of A. salicifolia is recognized and a new combination, A. salicifolia subsp. septentrionalis (Serg.) Uotila, is made. A. ptarmica x salicifolia possibly corresponds to A. speciosa Henckel, which, in that case, should be used as its binary name.
23725672|The genus Sanionia Loeske consists of three species in Northwestern Europe, namely S. uncinata (Hedw.) Loeske, S. orthothecioides (Lindb.) Loeske and S. nivalis Hedens sp. nov. The best characters for the separation of these species are found in: (1) The endostome, which is complete in S. uncinata, reduced and strongly yellow in S. orthothecioides, and reduced, hyaline or slightly yellowish and irregularly perforated throughout in S. nivalis; (2) The perichaetial leaves, which narrow gradually to a long-acuminate apex, with finely denticulate or denticulate margins in S. uncinata and S. orthothecioides, and narrow  suddenly to an acute or short-acuminate apex, having strongly denticulate or dentate margins in S. nivalis; (3) The alar and supra-alar cells, the inflated alar cells forming a transversely triangular group in S. uncinata and S. orthothecioides, and an  isodiametric group in S. nivalis. The supra-alar cells are sharply delimited from the alar cells in the first two species, but usually not so in the third. The size and appearance of the supra-alar cell group also differs between the species. S. uncinata occurs throughout the region and occupies a wide range of habitats. S. orthothecioides is a northern species, which occurs chiefly in coastal areas, where its main habitats are rock-crevices and meadows. S. nivalis is probably common in arctic and higher mountainous areas in the region. Its main habitats seem to be large late snow-beds, where it grows in melt-water brooks or among boulders, and the shores of streams fed by melt-water from glaciers. The relationships between Sanionia and other taxa are discussed. Due to its special characters, e.g. features of the exostome, leaves (including the ontogeny of the alar cells), axillary hairs and stems, and to its differing habitat preferences, Sanionia is considered a distinct genus, which is probably not very closely related to the other taxa usually placed in the CalliergonScorpidiumDrepanocladus complex.
23725555|Transmission electron microscopy was used to study the effects of fumigation with NO2 (0.3 and 1.0 ppm) and treatment with solutions of some other nitrogen compounds (NH4Cl, NaNO3, NH4NO3) and fluorides (HF, KF) on Bryoria capillaris (Ach.) Brodo & D. Hawksw. and Hypogymnia physodes (L.) Nyl. The nitrogen compounds and fluorides were observed to cause characteristic ultrastructural symptoms in the lichens. These symptoms could be distinguished from the injuries caused by fumigation with SO2. All the nitrogen compounds used induced accumulation of electron-opaque substance, visible as dark bodies, in the vacuoles of both the algal and fungal cells. These bodies were different from the polyphosphate granules caused by treatment with KH2PO4. General degeneration of the fungal cells was observed after treatment with nitrogen compounds, especially with NO2. The structural injury caused by fluorides in the algal cells began as severe swelling of thylakoids and their interspaces and granulation of the cytoplasm and mitochondrial matrix. Later the thylakoids disintegrated and formed vesicles and membrane whorls, and finally were seen in the electron micrographs as a granular white-stippled mass. No distinct type of injury was observed in the fungal cells. The experimental results accord with earlier observations made on lichens in industrial environments where nitrogen compounds and fluorides are known to be emitted.
23727755|A drought simulation (roof experiment) was conducted in a 60-year-old Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris) stand in central Lithuania during 20032005. The stand represented a typical for Lithuania Scots pine forest of Pinetum vaccinio-myrtillosum type, growing on Arenosols. During the simulated-drought experiment, the changes in soil (humidity, pH, chemistry), ground vegetation (species abundant and composition) and tree condition (needle age, litterfall, crown defoliation) were recorded. The drought decreased soil humidity (O horizon and mineral soil down to the 100-cm depth) and increased the concentrations of some N compounds (in mineral topsoil). The cover of ground vegetation was significantly reduced, the needle age decreased, and crown defoliation increased as a result of drought.
23724672|The chromosome numbers have been counted for 8 taxa: Carex pluriflora 2n = ca. 50, Juncus mertensianus s. str. n = 40, Luzula frigida s. lat. 2n = 36, L. groenlandica 2n = 24, L. kjellmaniana (= L. tundricola) 2n = 36, L. parviflora 2n = 22, L. piperi n = 12, and Vahlodea atropurpurea ssp. paramushirensis 2n = 14. The nomenclature of L. kjellmaniana is discussed.
23727874|The original material of Potamogeton  subrufus Hagstr. [= P. lucens L.  P. nodosus Poir.] and the herbarium material of the morphologically most similar hybrid, P.  fluitans Roth [= P. lucens L.  P. natans L.], were examined taxonomically. Approximately 45 characters were studied on 42 herbarium specimens of both taxa. The analysis shows that P.  subrufus displays several characters consistently different from those of P.  fluitans. Two new European localities of P.  subrufus found during the study are also provided and a morphological description of the hybrid, including distinguishing characters, is given.
23727375|Two brown seaweeds, Fucus serratus and F. vesiculosus, are forming stands along the shores of the central Baltic Sea. We studied the regional variations in the abundance of F. vesiculosus, F. serratus and filamentous algae in the central Baltic Sea. Further, the hypothesis that regional differences in geomorphology and the northsouth salinity gradient affect the dominance of the different species was tested. Extended manta tow diving and observations from a skiff with transparent shutters in the hull were used to map the distribution of macroalgae on different substrate types. Estimations of F. serratus recruitment and turf biomass were also performed. The results show significant differences in Fucus spp. vegetation among regions and substrate types. Both Fucus species were most abundant in the southern regions as compared with the northern regions. Fucus serratus was significantly more abundant on limestone bedrock than on boulders. The results are discussed in relation to salinity tolerance, eutrophication, life history, and interspecific competition.
43922181|Silica-scaled flagellates (Chrysophyceae and Synurophyceae) in Pojo Bay, SW coast of Finland were studied by light and transmission electron microscopy. Eighty-nine net and water samples were collected fortnightly during the period 22 May 1990 and 5 May 1991 from five stations (I, III, V, VA, VI) in different parts of the bay. As the water quality changes gradually from the innermost part of the bay towards the open sea, each station represents different environmental conditions. Altogether 51 silicascaled flagellate taxa were identified, of which nine were new to Finland. The 51 taxa belonged to the genera Mallomonas (24 taxa), Synura (4), Chrysosphaerella (3), Spiniferomonas (7), Paraphysomonas (12) and Polylepidomonas (1). In addition, three types of Mallomonas scales, not identified with certainty, and two types of loose Paraphysomonas scales were found. Environmental parameters measured were water temperature, pH and salinity. The ecology of silica-scale bearing flagellates in the hydrographically complicated brackish water Pojo Bay is discussed. Notice is also taken of the reliable determination of scaled chrysophytes and synurophytes by means of light microscopy.
23728016|We describe and illustrate Lilium yapingense sp. nova (Liliaceae) and show its position within the LiliumNomocharis complex (Liliaceae). It is similar in appearance to L. nanum but differs by (1) having no spots on the tepal bases, instead possessing symmetric stripes; (2) nectaries lacking fimbriate projections on the surfaces, but having two dark grooves; and (3) an orange-colored instead of a white bulb. Phylogenetic analyses using nuclear ITS showed that L. yapingense merits specific rank and that it is more closely related to Nomocharis than to Lilium. However, the morphological synapomorphies thought to distinguish Nomocharis from Lilium are absent from the new species. The morphology and phylogeny of L. yapingense support previous studies, which show that Nomocharis and Lilium have intergrading morphologies and that Lilium is paraphyletic with respect to Nomocharis.
23725166|The collecting sites of a 1981 bryological expedition arranged by the Botanical Museum, University of Helsinki and the Bryophyte Herbarium, Humboldt State University (Arcata, California) are listed. The vegetation, geology and geological history of the study area are described, and its earlier bryological exploration is summarized.
23727196|Herbivory is a very common phenomenon in nature, which may considerably alter subsequent survival and reproduction of affected plants. We examined the effects of three levels of experimental defoliation (0%, 50% or 100% of the leaves removed) on reproductive behaviour, leaf production, survival and flowering of two nectarless orchids, Serapias vomeracea and Dactylorhiza sambucina. Neither orchid species showed differences between the non-defoliated and defoliated plants in total pollinia mass, but seed production was significantly lower in defoliated plants. The male reproductive traits appear to be more buffered against the effect of defoliation than female traits. Defoliation also decreased leaf area and the probability of flowering in the year following the treatments. In this paper, we show that natural levels of herbivory can severely affect both current and future reproduction in these two orchid species.
23726338|The structure of the synflorescences of three heterostachyae, Carex globularis L., C. nigra (L.) Reichard and C. pallescens L., two homostachyae, C. canescens L. and C. ovalis Good., and two monostachyae sedges, C. dioica L. and C. microglochin Wahlenb., was studied both morphologically and anatomically. Comparative studies showed that the female spikelets can be regarded as reduced lateral spikes. Thus the rachillas are reduced lateral axes, each bearing a female flower in the axil of a utricle. Like the cladoprophylls, the utricles are considered to be the first leaves of lateral axes. Anomalous structures found using comparative studies support the view that male flowers are true flowers situated on very reduced lateral axes. The division of lateral and terminal spikes into lateral and terminal spikelets was shown to be irrelevant and each axis of a synflorescence is considered to be an undivided entity. Consequently, a synflorescence consists of two kinds of basic units: the main axis and lateral axes of one or two orders with their bracts. The axes are typified according to two criteria: whether or not they bear branches, compound or simple axes, and whether they bear flowers, and if so what kind of flowers; female, male, bisexual or asexual axes. Both the hetero- and homostachyae synflorescences have the main axes of the compound male type and second-order axes of the simple female type. However, the first-order axes of the heterostachyae species are compound asexual, occasionally also simple male, whereas those of the homostachyae ones are compound male and simple female. Due to their dioecious or monoecious nature, the monostachyae synflorescences have main axes of the compound asexual, simple male or compound male type. Their first-order axes are simple female. The structures of the synflorescences of Carex are compared with those of the other genera in the tribe Cariceae and a hypothesis explaining the structure of a primitive synflorescence is proposed.
23725723|Two-year-old seedlings of Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) from Pyhnt, Northern Finland (6405N, 2615E) were used in this study. NR-activities increased by 7.2 and 14.3 mmol/l of KNO3 over the three-day study period, the highest figures being obtained with 14.3 mmol/l of KNO3. The highest values in the roots were obtained three days after the seedlings had been transferred to the solution containing NO-3 and those in the foliage two days after transfer. NR-activity in the roots was significantly lower with 28.5 mmol/l of KNO3 than with 14.3 or 7.2 mmol/l of KNO3, while 28.5 and 14.5 mmol/l of KNO3 produced significantly higher NR-activities in the foliage than 7.2 mmol/l, even though the NR-activity produced by 28.5 mmol/l KNO3 was significantly lower on the second day of incubation than that produced by 14.3 mmol/l KNO3. (NH4)2SO4 (2.8 mmol/l) had an inhibitory effect on NR-activity in both the roots and foliage, the effect being slightly significant (P<0.05) over two days of incubation. (NH4)2SO4 kept the NR-activity at the control level when it was the only nitrogen source present.
23728005|Early Holocene presence of Picea abies (Norways spruce) was recorded in NE Poland. Currently it is the westernmost known fossil site of spruce for the Early Holocene (95009000 cal. BP) in central-eastern Europe, approximately five thousand years earlier than presumed. For the first time, the occurrence of P. abies was documented by the presence of needles, bud scales and seeds. Picea abies grew on a peatland developed on a mineral peninsula between lakes Kojle and Perty during a period of low water level, when Corylus expanded. The disappearance of P. abies is related to a substantial climate change from continental to oceanic, approximately 9400 cal. BP, which resulted in an increase in humidity, higher water levels, and submergence of the peatland inhabited by P. abies.
23726066|Palaeobotanical records from a small polluted lake, Galltrsk, in S. Finland (6013N, 2415E) revealed that the isolation of the basin from the Baltic about 7200 calendar years ago was followed by a period of meiotrophication lasting more than 5000 years. The dysoligotrophic maximum was reached about 2300 years ago, probably due to clearances beginning during the first Iron Age settlement around 300 B.C., when pollen of the Triticum type was deposited, and increasing after the start of rye cultivation in A.D. 500. After this, the input of nutrients from the catchment area increased and the lake became less acid. Anthropogenic pollution did not begin until the early 1920s, when sewage was led to the basin. During this recent eutrophication both the microflora and the macrophytic vegetation have changed, and it was evidently at this stage that the rare and demanding elodeid Najas tenuissima (A. Braun) Magnus invaded the lake.
23725550|The Ti content was studied in epiphytic and terricolous lichens in 31 sites in Finland. Titanium was determined by the isotope excited X-ray fluorescence method. The titanium content of the lichens appeared to depend closely on the species and to vary according to several factors. In Hypogymnia physodes and Pseudevernia furfuracea, titanium had a highly significant correlation with the lichen sulphur content and with the wet and dry sulphate deposition rates. In Peltigera aphthosa and Nephroma arcticum the titanium content was also correlated with the sulphur content and the sulphate deposition. The titanium concentrations in Cladonia sp. and H. physodes showed a highly significant correlation with each other. The titanium contents of the lichens studied showed statistically significant regional variation in Finland. The origin of titanium from minerogenic dust and the role of long-range transport are discussed.
23725206|Introgression between Geum urbanum and G. rivale was studied by collecting individual Geum plants in SW Finland and transplanting them in an experimental plot, to eliminate environmentally induced variation. Their morphological features, vigour, and fertility were examined and the results are presented as hybrid indices, vitality indices, a pictorialized scatter diagram, and data on pollen stainability. The plants could be roughly divided into three groups: 1. G. urbanum, 2. G. rivale, and 3. plants of intermediate appearance. The fairly high vigour and fertility of the intermediate plants and also the variation of their characters show that there is considerable introgression between G. urbanum and G. rivale in SW Finland. In the area studied, it seems to proceed from G. urbanum towards G. rivale.
23724959|A calibration method is developed for measuring variations between and within plaster of Paris blocks. This method is based on the observed linear regression between resistance readings (per cent of available water) and the square roots of the volumes of the different ethanolwater mixtures (per cent of ethanol content).
23725344|The percentage distribution of virgin and drained mire types was studied over the period 19841986. Fifty-five large sample areas (10  10 km2) were taken at random, and five small plots (1 km2) were studied in each. The line transect method was used, the total mire transect length being 1 543 km. The survey covers 60 site types. The material is treated both as a whole and divided into bog and aapa mire areas. Twenty-six per cent of the peatlands are nowadays in natural condition. Twenty-six mire types are more or less rare or endangered. Draining has accentuated the contrasts in virgin vegetation between the bog and aapa mire areas. The virgin peatlands of the bog area are nowadays more forested, drier and more ombrooligotrophic than 30 years ago, while those of the aapa mire area are wetter, more open and mesotrophic. Draining has been chiefly concentrated in the forested mire types (spruce mires, pine mires/bogs, birch fens, pine fens). Many mire types are unprofitable for forestry purposes. Their proportion of the drained peatlands is 17%. The drainage percentage for diese unsuitable types averages over 50%.
23726574|There are five species in the genus Ditrichum Hampe in the Antarctic: D. heteromallum (Hedw.) Britt., D. conicum (Mont.) Mitt., D. austrogeorgicum (Card.) Seppelt, D. lewis-smithii Ochyra and D. gemmiferum Ochyra & Lewis-Smith. Of these, the first two are newly recorded from the region, whereas the last is described as new to science from material collected from the South Sandwich and South Shetland Islands, as well as from Marion Island in the Subantarctic and southern Chile. The new species is readily recognized by its short, rigid and strongly papillose leaf subulae and the frequent occurrence of small, pale yellowish or pale brownish rhizoidal gemmae. A key to determination of Antarctic species is provided and all species, except for D. lewis-smithii, are fully described and illustrated and their Antarctic and global distributions mapped. Ditrichum brotherusii (R. Br. ter.) Seppelt is excluded from the moss flora of Antarctica since information on its occurrence was based upon misidentification of the specimens. Blindia maxwellii Vitt from Campbell Island is briefly assessed and it is shown that it correctly belongs within Ditrichum as D. maxwellii (Vitt) Ochyra & Lewis-Smith. Lectotype is selected for Pseudodistichium austrogeorgicum Card., and P. austrogeorgicum fo. brevifolium Card. and P. austrogeorgicum var. longifolium Broth. in Card. & Broth. are reduced to synonymy with Ditrichum austrogeorgicum.
23725443|The variation of light intensity and water temperature were the foremost factors controlling productivity among epipelic algae and littoral plankton algae observed by in situ studies in Lake Suomunjrvi (East Finland). Their productivity curves followed the fluctuations of incident light seasonally and with depth, simultaneous crests of both algal assemblages occuring during warm months. Strong correlations were recorded between primary production and penetrated radiation (wave length 385650 nm), the contribution of radiation to the variation of the epipelic production being 64.2 % in 1975 and 51.4 % in 1975. The respective values for littoral plankton were 54.3 % in 1975 and 76.5 % in 1976. Temperature exerted a smaller impact on production. The effect of photodepression on epipelic production was minimal, whereas it influenced phytoplankton and littoral algal production considerably. The estimated average epipelic algal production of 0.2 g C ass m-2yr-1 accounted 1.4% for the phytoplankton production. The greatest productivity efficiencies were observed on the shoal early in the summer and in the autumn. The mean contents of acetone extracted epipelic algal chlorophyll a, analyzed parallel to the productivity measurements, ranged from 70.6  11.4 to 157.8  17.6 mg chl a m-2. Highest chlorophyll values occurred in light summer conditions, therefore it was concluded that epipelic algae are more tolerant and adjust differently to strong light than their planktonic counterparts.
23726088|The postglacial (Flandrian) pollen stratigraphy of Lake Lamminjrvi (6105N, 2502E) was studied on sediment samples representing a period of over 9000 years. A detailed picture of the local vegetation history emerged, in particular that of the last four to five millenia and the changes due to the impact of man. The sediment laid down after the spread of spruce to the area contained some evidence of temporary forest clearances by prehistoric inhabitants. Estimates based on the sedimentation rate suggested that regional deforestation took place during the early Iron Age (ca. A.D. 400600), when burning, grazing, and burn-beating cultivation were practised.
23725886|The stands of Blysmus rufus (Huds.) Link observed on the coast of the Bothnian Bay in 19561967 at Liminka and Oulunsalo (6449'  6459'N and 2514'  2527'E) may be assigned to the Blysmetosum rufi subassociation of the Caricetum pulchellae association. B. rufus was found in both the littoral and epilittoral. The substrate is almost neutral (pH 67) and the most abundant electrolytes are chlorides. The number of occurrences has decreased during the past 20 years and the author has not found B. rufus there since 1978. Its disappearance is evidently due to the direct or indirect effect of alterations in human activity (reduced grazing and hay-making, changes in drainage, etc.), and to its poor colonization ability, low competitive potential and narrow ecological amplitude. Some comments are presented on the distributional history.
43922164|Key to all hitherto known 123 genera of Hepaticae and Anthocerotae of Western Melanesia (i.e. West Irian, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands) is given.
23726880|Electrophoresis of eleven enzymes was employed to study isoenzyme vatiation and genetic affinities among the hybrid Elytrigia  littorea and its parents E. repens and E. junceiformis. Elytrigia  littorea shared most of isoenzyme profiles and isoforms of its parents but no evidence for a strict additiveness was observed. The isoenzyme structure of the hybrid resembled more the structure of E. repens. Two alternative interpretations for this are discussed. The exact genome composition of E.  littorea should be studied to confirm which interpretation of the isoenzyme data is correct.
23728104|Campanula hacerae A. lim sp. nova (Campanulaceae) from Turkey is described and illustrated. It grows on the slopes of gypsum hills located between Kayseri and Sivas in central Anatolia and flowers in the middle of July. Its diagnostic morphological characters relative to some closely related species are discussed.
23727916|Eriophorum angustifolium (Cyperaceae) is a pioneer clonal sedge colonizing bare peat surface of harvested peatlands in central Europe. It forms circular patches of densely aggregated ramets, followed by central die-back and ring formation as circles develop. This study experimentally tested the importance of inter-ramet competition, interference with litter, soil nutrient depletion, and architectural constraints for radial clonal spread and ring formation process. Effects of fertilization, litter addition and competition of neighbor ramets on growth and survival of tillers transplanted into four distinct zones within individual circle were detected only in the first zone (green band) with high ramet density. This suggested that both above-ground competition for light and below-ground competition for soil nutrients can play an important role in population dynamics of E. angustifolium. A field study of clonal growth has shown that rhizomes orient preferentially towards the periphery. As the old ramets within the interior of the tussock died due to senescence and inter-ramet competition, disproportionately more ramets are recruited on the periphery, which reduce axillary bud availability within the interior of the tussocks. We also explored the soil nutrient content (NH4-N, NO3-N and PO4-P). High values of NO3-N outside the circles and low values inside patches might partly explain why Eriophorum rhizomes are oriented into open space. High accumulation of phosphorus (PO4-P) in the centre of the patches was attributed to the leaching of phosphorus from decaying Eriophorum plants. We suggest that processes of nutrient foraging and utilization are responsible for development of circular patches of E. angustifolium in the harsh environment of cut-away peatland.
23726152|The growth and the tissue levels of ammonium, nitrate and total nitrogen were studied with two Atropa belladonna L. callus strains of different age when $\mathrm{N}{\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}$ and combinations of $\mathrm{N}{\mathrm{H}}_{4}^{+}$ and $\mathrm{N}{\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}$ in the ratios of 1:2 and 1:1 were used as nitrogen sources at four concentrations (5, 15, 25, 35 mM N) in the dark and in light. The callus cultures used all the nitrogen sources well: the highest dry weights were obtained on a combination of $\mathrm{N}{\mathrm{H}}_{4}^{+}$ and $\mathrm{N}{\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}$ in the ratio of 1:2, in light. The optimum concentration lay between 15 and 25 mM. The age of the callus strain and culture in the dark vs. periodic light had no distinct effect on the growth. On nutrient media containing both $\mathrm{N}{\mathrm{H}}_{4}^{+}$ and $\mathrm{N}{\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}$, higher total and organic nitrogen levels (about 3% of dry weight) were achieved than on media containing only $\mathrm{N}{\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}$ (about 2% of dry weight). In tissues grown on nitrate, the increase in the total nitrogen content between 25 and 35 mM nutrient nitrate was largely caused by accumulated $\mathrm{N}{\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}-\mathrm{N}$. The combination of $\mathrm{N}{\mathrm{H}}_{4}^{+}$ and $\mathrm{N}{\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}$ in the ratio of 1:1 did not cause any great accumulation of $\mathrm{N}{\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}$ in the tissues. Nitrate accumulation was in general greater in the dark than in light. The $\mathrm{N}{\mathrm{H}}_{4}^{+}-\mathrm{N}$ contents were almost the same for the three treatments. The results show that the nitrogen sources containing both $\mathrm{N}{\mathrm{H}}_{4}^{+}$ and $\mathrm{N}{\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}$ were more suitable than $\mathrm{N}{\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}$ alone for the cultures of Atropa in media with a nitrogen concentration over 25 mM.
23725377|Targionia hypophylla L. of the family Targioniaceae is reported for the first time from Western Melanesia, Indonesia and Malaysia. The species is illustrated and described, and the diagnostic characters and ranges are discussed. A key is given to Western Melanesian genera of Marchantiales.
43922207|The decline of oak forest stands in Biaowieza Primeval Forest is accompanied by reduction in the area of the 'island' of thermophilous vegetation and changes in the structure of the ground layer. Investigations carried out on a plot of 512 m between 1969 and 1992 showed that, during the decline, (1) species with low frequency gradually disappeared from the plot; (2) the spatial homogeneity of the patch increased while the species diversity decreased; (3) mean species frequency and number and proportion of species with aggregated dispersion were negatively correlated with the slope parameter (z) of the power function model S= cAz; (4) the value of z in the model was inversely proportional to the Shannon diversity index; and (5) the fit of the theoretical model to empirical data was very good and the pattern of the species  area relationship did not change.
23725296|In Finland, saline soils are encountered in both the littoral and the epilittoral. Mainly epilittoral material from Satakunta, Etel-, Keski- and Pohjois-Pohjanmaa (western Finland) is presented. The following types of saline soils are differentiated: (a) Chloride soils (Triglochin maritima, Puccinellia borealis and Salicornia europaea patches), (b) Sulphate  chloride soils (Spergularia salina, Eleocharis uniglumis  Carex paleacea and Puccinellia phryganodes patches), (c) Chloride  sulphate soils (Spergularia salina  Calamagrostis stricta patches), (d) Sulphate soils (Calamagrostis stricta  Eriophorum angustifolium and Calamagrostis stricta  Rumex acetosella patches), where halophytes are lacking. The sulphate sulphur mainly originates from the sediments of the Litorina period, but sulphur is also present in schist and in the Jotunian strata. Epilittoral chloride soils occur at least around Pori in Satakunta and around Oulu in Pohjanmaa. These chlorides probably come mainly from the ground water adjacent to the silt and sandstone layer. The climatic conditions necessary for the occurrence of saline soils exist in Finland, where the early summer in particular is generally warm and fairly dry. According to long-term mean values, a large portion of western and southern Finland is subarid between May and August. The saline soil occurrences in Finland are decreasing, which is largely due to the intensification of soil improvement measures and the decrease of grazing on meadows.
23724154|1. Primula nutans ssp. finmarchica (syn. P. sibirica ssp. finmarchica) is the main species of the Primula finmarchica group and occurs in Fennoscandia in three separate areas, on the Arctic Ocean, on the White Sea and on the Gulf of Bothnia. 2. The type subspecies, P. nutans ssp. nutans, occurs in Asia and in North America. Ssp. finmarchica occurs only in Northern Europe. According to Pax (1905, p. 77), in Northern Europe P. nutans s. lat. includes two varieties, var. integrifolia (Oeder) Pax and var. arctica Pax. According to previous investigations and our own they do not occur in Fennoscandia, however. 3. P. nutans ssp. finmarchica is a typical plant of low inundated seashore marshes. It grows on sea shores mainly on account of its poor competitive ability elsewhere and as a result of the history of its spread. However, the companion species and the inland localities show that it is not bound to the sea shore and is not a halophyte. 4. The species prefers open habitats, on which its growth begins earlier than that of the other species. In cultivation it requires continuous light of at least 10 000 lux in order to flower. 5. The species is a perennial, flowering in the end of June. It propagates both by seed and by runners which originate in the axils of the lower leaves. In the autumn, the buds in the middle of the leaf rosette and terminally in the runners are formed into hibernating buds. The leaves increase in size in the autumn, probably showing an increase in assimilation intensity. 6. It was established in the cultivation experiments that the Norwegian plants flowered only in cold night conditions (12 h 21, 12 h 5). The Bothnian plants flowered only if kept continuously at 21, but their vegetative growth was also luxuriant in the cold night conditions. 7. In the floral dimensions, small differences were detected both in the herbarium material and in the fresh flowers between the Norwegian and Bothnian specimens. In cultivation these differences were reduced. The form of the calyx lobes was slightly different (Fig. 8). 8. The leaves of the Norwegian specimens were found to be very significantly longer than those of the Bothnian plants. This holds true both in the mass collections, in the herbarium material and in the cultivations. The herbarium measurements showed that the populations on the White Sea did not differ from the Bothnian populations. 9. The number of flowers in the populations on the Arctic Ocean is smaller than in those on the White Sea and the Gulf of Bothnia. 10. The chromosome number of P. nutans ssp. finmarchica according to both previous studies and our own, is 2n = 22. 11. On the basis of the leaf shape, number of flowers and form of the calyx lobes ssp. finmarchica is divided into two varieties. Of these, var. finmarchica grows on the Arctic Ocean and var. jokelae n. var. on the Gulf of Bothnia and on the White Sea. 12. During the latest glaciation var. finmarchica survived in northern Norway in two separate coastal refuges. Var. jokelae has spread into Fennoscandia from the east after the Great Ice Age.
23726630|The differences in response to four levels of N deposition rates 0, 10, 30 and 100 kg ha-1 a-1 and ambient CO2 concentrations 350, 700, 1 000 and 2 000 ppm were studied in a greenhouse with Finnish material: Sphagnum angustifolium (Russow) C. Jens., a species occurring over a wide nutrient regime, and S. warnstorfii Russow, a meso-eutrophic species. With increased N deposition rate, capitulum density, capitulum and stem dry masses per unit length increased in S. warnstorfii. Length increments differed statistically among the N treatments, but in the highest experimental N deposition rate there was no fall in S. angustifolium comparable to that found in S. warnstorfii. In both species, raised CO2 concentrations caused increasing trends in capitulum and stem dry masses as well as length increments. Dry mass production of S. angustifolium increased at raised CO2 concentrations. Interaction between the two treatments was not so clear as their individual effects.
23724993|The base of a sediment core from a pond of a supra-aquatic area has been analysed palynologically and sampled every 2 cm. The distinction performed between Betula alba and B. nana pollen grains allowed the author to distinguish a pioneer vegetational phase dominated by shrubs and herbs, followed by a birch forest stage dated to 8230  250 BP (Hel. 466). So the deglaciation of the Kemijrvi region is believed to be Flandrian in time.
43922165|The aquatic moss vegetation in 69 originally low-alkaline, shallow pools and lakes in The Netherlands is related to the physico-chemical condition of the water and the morphometric characteristics and hydrology of the water bodies. In turbid pools and lakes with high ionic concentrations, submerged bryophyte species were lacking. Ordination of the quantitative data of moss species shows a distinct correlation between pH, alkalinity and related parameters, and the variation in the species composition. Classification of the sites reveals differences in the moss vegetation, which are significantly related to water quality. On the basis of autecological data, indicator values have been assigned to moss species with submerged occurrences. Physico-chemically, the waters can be grouped into acid and neutral waters and a sharp boundary is present between the distribution patterns of aquatic moss species growing in the acid and neutral groups. A subdivision of acid waters according to important physicochemical parameters is supported by the distribution patterns of the aquatic moss species. Implications for the understanding of Sphagnum growth are discussed. Aquatic bryophytes prove to be useful indicator species for water quality, particularly in systems poor in aquatic vascular plants, such as acidified waters.
23726447|The microspecies of the Ranunculus auricomus complex in the Flora Nordica area have traditionally been treated as subspecies under four species. These four "species" are polyphyletic with ill-defined limits, while the microspecies are sympatric, very constant and lack intermediate forms. In this paper the four traditional "species" are seen as morphological expressions of little taxonomical value, while the microspecies are given the rank of species. Six hundred and fifteen new combinations are made at the species level without change of epithet. Twenty-two microspecies are given new epithets: Ranunculus auricomus L. subsp. alpestris (Laest.) Fagerstr. & Kvist (= R. laestadii), subsp. angustisectus Markl. (= R. cosmophyllus), subsp. bellus Markl. ex Fagerstr. (= R. belliflorus), subsp. bidens Julin (= R. diodon), subsp. dactylophyllus Julin (= R. bottnicus), subsp. fissus Julin (= R. julinii), subsp. grandiflorus Demarsin (= R. demarsinii), subsp. incrassatus Demarsin (= R. pachyphyton), subsp. microphyllus Markl. (= R. meionophyllus), subsp. petiolatus Fagerstr. (= R. conjungens), subsp. petiolulatus Markl. ex Fagerstr. (= R. vuolijokiensis), subsp. prostratus Julin (= R. sudermannicus), subsp. rotundatus Markl. ex Kvist (= R. latiphyllarius), subsp. similis Markl. (= R. parobscurans), subsp. tinctisepalus Markl. ex Fagerstr. (= R. tinctapex), subsp. truncatus Markl. ex Fagerstr. (= R. getansis), subsp. vicinalis Markl. ex Fagerstr. (= R. sotkamonsis), R. fallax (Wimm. & Gr.) Slob. subsp. lucorum Markl. (= R. kymmenensis), subsp. mendax Markl. f. indivisus Markl. (= R. ameres), subsp. plebejus (Fr.) (= R. uplandicus), subsp. porrectus Kvist (= R. prosotatus) and R. petiolatus Borchers-Kolb (= R. borchers-kolbiae). R. cassubicus a. plebejus Fr. is lectotypified. R. fallax (Wimm. & Gr.) Slob. subsp. mendax Markl. f. indivisus Markl. is regarded as an independent microspecies, R. ameres S. Ericsson & Kvist. Three microspecies are synonymized, viz R. auricomus L. subsp. brevipedunculatus Julin with R. haglundii (Julin) S. Ericsson, subsp. dissimilis Julin with R. deminuens (Julin) S. Ericsson and subsp. modicus Markl. ex Kvist with R. pulchridentatus (Cedercr.) S. Ericsson. R. affinis R. Br. is excluded from the R. auricomus complex. A few corrections of spellings and author citations are also made. Flora Nordica notes 3.
23724116|The article is concerned with a study of phytopaleontological material from Maanselnsuo, Southern Kuusamo. The phases of vegetational development have been dated according to C14 age determinations. These form a reliable basis for a re-evaluation of former attempts at dating, and the Post-glacial vegetational history can now be reliably correlated with that of South Finland (Table 1). Concerning the Late-glacial, the present material affords much new information. Further, the somewhat astonishing conclusion is reached that obviously no material from the Younger Dryas has been described from the Kuusamo district. On the other hand, there is one case in addition to Maanselnsuo where Late-glacial periods I  II appear. The material for these phases is discussed in detail. Finally, a brief survey is given on the Post-glacial forest history of the area.
23726094|The aquatic macroflora and vegetation of the oligotrophic, mesohumic lake Suomunjrvi (643 ha, 6408' N, 3047' E) was studied on the basis of 71 study transects. The lake represents the Lobelia type in the Finnish system of botanical lake types, but also has features of the more chthoniotrophic Equisetum  Phragmites type. The littoral is dominated by psammolittoral, characterized by sparse reedy and isoetid communities. The development and zonation of vegetation is mainly determined by shore profile, substratum and exposure. Four types of shore profiles in the lake have been accounted for. The biomass and net production of macrophytes is very low, an average of only 13.0 g m-2y-1 dry wt of aboveground biomass in the vegetated littoral area (100 ha, 80 % of the depth zone of 02 m). Maximum biomass was 380 g m-2, reached by Carex rostrata. Helophytes represent 61 % (Phragmites 32 %) and submerged plants 39 % of the biomass, and the dominant plants are Phragmites australis, Nuphar lutea, Isotes lacustris, Schoenoplectus lacustris and Equisetum fluviatile. Autecology of the macrophytes (39 taxa) is discussed.
23727668|Astragalus turkmenensis Dural, O. Tugay & Ertugrul sp. nova (Fabaceae) from Central Anatolia in Turkey is described. It is placed in sect. Cystium and known only from the type gathering. It is compared with the morphologically similar A. physodes subsp. acikirensis. A distribution map of the new species and the related species is provided.
23724651|After controlled interspecific and intraspecific pollinations, the development of the ovules was studied microscopically and ripe seeds were examined by X-ray photography. Hybrids could be identified by their cotyledons, but juvenile leaves were also examined. The results are compared with previous data on the crossability of certain spruce species.
23726617|Hay meadows and unfertilised pastures are of great importance for floral and faunal conservation work since a number of rare species are confined to them. Traditional meadows in Scandinavia have shrub and tree layers which have to be managed in order to maintain an appropriate composition and density of shrubs and trees. We examined how light affects the distribution of species in wooded meadows and pastures in southern Sweden. Herbaceous species were recorded in square-metre plots along 60 light gradients. Species composition varied significantly with light availability. Species typical for open areas tended to be confined to them but species characteristic of shaded areas also grew in unshaded plots. Species richness increased with light availability but was not related to grass sward density. The use of the latter as an indicator of management status is therefore questionable, and light availability might be a better tool for evaluating the effectiveness of conservation management and restoration practices involving species-rich meadows or pastures.
23725239|Metal concentrations were determined in the feather moss Pleurozium schreberi sampled at eight distances from peat-fired heat-producing plants at Niinisalo (11 MW) and Simpele (121 MW). At 100 m from the 14.5-m-tall stacks of the Niinisalo plant, the Ca, Fe and Cr concentrations are considerably elevated, being four to nine times the background level, which is reached within only 450750 m of the plant. Lead, Ni and V are slightly elevated, Mn, Cu, Zn and Cd not at all. At 250 m from the 84-m-tall stack of the Simpele plant, the Cu and Cr levels are three times and the Fe, Zn, Pb, Ni, V and Cd levels less than twice the background value, which is reached at 500 m for all the metals except Fe, Ni and Cr. Calcium shows no gradient in the area (0.2523 km). The Mn level decreases towards the plant. Except for Cu and Cr, the increase in metal levels is fairly small, despite the large peat consumption. Other sources within the factory area possibly contribute to the metal accumulation in the near vicinity. The difference between Niinisalo (no purification) and Simpele (efficient electric precipitator) stresses the need for adequate purification of effluents from peat-fired plants. However, secondary heavy-metal pollution may arise from unsupervised dumping of peat ash.
23728063|Bupleurum baimaense X.G. Ma & X.J. He sp. nova (Apiaceae) is proposed here based on morphological characters and chromosome number (2n = 12). The material of this species has thus far been treated in China as B. dalhousieanum. However, B. baimaense has no branches or lateral umbels on stems, whereas B. dalhousieanum has branches and lateral umbels on the distal part of stems. Bupleurum baimaense is most similar to B. commelynoideum, but differs mainly by its stems usually being decumbent and numerous. Bupleurum baimaense is known from northwest Yunnan (Deqin) and southeast Tibet (Zayul) in China.
23726978|Silene sumbuliana .G. Deniz & O.D. Den sp. nova (Caryophyllaceae) is described and illustrated from SW Anatolia, Turkey. Diagnostic morphological characters for discrimination from the related S. papillosa Boiss. is given along with their ecological and chorological characteristics and relationship.
23725303|The reserve substances, and the structure of the plastids and the endoplasmic reticulum were studied in microsporogenous cells of Scotch pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) strobili collected monthly from July till May. The methods used were electron microscopic, light microscopic, histochemical and autoradiographic. Starch grains were most abundant during the growing season. Lipid bodies were detected in all the samples, but the most notable accumulation occurred in February, when the incorporation of 14C-acetate could also be demonstrated. Lipid bodies were occasionally seen in close contact with the plastids or the endoplasmic reticulum. The amount of protein varied independently of the time of the year. The structure of the plastids varied with the season in much the same way as in other tissues investigated. Noteworthly were the abundance of myelin-like structures during the early winter and the occurrence of whorl-like intraplastid membrane configurations during midwinter. Stacks of cisternae of the endoplasmic reticulum were characteristic of the cold season. During the course of the winter, these changed from more or less parallel lamellae to unevenly inflated structures or other complicated configurations.
23724186|1. The investigation consists of two parts, an electron-microscopical study to clarify the details distinguishing ungerminated moss spores from spores that have germinated in light and darkness and an experimental study of the effect of light on spore germination. The principal object of study was Ceratodon purpureus and the electron-microscopical part was carried out only with this species whereas in the light exposure experiments also two other species, Dicranum scoparium and Funaria hygrometrica, were investigated. 2. Particular attempts were made to define the limits of the actual germination process and to choose a practical criterion of germination. Preference was given to a two-phase germination criterion where the first phase is spore swelling and the second phase spore distension. The results of the experiments are related to these two phases. In addition, the number of cells per protonema was counted although this value relates to the process of growth. The electron-microscopical study of germination 3. The chloroplasts of ungerminated spores have poorly developed lamellae and generally contain a few starch grains. The lipid bodies, the reserve substances of the spores, are stellate in shape in the ungerminated spores. Already ungerminated spores exhibit polarity in that the intine varies in thickness. 4. The most pronounced structural transformations in the interior of the spore occur during the swelling phase. During this phase the grana in the chloroplasts become clearly differentiated and vesicle-like particles appear in the stroma. Most of the starch grains of the chloroplasts disappear during this phase. A change occurs in the shape of the lipid particles which become more rounded and electron-transparent and exhibit a darker single-layered membrane. The exospore ruptures on that side of the spore where the intine is thickest. 5. Spore distension begins with the orientation of the organelles toward that side of the spore where the intine is thickest and where the exospore has generally ruptured during the swelling phase. In normal germination where the germ tube is differentiated, the lipid particles of the plasma and the starch grains of the chloroplasts disappear during the distension phase. In disturbed germination, where the spore forms a very broad germ tube, the lipid bodies remain unaltered. 6. The position of the first crosswall as well as the time of its appearance vary greatly. Generally the formation of the first crosswall follows the distension. The changes in the structure of the organelles seem to be independent of the formation of the first crosswall. Thus the formation of the first crosswall cannot be considered a phase of normal germination in Ceratodon. 7. The chloroplasts of older protonemat a contain numerous starch grains, but the vesicle-like particles have disappeared from the stroma. Lipid bodies are no longer discerned in the plasma. 8. There are two kinds of spores. Most of the spores attain the swollen phase also in darkness but a lower proportion swells only when exposed to light. The spores that swell in darkness have many more organelles than those which fail to swell in darkness. The lamellae of the grana of the chloroplasts develop to some extent also in the spores that swell in darkness although inhibition of lamellation is indicated by a great number of vesicle-like particles in the stroma. The starch grains do not disappear from the chloroplasts of the spores that swell in darkness. Also the lipid bodies change very little in shape. Thus the spores seem to be unable to use their reserve substances in darkness although they are able to swell. 9. Spore distension does not generally take place in darkness in an inorganic medium although a small percentage of distended spores was formed in most experiments. Factors initiating germination in darkness 10. Although a 0.1 % sucrose solution induces germination in a high percentage of the spores in darkness, the course of germination is highly abnormal. The chloroplasts are deformed and filled with starch grains and the protoplasm contains numerous organelles and lipid particles. 11. Gibberellic acid and kinetin induce germination in darkness although their effect is weak compared with the strong promotion of germination by sucrose. In contrast to sucrose which promotes both the first and second initial phases, gibberellic acid and kinetin promote only the second initial phase. -Indolylacetic acid does not induce germination of moss spores in darkness, although it is as effective as kinetin and gibberellic acid in light. 12. Treatment of the spores with hydrogen peroxide induces some germination in darkness. Germination can also be induced by aeration of dry spores. These two treatments increase only the proportion of distended spores, whereas the percentage of swollen spores decreases.
23726325|The behaviour of germinated seeds of Pinus pinea L. and P. pinaster Aiton, growing in solutions at different pH values, was studied to determine the influence of acidity on the root development. Female cones of the two pine species were separately collected during 1989 and 1990 from two stations in San Rossore Natural Park (Pisa, Italy). Seeds were germinated up to root lengths of 5 and 10 mm and then transferred to beakers containing either deionized water at pH 5.5 (control) or deionized water acidified with H2SO4 to pH 4.5 and 3.5; the experiments were carried out for 72 hours. Independently of the starting lengths, the elongation rate of seedling roots of both species was significantly decreased at pH 3.5. No blocking of mitosis was found; for both species the mitotic index increased between 24 and 48 hours in all media, then decreased in the roots growing in the control medium and at pH 4.5 and significantly increased in those grown at pH 3.5. The lengthening of root cortex cells was also examined and this was smaller (mean 19%) in roots grown at pH 3.5 than in those growing in the control medium. These results suggest a probable delay or inhibition of the extension phase in the root cell growth.
23728066|For the preparation of a revised and updated Index of Thelypteridaceae contemporary names for all species and hybrids in the family are essentially required. Following the recent generic concept in Thelypteridaceae new names are proposed for 18 hybrids.
23728027|Convolvulus  turcicus C. Aykurt & Smbl, a new natural hybrid between C. holosericeus subsp. holosericeus and C. compactus from central Anatolia, Turkey, is described and illustrated. The morphological characteristics of C.  turcicus are compared with those of its parents. The pollen characteristics of C.  turcicus and its parents were examined by means of light microscopy and SEM.
23728236|Apurimacia dolichocarpa (Fabaceae) is a narrow endemic species, restricted to Crdoba Hills, Argentina. At present, only two populations are known. In order to analyse the level and distribution of its genetic variability, allele frequencies in 16 loci coding for enzymes were estimated from starch gel electrophoresis patterns. The levels of genetic diversity (P 99% = 56.25, A = 1.81, H e = 0.1125) are higher than the mean for endemic species reported in the literature. The low level of genetic differentiation between the two populations ( = 0.04) may be the result of a recent fragmentation of an ancestral panmictic population. Apurimacia dolichocarpa does not appear as threatened from the genetic viewpoint, given that its populations preserve a moderate level of allozymic polymorphism. Artificial establishment of intermediate populations would facilitate pollen dispersal, a strategy that could favour the maintenance of the polymorphism levels.
23724637|Twenty-nine names of Euphrasia, most of them published between 1896 and 1906 by M. Brenner, A. K. Cajander, A. O. Kihlman and H. Lindberg, are listed, with the pertinent typifications, synonymies, and some comments on nomenclature and taxonomy. The taxa treated include Euphrasia bottnica Kihlman, E. fennica Kihlman, E. hjeltii Kihlman, E. micrantha Brenner, E. onegensis Cajander, and E. officinalis var. tenuis Brenner. Biographical notes are given on the authors of the new taxa. The dates of publication of the contemporary Floras by Dahl (1906) and Cajander (1906) are given.
23724986|The eutrophication and pollution of Lake Pijnne in Central Finland was examined with reference to the primary production. The value of the phytoplankton biomasses and some indicator systems for the assessment of trophic and pollutional status was compared with that of the primary production. The effect of pulp mill effluents on primary production and dark assimilation was examined. A rough model of eutrophication was constructed with the aid of species diversity indices. The saprobity system of Caspers and Karbe was applied to Lake Pijnne, and an attempt was made to estimate the bioactivity of the lake. The results showed that primary production was correlated with the mean total phosphorus concentration of the growing season, except in those areas where production was inhibited by the pulp mill effluents. Phosphorus is still the factor limiting primary production in Lake Pijnne. The mean phytoplankton biomasses of the growing season correlate well with total phosphorus concentration, thus being an index of trophic status. According to the results, the bioactivity of a lake expresses the combined effect of eutrophication and pollution. The course of the eutrophication and pollution of Lake Pijnne was traced.
23726061|The growth was studied by measuring the daily changes in the length of the main shoots during three growing seasons on an ombrotrophic raised bog, Laaviosuo, in Lammi, southern Finland. The data were analysed using Hari's dynamic growth model, where growth is assumed to depend only on the temperature and the innate, physiologically regulated growth rhythm of the plant. The growth patterns of the two species were fairly similar. Growth began at roughly the same time in the middle of May or somewhat later, depending on the year. The duration of the growth period was about 80 days in both shrubs, and the cessation of growth varied greatly in both species. In 1975 growth was quite abnormal because many of the young shoots were destroyed by frost and replaced later by new shoots. The growth curves were similar in all cases. Both species grew slowly and used a great part of the warm season for structural growth. The dynamic growth model explained at least 80 % of the growth. In shape the growth curves were intermediate between logistic and Gompertz curves. In view of the similarity of the growth patterns of the two species, their niches are probably similar in those resource dimensions which limit the growth processes. The growth patterns of both dwarf shrubs species reflect adaptation to the severe conditions on ombrotrophic bogs, where a K strategy seems to have a selective advantage.
23725376|Macrofossil seed finds of the henbane (Hyoscyamus niger L.) were analysed at five sites of ancient settlement in S Finland. The dates of the sites, determined archaeologically, ranged from the Viking Age to the 19th century. The number of soil samples studied was 492. The seeds of henbane were fairly common in the late medieval settlement layers of Turku, Kaarina, the bishop's castle of Kuusisto, and also in the 17th century layers of the fortress in Lappeenranta. A few seeds were found in the 18th century layers of Naantali and one charred seed at the level of an ancient field in Rapola, Sksmki, dated to the Viking Age. At all the sites, the associate species were more or less common weeds of settlement, such as Chenopodium album, C. glaucum/rubrum, C. suecicum, Ranunculus repens, Taraxacum officinale, Urtica dioica and U. urens. Henbane was most probably brought by man to the studied sites as a medicinal plant. The site in Turku was the location of a poorhouse and a hospital in the Middle Ages. The inhabitants of the old castle of the Catholic bishop of Finland in Kuusisto were in direct contact with the monks and nuns of the convent of Naantali, where medicinal herbs were cultivated in the Middle Ages. Henbane was probably carried to Lappeenranta by soldiers or merchants. The oldest find of henbane came from Rapola, Sksmki, and dated back to the Viking Age. It was made in the layer of an ancient field near an ancient castle hill. According to the present macrofossil finds, the henbane arrived in S Finland at the same time as in Sweden.
23726201|The effects of seasonal changes and exposure to wave action on the species composition and biomass of epiphytic macroalgae and on the phenolic content of Fucus vesiculosus L. (Phaeophyta, Fucales) were studied in the outer archipelago of NW Aland, N Baltic Sea, in 19831984. At a sheltered locality, the highest biomasses, 110170 mg  g-1 Fucus (dry wt), were measured in MayJune and September. At an exposed locality, the maximum biomass, 95 mg  g-1 Fucus, was recorded in September. The dominant epiphyte at both localities was Elachista fucicola (Vell.) Aresch. At the sheltered site the species numbered 13 and at the exposed site 5. At the sheltered site, the phenol content in Fucus fluctuated between 4.9 and 8.3% of dry weight. Maxima were recorded in June and DecemberFebruary, and minima in May and SeptemberNovember. At the exposed site, the fluctuation was smaller, 5.36.6%, and summer and winter maxima occurred in AugustSeptember and FebruaryMay, about two months later than for Fucus from the sheltered site. According to the study, no correlation existed between the epiphytic macroalgae and the phenol content of Fucus in this area.
23726499|Descriptions, illustrations and distinctive characters based on type specimens are provided for eleven poorly known Plagiochila species from China: Plagiochila biondiana Steph., P. debilis Mitt., P. delavayi Steph., P. determii Steph., P. hamulispina Herz., P. hokinensis Steph., P. maireana Steph., P. perserrata Herz., P. sikutzuisana Mass., P. torquescens Herz., and P. wilsoniana Steph. Their taxonomy and distribution are discussed.
23726703|We investigated the breeding systems of Liparis kumokiri and L. makinoana (Orchidaceae) in Korea. Liparis kumokiri is self-compatible, but L. makinoana is self-incompatible. The two Liparis species showed little fruit set in natural conditions (10.2%12.2% for L. kumokiri and 0.1%0.2% for L. makinoana). However, a great increase in fruit set was achieved by hand-pollinations. The much lower percentage of fruit set observed in L. makinoana may reflect combined effects of pollinator limitation and self-incompatibility.
23726425|Sphagnum molle is rare in Finland, although most of the 37 Sphagnum species occurring in the country are common and abundant. It is a species with low requirements for nutrients, but it demands abundant moisture. In Finland its habitats are poor minerotrophic fens located in the transition between the southern boreal and middle boreal forest zones, in areas which receive abundant orographic rain. S. molle is thus an indicator of high humidity. The modest nutrient demands, need of humidity and poor competitie ability have restricted the distribution of S. molle in Finland. Although occurring in the relatively flat area of Finland, this species is characteristics of the vegetation of regions receiving orographic rain. Due to its special ecology and rarity, S. molle needs protection in Finland.
23726821|Astragalus khajehensis F. Ghahremani. (Fabaceae), endemic to E Azarbayjan province, Iran, is described as a new species and illustrated. It belongs to A. sect. Erioceras, a bifurcate-haired section, and resembles A. catacamptus and A. pentanthus.
23728217|A new species of Gesneriaceae, Ancylostemon dimorphosepalus W.H. Chen & Y.M. Shui, is described and illustrated. It is characterized by its cordate leaves, purple flowers, dimorphous sepals, and small upper lobes of the corolla. Its relationships with the similar species, Ancylostemon aureus and Oreocharis rotundifolia, are discussed.
23726706|This work serves as a checklist of the myxomycetes of Hunan Province, China. In addition we report 76 taxa new for Hunan, including the following 13 taxa new to China: Ceratiomyxa fruticulosa (F. Muell.) T. Macbr. var. descendens Emoto, Clastoderma microcarpum (Meyl.) Kowalski, Colloderma oculatum (Lippert) G. Lister, Comatricha ellae Hrk., Diderma umbilicatum Pers., L. pygmaea (Meyl.) Ing., L. rugosa Nann.-Bremek. & Y. Yamam., Macbrideola argentea Nann.-Bremek. & Y. Yamam., M. scintillans H. C. Gilbert var. scintillans, M. scintillans var. verrucosa (Nann.-Bremek. & Y. Yamam.) Y. Yamam., Paradiacheopsis fimbriata var. penicillata (Nann.-Bremek. & Y. Yamam.) Y. Yamam., P. longipes Hoof & Nann.-Bremek., and Trichia munda (Lister) Meyl. The number of myxomycete species reported from Hunan Province is now 90.
23725271|Sap passed from Norway spruce (Picea abies (L.) Karsten) needles was used to study osmotic potential, electrical conductivity, pH, and buffer capacity. These variables plus the water content (% dry wt) of the needles were measured at two-week intervals in order to find out whether their seasonal variation was disturbed by pollution. Sugar analyses were also carried out. The proximity of a fertilizer plant emitting sulphur dioxide, fluorides, nitrogen oxides and dust leads to disturbances in the trees' resistence to winter conditions, and this is probably an important cause of needle injury. No corresponding disturbance was found in the vicinity of a semichemical pulp mill emitting sulphur dioxide and small amounts of ammonium sulphite and ammonia, and in this case the needle injury probably has a simpler mechanism.
23724228|The organological and anatomical structure and the arrangement of the placentae in eight species of the Pyrolaceae (Moneses uniflora, Chimaphila umbellata, Orthilia secunda, Pyrola minor, P. media, P. rotundifolia, P. chlorantha, and P. asarifolia var. purpurea) and seven species of the Monotropaceae (Allotropa virgata, Hemitomes congestum, Monotropa hypopitys, M. uniflora, Pleuricospora fimbriolata, Pterospora andromedea, and Sarcodes sanguinea) are described and compared with the placentae of four species of the Ericaceae (Befaria glauca, Ledum groenlandicum, Rhododendron albrechtii, and Arbutus menziesii). The taxonomic relationships between several genera and species within the families are discussed on the basis of placenta types.
23725624|The effect of thermal discharges on the overwintering of the phytobenthos was studied at five permanent sampling sites outside the Olkiluoto nuclear power station (Finnish coast of the Bothnian Sea) in 19851986. The increased illumination in the ice-free area in winter and the direct influence of the temperature rise caused a significant advance in the start of the growing period in many species and excessive occurrences of diatoms. Submerged green shoots of Phragmites australis began to grow in the discharge channel of the power station in January, and by early June a well-developed stand had formed with new aerial stems. From February to April stones and vascular plants were covered by diatoms; Melosira moniliformis and M. lineata dominated in the discharge channel, and Berkeleya rutilans in the middle and outer parts of the discharge area. The maximum biomass of Cladophora glomerata was recorded in the discharge channel in late April. In the ice-free area, the above-ground parts of Potamogeton pectinatus remained green over the winter, without any clear inactive phase. The above-ground biomass of a Myriophyllum spicatum stand in the vicinity of the discharge channel declined drastically in late autumn, but after the winter the stand regenerated.
23726896|The occurrence and summer biomass of an unattached Enteromorpha intestinalis mat was studied in Olkiluodonvesi on the Finnish Baltic Sea W coast between 1993 and 1997. Enteromorpha intestinalis thalli had lost their tubular shape, spread, and formed unattached monostromatic sheets. The mats were found in areas of soft sediment and sandy substrates where water depth was one to six metres. Optimum growth was at one to two metres. The mats were 515 cm thick with biomass maximum of 97 tn in an area of 3.7 km2in 1993. Even during severe winter conditions, monostromatic E. intestinalis appeared in healthy state. In early spring, just after the ice melt, small amounts of E. intestinalis were found floating on the surface. Massive floating were observed after sunny and calm weather periods with low water level. On both occasions, E. intestinalis was moving within the water column.
23726461|The epiphytic lichen Hypogymnia physodes (L.) Nyl. was used to monitor airborne elements in an area where two industrial plants, a power station and a pulp mill, had been constructed in the mid-1970's. Lichen material collected from permanent sites before to the start-up of these plants and up to 1989 was analysed for Al, Ca, Cd, Cr, Cu, Fe, K, Mg, Mn, Ni, Pb, S, Ti and Zn by ICP plasma emission spectrophotometry and for N by a micro-Kjeldahl method. Although the area is only moderately polluted, both increases and reductions in the concentrations of certain elements were evident. For example, S and N were clearly elevated and increasing in the vicinity of the pulp mill and to the north of it. Heavy metal contamination, presumably from a smelter 100 km to the south, was detected as increasing Ni and Cd concentrations. The overall Fennoscandian tendency of reduced Pb deposition was also apparent in the lichen.
23725209|The paper discusses some aspects of the statistics of biomass estimates based on microscopical phytoplankton counts. It is shown that in the random field counting technique, where the number of counting units is fixed, the conversion coefficients do not cause overestimation in the results. The only factors affecting the accuracy of the phytoplankton biomass estimates are the variance of the quantity studied and the size of the sample.
23725438|The difficulties in typification of the moss Hypnum jungermannioides Brid. [Platydictya jungermannioides (Brid.) Crum] are discussed in detail. It is homotypic with Jungermannia setacea G. Web. (nom. inval.). The type material has evidently been lost, and this also seems to be the case with all the original specimens of the cryptogams described by G. H. Weber. The information available, including the results of a recent investigation of the type locality by German botanists, appear to justify designation of a neotype (early topotype) for Hypnum jungermannioides. The former applications of Jungermannia setacea as a hepatic name are elucidated. J. setacea Sw. (nom. illeg.) and J. multiflora Huds. are regarded as synonyms of Cephalozia bicuspidata (L.) Dum. and Kurzia pauciflora (Dicks.) Grolle as the correct name of the species called Microlepidozia setacea Jrg. or, recently, M. pauciflora (Dicks.) Schljak.
23726844|Colocasia bicolor C.L. Long & L.M. Cao, sp. nova from China (Yunnan province, Jinghong and Mengla counties) is described and illustrated. Diagnostic morphological characters that distinguish it from C. heterochroma H. Li & Z.X. Wei are presented. The clearest differences are that C. bicolor has a sterile zone in the inflorescence, a rolled-up and reflexed spathe lamina, and a conoid, reddish-purple, greenish, white or pale yellow appendix. Chromosome numbers of C. bicolor (2n = 28) were observed in the plants cultivated in Kunming Botanical Garden.
23725161|The phytoplankton production, biomass and species composition, and the chemical and physical factors regulating them were investigated along a transect from Oulu to the centre of the Bothnian Bay, in 1976 and 1977. The outermost sampling stations represent the open waters of the Bothnian Bay. The coastal area is influenced by river waters polluted by industrial and domestic sewage. In summer, the surface salinity was 13  in the coastal waters and 3.03.2  in the open sea. In April, when incident radiation was high, a relatively dense phytoplankton community developed under the ice, both near the coast and in the open sea. In summer, the phytoplankton production showed two peaks in the coastal waters, but these were not clearly discerned in the open sea, where the primary production and phytoplankton biomass were low. In the open sea phosphate was very scarce but nitrate was fairly abundant. In the coastal waters the phosphate concentration was notably higher, but nitrate was depleted by the early summer phytoplankton maximum.
23727819|A lectotype for the name Haberlea rhodopensis Friv. is designated from among specimens stored at the Hungarian Natural History Museum in Budapest (BP). Notes on discovery and etymology of the species are provided.
23728215|A new species of Viola (Violaceae) from Jiangxi Province, China, is described and illustrated. Viola jinggangshanensis Z.L. Ning & J.P. Liao is the sixth species in Viola sect. Diffusae, and is distinct from the sympatric V. diffusa by having conspicuously stipitate spherical glands on the lateral petals, sepals with dark-red spots, leaf blade adaxially dark green, abaxially purplish, both surfaces densely papillose-hispid, base of leaves shallowly cordate or truncate, narrowly decurrent on petioles, and capsules ovoid-orbicular, 34 mm long and 1.52 mm in diameter.
23726862|Solms-laubachia zhongdianensis J.P. Yue, Al-Shehbaz & H. Sun sp. nova (Brassicaceae) is described from the Hengduan Mountains of Yunnan, China, and illustrated in line drawings. It resembles S. xerophyta but differs in having papery petioles, shorter leaves, dense pubescence on fruit valves, shorter fruiting pedicels, and larger seeds. Solms-laubachia minor Hand.-Mazz. is reduced to synonymy with S. pulcherrima Muschl.
23724265|According to available evidence the family Leguminosae evolved from the rosaceous complex mainly under the tropheclectic activity of various groups of pollinating insects and nectar-eating birds. Primitive legume plants (such as many genera of the subfamily Mimosoideae and Caesalpinoideae) show a regular pentamerous floral structure with a marked tendency toward bilateralism (Fig. 3) or androecioidism (Fig. 6). These flowers are accessible to many visitors. The more advanced subfamily Papilionatae contains exclusively zygomorphic papilionaceous flowers (Figs. 4  5), which are adapted to specially skilled pollinators, predominantly Hymenoptera. Tropical legume plants are frequently visited by birds. Legume plants, consequently, follow the same general trend of floral evolution, already described by the author for several other families of angiosperms (Leppik 1957  1963). This main trend proceeds from pleomorphic types in lower evolutionary levels toward bilateral, stereomorphic, and zygomorphic types in upper levels (Fig. 1). In higher levels the inflorescenses tend to form loose (Fig. 7) or tight heads (Figs. 8, 9).
23727681|Morphological variation within and among populations of some closely related taxa of Rhododendron sect. Tsutsusi from China are revised based on literature, specimen examination and field work. Rhododendron chunii, R. guizhongense, R. viscidum, R. subenerve, R. minutiflorum, R. viscigemmatum, and R. polyraphidodeum var. montanum are reduced to synonymys of R. fuchsiifolium. Rhododendron myrsinifolium is recognized as a distinct species, differing from R. fuchsiifolium in having smaller leaves, branchlets covered with compressed strigose hairs, and a corolla tube without glands on outer surface. The geographic distributions of R. fuchsiifolium and R. myrsinifolium are also provided.
23727646|The plant names Artemisia coarctata and Poa remota published by Jacob Henrik af Forselles (17851855) are lectotypified. An earlier designation of a neotype for P. remota is corrected to be a lectotype. The type specimens have been collected in the biogeographical province of Karelia australis, SE Finland.
23725476|The presence and extent of mycorrhizal infection were investigated by light microscopy in 54 roots of 12 specimens of Epipactis helleborine (L.) Cranz. The material consisted of white chlorophyll-free and etiolated yellowishgreen individuals from one site, and green individuals collected from the same and one other site. Every plant and almost every root section were infected. Both intracellular hyphal coils (pelotons) and digested hyphae were found. The regularity of endomycorrhizal infection evidently indicates that the roots of mature plants of E. helleborine are not resistant to fungal infection. Infection was patchy, the roots having either sparse or extensive fungal hyphae in the third and inner cortical cells. Longitudinal sections showed that the youngest part of the root (from the tip to 10 mm) was not infected. Between 10 and 20 mm from the tip, infection was restricted to a small number of cortical cells. Over 20 mm from the tip, the roots had extensive zones of infection. In heavily infected regions of the roots, the fungus had induced pronounced nuclear hypertrophy. The nuclei of infected cortical cells were then frequently 30 to 50 m in diameter. The size of nuclei also varied greatly in uninfected root cells (1650 m), but their average diameter was 2430 m.
23725015|Four new taxa of grasses are described: Diplachne amboensis Roiv. n. sp., D. amboensis var. plurinodis Roiv. n. var., Diplachne Wahlbergii Roiv. n. sp. and Megaloprotachne glabrescens Roiv. n. sp. The diagnostic characters of a number of taxa belonging to the multiform complex of Diplachne fusca (L.) P. Beauv. are discussed, and some additions are presented to the original description of Megaloprotachne albescens C. E. Hubbard.
43922124|The production of epipelic algal communities was measured in situ at depths of 14 metres by a 14 C-method in the oligotrophic and deep lake Paajarvi. The maximum production recorded was only 6.3 mg Cass m h. Radiation was more important than water temperature in determining the productivity of the epipelic algal communities. Production was correlated poorly with volume biomass when diatoms dominated, whereas the correlation was good for cyanophytes. Chlorophyll a concentration correlated with the production of both epipelic algal communities. The production rate of littoral plankton was found to be intermediate between that of epipelic algae and that of pelagial plankton, it is suggested that this was caused by the occurrence of detached epipelic algae in the littoral plankton.
23726537|The taxonomy, ecology and geography of Euphorbia esula L. and E. virgata Waldst. & Kit. are discussed. It is shown that both taxa have different ecological preferences and distribution patterns. Special attention is paid to the occurrence of E. esula in the east part of the Baltic region, where it shows particulary clear ecological differences from E. virgata. It is proposed to treat both taxa as separate species.
23727898|Silene ferdowsii Joharchi, Nejati & F. Ghahrem. sp. nova (Caryophyllaceae), from sect. Auriculatae, is described from Khorassan province, NE Iran. It is morphologically most similar to S. albescens, especially in its indumentums, but differs in having longer internodes and crowded stems. Silene ferdowsii is also compared with S. eriocalycinae and S. sisianica.
23726319|Bryophyte flora and community structure were studied in 8 streams around Lake Lohjanjrvi in southern Finland. Floristic composition, cover, frequency, and microhabitat parameters were measured, including type of substrate, moisture, slope and aspect in stream. Aspect was used for description of zonation pattern. The Brillouin diversity equation and Srensen's quotient of similarity were used for the evaluation of community structure. The communities included 33 mosses and 5 hepatics. One third of the species were truly aquatic and the rest were terrestrial species occasionally occurring in a stream habitat. Most species occurred at low frequencies. Fontinalis antipyretica Hedw. was most frequent and adundant, and Brachythecium plumosum (Hedw.) B.S.G., Hygroamblystegium fluviatile (Hedw.) Loeske, Racomitrium aciculare (Hedw.) Brid., and Scapania undulata (L.) Dum. were rather common. Communities differed from each other in floristic composition, species number, diversity, and relative abundance of species. The highest diversity was in the stream with a rather high species number and the most even relative abundance of species.
23727223|Currently four subgenera are recognized in the genus Incarvillea Juss. (Bignoniaceae). Incarvillea subgen. Olgaea S.T. Chen, K.Y. Guan & Z.K. Zhou is proposed here based on morphological and molecular data. Morphologically Olgaea differs from the other subgenera in having paniculate inflorescences, opposite leaves (vs. radical or alternate), calyx teeth flat at base and simple plicae between calyx teeth. Also molecular phylogenetic studies support a separate position for I. olgae Regel.
23725164|The nomenclature and taxonomy of some South. Central and North American species of Cladonia (Lecanorales. lichen-forming ascomycetes) are discussed. Cladonia spiculata (Ach.) Ahti, comb. nova, is the correct name for C. wrightii A. Evans, as is C. gracilenta Tuck. for C. metalepta Nyl., and C. sobolescens Nyl. ex Vainio for C. clavulifera Vainio in Robbins. The name C. calycantha Delise ex Nyl. belongs to a little known Andean taxon, which is adequately described for the first time, and the widespread C. calycantha auct. is referred to C. rappii A. Evans var. exilior (des Abb.) Ahti, comb. nova. The European reports of C. rappii are based on C. cervicornis (Ach.) Flotow subsp. pulvinata (Sandst.) Ahti, comb. nova (contains psoromic acid). Several taxa are typified and their major secondary phenolic metabolites reported for the first time.
23727206|This paper reports somatic chromosome numbers for three orchid taxa endemic to the Canary Islands (Habenaria tridactylites, Himantoglossum metlesicsianum and Orchis canariensis), about whose cytogenetics very little is known. Chromosome numbers for the western Mediterranean and Atlantic monotypic genus Gennaria are also reported. The chromosome number of Himantoglossum metlesicsianum (2n = 36) is reported for the first time. New chromosome numbers were found for Habenaria tridactylites (2n = 34) and Orchis canariensis (2n = 84), confirming the tetraploidy of the latter. Chromosome numbers are reported also for Gennaria diphylla from North Africa (Tunisia) and the Iberian Peninsula (Portugal) (2n = 34 in both). Some taxonomic and phylogenetic comments are made on these species.
23725235|A 160-cm-long section from the topmost sediment in a small lake in Plkne, S Finland, contained 5500 annual laminae. Relative and absolute pollen counts were made on successive subsamples 1 cm in thickness. The results suggested clearances and agricultural activities of varying intensity in the vicinity of the lake during the last 4000 yr. It was not possible to distinguish a phase of animal husbandry before cereal cultivation. From 2600 B.P. onwards cereal and fibre plants were cultivated continuously and the number and frequency of land-use indicators in the pollen diagram showed expansion of the area influenced by the human economy. After the turn of the present millennium, arable fields seem to have begun to replace burnbeaten land, though the precise time of the beginning of permanent field cultivation is still uncertain.
23727977|Pueraria yunnanensis Franch. has frequently been regarded as a synonym of P. peduncularis (Graham ex Benth.) Benth. After examining many of the types and other specimens, and observing their leaf epidermis under LM and seed coat under SEM, the specific status of P. yunnanensis is reinstated.
23725895|Turkish herbarium material of Zannichellia has been revised and chromosome counts are presented for four populations of the genus in Turkey. The material can be divided into four groups, mainly based on the fruit morphology. Several robust plants from coastal lakes in Turkey-in-Europe and SW Anatolia are referred to Z. major Boenn., and the bulk of the material is more or less provisionally treated as Z. palustris L. In Z. palustris a western group of slender plants and an eastern group of more robust plants can be distinguished. Two records from E Anatolia are referable to Z. palustris subsp. repens (Boenn.) Uotila. Chromosome counts on one population of Z. major gave 2n = 32 and counts on three populations of Z. palustris gave 2n = 24. The distribution of the taxa is mapped and their morphological variation described.
23725457|The paper describes a modification of the dry-ice freezing method. Undisturbed samples, suitable for palaeobotanical and other palaeolimnological analyses, are obtained from the loose uppermost layers of the lake sediment with a box freezer. Compared with other freezing equipment, the new device has the following advantages: 1) minimized displacement of the sediment, 2) a large sample with a flat rectangular shape, 3) easy, rapid operation, 4) easy and accurate sampling. A freezing vessel is also described, which has been used successfully to preserve the structure of lower strata that cannot be treated by conventional freezing methods.
23725234|Hypnum sendtneri Schimp. ex H. Mll. was primarily based on material belonging to Limprichtia intermedia (Lindb.) Loeske (Drepanocladus intermedius (Lindb.) Warnst.). In order to maintain the traditional usage of the name D. sendtneri (Schimp. ex H. Mll.) Warnst., an indirect way of typification is proposed. A lectotype is selected for the synonym Hypnum sendtneri var. wilsonii Schimp.
23726308|The taxonomy of Brachythecium buchananii (Hook.) Jaeg., B. garovaglioides C. Mll., B. glaciale Schimp., B. helminthocladum Broth. & Par., B. plumosum (Hedw.) Schimp., and B. rivulare Schimp. in East Asia are discussed. Descriptions and illustrations based on specimens from China are provided, and distribution and habitat ecology discussed. Brachythecium longicuspidatum (Mitt.) Jaeg. is considered distinct from B. garovaglioides and B. procumbens (Mitt.) Jaeg. from B. buchananii. Brachythecium abakanense Kaal., B. amnicola C. Mll., B. carinatum Dix., B. cuspidiferum (Mitt.) Jaeg., B. fasciculirameum C. Mll., B. perminusculum C. Mll., B. pilicuspis C. Mll., B. planiusculum C. Mll., B. tenuipilum Dix., B. thraustum C. Mll., B. viridefactum C. Mll., B. yunnanense Herz., and B. buchananii var. gracile Broth. are considered to be synonymous with B. buchananii (Hook.) Jaeg.; B. complanatum Broth., B. nivescens Broth. in Par., B. wichurae (Broth.) Par., and B. wichurae var. robustum Dix. are conspecific with B. garovaglioides C. Mll.; B. rivulare var. gracile Broth., B. glaucoviride C. Mll., and B. permolle C. Mll. are conspecific with B. rivulare Schimp.; B. densirete Broth. & Par., B. glauculum C. Mll., B. homocladum C. Mll., B. oedistegium (C. Mll.) Jaeg., and B. subpopuleum Card. & Thr. are conspecific with B. plumosum (Hedw.) Schimp. Lectotypes are selected for 17 names (indexed). Brachythecium garovaglioides is recorded for the first time from Burma and Indonesia and B. glaciale for the second time from the Sichuan Province of China. The presence of B. procumbens in China and Japan is doubted. The presence of B. helminthocladum in China is confirmed. After these synonymizations the number of Brachythecium taxa in China is 48 species and 12 infraspecific taxa.
23726068|According to S. D. Fretwell's general theory of population regulation, relatively low primary productivity is always accompanied by heavy grazing pressure exerted by natural herbivores upon the vegetation. This is reflected in the prevalence of plants that tolerate grazing and the accompanying mechanical disturbance. The abundance relationships of different growth forms in Fennoscandian oroarctic plant communities were examined in relation to this prediction. Although the structure of the vegetation in all the relatively unproductive communities analysed appeared to indicate strong grazing pressure, the kinds of grazing-tolerant plants discussed by Fretwell did not always prevail. As originally formulated, Fretwell's theory appears to deal best with strongly seasonal productivity clines, whereas plant defence appears important in less seasonal ones.
23727803|Three new Junghuhnia species are described. Junghuhnia autumnale Spirin, Zmitr. & V. Malysheva is pileate or effused-reflexed, with pale-ochraceous to reddish hymenophore; its spores are broadly ellipsoid. Junghuhnia imbricata Spirin has substipitate basidiocarps, ellipsoid spores, and very thick-walled and heavily encrusted cystidia. Junghuhnia micropora Spirin, Zmitr. & V. Malysheva is strictly resupinate, with tiny pores; its spores are cylindrical and smallest among the Junghuhnia species known in temperate Northern hemisphere. All three species grow on large fallen trunks of Populus tremula in old broad-leaved forests. In addition, a new combination, J. aurantilaeta (Corner) Spirin, is proposed; Junghuhnia vitellina Spirin is its taxonomic synonym.
23725588|The effect of thermal discharges on the macrophytes was studied by SCUBA diving and dredging along permanent transects in the discharge area of the Olkiluoto power station in 1975, 1977, 1979 and 1982. Changes in the vegetation were examined with the aid of rank, heterogeneity and similarity values, based on coverages and the species composition. Since the two units of the power station came into use in 1978 and 1980, the main factors affecting the vegetation close to the cooling water outlet have been the temperature increase, the physical stress caused by the strongly flowing water, and a local nutrient supply. In the outer parts of the discharge area the most important factor seems to be the prolongation of the growing season resulting from the absence of ice in winter. Marked changes in the phytobenthos were recorded in the immediate vicinity of the cooling water outlet: Myriophyllum spicatum had formed a dense stand and most of the earlier species (e.g. charophytes) had disappeared. Other species tolerant of the strong warm water flow were Cladophora glomerata, Enteromorpha ahlneriana, Ectocarpus siliculosus and Potamogeton pectinatus. On some transects, Ruppia cirrhosa and Ceramium tenuicorne had increased. The total plant cover tended to increase and the heterogeneity along the depth gradient to decrease in the vegetation of the discharge area. On the whole, the zonation of the vegetation was weak during the study period.
23726641|Lycoris sanguinea Maxim. var. koreana (Nakai) Koyama (Amaryllidaceae), a sexually and clonally reproducing herbaceous perennial, is distributed in a few localities in the southern Korea and Japan (Kyushu and Tsushima Island). Seven Korean populations of the variety were analyzed by starch gel electrophoresis to measure genetic variation at 19 allozyme loci. Populations of L. sanguinea var. koreana maintain similar levels of allozyme diversity (percent of polymorphic loci, P = 15% and mean expected heterozygosity, He = 0.052) to values for its widespread congener L. chinensis Traub. Genetic divergence among populations of the variety was low (mean GST = 0.092). This might be due to recent divergence of populations in Korea. As nearly all genetic diversity in the variety is contained within populations, conserving on one Korean population of the variety would maintain most of the genetic diversity in the Korean populations as a whole.
23724935|The variation in certain gametophyte characters of Sphagnum fallax (Klinggr.) Klinggr. was studied in aseptic culture of a strain obtained from spores, different liquid media being employed. In media containing sugars and poor in available nitrogen and mineral nutrients, leaf structure was typical with dead hyaline cells, and the stem had fascicules of branches. In media high in ammonium or organic nitrogen and low in carbohydrates no hyaline cells were developed in the leaves and branching was reduced. The leaf cells partly remained rhomboidal, and partly divided according to the Sphagnum pattern, but remained alive. In older cultures rhizoids developed around branch primordia and in the nodes. The rhizoids were generally many-celled with oblique cross-walls. Regenerative thalloid structures were seen on the rhizoids, and when grown under mineral oil the rhizoids were green, resembling protonemata of Bryales. When shoots of several Sphagnum species taken from nature were cultivated in media rich in nitrogen, small regeneration shoots without hyaline cells were seen. In view of these observations, it is suggested that the gametophyte of Sphagnum has features which approach those of the pleurocarpous mosses.
23725414|A new lichen species, Caloplaca glomerata Arup, is described from the islands of land and Gotland, southeastern Sweden, where it occurs on calcareous rocks, stones and stone walls. The new species has unique Physcia-like spores which it shares with only one other species, viz. Caloplaca latzelii (Serv.) Clauz. & Roux. This mediterranean species differs from C. glomerata in the structure of the thallus, and the arrangement and size of the apothecia. The new species differs from morphologically similar taxa in the C. velana group in the unique spores, arrangement of the apothecia and to some degree in the ecology. A description of C. latzelii is provided and a lectotype is selected for this taxon.
23726943|Crossoglossa neirynckiana Marg. & Szlach. sp. nova (Orchidaceae, Malaxidinae) from Ecuador is described and illustrated in line drawings. It is compared with the closely related C. tipuloides (Lindl.) Dodson.
23726783|Astragalus duranii E. Hamzaolu & L. Kurt sp. nova (Fabaceae) is described from Central Anatolia (Yozgat) in Turkey. It belongs in the section Proselius Bunge and is related to A. czorochensis Charadze, from which it mainly differs in its very long legumes.
23727795|The morphology of several taxa of the Dianthus pungens group (D. gredensis, D. langeanus, D. pungens subsp. brachyanthus and D. pungens subsp. hispanicus) was characterized. In order to correlate the morphological variability with environmental parameters, an altitudinal and bioclimatic approach was applied. The data provided evidence of apparent correlations between the morphological variability within this taxonomic group and the altitudinal-climatic distribution. As the correlations detected here do not allow to establish significant relationships between the environmental variables considered, a complementary analysis (e.g. a geological approach) is needed. An analytical primer is proposed to pursue the morphological characterization of this genus. Two opposite tendencies were obtained: D. gredensisD. langeanus and D. pungens subsp. hispanicus. Dianthus pungens subsp. brachyanthus is recognized as an intermediate taxon between the two tendencies, at morphological, altitudinal and climatic level. One new subspecific combination is proposed, and some old combinations are applied again in order to establish the taxonomic group Dianthus pungens (D. pungens subsp. brachyanthus (Boiss.) Bernal, Fernndez Casas, G. Lpez, Lanz & Muoz Garmendia, D. pungens subsp. gredensis (Pau ex Caballero) A. Cresp, C.P. Fernandes, A. Castro, Bernardos & Amich, comb. nova, D. pungens subsp. hispanicus (Asso) O. Bols & Vigo, D. pungens subsp. langeanus (Willk.) O. Bols & Vigo.
23726676|We propose two new methods to estimate the error associated with data in presence-absence matrices commonly used in quantitative biogeographic analyses. The first is based on the estimated richness as compared with the known richness; the second is based on presenceabsence frequencies addition in the data matrix. We propose an approach to integrate both criteria by using an index that determines the quality of the records as specified in the data matrix for each geographic region. It is assumed that the errors more commonly associated with the scoring of the biodiversity are those related to the absence of records in the subregions. On the other hand, it is also assumed that those mistakes caused by the scoring of elements in areas where they are not found are minimal. We propose to relate the quality of the records to the level of resolution or precision of the biogeographical analysis, assuming that the lower resolution of the analysis, the better the quality of the records. When a presenceabsence data matrix is reordered, considering larger subregions and respectively a lower number of them, the possibility of errors due to lack of records of elements diminishes. This situation can be viewed as a particular case of the so-called modifiable areal unit problem (MAUP) of the geographic information systems.
23724209|Aufgrund der obigen Ausfhrung darf es frwahrscheinlich gelten, dass ausser den Gebieten von Hyrynsalmi, Kuusamo und Halbinsel Kola auch grosse Gebiete von Finnisch-Lappland in der lteren Dryaszeit bis zum Beginn der Allerdzeit eisfrei geworden sind. Die drei Perioden der lteren Dryaszeit - Ia, Ib und Ic  knnen wegen des in die minerogenen Ablagerungen eingehenden Sekundrpollens pollenanalytisch nicht mit Sicherheit festgestellt werden. Jedoch kommt das ausgeprgt kontinentale Klima im unteren Teil der Zone I zum Vorschein. Die Vegetation war damais steppenartige Tundra. Oberhalb davon kann man schwache Spuren der Vernderung gegen etwas wrmeres Klima und dichtere und kiefernreichere Wlder sehen. Wenn die unterste Gyttja kein interglaziales Material enthlt, kann diese Periode als Bllingzeit erklrt werden. Im anderen Fall gehrt sie - wie auch die bergelagerte, C14-datierte unterste Gyttja - in die Allerdzeit. Dass das Klima whrend der Allerdzeit schon gnstiger war, kann man aus den Pollenverhltnissen in der unteren Gyttja schliessen. Kiefer und Birke wuchsen damais schon in Kuusamo und Salla (vgl. Kalela 1961, S. 91). Die jngere Dryaszeit kommt in den Sedimenten und in den Pollenverhltnissen im Norden nicht mehr deutlich zum Vorschein, was sicherlich damit zu tun hat, das auch die klimatischen Schwankungen im nrdlichen Fennoskandien in dieser Zeit lngst nicht so schroff gewesen sind wie weiter sdlich (vgl. Nikonov & Lebedeva 1959). Nach der lteren Dryaszeit hatte das Klima seinen kontinentalen Charakter immer mehr verloren. Dass es noch in der jngeren Dryaszeit fr Waldvegetation sehr ungnstig gewesen sein muss, sieht man in den Pollenmengen am Anfang der Postglazialzeit. Erst gegen Ende der Zone IV, die hier schon der Borealzeit in Sdfinnland entspricht, wurden die Wlder dichter und die Kiefer breitete sich aus.
43922195|Fibuloporia kamtschatica Parmasto and Anomoporia ambigua David & Gilles, earlier known only from the type localities in the Russian Far East and France, respectively, were found to represent a single species, A. kamtschatica (Parmasto) M. Bondartseva. The species is here redescribed and illustrated, and reported as new to Canada, the Czech Republic, Finland, Germany, Sweden and the U.S.A. It differs from the other species of the genus in having more thick-walled and cyanophilous spores and more thin-walled hyphae of the subiculum. Macroscopically it differs from other similarly-coloured species of the genus in having friable basidiocarps and in lacking rhizomorphs. A. albolutescens (Romell) Pouzar is reported for the first time in Finland, growing on fallen trunk of Populus tremula. Earlier it was known in Europe to grow on conifers only. It, and A. bombycina (Fr.) Pouzar and A. myceliosa (Peck) Pouzar, are described and illustrated. A new species, A. flavissima Niemel, is described; it is even more brightly yellow than A. albolutescens , but basidiocarps are softer and more fragile; it has smaller pores and spores, and peculiar, thin-walled, vesicular cystidia. A. flavissima has been known in North America as Poria grandis Overholts (nom.inval.) and, as reported here, it also occurs in the Russian Far East. Keys are presented to the identification of the species in terms of both macroscopical and microscopical characters. All five species inhabit old or virgin forests, appearing during the final stage of wood decomposition, and (except the ephemeral A. kamtschatica and extra-European A. flavissima ) are now threatened in Finland.
23725319|Brachymenium jilinense T. Kop. et al. is described from Mt. Chang Bai, Jilin Province, Northeast China. It differs from most other species of Brachymenium Schwaegr. by having very rudimentary endostome consisting of only basal membrane, and short exostome teeth. The cellular details of the leaves fit to the genus Brachymenium.
23728070|Aristolochia huanjiangensis (Aristolochiaceae), a new species from limestone areas in Guangxi, southern China, is described and illustrated. It is compared with the two most similar species A. scytophylla and A. fangchi.
23725011|Lophozia opacifolia (Culm.) Meyl. is reported as new for Finland. This oroarctic orohemiarctic and, according to present knowledge, almost circumarctic species grows in mountainous and tundra areas throughout Fennoscandia. The Fennoscandian distribution is illustrated with a map, based on 371 samples, 88 of them collected in Finland. The species is recorded as new to Asia from Yenisey, Siberia. Further, three localities are reported which represent extensions of its known distribution: Westmorland, England, British Columbia, Canada, and Colorado, U.S.A. L. opacifolia and the closely related L. incisa (Schrad.) Dum. are compared, and the differences found in their vegetative and especially their reproductive structures are considered sufficient to justify maintaining them as two separate species.
23726515|Spores from two diploid taxa, Asplenium onopteris L. and A. cuneifolium Viv., and two allotetraploid taxa, A. adiantumnigrum L. var. adiantumnigrum and A. adiantumnigrum var. silesiacum (Milde) Viane & Reichstein, were cultured in three different types of soil. Except for A. cuneifolium, the spores germinated after ten days. The general pattern of development for the gametophytes was similar in all four taxa, following the Aspidium-type. We found that the length and density of marginal hairs differ at the specific level. The formation sequence of the gametangia studied in the three Iberian taxa was the same, and is independent of the soil type. Our results indicate that the spores in this group of taxa are able to germinate and develop mature gametophytes in different kinds of soil, and that they can produce sporophytes.
23727238|The performance of the legume Lotus creticus growing in mixture with the grass Cynodon dactylon was compared with a L. creticus pure stand in field conditions on 0, 19 and 32 slopes in Barcelona, Spain. Two harvests were carried out, the first in early summer and the second in mid-autumn. From winter to spring, Lotus creticus growing in mixture contributed a greater biomass than the grass. Total shoot biomass of pure stand and mixture differed among slopes. On the same slope shoot biomass in the mixture and pure stands was not significantly different. The vegetation cover of the mixture was approximately 100%, 90% and 86% on the 19, 0 and 32 slopes, respectively. The vegetation cover in the pure stand on the three former slopes was approximately 100%. During summer the water deficit was important on the 32 slope and L. creticus plants mortality in the mixture and pure stands was recorded. In autumn, legume biomass in mixture was lower than grass. The vegetation cover in the mixture and pure stands was nearly 100% on the 0 and 19 slopes, and 60% on the 32 slope. During the experiment changes in photosynthesis, water use efficiency and water potential in both species were recorded. Lotus creticus plants growing in mixture were not affected in their physiological variables as compared with those in the pure stand. On a same slope, the mixture and pure stands did not differ in total shoot biomass. In mixture the lowest biomass production in one species was compensated by an increase in the other.
23725019|A review is given of the most important publications on the lichen flora of insular Newfoundland. The important collections of Newfoundland lichens are listed. A detailed list of the author's 79 collecting localities in Newfoundland is presented.
23725287|The two sites selected for this dendroclimatological study are located on the maritime Mount Baker volcano in Washington State. One of the sites ("Coleman Glacier") lies in a closed subalpine forest stand (alt. 14601490 m), the other ("Easton Glacier") in the upper part of the timberline zone (alt. c. 1600 m). At both sites, 10 mature mountain hemlocks (Tsuga mertensiana [Bong.] Carr.) were sampled to obtain two site chronologies. These two chronologies were compared with regionally averaged temperature and precipitation data sets for the period 193180, using both the classical stepwise regression analysis and the so-called response-function analysis, regression analysis in which the stepwise regression is carried out with eigenvectors. Different techniques and their applicability for revealing climate  growth relationships are explained and discussed. On the whole, precipitation, especially in wintertime, seemed to have a negative correlation with radial growth, whereas most of the monthly mean temperatures were positively correlated with the ring width. The Coleman Glacier site is markedly more sheltered than the Easton Glacier site. This is evidenced by the values for tree growth, sensitivity and autocorrelation in the chronologies.
23725018|The following bioclimatic vegetation zones are distinguished in East Asia: (1) meridional (warm temperate-subtropical), with the subzones 'subtropical' (s. str.), southern, middle and northern meridional; (2) temperate, with the subzones hemitemperate, southern, middle and northern temperate; (3) boreal, with the subzones hemiboreal, southern, middle and northern boreal; and (4) arctic, with the subzone hemiarctic. The limits of the main zones and subzones, some of their principal plant communities, characteristic tree species, and major oceanity sectors are indicated. The conditions in Japan are treated more extensively than those in Taiwan, mainland China, the Koreas and the Soviet Far East. It is suggested that in spite of great floristic dissimilarities and different climatic regimes it is possible to delimit ecologically closely corresponding (homologous) zones and subzones in East Asia and Europe on the basis of plant communities. The vegetation zone scheme is also roughly defined with the biotemperature, a bioclimatic index proposed by L. R. Holdridge. The Kira warmth and coldness indices widely used in Japan are also reviewed. The zonal comparison reveals, for instance, that in Japan the true timberline (excl. the scrubs of Pinus pumita, Alnus maximowiczii, etc.) reaches the middle oroboreal subzone at most, and is often located in lower boreal or temperate subzones, even on old volcanoes (on the recent volcano Mt. Fuji it is in the lower oroboreal subzone). The widespread oceanic timberline tree Betula ermanii is not present in the upper oroboreal zone, unlike the physiognomically similar B. pubescens subsp. tortuosa in N. Europe. A true oroarctic (alpine) zone is probably completely absent from Japan, but the highest peaks belong to the orohemiarctic subzone. The northern limit of Fagus crenata on Hokkaido lies south of the limit of the temperate zone, thus not being equivalent to the northern limit of F. sylvatica in Europe.Widespread bryophytes and lichens proved to be important guide plants when East Asian and European vegetation was compared in the field.
23728186|Heteropolygonatum has been considered endemic to China, where most of the species are distributed in the SW region of the country. The genus is characterized by having both terminal and axillary inflorescences, inner and outer stamens of different lengths, and an epiphytic existence. Formerly, a number of the species were included in Polygonatum or Smilacina. Polygonatum altelobatum Hayata is an endemic of Taiwan; however, a review of the literature and field observations confirmed that it should be placed in Heteropolygonatum. Thus, we propose the new combination Heteropolygonatum altelobatum (Hayata) Y.H. Tseng, H.Y. Tzeng & C.T. Chao.
23725069|The H. Roivainen collection of Hepaticae and Anthocerotae (235 numbers), is reported from southern South America, principally from Territory Tierra del Fuego, Argentina and Province Cautin, Chile. Several new southern range extensions are discussed, including taxa new for southern South America. The presence of an austral element on Cerro and Sierra de la Ventana, Province Buenos Aires, Argentina is also discussed. Plagiochilla molliuscula Inoue and P. roivainenii Inoue are described as new.
23728108|Stipa albasiensis L.Q. Zhao & K. Guo, a new species from Inner Mongolia of China, is described. It appears most similar to S. glareosa and S. caucasica. The distinguishing characters are given in a key to the three species.
23725366|The production of fine roots in originally root-free ingrowth cores was studied in an ombrotrophic mire ecosystem in central Sweden (14*42N, 60*10E). The estimated production values, which should be considered conservative, were 51 gm-2 in hummocks and 86 gm-2 in lawns (= upper hollow level). This represents 38% and 59% of the total measured production of vascular plants (increment in coarse roots not included) in hummocks and lawns, respectively. In the first year of study more than 50% of the fine root standing crop was found above 10 cm depth. In the second year, which was very dry, the roots penetrated significantly deeper.
23726642|Despite a recent proposal, Sedum decumbens Luc is hardly available as basionym in designating a member of the Hylotelephium maximum group. On the other hand, there are good reasons to add the Caucasian representative of the group, H. caucasicum (Grossh.) Ohba (based on Sedum maximum (L.) Hoffm. var. caucasicum Grossh.) into the synonymy of Hylotelephium maximum (L.) Holub subsp. ruprechtii (Jalas) Dostl. The following new nomenclatural combinations are proposed: Saxifraga exarata Vill. subsp. carniolica (Huter) Jalas, S. exarata subsp. basaltica (Braun-Blanq.) Jalas, and S. pedemontana All. subsp. pedatifida (Bonnier & Layens) Jalas.
23725590|The effects of thermal discharges on the phytoplankton were studied with the methods of Lorenzen and Utermhl in the Loviisa archipelago in 1971-1982. Throughout the study period, the species composition was typical of oligotrophic areas off the southern Finnish coast. Due to the general increase of salinity and nutrients in the Gulf of Finland, the chlorophyll a concentration and biomass increased, and the species composition became more marine in character in the late seventies. After the first unit of the power station came into use in 1977, the increase of the average phytoplankton quantities was greater in the area in which the cooling water was discharged than in the intake area. The changes in the species composition were similar in the two areas. The warmed water did not cause significant alterations in the winter plankton, but seemed slightly to advance the start of the spring phytoplankton phase in the discharge area. The temperature rise had a stimulative effect on the phytoplankton during the growing period. Nutrients, however, were a more important regulating factor than temperature for both the chlorophyll a concentration and phytoplankton biomass.
23725507|The following new nomenclatural combinations are commented on and proposed: Ranunculus polyanthemos L. subsp. polyanthemophyllus (W. Koch & H. Hess) Baltisberger and Ranunculus polyanthemos L. subsp. serpens (Schrank) Baltisberger.
23728166|Trigonella yasujensis Ranjbar, Hajmoradi & Karamian sp. nova (Fabaceae) of T. sect. Ellipticae is described and illustrated from a single locality between Lordegan and Yasuj in the Zagros Mountains, Iran. It is closely related to T. elliptica but differs from it in a few morphological and anatomical characters. The meiotic chromosome number and behaviour were studied for T. yasujensis. It is a diploid species and possesses 2n = 2x = 16 chromosome number, consistent with the proposed base number x = 8. The general meiotic behaviour of the species was regular with normal bivalent pairing and chromosome segregation at meiosis. However, some meiotic abnormalities were observed including various degrees of sticky chromosomes with laggards, asynchronous nuclei, bridges and cytomixis.
23726747|Seven new combinations in Acmispon Raf. are proposed. The diagnostic characters and tribal position of the genus are discussed. A complete list of accepted Acmispon species is presented. The genus comprises eight species belonging to two sections. Seven species occur in North America, with the center of diversity along the west coast, primarily in California. One species is endemic to Chile.
23728239|One new genus, Tretomyces K.H. Larss., Kotir. & Saaren., and two new species, Tretomyces microsporus Kotir., Saaren. & K.H. Larss., and Byssocorticium caeruleum Kotir., Saaren. & K.H. Larss. are described and illustrated. Three new combinations, Tretomyces lutescens (J. Erikss. & Ryvarden) K.H. Larss., Kotir. & Saaren., Dendrothele minutissima (Hhn. & Litsch.) Kotir., K.H. Larss. & Saaren. and Pseudomerulius montanus (Burt) K.H. Larss., Kotir. & Kulju, are proposed.
23727592|Phylogenetic relationships of Vetaformaceae, Lepicoleaceae, and Herbertaceae (including Mastigophoraceae) were reconstructed using chloroplast region trnL-F, nuclear ITS2, and 27 morphological characters. Forty-five species were included in the analysis, of which 37 belong to the ingroup. The data sets were analyzed simultaneously with direct optimization, as implemented in the program POY. The results confirm the sister relationships of Vetaformaceae and Lepicoleaceae as well as of Herbertaceae and former Mastigophoraceae. Within Lepicolea the species are divided into two sister clades. Herbertus runcinatus is sister to the rest of the genus. A clade of H. oldfieldianus, South American species and a species from the Azores form a separate lineage. The rest of the Herbertus species are grouped together but many unresolved nodes remain.
23727941|Many studies indicate that fire intensity has a marked effect on subsequent vegetation recovery. However, evidence from natural fires is still sparse. We studied vegetation succession during ten years after a wildfire on a sub-xeric, pine dominated coniferous forest. The fire affected four adjacent patches differently and thus created a natural fire intensity gradient. Postfire vegetation data was analysed using non-metric multidimensional scaling and MANOVA. The clearest indication of fire intensity was provided by herbaceous colonizers. Recovering dwarf shrub cover and residual and invader moss cover provided additional evidence for observed differences between the four areas. Despite of initial dissimilarity, community composition became increasingly similar on the different areas during the study period. In conclusion, variation in fire intensity had a clear impact on postfire recovery in natural conditions. Fire disturbance also clearly enhanced local species richness and diversity. Our results indicate that habitat factors play a considerable role in the nature of vegetation recovery following wildfire.
23725075|The present study describes the structure of the normally dicotyledonous seedlings of Honkenya peploides (L.) Ehrh. (Caryophyllaceae) in different stages of development, with special reference to their vascular organization. The results are compared with the vascular system in two tricotyledonous individuals found among the seedlings. Each of the cotyledons is vascularized by a single bundle. This permits a simple change from the typical root structure to the typical shoot structure. Reorientation of the xylem from the exarch condition typical of the root to the endarch state, and arrangement of the xylem and phloem from alternate to collateral are gradual and continue throughout the length of the hypocotyl. The leaf traces of the epicotyl begin to differentiate before the apical meristem commences to produce leaf primordia. The connexion between the collateral bundles of the epicotyl and the stele of the root is established simply by their coming into direct contact.
23727694|The family Sematophyllaceae (Musci) of western Melanesia, mainly Papua New Guinea, is revised based on recent collections preserved at the Botanical Museum of the University of Helsinki. For western Melanesia, 18 genera and ca. 80 species of Sematophyllaceae have been reported in the literature. Of these, six genera, Acanthorrhynchium M. Fleisch. (one species), Acroporium Mitt. (16 species), Clastobryophilum M. Fleisch. (one species), Pseudopiloecium Bartr. (one species), Radulina W.R. Buck & B.C. Tan (four species), and Trichosteleum Mitt. (seven species), are treated in this paper. Trichosteleum streimannii B.C. Tan, T.J. Kop. & D.H. Norris is decribed as new for science. Three new combinations are made and 12 new synonyms proposed (indexed). Trichosteleum sematophylloides Dix. is lectotypified. Six taxa are reported as new to Papua New Guinea: Acroporium adspersum (Hampe) Broth., A. microcladon (Dozy & Molk.) B.C. Tan var. burleyii B.C. Tan, A. rigens (Dix.) Dix., A. stramineum (Reinw. & Hornsch.) M. Fleisch. var. hamulatum (M. Fleisch.) B.C. Tan, Pseudopiloecium acroporoides (Dix.) B.C. Tan, T.J. Kop. & D.H. Norris, and Radulina hamata (Dozy & Molk.) W.R. Buck & B.C. Tan var. scaberula (Mont.) B.C. Tan, T.J. Kop. & D.H. Norris. In addition, 14 taxa are reported as new to the Solomon Islands (indexed). A key to all species dealt with is provided, and illustrations provided for the new species and species not previously illustrated. The taxonomy, habitat ecology, and distribution in western melanesia, as well as total ranges, are given for every species. A selection of previously published illustrations and an index of epithets of taxa dealt with are given.
23724273|The lichen substances of a great number of specimens of Cladonia chlorophaea s. lat. and some allied species from different parts of the world (though chiefly from Finland and Canada) were analysed with colour reagents, crystal tests and paper chromatography. The results were compared with the morphological features of the specimens and it was concluded that the chemical species segregated in the C. chlorophaea group, particularly by Asahina and Evans, also possess some specific morphological characters. Therefore the following taxa are tentatively recognized as species, at least until their mutual relations and intricate nomenclature have been more thoroughly elucidated. 1. Cladonia chlorophaea (Flrke ex Sommerf.) Spreng., em. Asah. This contains fumarprotocetraric acid alone and is probably closer to C. pyxidata s. str. than to the other members of the group. Typically greyish green and sorediate. 2. C. grayi Merr. ex Sandst., em. Asah. The correct name may be C. roborosa Britz. Grayanic acid is constant; fumarprotocetraric acid is a frequent accessory component in this species. Typically greenish brown and sorediate. 3. C. merochlorophaea Asah. The correct name may be C. chlorophaea s. str. This seems to consist of two morphological types. One of them is known only from North America, is abundantly sorediate and contains merochlorophaeic and fumarprotocetraric acids. The other is a common boreal esorediate or sparingly sorediate taxon that usually contains only merochlorophaeic acid but sometimes novochlorophaeic acid alone or both of these acids together; fumarprotocetraric acid is another, not uncommon, accessory component. 4. C. cryptochlorophaea Asah. In this species cryptochlorophaeic acid is constant, and fumarprotocetraric acid is accessory, though always present in the Eurasian specimens as far as is known. Typically light green, abundantly sorediate. In addition, some taxonomic and nomenclatural problems in the related species C. cyathomorpha W. Wats., C. conista (Ach.) Robb., C. pyxidata (L.) Hoffm., C. pocillum (Ach.) O.-J. Rich., C. magyarica Vain., and C. fimbriata (L.) Fr. are briefly discussed. C. merochlorophaea, C. cryptochlorophaea and C. conista are reported as new to Finland.
23726707|Acanthocoleus yoshinaganus (S. Hatt.) Kruijt, previously known from Japan and Korea, is reported here as a new generic record for the Chinese bryoflora. Both lejeuneoid and pycnolejeuneoid gynoecial innovations occur in A. yoshinaganus. The SE Asian Lejeunea herzogii Mizut. is synonymized with L. papilionacea Steph., which was known from Africa (Cameroun, Comores, Ghana, Madagascar, and Sierra Leone). Detailed descriptions, illustrations, taxonomic notes, and distribution of A. yoshinaganus and L. papilionacea are provided.
23725494|The family Fissidentaceae Schimp. has 25 species in its single genus Fissidens Hedw.; Mitteniaceae Broth. has one species in the genus Mittenia Lindb.; Phyllodrepaniaceae Crosby has one species in the genus Mniomalia C. Mll., Phyllogoniaceae Kindb. has three species distributed among the genera Catagonium C. Mll. ex Broth., Cryptogonium (C. Mll.) Hampe, and Orthorrhynchium Reichardt; Sorapillaceae Broth. has a single species in Sorapilla Spruce & Mitt. Sixteen species are newly reported from Western Melanesia, and eight species are excluded from the flora. Fissidens adelphinus Berch. is newly recorded for Indonesia, I. hollianus Dozy & Molk. for India (Nicobar Islands) and Mniomalia semilimbata (Mitt.) C. Mll. for Soloman Islands. Fifteen new synonyms are proposed. Lectotypes are selected for: Fissidens ceylonensis subsp. simplex C. Mll. in Fleisch., F. incurvescens Broth. in Schum. & Lauterb., F. kurandae Broth., F. robinsonii Broth., and F. wichurae Broth. & Fleisch. Fissidens adelphinus Besch. is newly reported from Indonesia. The paper includes keys to the species, as well as descriptions, illustrations and distributional data for the species in Western Melanesia. Also included are descriptions of several previously unnoticed features of Sorapilla and Mniomalia. For each species there are discussions on taxonomy and classification, as well as nomenclatural notes and range descriptions.
23727639|The aim of the paper was to determine a group of plant species whose distribution is highly correlated with the urbanization pattern in Poland. For this purpose the atlas of species distribution in Poland providing about 2300 cartograms was used. The population density was taken as an urbanization marker. By means of 2-test and the linear correlation coefficient species whose distribution was highly correlated with population density were selected. The raw list of species was consequently narrowed down to alien taxa, which did not reach the limits of their distribution in Poland. Species proposed as urban indicators have a continental character as well as high light and temperature requirements. Distributions of nine such species were mapped. Some synthetic variables showing cumulative distribution (referred to as mean and sum) proved to be even better urban indicators. The urbanophiles determined for Warsaw and cities from the western part of central Europe shared about 50% of the species.
23727640|The first record of Anthracoidea siderostictae Kukkonen from Russia provides the background to review the taxonomy, host spectrum and world distribution of this rare smut fungus. The Russian collection is fully described and illustrated with drawings of the infected plant, and with LM and SEM micrographs of spores. Anthracoidea siderostictae is now known from six localities in China, Japan and Russia, where it infects representatives of Carex sect. Siderostictae. The global distribution of A. siderostictae is mapped.
23727773|Cerastium qingliangfengicum H.W. Zhang & X.F. Jin sp. nova (Caryophyllaceae) is described. The new species was found in moist places in the valleys of Mt. Qingliangfeng in western Zhejiang of China. It is morphologically similar to C. wilsonii, but differs by having sparsely to densely pubescent stems, leaves densely pubescent on both surfaces, petal lobes obtuse at apex, and capsules more than twice as long as sepals.
23728106|Tylophora lui Y.H. Tseng & C.T. Chao, a new species of Apocynaceae from southern Taiwan, is described and illustrated. It resembles T. ovata in the shape and size of the leaves and flowers, but differs by the indumentum of stems, the number of flowers, and by the glabrous and slender inflorescences. An identification key to the Taiwanese Tylophora species is provided.
23728096|Based on a plate from the protologue by Antonio Sebastiani and a specimen in RO, a lectotype and an epitype, respectively, for Trifolium latinum Sebast. are designated here.
23728148|Zeuxine hainanensis Han Xu, H.J. Yang & Y.D. Li (Orchidaceae) is described and illustrated as a new species endemic to Hainan Island, China. It differs from the morphologically similar Z. membranacea mainly by having pubescent petals (vs. glabrous) and a Y-shaped and 1012 mm (vs. cymbiform, 45 mm) long lip.
23726585|A study of Fucus vesiculosus was carried out along the exposed and moderately exposed shores of the Gulf of Bothnia, in the northern Baltic Sea, to test the hypothesis that environmental stress defined as decreasing salinity and increasing ice cover towards northern latitudes has an effect on fertility. In this area, F. vesiculosus was found to grow in tufts, many fronds emerging from the same holdfast. Thirty holdfasts with all their fronds were collected by SCUBA diving from exposed and moderately exposed shores at four sites between the land Island and the Quark. The number of fronds per holdfast was counted and the fertility index (FI) calculated. The FI of single frond decreased, and in contrast, the number of fronds per holdfast increased towards harsh northern environment. The FI and the number of fronds per holdfast from the exposed and the moderately exposed shores did not differ significantly at each site. However, there was a difference in the FI between exposed and moderately exposed shores along the environment gradient. We propose that F. vesiculosus responds to environmental stress and compensates for the impaired by harsh environmental conditions in the north generative reproduction by having a higher number of fronds emerging from the same holdfast. This holdfast proliferation can be considered vegetative reproduction.
23728276|Salvia ekimiana F. Celep & Doan sp. nova (Lamiaceae) is described and illustrated from Turkey. It is confined to Yozgat in central Anatolia where it grows in open Pinus sylvestris forest and alpine steppe. The diagnostic morphological characters from closely similar species are discussed.
43922208|Aphanolejeunea morobensis Pocs and Cololejeunea ciliata Pcs are described as new. Cololejeunea mackeeana P. Tix. replaces the illegitimate homonym crenulata (Herz.) Bened. ex Engel & Tan non crenulata (Pears.) H. Mill. Cololejeunea hattoriana Mizut. & Pocs (Campylolejeunea pusilla Mizut.) and Cololejeunea mouensis (P. Tix.) Pocs (Campylolejeunea mouensis P. Tix.) are new names. The following species are reported as new for Western Melanesia: Aphanolejeunea angustiloba Horik., A. grossepapillosa Horik., Cheilolejeunea lindenbergii (Gott.) Mizut., C. meyeniana (Gott, et al.) Schust. & Kachroo, Cololejeunea cordiflora Steph., C. equialbi P. Tix., C. lanciloba Steph., C. peraffinis (Schiffn.) Schiffn., C. mackeeana P. Tix., C. pseudofioccosa (Horik.) Bened., schmidtii Steph., Colma meijeri Jov.-Ast., ornata Goebel, Drepanolejeunea fissicornua Steph., D. serricalyx Herz., Lejeunea alata Gott., Leptolejeunea vitrea (Nees) Schiffn. and Mastigolejeunea truncata Mizut.
23726185|Three species of Cladina (Nyl.) Nyl. (Ascomycotina: Lecanorales) are described, viz. C. argentea Ahti (Venezuela), C. conspicua Ahti (Newfoundland, Sweden) and C. halei Ahti (Venezuela, Colombia).
23726462|The ripening time of cloudberry (Rubus chamaemorus L.) fruit was studied in fertilizer and stand comparison trials at Kolari, NW Finland, in 19811983. Trials were located both in a greenhouse and outdoors. The extreme ripening times of a single fruit were 29 and 55 days and average ripening times per trial varied from 37 to 44 days. Temperature, which was most exactly expressed as temperature sums, was the primary factor determining the length of the ripening period. The berries thus always ripened faster in the greenhouse. If the mean temperature during the ripening time exceeded +14C, the ripening time was less than 40 days. The main factor affecting the ripening of a single fruit was the number of drupelets: berries with only 13 drupelets took as much as five or more days longer to ripen than berries with 8 or more drupelets. Fruits in the stands from southern Finland developed highly significantly slower than those in stands from northern Finland. In contrast to this, however, ripening was slightly slower in the stands from Koillismaa than in those from Kemi Lapland, which is 12 degrees farther to the north. Fertilizers had a slight effect or no effect at all on the ripening time.
23726320|Phytoplankton biomasses and community structure in 103 national park lakes in 14 national parks in central and southern Finland were studied in July 1987 and 1988. Lakes varied rather widely in size and water chemistry causing significant differences in phytoplankton biomass and communities. Most lakes were oligotrophic and due to low pH and conductivity, and often dark colour, the species richness was also low. Cluster analyses identified 9 community types using main algal group biomasses in calculations. Other characteristic groups were obtained using the 30 most frequent and abundant taxa in clustering. Chrysophytes and cryptophytes were the two most abundant groups, whereas diatoms, coccal green algae, desmids or dinoflagellates were rich in some areas only. Blue-green algae were rather scarce in all areas and lakes.
23727959|We give the first account concerning the ecology, population size, breeding system and genetic variability of the unique Italian population of Gentianella crispata, a rare orophilous species with a disjunct distribution including Balkan peninsula and southern Italy. The population is relatively small (ca. 4000 individuals) and has a fragmented structure within a wider area covered by the grass-dominated vegetation Seslerio nitidaeBrometum erecti. The evaluated morphological traits (i.e. plant size, flower number per plant and length of corolla tube) greatly varied among individuals. Examination of the floral structures revealed that the stigma becomes receptive before anther dehiscence. Observations on the topological relationships between stigma and anther suggested that in young flowers protogyny is paralleled by herkogamy (i.e. hyperstigmatic condition). However, the anther dehiscence appeared to be accompanied by a reduction of the spatial separation between female and male organs. This suggested the occurrence of a mixed breeding system, as also sustained by ISSR analysis. The ITS-based phylogeny showed an interesting relationship with G. caucasea, conferring a peculiar evolutionary interest to the species and its westernmost, severely isolated Italian population. According to the IUCN Red List criteria, G. crispata in Italy meets the requirements for critically endangered species.
23725293|The following chorologically interesting records are given for vol. 7 of Atlas Florae Europaeae: Silene lydia Boiss. from Bulgaria, Saponaria sicula Rafin. subsp. intermedia (Simmler) Chater, Petrorhagia thessala (Boiss.) P.W. Ball & Heywood and Dianthus glacialis Haenke from S Yugoslavia and Saponaria calabrica Guss. from Sicily. The taxonomy of an aberrant form of Dianthus sylvestris Wulfen from Ischia, Italy, is discussed. The paper is based on material in H and W.
23725770|The southeast Asiatic genus Taiwanobryum Nog. consists of T. robustum Veloira and T. speciosum Nog. Key, figures and a distribution map are presented. Both species are largely epiphytic, but T. speciosum is also petrophytic in the northern part of its range. Rhizoids with gemmae are reported in both T. robustum and Neolindbergia brassii Bartr., which may indicate that these two species are closely related.
23728097|Anogramma leptophylla is one of few homosporous ferns with ephemeral sporophytes and perennial gametophytic tubercules. This rare aspect of the life cycle has considerable bearing on the reproductive features of the gametophyte. Four populations in the Iberian Peninsula were selected to provide spores for laboratory cultures and to sample natural populations of gametophytes for comparative studies. Sexual expression and the role of the tubercule in the reproductive biology of this fern were studied. No significant differences were found between percentages of sexual versus asexual prothalli in natural populations or laboratory cultures, or between percentages of unisexual and bisexual prothalli. These results may indicate that sex in A. leptophylla is genetically determined instead of environmentally controlled as in most ferns. The presence of a gametophytic tubercule with nutrient reserves seems to be most favourable for the development of archegonia, and for the establishment of young sporophytes. This tubercule, which can resist stressful environmental conditions, allows for the development of new gametophytic outgrowths and of dormant embryos as soon as environmental conditions improve. This bryophyte-like behaviour gives this fern some advantages in colonisation and has probably contributed to its wide geographic range.
23725067|A 14C method is presented that was developed for measuring the epilithiphyton production of Lake Pjrvi in situ. The production of epilithiphyton was below 0.5 mg Cass-h-1 per square metre of substrate. At the sampling station, over 4 m2 of substrate for epilithiphyton was contained in a bottom area of 1 m2. The production results for the epilithiphyton and littoral plankton suggest that wave action causes exchange between the populations of species occurring in both communities.
23726661|Alchemilla ovitensis Y.Menemen & E.Hamzaolu (Rosaceae) from the east Black Sea region (Turkey) is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Its geographic distribution is presented on a map and it is compared with five morphologically similar species.
43922390|Phellinus igniarius (L. ex Fr.) Qul, is divided into four varieties: var. igniarius is round-edged, occurring mainly on Salix; var. trivialis (Bres. ex. Killerm.) Niemel, n. comb, is sharp-edged and black-crusted, and also occurs mainly on Salix; var. alni (Bond.) Niemel, n. comb, is bracket-shaped and variable, and grows on numerous hosts; var. cinereus Niemel, n. var. is round-edged when young, has a grey crust and grows on Betula and Alnus incana in North Fennoscandia. P. nigricans (Fr.) Karst, differs from P. igniarius in its thinner hyphae, thicker-walled spores and external appearance. P. populicola Niemel, n. sp. resembles P. igniarius var. igniarius morphologically, but has thinner hyphae, smaller, narrower spores and different cultural characters, and grows on living Populus tremula. Macroscopic, microscopic and cultural characters of the species are given, and distribution maps presented. Types are selected for the following names: Fomes igniarius (L. ex Fr.) Fr. f. betulae Bondarcev, F. igniarius f. piri Bond., F. igniarius f. salicis Bond., F. trwialis Bresadola, Polyporus igniarius L. ex Fries and P. nigricans Fries. The following taxa are excluded from the P. igniarius complex: Fomes arctostaphyli Long, F. igniarius f. pruni Bond., F. igniarius f. quercus Bond., Polyporus corni Velenovsky, P. igniarius var. effusoreflexus Velen., P. roburneus Fr. and P. sorbi Velen. A new combination, Phellinus arctostaphyli (Long) Niemel, is proposed. A key to the European Phellinus igniarius complex is presented.
23725071|The choice of methods for measuring or estimating the abundance of plants is discussed with reference to the scope and requirements of the study. Coverage estimation based on a geometric series of coverage classes is considered to offer a reasonable amount of objectivity without the necessity of sacrificing the working speed or the qualitative completeness of the data. The classes should be wide enough to allow the bulk of the material to be allocated without difficulty. A careful evaluation of the few borderline cases can then be made without undue reduction of working speed. If the coverage classes make up a geometric series, then the geometric mean of the class limits is an unbiased class centre.
23727173|One-hundred and eighty specimens of Potentilla erecta, 58 of P. reptans, 49 of P. anglica and 19 of P.  italica were studied phenetically using 19 macromorphological characters. As P. erecta and P. reptans are quite common in Estonia, while P. anglica is absent from that country, the occurrence of P.  italica in Estonia points to its possible origin from hybridization of the former two species. Estonian P.  italica produces no seeds and is hexaploid (2n = 42). Potentilla  italica and P. anglica appeared, from the statistical point of view, morphologically well separable from each other as well as from their putative parents. In comparison with the varieties of P. erecta, var. erecta and var. strictissima, which do not cluster into separate groups, it is reasonable to treat P.  italica, which clearly forms clusters of its own, on the same level as P. reptans and P. anglica, i.e., to recognize it as a morphologically stable nothospecies.
23728126|Bauhinia blakeana (Fabaceae) pollen is bicellular and contains only a vegetative and generative cell at anthesis. The pollen grain contents, including the generative cell, can be released in vitro following osmotic shock. In this study, when pollen grains were incubated in a 10% sucrose and 5%15% polyethylene glycol 4500 (PEG 4500) medium, over 50% of the pollen grains germinated and formed a short pollen tube. However, the generative cell did not divide in in vitro pollen tubes. In vivo pollen tubes were induced to grow from the style using an in vivoin vitro method. Sperm cells were subsequently isolated from broken pollen tubes.
23726843|This paper elucidates spatial and temporal pathways of tree-species colonization and forest development during 260 years of undisturbed primary succession on rising ground-moraine shorelines in the Norra Kvarken Archipelago, Gulf of Bothnia, northern Sweden. Four species  grey alder (Alnus incana), rowan (Sorbus aucuparia), juniper (Juniperus communis), and spruce (Picea abies)  occur commonly and form distinct belts. The earliest individuals ( 0.5 m) of alder were found after 20 years of succession, of spruce after 40 years, of juniper after 50 years, and of rowan after 60 years. Because of the longer time required by spruce to become dominant, the order of belts from younger to older was: alderrowanjuniperspruce. The belt width decreased from alder to rowan to juniper, and with increasing shore slope. We identified six successional stages by occurrence and composition, from pure alder to pure spruce, and three stages by species dominance. Spruce became dominant after 160 years of succession and forms the climax forests on these sites.
23726577|Epiphytic lichens can exert some negative actions on trees, since they penetrate to different degrees into several tissues of the phytophore. Evernia prunastri (L.) Ach. hyphae progress into xylem vessels of Fagus sylvatica, Quercus pyrenaica and Betula alba. This is on the basis of a mechanism through which lichens inject metabolic inhibitors in the xylem vessels, and, after their translocation in the xylem sap, they reach different organs of the phytophore and produce defoliation. In this report, we have noted that usnic acid is more impermeant than atranorin through the chloroplast membrane of Quercus rotundifolia leaves. On the other hand, we have also noted the degradation of chlorophyll in response to lichen substances.
23725593|Ranunculus cassubicus L. subsp. kemerovensis Kvist is described as new, with reflections on some related Siberian taxa. This seems to be the easternmost documented record of R. cassubicus, ca. 56N 8730E.
23726861|Begonia hongkongensis F.W. Xing sp. nova (Begoniaceae) is described and illustrated. It is most similar to B. tsoongii, but differs primarily in its horizontal rhizome, bigger leaves with long-attenuate apices and irregularly shallowly 14-lobed margins, styles with only basal parts connected, and capsules with a longer pedicel and wings. It is known only from Jiujing Mountain in Hong Kong.
23724595|In this paper a review is given of the development of studies on Sphagnum moss taxonomy and nomenclature. The major part of the species were separated during the periods of Schimper and Warnstorf. The specific taxonomy of the European species attained virtually its presentday form by the beginning of this century. At the same time the taxonomy of Sphagnum in certain other parts of the world became quite chaotic, and much remains to be cleared up even today. The present subdivision of the genus also took place mainly during the time of Schimper and Warnstorf, with only minor changes occurring since then. In connexion with nomenclatural studies, the valuable pioneer work performed by S. O. Lindberg is especially worthy of mention. In problems of species taxonomy the writer takes the stand which is in general usage in Fennoscandia. It has proved to be practicable in circumboreal regions and represents the middle way between the extremes of Warnstorf and Andrews. The main principles and trends of Fennoscandian sphagnologists are presented. In this paper 43 Sphagnum mosses growing in Europe are accepted as distinct species. The actual number, however, may differ slightly from this, since further, more detailed studies are needed in the case of certain species. For example, up to the present time far too few culture experiments as well as cytological and chemotaxonomical studies have been carried out. Concerning the subdivision of the genus, the author retains the conventional system, with a few minor exceptions, and accepts its division into 8 sections occurring in Europe and 3 outside Europe. The customary segregation into two main subgenera Inophloea (= Sphagnum) and Litophloea is regarded as justified. In the present study, however, it is not followed for certain reasons, among them being the fact that the name Sphagnum subg. Litophloea (Russow; Warnst.) Andr. 1911 is antedated by the name S. subg. Isocladus (Lindb.) Braithw. 1875 and thus cannot be used. If on the other hand the latter name would be employed, it would mean that nearly all the epithets of the sections of Litophloea would have to be combined with Isocladus. The current subdivisional system can scarcely be considered as permanent. In order to develop it further, many more cytological and chemotaxonomical studies, and particularly paleontological information, are necessary. Subdivisional categories lower than section are not employed in this paper, but literature references are presented which give the origin of most such names (p. 208). Particular emphasis is given to problems dealing with the application of nomenclatural rules, and the reasons for making certain decisions are explained. Some of the questions most thoroughly discussed here are typification, the validity of names mentioned incidentally, interpretations of names published without an exact taxonomic rank, and citation of authors. Attention is also paid to the earliest subspecific names of Ehrhart and of some other sphagnologists, as well as to the difficulties of interpretation concerning the validity of certain binomials of Hoffmann (p. 237). Evidence is given to prove that the names S. plumulosum and S. robustum published by Rll (1886) as names for his series of forms do not have priority at species level over S. subnitens Russow & Warnst. 1888 and S. russowii Warnst. 1886. In the same manner, also the name S. warnstorfii Russow 1887 is held to be legitimate and correct despite the series-of-forms name S. warnstorfii Rll 1886. The specific names S. angustifolium (C. Jens. ex Russow) C. Jens. 1891 and S. flexuosum Dozy & Molk. 1851 are recommended to be used instead of the later names S. parvifolium (Warnst.) Warnst. 1900 and S. amblyphyllum (Russow) Zick. 1900. The illegitimate names S. dusenii C. Jens. ex Russow & Warnst. 1889 and S. apiculatum H. Lindb. 1903 should be replaced by S. majus (Russow) C. Jens. 1890 and S. fallax (Klinggr.) Klinggr. 1880. Concerning the American S. erythrocalyx Hampe ex C. Mll. 1848, this name is shown to be antedated by S. perichaetiale Hampe 1847 and consequently, the latter name should be used for this taxon. Further nomenclatural changes are unfortunately to be expected. The name S. nemoreum Scop. 1772 should possibly be regarded as a nomen dubium, but it cannot be replaced by S. capillaceum (Weiss) Schrank 1789 nor by S. acutifolium Ehrh. ex Schrad. 1796, since S. capillifolium (Ehrh.) Hedw. 1782 is the next oldest validly published and legitimate specific name for this taxon. Other possible changes are that S. jensenii H. Lindb. 1899 would be replaced by S. annulatum H. Lindb. ex Warnst. 1898 and S. subfulvum Sjrs 1944 by S. nitidum Warnst. 1895. Furthermore, there are many old names which, if their typification is possible, may lead to alterations.
23725676|The check-list contains 294 diatom taxa (260 species and 34 varieties). The diatoms were encountered during ecological studies of diatom communities on rocky substrates and macroalgae near Forsmark on the Swedish east coast. Data on frequency, seasonal distribution and growth form are included when these could be recorded or extracted from ecological data sets. Salinity preference was obtained from the literature. The diatom flora at Forsmark consists mainly of brackish-water, euryhaline marine and freshwater species. The dominant taxa belong to a typical low-salinity brackish-water flora.
23726324|567 vascular plants occurring in the Putorana Plateau (N Siberia) were subdivided into 7 main phytogeographic groups (chorotypes) through a numerical classification of their total distribution ranges. The distribution patterns of chorotypes are illustrated by chorograms, i.e. isopleth maps obtained by programs of automatic mapping, showing the joint distribution of the species in the Northern Hemisphere, north of the Tropic of Cancer. The main chorotypes of the Putorana flora are: circumboreal (28.2%), Amphi-Beringian (25.6%), central Siberian (13.1%), boreal Eurasiatic (9.9%), E Siberian arctic (8.0%), NE Yakutian (7.8%) and circumarctic (7.4%). Some main distribution centers are evident for the plants of the Putorana flora; they are: a) central Siberia, particularly the area around Lake Baikal (mainly species of boreal forest), b) mountains of E Yakutia (mainly species occurring from the alpine to the forest belt), c) several narrow areas on the arctic coast of N Siberia (species of the alpine belt), d) the Amphi-Beringian region. These areas correspond to some main refugia for the boreal and arctic flora during the Quaternary period. The results suggest that the Putorana Plateau can be considered as the westernmost extension of the Beringian phytogeographic region in Eurasia.
23726117|The following new nomenclatural combinations are proposed: Arenaria procera Sprengel subsp. pubescens (Fenzl) Jalas (replacing A. procera subsp. procera sensu Fl. Eur.), Cerastium banaticum (Rochel) Heuffel subsp. speciosum (Boiss.) Jalas (replacing C. banaticum subsp. alpinum (Boiss.) Buschm.), C. illyricum Ard. subsp. brachiatum (Lonsing) Jalas (being the correct designation for C. illyricum subsp. prolixum (Lonsing) P. D. Sell & Whitehead), C. pumilum Curtis subsp. glutinosum (Fries) Jalas (replacing the illegitimate name C. pumilum subsp. pallens (F. W. Schultz) Schinz & Thell.), and Spergularia tunetana (Maire) Jalas (the taxon not mentioned in Fl. Eur.; basionym: Spergula tunetana Maire).
23725764|The epiphytic lichen Hypogymnia physodes (L.) Nyl., growing on birch and pine, was analysed for lead by the Pu-238 excited Si(Li) semiconductor detector X-ray fluorescence method. The lead content of the lichen varied between 14 and 308 ppm. The background lead concentration was 14 to 31 ppm. The zone with lichen lead contents over 90 ppm and the zone with contents of 4090 ppm were determined by the image reconstruction method. The lead content of the lichen correlated with the traffic density. Lead accumulation in the lichen was considered in relation to the distance from the nearest road or street, the shelter effect, the phorophyte species and the level of sulphur dioxide.
23728017|A taxonomic revision of the Hypericum ericoides aggregate is presented based on morphological characters. This aggregate is endemic to the western Mediterranean basin and is currently included in H. sect. Coridium. Light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy techniques were utilized to check the diagnostic value of several characters that were neglected or overlooked in previous works. As a result, four well-characterized taxonomic entities are accepted: Hypericum ericoides L., H. hispanicum (Pau) M.A. Alonso, Agull, J.L. Villar, Juan & M.B. Crespo comb. nov. [= H. robertii var. hispanicum Pau], H. maroccanum (Maire & Wilczek) Rivas Mart. [= H. ericoides subsp. maroccanum Maire & Wilczek], and H. robertii Coss. ex Batt. & Trab. For each one, the data on morphology, ecology, and distribution are reported. Nomenclatural types are also included, and an epitype for H. ericoides is designated. Hypericum robertii, a plant supposed to be restricted to Tunisia, is reported from eastern Algeria.
43922120|1. The total range of Rhizomnium andrewsianum (Steere) T. Kop. is mapped. 2. The presence of Plagiomnium medium (B. S. G.) T. Kop. ssp. curvatulum (Lindb.) T. Kop. in Spitsbergen is confirmed. 3. Rhizomnium hattorii T. Kop., previously known only from Japan, is recorded from Korea. Pseudobryum speciosum (Mitt.) T. Kop. seems to be the only endemic species of Mniaceae in Japan.
23726761|Burmannia hunanensis K. M. Liu & C. L. Long, a new species of the Burmanniaceae from Hunan Province, China, is described and illustrated. The morphological characteristics of B. hunanensis and its related species are compared.
23727374|The factors affecting the adaptation of downy birch (Betula pubescens) to different environmental conditions were studied in 20022003 by measurement of the production characteristics of saplings, which were experimentally planted in contrasting habitats at a cut-away peatland in the umava Mts., Czech Republic. These habitats varied in groundwater table depth. Together with this factor, we tested for the effect of shading, using shade cloth, on sapling growth. We conducted a greenhouse manipulative experiment to investigate the growth response of the downy birch saplings to varying groundwater table depths and soil types. We examined whether spatial distribution of naturally established birch stems changes along pronounced moisture gradient represented by transects placed at three distances from draining ditches. In the field, birch plants exhibited higher growth increments as well as higher leaf production under high groundwater table depth. This result is the opposite of the manipulated greenhouse experiment, which showed higher biomass increments for saplings under the low groundwater table depth. This was probably because downy birch, in principle, indicates terrestrification of peat bogs and high water table depth in greenhouse inhibited its growth. In field, birch saplings were probably stressed by drought. Positive shading effect on sapling growth was proven by leaf production measurements. The two term local variance method (TTLQV) revealed two contrasting dispersion patterns, for the birch population at drier and wetter sites of the post-mined peatbog. The aggregation was clear mainly at the drier site with lower abundance of birch plants within each sampled square. Higher abundance of individuals were found in squares of the wetter site, whereas the pattern was random there.
23726484|Two species of the genus Sarcoglottis from Brazil are described as new. The first of them, Sarcoglottis viscosus Szlach. & Rutk. resembles Sarcoglottis fasciculata (Vell.) Schlecht. by its habit and S. biflora (Vell.) Schlecht. in the flowers. The most characteristic features of the species are the sticky glandules on the stem, cauline and floral bracts and on the flowers. The second, Sarcoglottis curvisepala Szlach. & Rutk. is habitually similar to S. fasciculata (Vell.) Schlecht. and S. grandiflora (Lindl.) Kl., but it is easy to distinguish by its lateral sepals and lip. Lateral sepals are very long and strongly falcate, their free parts are as long as their basal parts adnate to the ovary. The lip is indistinctly constricted and cochleate in the centre.
23724687|Vicia sepium ssp. sepium occurs in southern Finland, especially in Ahvenanmaa (land) and it also has adventive occurrences further north in Finland, by some harbours, and in old military camping sites, to which it was brought by the Germans during the Second World War. V. sepium ssp. montana, an eastern and evidently continental race, is common in Finland, excluding Ahvenanmaa and the northernmost parts of the country. The chromosome number of both subspecies is n = 7.
23724671|The Veronica hederifolia complex is represented in eastern Fennoscandia by at least two taxa, viz. subsp. hederifolia and subsp. lucorum Klett & Richter. The former has been found on the mainland of Finland as a ballast plant, and as a rare weed in Ahvenanmaa. Subsp. lucorum is a rather common weed in Ahvenanmaa but occurs there in more natural habitats too. Besides the typical subsp. lucorum, two deviating types are recorded.
23726472|Distributions of seven species or groups of species of epiphytic lichens were registered at 193 sites of Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) forest regularly distributed throughout Norway. These were Hypogymnia physodes (L.) Nyl., Pseudevernia furfuracea (L.) Zopf, Parmeliopsis spp., Bryoria spp., Usnea spp., "other foliose species" and "crustose species". Abundances were measured by a measuring-tape technique on the trunks of four pine trees at each site, with the purpose of relating the largescale distribution of the lichens to environmental parameters and gaining a better understanding of the factors regulating lichen occurrence. Multivariate numerical analyses (DCA and PCA) and multiple regression analyses were applied to the lichen and environmental data. The mean lichen cover at the sites varied from 0.2% to 56.7%, being highest along the coast of southern Norway and considerably less inland, in mountainous areas and in the north. By far the most abundant species was H. physodes. Bryoria and Parmeliopsis species had a continental and somewhat northern distribution. Usnea species were rather unevenly distributed, but were sparse both in the north and in the highest pollution deposition areas in the south. H. physodes and P. furfuracea were most abundant in the southern, warmer parts of the country. The collective groups "other foliose species" and "crustose species" were most abundant along the west and south coasts. The main factors determining lichen occurrence and abundance on trunks of Scots pine would seem to be those associated with temperature and moisture. Forest density also seems important. Since air pollution deposition in Norway is highly dependent on precipitation and varies along a southnorth and coastinland gradient, it is difficult to separate the effects of pollution from the effects of climatic variation. The scarcity of Bryoria and Usnea species in the southern parts of the country, however, might be attributable to air pollution.
23728127|Viable egg cells of Datura stramonium (Solanaceae) were isolated using enzymatic digestion and mechanical dissection. The three cells comprising the egg apparatus (the egg cell and two synergids) were removed from the female gametophyte by altering the micropylar position with a dissection needle. Generally, the egg apparatus cells were readily released from the cut end of the ovule. In order to isolate the egg cells, ovules were placed in an isolating solution containing 0.04% CaCl 2 , 1% BSA, and 12% mannitol, seven egg apparati were isolated from 40 ovules within one hour period. However, in some cases, it was difficult to separate the egg cells from the two synergids. Separation of the egg and synergid cells required incubating the ovules in an enzymatic solution containing 1% pectinase (Serva), 1% cellulase (Onozuka RS), and 12% mannitol for 30 min, and transferring them to the above-mentioned isolating solution. Following this protocol, eight egg cells were isolated from 40 ovules within two hours, and the egg cells were easily separated from the two synergids. Subsequently, isolated egg cells were used for in vitro fertilization to explore the mechanisms of egg development and fertilization.
23727904|Linaria turcica S. Makbul & Hamzaolu sp. nova from Artvin (Yusufeli) province, NE Turkey, is described. It is compared with its morphologically closest match L. genistifolia, from which it differs in several macro- and micromorphological characters.
43922231|Over 30 Prunus species and taxa below the rank of species are known from Iran. These wild taxa provide an enlarged gene pool and may be considered a valuable germplasm source for breeding cultivated almonds. The present study is a genetic diversity analysis of six P. scoparia populations using six nuclear SSR markers. We also studied correlations between the population genetic differences, morphological differences and geographical distance. All six SSR primers produced amplification. The highest number of alleles occurred in the Fars and Lorestan populations, with 121 and 114 alleles, respectively. Some of the alleles were shared by all populations, while some others were specific to one population only. The observed heterozygosity ranged from 0.675 in the Tehran population to 0.900 in the Fars and Lorestan populations, while the expected heterozygosity ranged from 0.783 in the Tehran population to 0.948 in the Fars population. Bayesian model-based clustering showed a good separation of populations at K = 6. AMOVA indicated significant differences both among individuals and among populations. Mantel's test of SSR and morphological trees or geographical distance did not show any distinct pattern. Neighbour-joining and reticulation trees, as well as the STRUCTURE plots revealed admixture among the populations, indicating genetic exchange and presence of ancestral gene loci among them.
23727974|A key challenge of conservation management in seminatural grasslands is to find ecologically cost-effective management regimes which will maintain the ecological functionality and biodiversity of a community. We studied changes in the plant functional trait composition and diversity of the flooded meadow in the 6-year field experiment in Soomaa National Park, Estonia. Five management regimes were introduced: traditional (cutting with a scythe and hay removal), mowing (machine cutting and hay removal), mulching (machine cutting without hay removal), spring burning and unmanaged control. Unmanaged and burned plots differed from cut plots due to their higher percentage of grasses and sedges, and of C-strategists, and by lower percentage of trampling- and grazing-tolerant species, erosulate species, and vegetatively mobile guerrilla species. Removal of litter enhanced rosette species and winter-green species. Traditional management increased the compositional variability among plots. Species richness remained almost constant in burned plots, and fluctuated in unmanaged plots, while in all cut plots there was a significant increase in species richness. Within cutting treatments, richness increased relatively more in the plots that were cut by a machine. Results from the 6-year field experiment suggest that mulching is the most cost-effective management regime in floodplain meadows, but only in combination with mowing (cutting with removal of the hay crop) every second or third year, providing the best management practice in the long run.
23726162|Seven species are recognized in a worldwide revision of the taxa known as the Cladonia gracilis group (Lecanorales, lichenized Ascomycetes). Cladonia macroceras (Delise) Ahti, C. maxima (Asah.) Ahti and C. squamosissima (Mll. Arg.) Ahti (comb. nova) are confined to the Northern Hemisphere, and C. subchordalis A. W. Evans to the Southern Hemisphere, while C. cornuta (L.) Hoffm., C. ecmocyna Leighton and C. gracilis (L.) Willd. are bipolar in distribution. C. gracilis is divided into six subspecies, viz. subsp. elongata (Jacq.) Vainio, subsp. gracilis, subsp. nigripes (Nyl.) Ahti (comb. nova), subsp. tenerrima Ahti (subsp. nova; type from Victoria, Australia), subsp. turbinata (Ach.) Ahti (comb. nova), and subsp. vulnerata Ahti (subsp. nova; type from Alaska). The other infraspecific taxa recognized include C. cornuta subsp. groenlandica (E. Dahl) Ahti (comb. nova) and C. ecmocyna subsp. intermedia (Robbins) Ahti (comb. nova). The antarctic C. propagulifera (Vainio) Dodge is included in C. gracilis subsp. gracilis (s. lat.). The name C. elongata (Jacq.) Hoffm., widely misapplied in the Northern Hemisphere, is here restricted to a South American taxon. The frequently used C. gracilis var. dilatata (Hoffm.) Vainio, a name of uncertain application, is replaced by subsp. turbinata (Ach.) Ahti. Among the excluded taxa are C. campbelliana (Vainio) Gyelnik (most published records incorrect) and C. isabellina Vainio, whose status is discussed, and C. cornuta f. subdilatata Asah., which is referred to C. ochrochlora Flrke. C. alinii Trass is reported from Alaska as new to North America. Morphotypes intermediate between certain subspecies of C. gracilis are reported to occur in areas where their ranges overlap. Such a phenomenon, resembling the occurrence of local hybrid swarms in higher plants, has very rarely been reported in lichens. The major secondary substances of each taxon were identified with thinlayer chromatography. Most taxa contain fumarprotocetraric and protocetraric acids, several also have atranorin (often as an accessory constituent). The new substances reported include squamatic acid (accessory) in C. subchordalis and grayanic acid (accessory) in C. isabellina.
23724179|Two species of the genus Cinclidium Sw., C. stygium Sw. and C. subrotundum Lindb., occur in Finland. Their taxonomy, distribution, and ecology are studied.
23728277|The typification of Rubus scissus W.C.R. Watson is corrected. This name is to be applied to R. nessensis Hall subsp. scissoides H.E. Weber nom. inval., and R. scissus auct. is redescribed here as a new species R. ochracanthus H.E. Weber & Sennikov. Three species names earlier published with two types (R. christianseniorum H.E. Weber, R. insulariopsis H.E. Weber, R. stormanicus H.E. Weber) are validated here by type designation.
23727217|Fatty acid (FAs) and RAPD profiles were used to examine phenotypic and genetic relationships among 12 Vicia taxa. All the Vicia taxa were separated based on the presence and composition of 77 different FAs. Eight of the ten decamer primers examined were selected to explore the genetic variation. A total of 156 amplicons in the size range of 1252500 bp were produced by eight different primers from the twelve Vicia taxa. Even though all Vicia species were differentiated by RAPD profiles, three genetically distinct groups were found among the species tested. This is the first study showing that RAPD and FAME analyses are useful methods for differentiation and classification of Vicia and perhaps other plant species and/or taxa as well.
23724259|Vorstehende Abhandlung ist eine auf das pollenanalytische Verfahren begrndete Darstellung der spt- und postglazialen Entwicklung von Vegetation, Flora und Klima im stlichen Nordfinnland, mit einem vergleichenden Blick auf angrenzende Gebiete, im Norden hauptschlich Petsamo und die Kolahalbinsel, im Sden Kuusamo und Hyrynsalmi. Es wurden fnf Hauptperioden der Vegetations- und Klimaentwicklung mit insgesamt acht Zonen, DR2, AL, DR3, PB, BO, AT, SB und SA, im Untersuchungsgebiet unterschieden. Die Zonenbenennungen sind im Sinne einer chronologischen Nomenklatur gebraucht worden, ohne eine Identitt mit den gleichnamigen Klima-perioden vorauszusetzen. Als Ziel hat eine Zoneneinteilung gegolten, in welcher die Perioden den Hauptentwicklungslinien von Klima und Vegetation und die Zonen den innerhalb derselben stattgefundenen geringeren Fluktuationen entsprechen und bei welcher die Grenzen der Zonen und Zonenphasen ausser durch das ganze Gebiet synchron, auch ausserhalb desselben konnektierbar sind. Von den 32 Pollendiagrammen der Untersuchung beziehen sich die Nr. IVIII auf den Sdosten des Untersuchungsgebietes, zuvrderst auf das an Kuusamo grenzende Kirchspiel Salla, die Nr. IXXVII sind aus dessen zu Perpohjola gehrendem Sdteil und die Nr. XVIII-XXXII schliesslich aus dessen Nordteil, aus dem sdlich der Fjeldgruppe Nattastuntunturit beginnenden Waldlappland. Weil die Zoneneinteilung sowohl auf die BP- als auch auf die NBP-Flora aufgebaut wurde, hat sie Diagramm fr Diagramm ziemlich eingehend motiviert werden mssen. Durch mglichst eingehende Analyse des NBP-Bestandes und Bercksichtigung auch der geringsten regelmssig vorkommenden Schwankungen im BP-Bestand hat gefunden werden knnen, welche Zonen und Zonenphasen lediglich lokale, nur in einem Teil des Untersuchungsgebietes stattgefundene Vernderungen reprsentieren, welche wiederum gebietsumfassend sind und eine weitgreifendere klimatische Entwicklung indizieren. Ebenso hat sich feststellen lassen, dass gewisse BP-Horizonte, trotzdem sie zeitlich zusammenfallen, in Wirklichkeit gar nicht allein die Vernderungen der Waldvegetation im Untersuchungsgebiet angeben, sondern vorwiegend Spiegelungen einer anderwrts stattgefundenen Entwicklung darstellen. Solche Horizonte sind die Grenzen DR2/AL, AL/DR3, PB/BO und BO1/BO2, in Waldlappland dazu noch SB/SA. In ihnen kommen die radikalen Vernderungen der Waldvegetation ausserhalb des Untersuchungsgebietes zum Vorschein: der Vormarsch der polaren Waldgrenze whrend des Allerds und ihr darauffolgender Rckzug, das Ausklingen der prborealen Birkenzeit, die Verhufigung der Kiefer in Sdfinnland und die Hufigkeitszunahme der Fichte in den sdlichen Teilen des Untersuchungsgebietes im Beginn des Subatlantikums. Die gleichzeitigen Vernderungen in der Vegetation des Untersuchungsgebietes ussern sich nur im Wechsel der NBP-Flora. Die Anzahl der ausgefhrten C14-Datierungen betrgt 18. Durch ihre Konzentrierung auf nur einige wenige Probenserien hat man zu ausfhrlicher datierten Normaldiagrammen kommen wollen. Solche gibt es aus dem Sdteil des Untersuchungsgebietes zwei (Nr. IV und VI), von seiner Nordgrenze eines (Nr. XXX) und von den Fjelden zwei (Nr. XX und XXV). Die im Buche mitgeteilten Angaben ber das sptquartre Vorkommen von insgesamt 94 Pflanzenarten, -gattungen oder -familien im Untersuchungsgebiet grnden sich hauptsschlich auf Bestimmungen der Sporen und Pollen. Fr die Hauptholzarten (Fichte, Kiefer, Erle, Birke) sind erluternde Tabellen beigegeben. Es ergibt sich, dass die postglaziale Verhufigung der Fichte im Untersuchungsgebiet einen deutlich metachronen Vorgang darstellt. Der Verhufigung in Salla entspricht annhernd das erste Erscheinen in Waldlappland. Was die Kiefer betrifft, so erscheint es auf Grund der Makrofossilfunde wahrscheinlich, dass dieser Baum schon whrend des Allerds in Virtaniemi in der Ostecke von Waldlappland vorgekommen sein kann. Die im Untersuchungsgebiet unterschiedenen fnf Perioden der Vegetations- und Klimageschichte geben ein Durchschnittsbild von der Entwicklung, wie sie sich von den Zustnden der arktischen Tundra ber das atlantische Optimum und die darauffolgende Klimadepression bis zur Jetztzeit vollzogen hat. Diese Entwicklung lsst sich in ihren Hauptzgen folgendermassen charakterisieren.
23725212|Platygyrium ussuriense Dix. & Laz., described from the Soviet Far East, is conspecific with Hondaella brachytheciella (Broth. & Par.) Ando (syn. nov.), which has not been recorded previously for the U.S.S.R. The species of Okamuraea occurring in the Soviet Far East are O. brachydictyon (Card.) Nog. and O. hakoniensis (Mitt.) Broth. (= O. filipendula Dix. ex Laz., syn. nov.).
23726763|We present a list of 35 taxa collected in the Peninsula of Baja California. Fourteen of them are new records for Mexico: Comatricha ellae, Craterium obovatum var. dictyosporum, Diderma subincarnatum, Didymium bahiense, D. dubium, D. laxifilum, D. sturgisii, D. trachysporum, Echinostelium colliculosum, Physarum auriscalpium, P. lateritium, P. lividum, Protophysarum phloiogenum and Trichia contorta. Twenty species are new records for the peninsula of Baja California: Badhamia affinis, B. macrocarpa, B. panicea, Comatricha laxa, C. nigra, Cribraria intricata, C. purpurea, C. violacea, Didymium megalosporum, D. melanospermum, D. minus, Echinostelium arboreum, E. minutum, Lamproderma scintillans, Licea kleistobolus, Lycogala epidendrum, L. flavofuscum, Physarum cinereum, P. leucophaeum and P. pusillum. SEM micrographs of the taxa are presented.
23726187|Eight species of Cladonia Hill ex Browne sect. Cocciferae (Delise) Dahl occur in Melanesia. Cladonia macilenta Hoffm., C. pseudodigitata Gyeln., C. vulcani Savicz, C. weymouthii F. Wilson ex A. W. Archer and C. yunnana (Vainio) des Abb. are reported for the first time from the area. The taxonomic problems with C. bacillaris Nyl., C. didyma (Fe) Vainio, C. floerkeana (Fr.) Flrke, as well as some Hawaiian species are discussed. C. applanata Rs. and C. esorediata (Asah.) Yoshim. are reduced to synonyms with C. pseudodigitata Gyeln., and C. fauriei des Abb. with C. kauaiensis G. K. Merrill ex H. Magn. & Zahlbr. The lectotype for C. didyma var. vulcanica (Zoll. & Moritzi) Vainio is selected. A key to the species is presented and the major phenolic compounds of each taxon are reported.
23725302|Wide chemical variation was shown by Parmelia omphalodes (L.) Ach., especially when minor and accessory phenolic compounds were included. Three subspecies are recognized within P. omphalodes, viz. subsp. omphalodes, subsp. pinnatifida (Kurok.) Skult, comb. nova, and subsp. discordans (Nyl.) Skult, comb. nova. A fourth subspecies may possibly be separated in the arctic regions. Although the subspecies are usually clearly distinguishable, in certain areas where their ranges overlap specimens can be found which are intermediate in chemistry and/or morphology. The populations of P. omphalodes in the southwest of Finland are particularly variable, since all three subspecies meet in that region. The distribution of each subspecies in Eastern Fennoscandia is mapped.
23726274|Diversity of the calcicolous lichen flora and grazing damage to lichens were recorded on 12 limestone walls in the grassland Great Alvar on the Baltic island of land, southeastern Sweden. Grazing damage of lichens was compared with the abundance of potential lichen herbivores (land snails and oribatid mites). A total of 52 lichen species, 2 lichen parasites, one alga, 2 bryophytes, one vascular plant (Sedum acre) and cyanobacteria, most of them belonging to the family Chroococcaceae, were found on the upper layer of the stone walls. The number of lichen species encountered on single stone walls ranged from 21 to 33. Between-wall differences in species richness were not due to differences in sampling effort. Similarity coefficients of species composition showed a high similarity of the lichen communities between stone walls. Aspicilia calcarea was the dominant lichen which covered on average 66.1% of the upper surface of the stone walls (range among stone walls: 11.989.8%). Grazing damage was recorded in 33 (63.5%) of the 52 lichen species. In general, lichen species that occurred frequently were more severely damaged than rare lichen species, although 5 frequent species showed no grazing damage at all. Six species of land snails and oribatid mites were encountered on the stone walls. Two of the snail species (Chondrina clienta and Balea perversa, both known as lichen feeders) were abundant on some stone walls. The proportion of lichen species that showed grazing damage was not influenced by the presence/absence (and density) of either snail species or mites except that the level of grazing damage in the dominant lichen species A. calcarea was correlated with the local population density of B. perversa.
23724592|The present paper deals with the history of an old raised bog, Varrassuo, in South Finland. By means of pollen, peat and rhizopod analyses the author has established that the raised bog phase originated at latest in the beginning of the Atlantic period. Sphagnum rubellum and S. magellanicum with Scheuchzeria palustris and Trichophorum caespitosum were very common plants in the initial ombrotrophic vegetation. This had been preceded by rather oligotrophic fen, probably primarily forming in shallow water pools already in early Pre-boreal time. During the development of the bog there was an alternation of drier and wetter phases in the manner described in the preceding section. The present material provides no answer to the question to what extent the stratigraphy of the Varrassuo bog and the changes in its development were determined by climate. However, attention is drawn to the increasing moisture of the bog or at least the rapid growth of Sphagnum peat at the beginning of the Sub-boreal period. In my opinion these phenomena are best attributed to the higher humidity caused by cooling of the climate.
23726259|I studied the seed bank and emergent flora of ballast areas in Reposaari, SW Finland (6130N, 2128E). Altogether 2 180 seedlings germinated from 104 samples (depth mean = 9.2 cm) making 11 205 seeds per 1 m2 area. 26.5% of the seedlings were monocots and 73.5% were dicots. I identified 70 taxa in the seed bank. The most common species were Potentilla argntea L., Tanacetum vulgare L., Poa trivialis L., Festuca rubra L., Agrostis capillaris L. and Poa pratensis L. Of all germinated seeds 25.3% were annuals or biennials and 62.7% were perennials (the rest not recognized to species level). Sixty-nine individuals of 9 ballast species germinated from seed bank samples: Artemisia absinthium L., Astragalus glycophyllus L., Carum carvi L., Cirsium arvense (L.) Scop, ssp. arvense, Lamium album L., Medicago lupulina L., Melilotus alba Medicus, M. altissima Thuill. and Senecio jacobaea L. This accounted for 13.2% of the species in the seed bank, but only 3.2% of all germinated seedlings. In the emergent flora of the study sites I found 134 vascular plant species, of which 30 were ballast species. The emergent flora and seed bank shared 49 taxa: 10 monocots, 38 dicots (of which 3 were trees or bushes) and one pteridophyte. The emergent flora was richer in ballast species than the seed bank (22.4% vs 13.2%). The number of seeds in the seed bank decreased with depth and after cold treatment. The densest and richest seed bank was encountered in sand and the sparsest and poorest in fine sand. The amount of stones was positively correlated with the number of germinating seedlings and species. A thick organic layer seemed to diminish the number of viable seeds.
43922210|The treatment of the family Lycopodiaceae as it will appear in the forthcoming Flora Nordica is discussed. Huperzia selago, Lycopodium annotinum and L. clavatum, Diphasiastrum complanatum, D. tristachyum and D. zeilleri exhibit wide morphological variation and sharp distinctions between the extreme forms cannot be made; a large number of intermediate populations bind the extremes together. To some degree, the morphological variation is caused by ecological, modificative and/or ecotypical factors. The populations are nevertheless formed by clones, varying in age from very young to hundreds of years. In addition, vegetative reproduction of the clones is effective. Modern treatments confirm the role of hybridization in Lycopodiaceae. Fertilization may take place between archegonia and antheridia of a single prothallium, two prothallia of the same taxon or the prothallia of two different taxa; also self-sterility may occur. Spores of the assumed hybrids in Finland are only partly abortive and thus the possibility of introgression cannot be excluded, until it has shown not to be present. The effective distribution of spores by wind is an additional factor to add to the confusion. The distribution of the taxa is explained by the clonal structure of the species, the age of clones, the effective vegetative reproduction and the effective distribution of the spores. Some geographical distinction is apparent, however. Eight species in four genera are recognized for the Flora Nordica. The northern races of four of the species are treated at subspecific level.  Flora Nordica notes no 13.
23726846|Astragalus hamzae E. Hamzaolu from Central Anatolia (Krkkale-Turkey) is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It belongs in the section Caprini DC. and is related to A. pinetorum Boiss., from which it mainly differs in its very big legumes.
23726934|A new species, Scapania koponenii Potemkin, belonging to the subgenus Scapania (Dumort.) Dumort. sectio Ciliatae Grolle, is described on the basis of plants previously ascribed to SE Asian phenotypes of S. aspera M.&H. Bernet. Diagnostic characters and infrageneric position of S. koponenii are discussed and the species is illustrated in line drawings.
23727653|The general aims of the current study were to develop a classification of the plant communities of the watercourses connected with the three west-Estonian drainage basins: the Moonsund Sea, the Gulf of Riga and Saaremaa Island, to distinguish the main ecological variables which determine the occurrence of the dominating species and discriminate between the community types, and to establish a classification of the river reaches (habitats) and to identify the parameters distinguishing them. The data were clustered into 24 vegetation types of which 19 were dominated by vascular plant species, five clusters included communities of macroalgae and mosses. Distribution of communities of certain types is different in three drainage basins. Riverbed substrate, total N, NO3-N and O2 content in water proved to be the variables separating the clusters most reliably. The main environmental parameters affecting the occurrence of dominating species in the watercourses of western Estonia were bottom substrate, content of O2 and NH4-N, and N/P ratio in water. Of these parameters only NH4-N content appears to be important for all rivers across the country. The river reaches clustered into four habitat types and they were significantly separated by the prevailing bed-forming material and by water turbidity. Cross tabulation of the vegetation types and habitat types demonstrates that different type plant communities can grow in almost every habitat type; at the same time, there was not any community type exclusively bound to one habitat type. Considering the wide ecological amplitude, large geographical distribution and high phenotypic plasticity of hydrophytes, it seems rather doubtful to develop, at least for European oligo-mesotrophic to meso-eutrophic lowland watercourses, some reliable sample or system of indicator species rendering evaluation of general water parameters or habitat characteristics.
23726582|Meesia triquetra (Richter) ngstr. is the only species of the family Meesiaceae occurring in Western Melanesia and New Guinea. Two collections are from high elevation wetland areas, where the plant presumably has a similar habitat ecology on wet soils as in its northern localities. Documented list of boreal to temperate northern hemisphere bryophyte species having disjunct occurrences in New Guinea, list of bipolar species, and list of widely distributed species are presented. Most of disjunct species and bipolar species are either plants of high elevation open and rocky habitats or wetland habitats such as shore meadows or bogs in New Guinea. Widely distributed species occur either in habitats created by man's activities, or are plants of open or shaded rocky habitats, preferably cliffs.
23728174|Using 76 presence-only data, altitude, percent tree cover and 11 bioclimatic variables, we modeled the geographical distribution of Macromitrium japonicum in China with an aid of a maximum entropy algorithm modeling program (MaxEnt). We found habitats suitable for M. japonicum in the major mountains in southeastern, southern, and southwestern China, and also in the Changbai Mountains, Taihang Mountains, Yanshan Mountains, Tainwan and Hainan Island. With increasing percent of tree cover, mean temperatures in the driest quarter, the warmest quarter and the coldest quarter, and with decreasing annual temperature range and mean diurnal temperature range, habitat suitability for M. japonicum increases. The MaxEnt model also indicated that areas with precipitation of the wettest month being 300 mm, and precipitation of the warmest quarter being 500600 mm are favourable for M. japonicum. It also favours lower altitudes (01000 m a.s.l.), while with increasing altitude (from 1000 to 6000 m a.s.l.), habitat suitability decreases. Habitat suitability for M. japonicum firstly increases rapidly with increasing precipitation in the driest month and the coldest quarter at lower altitudes, and then slightly increases after the factors exceed a certain threshold value.
23727220|Ordination is a widely used method in describing main relationships of multidimensional data. Properties of different ordination techniques have mostly been tested with simulated data. Although simulations provide valuable information about the behaviour of different methods, they are likely to be too simplistic to be able to completely predict the outcome with real data. We used post-fire vegetation succession data to compare four commonly used ordination techniques: CA (correspondence analysis), DCA (detrended correspondence analysis), PCoA (principal coordinates analysis), and NMDS (non-metric multidimensional scaling). Fire intensity was used as a method-independent criterion for comparing the performance of the different methods. Solutions produced by these methods were compared using Procrustean analysis. According to our results, the compared ordination techniques presented different aspects of the multidimensional species space. In general, metric scaling methods, particularly CA and DCA, were far better in reflecting the main gradient in numerical terms, as compared with NMDS. In contrast, non-metric scaling out-performed metric scaling in graphical terms. We conclude that none of the compared methods is perfect in reflecting a complex vegetation gradient. Also, the difference in their abilities makes it difficult to point out the most suitable method for our data.
23727787|Fritillaria mughlae M. Teken and Ayta sp. nova (Liliaceae) is described from Turkey and illustrated. It is related to F. forbesii, from which it mainly differs in the shape of the leaves, petal colours and divided style. In addition seed and pollen micromorphology and karyotype of F. mughlae and F. forbesii were studied.
23726873|Chaenotheca trichialis and C. xyloxena have been characterized by differences in their morphology, anatomy and ecology. They are, however, often difficult to distinguish. In a molecular phylogeny based on ITS1-5.8S-ITS2 rDNA sequences the specimens of C. xyloxena but not those of C. trichialis formed a monophyletic group. To some extent the analysis also revealed regional groupings.
23725330|The Tanzanian endemic Porotrichum usagarum Mitt. [Pinnatella usagara (Mitt.) Broth.] (Neckeraceae, Musci) was not treated in a previous revision of the African species of the genus Porotrichum (Brid.) Hampe. The species is lectotypified, described and illustrated, and the reasons for its exclusion from Pinnatella Fleisch. are presented. Regarding the growth pattern in the Neckeraceae, it is emphasized that the terms "stolons" and "stems" should be employed instead of the often-used terms "primary stems" and "secondary stems".
23727667|It is demonstrated that Hieracium banaticola Sudre, published as a new name for H. oreades Heuff., is illegitimate. The correct names are H. heuffelii Janka and Pilosella petraea F.W. Schultz & Schultz-Bip. Both names are lectotypified.
23725369|A new species, Taraxacum castellanum Sonck, sp. nova (Cichoriaceae), was found in the limestone area below Castle Hill at Canterbury, New Zealand, South Island.
23727236|A checklist of the Marantaceae of Equatorial Guinea, comprising eleven genera and twenty-six species, is presented. The best represented genus is Marantochloa, with eight species. In addition, bibliographic references for Marantaceae from Equatorial Guinea are gathered and checked. Eight species of Marantaceae are vouched for the first time from the country.
23726606|A new species, Alchemilla trabzonica Hayirliolu-Ayaz & Beyazolu (Rosaceae) is described for the Turkish flora. The chief characters of A. trabzonica are appressed-hairy stems and petioles, pedicels appressed-hairy throughout, epicalyx lobes sparsely hairy and sinus open.
23727172|Cosmarium taxillus was recently described from Finnish Lapland. We found the species in another similar locality. Our material displays a wider morphological variation, especially towards larger dimensions, than described in the protologue. The morphology of a developing zygospore with the attached parental semicells is illustrated. Cosmarium bioculatum var. subhians is combined into C. taxillus as Cosmarium taxillus var. subhians.
23725336|The genus Chorisodontium (Mitt.) Broth. in southern South America is revised. Five species are present in the area, C. aciphyllum (Hook. f. & Wils.) Broth., C. dicranellatum (C. Mll.) Broth., C. luridum Bartr., C. magellanicum (Card.) Bartr. and C. spegazzinii (C. Mll.) Roiv. For each species a brief description and diagnosis are given, the distribution is outlined and the ecology discussed. A key to the species in southern South America is given. The type specimens are indicated and the nomenclature discussed. The lectotype is selected for C. sphagneticola Roiv. (= Chorisodontium aciphyllum). Six names are given as new synonyms. A provisional cladistic analysis of the whole genus is presented.
23726869|Two new species of Centaurea L. (Asteraceae) from Turkey are described and illustrated. Centaurea cankiriense A. Duran & H. Duman (sect. Cheirolepis (Boiss.) O. Hoffm.) is restricted to the steppes of Dumanl Da (A4: Atkaracalar-ankr). Centaurea antalyense H. Duman & A. Duran (sect. Phalolepis (Cass.) DC.) occurs in forest and macchia in the south of Akseki district (C3: Antalya).
23726168|Seventy one species of Hepatics are given for Frieda River area of East and West Sepik provinces of Papua New Guinea in this paper. Mastigophora sepikiana Piippo, Schistochila undulatifolia Piippo and Schistochila section Undulatae Piippo are described. Heteroscyphus baduinus (Nees) Schiffn., Metahygrobiella mollusca (De Not.) Schust., Saccogynidium goebelii (Herz.) Grolle and Telaranea trichocoleoides (Herz.) Schust. are newly recorded for Western Melanesia. Anastrophyllum borneense Herz., Frullania integristipula (Nees) Nees and Schistochila acuminata Steph. are new for Papua New Guinea. Hepatic flora of Frieda River area differs greatly from that of the Huon Peninsula (Morobe Prov.). Many families and genera present on the Huon are lacking in Frieda River. Species composition of the areas are also different.
23725053|Tayloria pichinchensis C. Mll. described from Ecuador, is conspecific with Brachymenium speciosum (Hook. & Wils.) Steere (Bryaceae).
23726315|Species of wood-rotting fungi succeed each other during the decomposition of a tree trunk; details of this succession vary from tree to tree. Besides the general pathways of fungal decomposition, another and stricter kind of succession exists. Over twenty species of fungi, mostly polypores, were found to inhabit such trees which were previously decayed by certain other species. The successor emerges only after the preceding fungus has died, and often fruits on dead basidiocarps of the previous one. Most predecessors occupy large volumes of the trunk. Fomes fomentarius (L.: Fr.) Fr., Fomitopsis pinicola (Sw.: Fr.) P. Karsten, Hymenochaete tabacina (Sowerby: Fr.) Lv., and species of Inonotus P. Karsten and Trichaptum Murr. serve frequently as preceding species. Certain genera of polypores include exceptionally many species that have this kind of successional preference: Antrodiella Ryvarden & Johansen and its close kin Junghuhnia Corda, as well as Skeletocutis Kotl. & Pouzar and related Piloporia Niemel. Fungi which intimately depend on other species are especially vulnerable and deserve special attention in nature conservation. In most cases they survive in virgin forests only, and seem to be rare also there. Even a slight decrease in the abundancy of the preceding species may drastically suppress the populations of the successor, or cause their disappearance.
23726275|Pycnolejeunea decurrens Steph. and P. fitzgeraldii Steph. are transferred to Cheilolejeunea (Spruce) Schiffn. Pycnolejeunea caldana Steph. and P. faxinensis Gott. ex Steph. are synonymized with Lepidolejeunea eluta (Nees) Schust., and Lejeunea chiapae X-L. He is given as nomen novum for Pycnolejeunea cuspidata Steph. based on examination of the type collections. Complete descriptions and illustrations are provided for two Cheilolejeunea species and one species of Lejeunea Libert.
43922122|Barbilophozia hatcheri (Evans) Loeske var. grandiretis Buch ex Lammes is described and recorded from the U.S.S.R. (Novaya Zemlya, Murmansk Region, and Karelian A.S.S.R.), Finnish Lapland, and Northern Sweden.
43922123|Phytoplankton species composition and biomass in relation to the concentration of pigments were studied in Lovojrvi, a small, but deep, brown water lake, from 25. IV. 1974 to 6. I. 1975. The vigorous blooms of Cyanophyta observed in 1971 did not recur, because the summer was cooler than usual. The mean phytoplankton biomass during the ice-free period was 13.3 g/m in the trophogenic layer. Biomass showed peaks occurring at intervals of one month. The greatest biomass was recorded at the end of May. Diatoms dominated in spring, and Peridinium bipes caused a peak in September. The proportion of chlorophyll a in fresh weight averaged 0.36 % during the ice-free period. The percentage was clearly dependent on the species composition and the season; it was smallest when diatoms dominated, but exceptionally high in the middle of the winter. The proportion of chlorophyll b was highest in summer at the lower boundary of the euphotic zone.
43922197|The little-known species Scapania sphaerifera Buch & Tuomik. is described on the basis of a comparative investigation of the type, and of Siberian materials in which the perianth has been found for the first time. Information is provided on variation, differentiation and ecology of the species. The unique type of gemmae together with the structure of the perianth, character of the marginal leaf teeth and shape of the lobes provide a basis for distinguishing S. sphaerifera as a separate sectio, Sphaeriferae sect. nova.
43922183|Two field experiments exploring plant colonization of bare peat surfaces were conducted at two adjacent peat harvesting sites in Finland, differing markedly in natural rate and pattern of revegetation and in substrate quality. The first experiment examined the effects of light NPK fertilization, liming and watering and the other the effect of tilling of the surface peat layer. The amount of vegetation established was greater in all plots at the site with higher natural rate of revegetation. Fertilization, both alone and in interaction with the site, had significant effects on the biomass and composition of the established vegetation. At both sites, the fertilized plots differed significantly from all other plots in biomass and in species composition of the established vegetation. Epilobium angustifolium was the dominant species in the fertilized plots and almost absent from the unfertilized plots. At the site with higher natural rate of revegetation, the fertilized plots also differed strikingly from the unfertilized plots in quantity of several other species. Liming had no effect on the above-ground biomass of vegetation at the site with the higher natural rate of revegetation, but had a significant effect at the other site. Light watering did not have a major effect on plant colonization at either site. In the first summer, tilling of the uppermost peat layer had no effect on the number of established plants, but at the end of the second growing season, at both sites, a significantly larger number of seedlings had established in the tilled plots.
23728116|Two new species of Gesneriaceae, Paraboea hekouensis Y.M. Shui & W.H. Chen and P. manhaoensis Y.M. Shui & W.H. Chen, are described and illustrated. The former species is similar to P. nutans in possessing a basal leaf rosette, centrally positioned styles and slightly twisted fruits, but differs from it by having a dense golden-brown and long pubescence on the abaxial surface of the leaves, smaller white flowers and two basal staminodes. The latter is similar to P. crassifolia in possessing basal obovate leaves, centrally positioned styles, and a thick matted indumentum on the lower surface of the leaves, but differs by its smaller white flowers, shorter corolla tubes and only slightly twisted fruits. The leaf surface characters and various types of indumentum of the above four species are also observed in detail and discussed. An identification key to the Chinese and Vietnamese species with a rosulate habit in Paraboea is provided.
23726303|Charred cereal remains from the hill of Pahamki in Pahka, Lieto, SW Finland, and dated to the early Viking Age (AD 700900) have been investigated. The macrofossils came from the sooty infill of a ditch surrounding a stone cairn. A sub-sample analysis of the material shows that Hordeum vulgare var. vulgare, four-rowed barley, was the staple crop in the Pahka region during the period in question. Secale cereale was also important, whereas Triticum aestivum s.l., Avena sp. and Pisum sativum were poorly represented in the samples. Both charred and non-charred macrofossils of meadow plants, weeds and ruderals, wetland plants and trees and shrubs were present in modest numbers. The length distribution of the barley grains revealed a considerably larger grain size than that recorded in studies from other contemporary Finnish localities. Probable reasons for this and also the low number of rachis fragments and other cereal components found among the grain, are discussed with special emphasis on the origin of plant remains from crop processing and the possibilities of their carbonization. The remains are apparently of cleaned prime grain grown in the rich clayey soils around Pahamki. The archaeological evidence indicates a possible origin in a cremation burial, but in the light of the macrofossil investigations, the grains may merely have been charred during a fire or in the course of some household activities such as drying or roasting and then deposited later as refuse.
23725225|The use of a constant number of algal units as a counting limit has several disadvantages. The number of fields counted on the floor of the counting chamber will vary from sample to sample with the density of the algae. This leads to variation in the proportion of the total species observed in a sample (1060 %), causes overestimation of the biomasses (2090 %), due to large conversion coefficients, and invalidates comparison of diversity values between samples. Further, diversities should not be calculated from the numbers of 'individuals', because the size of the algae varies greatly between species, and also because the concept of 'individual' is vague. The limits of the maximum error in counting are also examined.
23726202|The essential root oil was studied in 15 populations of Angelica archangelica L. subsp. archangelica cultivated from seed collected in Finland, northern Norway and one locality in Iceland. Root samples were taken from the population in two successive years. The oil content of the roots varied considerably between the two years, but the oil composition changed little within the populations. The main components of the oil were -phellandrene and -pinene. The Icelandic population differed from the Fennoscandian ones in the very high proportion of -pinene. In Fennoscandia, the pattern of geographical variation shown by the terpenoids is similar to the pattern found in the morphological characters. The Somerniemi population from southern Finland differed notably from the northern populations, having myrcene as the main component of its oil. Among the samples originating from northern Finland and Norway, those from the latitudinally peripheral populations of Kemi Lapland and Norway appeared to be the most strongly differentiated. The populations of Kemi Lepland usually had relatively high concentrations of sabinene, whereas the Norwegian ones had low p-cymene and myrcene contents. A clear cline was found in the 3-carene concentrations, which changed from a low value in the south to a high one in the north. Angelica archangelica is a prospective crop plant in Finland and the strains to be cultivated should be selected carefully on the basis of the essential oil composition.
23727753|The current heavy browsing pressure by moose (Alces alces) affects and even prevents the regeneration of deciduous species in Fennoscandia. We studied the current establishment status of Populus tremula and other deciduous species in managed regeneration stands in a moose winter-foraging area in southern Finland. The regeneration of P. tremula was more abundant in height classes 40100 cm. There was a lag in stem density for height class 20 cm and there were no P. tremula saplings taller than two meters. The majority of living P. tremula regeneration was healthy, despite the fact that many stems had been browsed repeatedly, particularly in stands with greater sapling densities. The majority of Sorbus aucuparia and Salix spp. stems were also healthy despite recurrent browsing in all stands, and their density decreased sharply for saplings taller than 100 cm. Betula pendula and Betula pubescens were the most abundant of the studied species. They had less bites per stem and a very high proportion of them were healthy. Due to the high moose population density in the study area, the successful recruitment of mature stems of P. tremula, Salix spp., and S. aucuparia in the landscape is uncertain. The situation of Betula spp. is less problematic, due to its greater density.
23726954|Three new species, i.e. Hieracium evae T. Tyler, Hieracium jonsbergense T. Tyler, Hieracium subnitidum Dahlst. ex T. Tyler, and one variety, i.e. H. ravidum Brenn. var. exaltifrons T. Tyler var. nov. are described. Hieracium myrtillinum (Johanss. ex Dahlst.) T. Tyler comb. nova is proposed. All are based on material collected in the SE Swedish provinces Gotland and stergtland.
23726965|Intergeneric hybrids Vriesea splendens  Tillandsia cyanea and V. splendens  Guzmania lingulata within the subfamily Tillandsioideae of Bromeliaceae were studied. Multivariate analysis of flower morphology and leaf and bract color place the intergeneric hybrids in relation to their parents, although the bract color resembled more that of the paternal parent. Other characteristics such as petal color and offshoot formation were not intermediate. Important flower characteristics for bromeliad taxonomy such as stigma type, petal appendages and pollen are discussed in relation to their parents. Pollen of the intergeneric hybrids was completely sterile.
23727240|Inula persica F. Ghahremani. & Narimisa sp. nova (Asteraceae: Inuleae) from Kerman province in central Iran is described and illustrated. The species appears to be closely related to I. acuminata, with which it is compared.
23728000|Four species of Allium from northwest Iran are described as new: Allium alamutense Razyfard, Zarre & R.M. Fritsch, A. kurdistanicum Maroofi & R.M. Fritsch, A. subakaka Razyfard & Zarre, and A. mahneshanense Razyfard, Zarre & R.M. Fritsch. A detailed description for each species, a table including the diagnostic morphological characters useful in separating these species from their relatives, images of type material and illustrations of flower parts as well as distribution maps are provided.
23726872|Plantago benisnassenii Romo, Stbing & Peris sp. nova (Plantaginaceae) of the section Hymenopsyllium Pilger is described from Morocco and compared with related species of the section. An identification key to the species of sect. Hymenopsyllium is provided.
23727869|The Periodic Acid-Schiff (PAS) reaction was used to test for the presence of starch, and Sudan black was applied to detect neutral lipids (lipid drops) during anther development in Ipomoea cairica. Starch was observed in sporogenous and anther wall cells. Prior to meiosis in microspore mother cells (MMCs), starch was not evident, although small lipid drops appeared. A substantial amount of starch accumulated in the epidermal and endothecium cells, but starch and lipid drops were not identified in the tapetum. At the tetrad stage, starch appeared in microspores, and the amount of starch remained constant in anther cells. Early in the microspore stage, the tapetum degenerated, starch remained in the microspores, and lipid drops were completely lost. A large and conspicuous vacuole was formed in the microspores and lipid drops reformed in the cells at the late microspore stage. Following microspore division, the vegetative cell of bicellular pollen grains was filled with starch and lipid drops, and the inner middle layer degenerated. Finally, at anthesis, lipid drops and starch constituted the stored nutritive material in the mature pollen.
23724164|The chromosome number of Finnish Veronica longifolia was, with one exception, found to be n = 17. This value diverges considerably from the previous counts from outside Finland (mainly n = 34). Only one exception (n = 34) was found in Finnish material from Eastern Finland. The chromosome number of Finnish Veronica spicata was found to be n = 34. There seems to be no clear correlation between the pollen size and ploidy level. The morphological variation of the taxa in question was examined with the help of the areal groups. The characteristics used are shown in Table 4. The samples determined as V. spicata differ from samples identified as V. longifolia in several characteristics. Yet V. longifolia and V. spicata are obviously capable of hybridization with each other, despite the difference in ploidy level. The hybridization seems to be much commoner in the Province of Ahvenanmaa than in Karelia, very likely because of special habitat situations owing to land upheaval in the former area. V. spicata L. var. orchidea (Cr.) does not grow in Finland. V. longifolia var. maritima could not be distinguished from V. longifolia as a clear-cut ecotype. The tetraploid strain of Kuusamo (n = 34) fits the description of V. septentrionalis Boriss.
43922172|The typification of Cyperus alternifolius L. (Cyperaceae) is re-examined, and the prior designation of the lectotype of C. alternifolius is confirmed. Three other names involved are typified, viz. C. arundinaceus L., C. flabelliformis Rottb. and C. involucratus Rottb. The synonymy of C. gradatus Forsk. with C. involucratus is established. Schoenus spathaceus L. is an illegitimate substitute for C. arundinaceus. Three taxa are distinguished: Cyperus alternifolius L. subsp. alternifolius, C. alternifolius L. subsp. flabelliformis (Rottb.) Kiikenth. and Dulichium arundinaceum (L.) Britt. Although C. involucratus has priority at the species level over C. flabelliformis, the combination of the latter with C. alternifolius has priority at the subspecific level.
23727879|Microlepia ravenii S.-J. Moore (Dennstaedtiaceae, Pteridophyta), a new species from northern Vietnam, is described and illustrated. It is morphologically similar to M. marginata and M. hookeriana but differs in having cuneate and not auriculate bases of lower pinnae, cartilaginous and alternatively crenate and denticulate margins of pinnae, and a glabrous undersurface of pinnae.
43922173|The rhythm of vertical growth of Sphagnum fuscum (Sphagnaceae, Musci) in hummocks on the raised bog Laaviosuo, at Lammi in southern Finland, was studied during four years by a nylon strip method. The growth was analysed in relation to time, to accumulated temperature and to the depth of the water table by fitting the growth curves to a logistic equation. The growth of S. fuscum was limited to the time during which the temperature was above zero, but during this period the rate of growth was determined by moisture. The temperature and moisture conditions differed to some extent between the four years and the water table was artificially lowered in the fourth year, when the bog was drained. The results were similar to those of a parallel study of the rate of photosynthesis. The small size and high density of the shoots of S. fuscum give it a superior ability to raise capillary water, which enables it to continue upward growth at a considerable distance from the water table. These characters allow the moss to play a major role in the formation of hummocks on a raised bog.
23726163|Seven 14-C dates for two profiles from Lake Vanajavesi show discrepancies of 10003000 years, the error increasing towards the recent sediments. This is attributed to the presence of older organic material, eroded and redistributed during transgression and regression in the lake basin. Later, human activity also contributed to the erosion. Contamination by older material is difficult to discern on the basis of the pollen spectra alone; the main evidence in the pollen diagram is the remarkably low proportion of nonarboreal pollen, in spite of the presence of indicators of agriculture, and the occurrence of pollen of mixed oak forest throughout the Subatlantic chronozone, without diminution in quantity or species range. Diagrams published earlier are used to make comparisons between peat profiles from nearby shores and gyttja profiles from the Vanajavesi-Lehijrvi basin.
23728095|We designate lectotypes for Statice canescens Host [= Armeria canescens (Host) Ebel] and A. majellensis Boiss. (Plumbaginaceae), selected from the original material stored at the Herbarium of Naturhistorische Museum in Wien (W) and at the Herbarium of the Conservatoire et Jardin Botaniques de la Ville de Genve (G), respectively.
23727976|Aspidistra bamaensis C.R. Lin, Y.Y. Liang & Yan Liu sp. nova (Ruscaceae) is described and illustrated as a new species from Guangxi Zhuangzu Autonomous Region of southern China.
23728209|In fire-prone environments, studying the variability of regeneration traits is important to show the potential of plant species to survive under consecutive post-fire and fire-free conditions. We studied the relationship between seed size and germination patterns in Cistus salviifolius (Cistaceae), which is a fire-follower species distributed throughout the Mediterranean Basin. Since fire plays an important role in the life cycle of the studied species, we made a germination experiment that included a heat-shock treatment (to simulate fire) and a control without a heat-shock (to simulate fire-free conditions) using seeds collected from individual plants to assess within-population germination responses to fire. Seed germination of most of the individuals was stimulated by heat-shock, but the germination characteristics showed substantial variation among individuals within the population. Mean seed mass (i.e. seed size) was positively correlated with germination percentage in the heat treatment, but no correlation was found between seed mass and germination percentage in the control. On the other hand, mean seed mass was negatively correlated with seed mortality both in the heat-shock treatment and in the control. The results show that even if the response of the majority of the individuals in the population follows the population-level germination response of the species, a significant variability in germination actually exists within this population (among individuals). Individuals with larger seeds may be favored in post-fire conditions, while seed size is unimportant in fire-free conditions. Together with the positive selective pressure of seed predation over small-seeded individuals, fire shapes the within-population variability of the regeneration traits such as seed size and post-fire germination in C. salviifolius. This variability might have evolved as a bet-hedging strategy against unpredictable conditions in the Mediterranean environment, especially the occurrence of fire and fire-free periods.
23725628|The infrageneric taxa published by Erik Acharius (17571819) and placed by him in Caliciales number 81. The main Acharian herbarium is located in Helsinki (H-ACH), but substantial collections are also housed in London (BM) and Uppsala (UPS), and scattered collections are found in several other herbaria. The main Acharian collections have been studied in connection with a revision of the Caliciales. The aim has been to investigate the application of the Acharian names and when possible to typify them, to establish obligate synonyms and to suggest taxonomic synonyms. One new combination is proposed: Caliciopsis ventricosa (Ach.) Tibell. Eighteen species names with Acharian basionyms are recognized taxonomically in the Caliciales, including a few whose use has previously been limited, such as Calicium lenticulare Ach. and Chaenothecopsis pusiola (Ach.) Vain. Several holotypes are identified and 17 lectotypes are designated. Two neotypes are proposed. Twelve of the names are considered to be nomenclaturally superfluous and new synonymizations are made. Eleven of the taxa included by Acharius in the Caliciales do not belong there and 10 names could not be clarified.
23726485|Two new species of Plagiochila are described from Yunnan, China: P. kunmingensis Piippo and P. yulungensis Piippo. Their taxonomic characters and related species are discussed.
23728131|The Baetic ranges in the Iberian Peninsula are extremely rich and outstanding in biological terms. Based on the existing literature, herbarium sheets and our own field research, we provide a checklist of the endemic flora growing in the Baetic chorological province. The checklist includes 418 taxa belonging to 43 families, with the species pool concentrated within large families. The highest number of endemic species is recorded in the altitudinal range of 13001500 m a.s.l. Hemicryptophytes represent the most frequent life form (45.5%). Conservation priorities should concentrate on non-woody life forms (particularly on hemicryptophytes), and on high mountain areas. Most of the taxa can be ascribed to serial shrublands (36.87%), or rock- or scree-dwelling formations (26.25%), with climactic forest formations playing a minor role (3.24%). This successional position has important implications for conservation programmes. Therefore, a clear distinction should be made between serial or plagioclimactic formations (e.g. dolomite thyme-scrub communities) and degraded communities of little interest for the preservation of biodiversity (e.g. synanthropic vegetation). Astragalus nevadensis subsp. andresmolinae (Dez-Garretas & Asensi) Mota & F.J. Prez-Garca is proposed as a new combination.
23726608|On the basis of this study, Pycnolejeunea spinistipula Mizut. is transferred to Leptolejeunea (Spruce) Schiffn., as Leptolejeunea spinistipula (Mizut.) He and Lepidolejeunea queenslandica Thiers is transferred to Rectolejeunea Evans, as Rectolejeunea queenslandica (Thiers) He. Complete descriptions and illustrations are provided.
23727856|Two new species, Microtropis longicarpa Q.W. Lin & Z.X. Zhang and M. daweishanensis Q.W. Lin & Z.X. Zhang, are described and illustrated from Yunnan, China. Both of them resemble Microtropis petelotii in the vegetative characters, and are also partly sympatric in the same forest. However, the three species have different flowering periods, foliar epidermis, structures of flowers and fruits. An identification key to the three species is provided.
23724936|The somatic metaphase chromosomes of Norway spruce were studied in two varieties from Estonia and one from Finland and a comparative analysis was made. At the 99.9 % level no statistically significant differences were observed between the chromosome complements of the varieties of the two provenances.
23727713|The patterns of genetic diversity in 14 Cypripedium calceolus populations were investigated in two distant regions, located inside its continuous range (Biebrza valley, NE Poland) and close to the periphery of its range (Alps, SE France). The genetic variation at the species level was found to be relatively high (P% = 37.5%, Ho = 0.145) as compared with that observed in other endangered or rare species. The mean genetic diversity for both European regions did not differ significantly, except for P% (42.5% for Biebrza valley, 34.1% for Alps, p < 0.001). The Biebrza valley yielded almost twice as many genotypes, but genotypic diversity (as measured by G/N and /N) was higher in populations from the Alps. This could mean that asexual reproduction is more intense in populations in the Biebrza valley than in the Alps. The results from PCA, UPGMA and AMOVA analyses showed clear genetic differences in C. calceolus between the two European regions. The Mantel test showed positive and significant associations between genetic and geographic distances among populations situated in the Biebrza valley (r2 = 0.37, p < 0.05), but not among the Alpine populations (r2 = -0.25, p > 0.05). Our data showed that substantial loss of genetic diversity in C. calceolus most likely occurs rather at the population than at the species level.
23726444|The structure of an isolated population of Armeria maritima subsp. intermedia (Marsson) Nordh. (previously identified as subsp. maritima) was studied in the communes of Hamina and Vehkalahti in SE Finland. In addition to field studies, some experimental data on seed germination and seedling growth were gathered in the laboratory. In the field surveys carried out in 1987 and 1988, a total of 10 separate populations were found along the shores of the Gulf of Finland. Some of these comprised only a few individuals, whereas the largest population, with thousands of individuals, occupied an area 170 m long and 230 m wide. The origin of the local populations in Hamina and Vehkalahti is not completely clear; the species has probably immigrated in the ballast sand of sailing ships. Laboratory experiments corroborated field observations on the sensitivity of Armeria maritima (Miller) Willd. to shading. Both growth and flowering were affected by decreasing levels of irradiance. Thus, the species requires either naturally open or managed sites to survive. It deserves some protection, since it reaches the NE limit of its distribution in Finland.
23726854|We used a case study (Hirvisuo mire complex, southern aapa mire zone, Finland) to describe a new morphological classification for aapa mires and used as a basis the broad, vegetation-based ecological aapa-mire concept. It deviates from the narrow morphological aapa-mire concept referring solely to patterned fens. Three scales (micro, meso and macro) were applied for the morphology. The important meso scale included eight different units. Units were delineated on aerial photographs. Macro scale included the whole complex and its bisection to central and peripheral aapa-mire areas according to the horizontal water flow pattern within the whole complex. Stability of water regime was mainly inferred from vegetation on the basis of previous literature about the ecology of mire site types and other vegetation units described in Finland and Sweden. Groundwater recharge-discharge pattern was also mainly inferred from mire vegetation supported by previous, sporadic groundwater level measurements in the mineral soil formation south of the study area. For the importance of understanding the whole geo-hydro-ecologic system as a unit, the landscape level is stressed.
23727813|Oaks (Quercus robur) can reach a considerable age, which makes them an important substrate for many epiphytic lichens, including several red-listed species. We studied the importance of tree size and other environmental factors for the occurrence of six epiphytic lichens at two sites, in southeastern Sweden, differing in quality as judged by tree size distribution and number of old trees. The effects of tree circumference, light availability, trunk inclination and site were analysed. Results showed that different lichen species responded differently to these factors, but, overall, tree size was most important for lichen occurrence. Five species showed a positive relation to tree size, but the 50% probability of occurrence was reached at different tree sizes among these species and there were also site differences. This study shows that the maintenance of old trees is crucial for several lichen species, which highlights the importance of long-term management plans.
23725254|The paper lists 49 species of mosses and two species of hepatics from Heilunkiang Province in Manchuria, China. Most of them were collected by I. V. Kozlov in 19221928, and some of them were reported in a little known paper by Kozlov in 1934. Eight species are recorded for the first time for Manchuria, or their presence there is substantiated. The list includes nomenclatural and taxonomic notes.
23725753|The chlorophyll contents (a, b and total) were measured in leaves of Fagus sylvatica L. growing in a temperate deciduous forest in the Apenninc Research Centre, Lazio, Italy. Samples were collected monthly, during the growing season, within the tree crown. Leaf dry weight, leaf area and leaf age were measured, and macroclimatic and microclimatic measurements were made. The data were subjected to multiple regression analysis, using the stepwise and all possible subsets methods. Three models were constructed for chlorophyll a, chlorophyll b and total chlorophyll in turn. The second model for chlorophyll a shows a good R value (0.82) and may be easiest to use in the field.
23726857|Afgekia filipes (Dunn) R. Geesink var. tomentosa (Z. Wei) Y.F. Deng & H.N. Qin, comb. nova, is proposed for Whitfordiodendron filipes Dunn var. tomentosum Z. Wei.
43922186|Scanning electron microscopy was used to examine achene epidermis features in species of the taxonomically controversial Carex flava complex (section Ceratocystis) found in Finland. Achene micromorphology reveals a marked intraspecific variation, but also wide overlap in characters between taxa, as well as lack of consistent differences. This is in accordance with the pattern of morphological variation found in the Carex flava complex. The usefulness of achene epidermis characters as a basis for taxonomic decisions varies greatly in the different sections of the Carex genus.
23726113|Three taxa of the genus Chiloscyphus are separated in Europe: Chiloscyphus polyanthos (L.) Corda, C. polyanthos (L.) Corda var. fragilis (A. Roth) K. Mll. and C. polyanthos (L.) Corda var. rivularis (Schrad.) Gottsche et al. C. pallescens (Hoffm.) Dum. is regarded as conspecific with C. polyanthos. The two aquatic varieties of C. polyanthos differ morphologically and ecologically from each other and from var. polyanthos. Var. fragilis has large leaves, as broad as or broader than long, and it grows in still or slow-flowing waters. Var. rivularis, inhabiting swiftly flowing waters, has the leaves longer than wide, spread out regularly and of uniform size throughout the shoot. The leaf cells of var. rivularis are always small, the cell size of the two other taxa is more variable. C. polyanthos var. polyanthos and var. fragilis are common throughout Europe and North America; var. rivularis is mainly restricted to mountainous areas where suitable habitats for it occur.
23727986|Achillea hamzaoglui Arabac & Budak sp. nova (Achillea sect. Santolinoidea), is described from Krehir Province, inner Anatolia, Turkey. It is compared with Achillea sintenisii and A. goniocephala. Diagnostic characters, as well as a full description, a key to related species and figures of new species are provided.
23726317|A new species, Antirrhinum fernandezcasasii Romo, Stbing & Peris (Scrophulariaceae) of the series hispanica Rothm. is described for the Moroccan flora. Its chief distinguishing characters are: glabrous stem or with glandular hairs only, lanceolate leaves ending in a rhombic tip (the lower opposite, the middle alternate and the uppermost alternate or subopposite), bracteate inflorescence, and alternate flowers with a white corolla and yellow palate.
23727705|A new combination, Cephalostachyum pingbianense (Hsueh & Y.M. Yang ex Yi et al.) D.Z. Li & H.Q. Yang, is proposed according to current generic concepts in the subtribe Melocanninae (Poaceae), based on the basionym Schizostachyum pingbianense Hsueh & Y. M. Yang ex Yi et al.
23724205|A description is given of the ecological features of railway yards proper and their storage areas. The sparse railway yard vegetation with many annual species is named Linario  Lepidietum densiflori. The high herb vegetation of the storage areas by the yards is referred to Tanaceto  Artemisietum vulgaris. In trampled places the (Lolium perenne ) Plantago maior association occurs.
23728149|Cohniella lacera (Lindl.) Cetzal comb. nova is proposed here and Cohniella stipitata (Lindl.) Christenson is treated as its taxonomic synonym due to priority. Oncidium stipitatum Lindl. was incorrectly cited by various authors as validly published either in 1843 or 1844, when the correct date was 1846. In the meantime, Oncidium lacerum Lindl., previously considered one of its taxonomic synonyms, was described in 1844 and therefore has nomenclatural priority. I discuss the status and geographical distribution of Cohniella lacera comparing it with the morphologically similar species Cohniella nuda (Bateman ex Lindl.) Christenson. In addition, I include for each species a discussion of diagnostic characters, range of morphological variation, specimen citation, an illustration, and a distribution map. A key to distinguish the two species is also provided.
23724624|The study is based on ca. 2 200 herbarium specimens from 33 herbaria, 34 living population samples grown in the garden and 8 mass collections from nature. The chromosome number was 2n = 24 in all strains studied. On the basis of the analysis of morphological variation, three species of Hippopha are recognized, H. rhamnoides L., H. salicifolia D. Don and H. tibetana Schlecht. H. rhamnoides is divided into nine subspecies, of which ssp. carpatica Rousi, ssp. caucasica Rousi, ssp. gyantsensis Rousi, ssp. mongolica Rousi, ssp. sinensis Rousi, ssp. turkestanica Rousi and ssp. yunnanensis Rousi are described as new. Distribution maps are presented on the basis of the herbarium material examined. The evolution and distributional history of the genus are discussed.
43922146|A new combination, Atriplex prostrata Boucher ex DC. subsp. polonica (Zapa.) Uotila, is made, and the type specimen of Chenopodium serotinum L. is determined as Atriplex cf. tatarica L.
23726310|The taxonomic importance of some lobule characters in the Lejeuneaceae is reviewed and clarified in this paper: (1) The free margin of lobule is defined as the margin between the stem and the distal end of the keel. The number of the cells along the free margin is variable. This is especially true in the genera with distal hyaline papilla, in which the length of the lobule tooth and the number of the cells in the free margin exhibit considerable intraspecific variation. There is no consistent difference in the number of the cells in the free margin between the genera with a proximal hyaline papilla and those with a distal hyaline papilla. (2) This paper emphasizes the use of "the first tooth", "the second tooth" etc. from distal to proximal for describing lobule teeth, in order to avoid confusion. In the Ptychanthoideae the free margin bears 111 distinct lobule teeth, and the number, form and position of the lobule teeth sometimes provide taxonomic criteria in the separation of both genera and species; in the Lejeuneoideae the free margin has no more than two lobule teeth. Often the first tooth or the second tooth is reduced, or sometimes both lobule teeth are obscure. (3) Two positions of the hyaline papilla occur in the Lejeuneaceae: hyaline papilla on the free margin, proximal to the first tooth; or hyaline papilla on the inner side of the lobule, near the proximal base of the first tooth. The species of the Lejeuneaceae in which the hyaline papilla occurs on the inner side of the lobule, usually have more than two lobule teeth; the taxa with 12 lobule teeth usually have a marginal hyaline papilla. Therefore, different positions of the hyaline papilla strongly depend on the appearance of the lobule teeth. The position of the hyaline papilla shows less taxonomic importance than the lobule teeth.
23728146|Malva micans subsp. pallescens (Moris) F. Conti & Bartolucci comb. nova and Malva micans subp. minoricensis (Cambess.) Bartolucci & F. Conti comb. nova are proposed.
23725167|Three genera and six species of Mniaceae occur in New Guinea. The genus Mnium Hedw. is for the first time reported from the Southern Hemisphere (M. lycopodioides Schwaegr., a disjunct from SE Asia). Orthomnion elimbatum (Nog.) T. Kop. and Plagiomnium integrum (Bosch & Sande Lac.) T. Kop. (including P. integrum var. subelimbatum (Dix.) T. Kop. & Norris comb. nova) are common on the Huon Peninsula in the lower montane zone. P. cordatum, T. Kop. & Norris, species nova, occurs mainly in the upper montane zone. P. rostratum (anon.) T. Kop. is rare and disjunct from the Himalayas and S. China. P. succulentum (Mitt.) T. Kop. is in New Guinea represented by a synoicous race and has a limited range. Orthomnion loheri Broth. was not found on the Huon. The paper includes an illustrated key to the genera and species, descriptions, and distributional data for the Mniaceae of Western Melanesia (West Irian, Papua New Guinea and Solomon Islands).
23725503|Campylopodiella crenulata J.-P. Frahm is described. The material is without sporophytes but agrees well with all the other species of Campylopodiella Card. in the structure of the costa and the areolation of the leaf. It resembles most C. malagensis (Herz.) J.-P. Frahm in appearance, but differs from it and all other species of the genus by the crenulate leaf tip and the serrate back of the costa. The type, collected in the Morobe Province of Papua New Guinea, is the only known specimen of this new taxon.
23726305|The structure of epicuticular wax of Norway spruce (Picea abies (L.) Karsten) needles from 12 localities on the Estonian mainland was studied by SEM in 1988. Rapid degradation of tubular wax into flattened plate-like structures was observed in all sites. Even during the first growing season degradation was rapid in three localities, two of which are situated far from the local sources of air pollution. In 1993 epicuticular wax structure was studied in cloned young Norway spruces planted in 10 localities. Despite the different exposure of the study sites to air pollution, the rate of wax degradation from tubular into flattened structures in the sites was similar. However, the degradation speed in naturally growing trees was much slower in 1993 than in 1988. Great variability in wax structure within a sample and even within the same needle was found, despite the genetically identical material used for the analysis.
23725387|The study treats the plant communities of sedge pine mires drained for forestry ca. 25 years previously (60 sites) and those of natural mires (10 sites) of the same site types. The plant communities were analysed in relation to the following environmental variables: the tree stand characteristics, hydrology and nutrient contents of the peat. Canonical correspondence analysis was used to relate the environmental variables to the plant community data. The speciesenvironment relationships are also shown by means of scatter plots. Because of the problem of multicollinearity, the effects of the individual environmental factors could not be studied in detail. It is evident, however, that the post-drainage vegetation succession has been most rapid in the more fertile site types, due to the tree stand development and the higher nutrient levels. In fact, sites drained at about the same time, represent different stages of succession. The results show, however, that the post-drainage plant communities can be used in site classification. The distinction between the site classes is better in the nutrient-rich part of the trophic series.
23724229|Seven Finnish species of the Pyrolaceae have been studied: Pyrola chlorantha, P. rotundifolia P. media, P. minor, Orthilia secunda, Moneses, uniflora, and Chimaphila umbellata, as well as the seed structure of Monotropa hypopitys. The main results of embryological, anatomical and morphological studies are as follows: The embryological characters of the Finnish Pyrolaceae are very uniform and do not give any help in the specific and generic delimitation of the group. The only divergent species is Moneses uniflora, which differs from the others in the much tardier accumulation of tannin in the outer cell layer of the integument, and P. chlorantha, the only species in which binucleate endosperm haustoria have been seen. P. chlorantha can be separated from the other Pyrola species on grounds of leaf anatomy, winter buds not protected by bud scales, and the anatomical structure of the perianth leaves and ovary wall. Seed characters substantiate the validity of this transfer. The seeds of P. chlorantha have a testa with transparent, thin-walled cells, except those immediately adjacent to the endosperm. In all the other Pyrola species studied and in Orthilia the seed coat is beset with porous and sometimes also reticulate thickenings, in Moneses uniflora with reticulate ones. Chimaphila umbellata and Monotropa hypopitys resemble P. chlorantha in this respect. A comparison of the anthers of the various species supports the view that P. chlorantha stands apart from the other Pyrola species examined.
23725153|Ceratophyllum demersum L. is a submerged plant commonly occurring in freshwater in Thailand and in many other countries. Shoots of this plant collected near a caustic soda factory in Thailand contained from 0.67 to 4.62 ppm (mean 1.72 ppm) of mercury (dry weight), while those from the control area had only 0.03 to 0.08 ppm (mean 0.04 ppm) of mercury. Some samples of the plant collected from polluted areas in Finland also had elevated mercury contents, 0.21 to 1.10 ppm as compared with 0.05 ppm in a sample from an unpolluted area. Thus, this plant is suitable as an indicator species for monitoring mercury contamination.
23727848|The genus Actinidia Lindl. was traditionally divided into four sections, Actinidia sect. Strigosae H.L. Li, Actinidia sect. Maculatae Dunn, Actinidia sect. Leiocarpae Dunn, and Actinidia sect. Stellatae H.L. Li. However, A. sect. Maculatae was not published validly, and A. sect. Leiocarpae and A. sect. Stellatae lack types. In the present paper, the autonym, Actinidia sect. Actinidia, is proposed to replace A. sect. Maculatae, and A. sect. Vestitae to replace A. sect. Stellatae. Lectotypes are designated for A. sect. Vestitae and A. sect. Leiocarpae.
23726529|Pycnolejeunea malaccensis Hoffm. and P. renneri Hoffm. are transferred to Cheilolejeunea (Spruce) Schiffn. and placed in subgenus Xenolejeunea Schust. section Meyenianae Thiers. Complete descriptions and illustrations are provided.
23725237|The flowering phenology was studied in bumblebee-pollinated plants in southern Finland (Puumala) and northern Sweden (Abisko). All the plant species which had more than 10 records of bumblebee visits during a summer were included (30 at Puumala, 25 at Abisko). Analysis of pollinator similarity yielded 7 clusters of species at Puumala (28 species in each) and 6 clusters at Abisko (24 species in each). Most of the species pairs having high overlap in pollinators did not show overlap in their flowering period. However, in only a few cases were the observed spacings of flowering peaks among the cluster members wider than could be expected if the timing of flowering was random (in 2 of the 7 clusters at Puumala, and in 3 of the 6 clusters at Abisko). The number of high-overlap species pairs was 12 (expected 22) at Puumala and 8 (expected 15) at Abisko. Possible ways of pollinator partitioning in these plants are discussed.
23727915|The development of vegetation and agriculture on the uplifting coastal areas of northwestern Estonia was studied with palaeobotanical methods. On the basis of the land-uplift curves the dynamics of new land appearance was reconstructed. From these reconstructions, we could better understand the pollen and macrofossil records, though some taxa often interpreted as anthropogenic indicators (Ranunculus, Rumex, Chenopodiaceae) are in this case the indicators of pioneer vegetation. The comparison of historical, archaeological and palaeogeographical data from coastal northwestern Estonia demonstrate that the first strong signals about agricultural activity appear in different sections at different time: about AD 292  55 in the northern area and about AD 1080 in the vicinity of Paslepa village.
23727858|Silene aydosensis K. Yildiz & S. Erik sp. nova (Caryophyllaceae, S. sect. Sclerocalycinae) is described and illustrated from S and SW Anatolia, Turkey. Diagnostic morphological characters for distinction from the similar S. caramanica and S. doganii are given. Distribution of the new and the morphologically similar species are mapped. Ultrastructure of seed and pollen grains of S. aydosensis was examined by SEM.
23726678|A new bracteate species of Crambe (Brassicaceae) from La Gomera, Canary Islands, Spain, is described. The ecological characteristics of its habitat are given and the main morphological features are illustrated in line drawings.
23725090|The diel dynamics of the phytoplanktonic biomass and species composition was studied on samples collected during a 24-hr period, 30.  31. VIII. 1972. The total biomass, and especially the biomass of the dominant motile species, such as Chroomonas acuta and Cryptomonas erosa, showed significant diel variation in vertical distribution, which was evidently related to the active movement of some phytoplanktonic species and to the grazing pressure of herbivorous zooplankton consumers. The diel course of the P/B and 1/R coefficients is also given.
23727687|The nomenclatural issues concerning Juncus supinus Moench var. nigritellus W.D.J. Koch nom. illeg. (non (D. Don) F.W. Schultz) are treated. The name is reduced to a synonym of J. bulbosus L. subsp. kochii (F.W. Schultz) Reichg.
23725451|A simple method for studying nectar sugars is presented. The sugars were dissolved in water directly from the flowers. Reducing sugars were assayed colorimetrically from flower filtrates before and after acid hydrolysis, and the amounts of invert sugar and sucrose per flower were calculated. The method was applied to 41 plant species in southern Finland, and in most cases the results accorded with data obtained by other methods, elsewhere in Europe.
23727253|Chromosome numbers are given for 17 taxa of the genus Hieracium and 4 taxa of the genus Pilosella originating from Romanian Eastern and Southern Carpathians: Hieracium alpinum (2n = 18), H. atratiforme s. lato (2n = 36), H. bifidum s. lato (2n = 27, 36), H. inuloides (2n = 27), H. jankae (2n = 27), H. lachenalii s. lato (2n = 27), H. lubricicaule (2n = 27), H. kotschyanum (2n = 27), H. magocsyanum (2n = 27), H. ostii-bucurae (2n = 27), H. praecurrens s. lato (2n = 27), H. ratezaticum (2n = 36), H. sabaudum s. lato (2n = 27), H. telekianum (2n = 27), H. tomiasae (2n = 27), H. tubulare (2n = 27), H. transylvanicum (2n = 18), Pilosella aurantiaca (2n = 36, 45), P. bauhinii (2n = 45), P. cymosa (2n = 36) and P. pavichii (2n = 18). For the first time the chromosome numbers are reported for the following taxa: H. atratiforme s. lato, H. jankae, H. lubricicaule, H. kotschyanum, H. magocsyanum, H. ostii-bucurae, H. telekianum, H. tomiasae and H. tubulare. Apomictic mode of reproduction was proved in triploids H. jankae, H. lubricicaule, H. kotschyanum, H. magocsyanum, H. ostii-bucurae, H. telekianum, H. tomiasae and H. tubulare by emasculation experiments. Diploid populations of Hieracium alpinum were confirmed in the Southern and Romanian Eastern Carpathians. Because diploid H. alpinum occurs just in the Eastern and Southern Carpathians and nowhere else, these parts of its area of distribution may be considered as glacial refugia for this species. The Skhidni Beskidi Mts. (the most western part of the Eastern Carpathians) probably represented a strong barrier of postglacial migrations of some diploid Hieracium taxa from the Eastern Carpathians towards the Western Carpathians.
23727700|Encroaching urbanisation changed Iidesjrvi from being a lake largely in a rural area surrounded by cultivated fields, pastures and meadows at the beginning of the 20th century to its present-day urban land setting. The lake has been damaged by pollution, road construction, dumping of toxic waste, introduced species and building of new settlements. To assess the impact of these temporal changes in the aquatic plant biodiversity of Iidesjrvi this study analysed macrophyte survey data collected during the course of the 20th century. The study indicated that despite of the environmental changes the total number of aquatic macrophytes remained relatively stable, but the species composition has changed considerably reflecting the changes in land use, water quality and the invasion of alien species. Some previously dominant species have disappeared with eutrophication affecting particularly elodeids and ceratophyllids. Some species have returned to the lake after a long absence. Similar lakes in the region form a dynamic system where the exchange of species from one to another may be possible. The semi-isolated lagoons may also help to re-establish aquatic macrophyte species in the main basin of Iidesjrvi, if the water quality improves in the future.
23727175|The new combinations Porotrichum variifolioides (De Sloover) Enroth and Porotrichum frahmii (Enroth) Enroth are made in the moss family Neckeraceae.
23725403|Sediment cores from two lakes in the land Islands were studied for pollen and microscopic charcoal, in order to obtain a general picture of the effect of prehistoric man on the vegetation. Lake Kvarntrsk in Finstrm seems to have been surrounded by closed forest and provided no evidence of any major human effect on the landscape nearby. In contrast, in Lake Kolmilatrsk, in Saltvik, two phases of extensive land use could be recorded. The date of the beginning of cereal cultivation in the Iron Age was in both cases about 1 6001 700 radiocarbon years BP (accelerator dates). Both the diagrams also show a short Taxus pollen maximum after the isolation of the lake basin from the Baltic. The upper limit of the maxima might be linked with the onset of a definite cultivation period. It is suggested that human activity has contributed to the present rarity of Taxus on the land Islands.
23725641|The phenolic compounds present in 32 species of the lichen genus Cladonia Hill ex Browne, section Perviae (Fr.) Mattick, were screened by means of thin-layer chromatography and high-performance liquid chromatography. New data on the chemical composition are given for 26 species, the rest of the results chiefly confirming previous reports. Quantitative data are presented for the first time for 29 species. The major compounds found in the section Perviae include barbatic, squamatic and thamnolic acids, which are depsides of the -orcinol series. The total contents of the phenolic substances in individual samples ranged from 0.6 up to 12.7% of lichen dry weight. The taxonomic position of several species is discussed.
23727665|Within the leafy liverworts, the evolution of the perigynium, the stem-derived structure that protects the developing sporophytes, has been understood as merely a parallelism, and families that have this feature have been placed to various suborders. The present study suggests a single origin of the perigynium in the leafy liverworts and the presence of perigynium being a synapomorphy for the suborder Jungermanniineae. The phylogenetic analyses were conducted using thirty-four leafy liverworts including twelve genera bearing a perigynium, and sequence data for rbcL, rps4, trnL-F cpDNA and 26S nrDNA. Within the Jungermanniineae three monophyletic lineages are recognized: the Acrobolbaceae lineage, the TrichotemnomaceaeBalantiopsidaceae lineage, and the lineage consisting of Jungermanniaceae and its closest related Gymnomitriaceae, Delavayellaceae, Geocalycaceae s. stricto, Antheliaceae, Calypogeiaceae and Gyrothyraceae. The long branches of the latter three families indicate that they are more isolated from a common jungermannioid ancestor. The family Jungermanniaceae is resolved as paraphyletic and its circumscription and relationships require further study.
23728218|Current studies have shown that Embelia aberrans Walker is a member of Sadiria because its corollas unite above the middle and its inflorescences are very short in axillary, subfasciculate cymes. Therefore, the new combination Sadiria aberrans (Walker) C.M. Hu & Y.F. Deng is proposed.
23727716|Oxytropis sorkhehensis Ranjbar sp. nova (Fabaceae) is described from Iran and illustrated. Diagnostic characters, a description and taxonomic comments on the species are given. It is compared with a morphologically similar species, O. thaumasiomorpha. Oxytropis pilosa is a new record from this group for Iran.
23725044|The primary production, biomass and species composition of the phytoplankton were studied during the summer stagnation in 1971, and some chemical properties of the lakes were also determined. The results are compared with parallel records from the lake Pjrvi. Both lakes were thermally stratified and Lovojrvi also showed meromictic features. The chemical properties were nearly the same in the epilimnia of the two lakes; the hypolimnion of Lovojrvi had much greater concentrations of N, P, Ca and Mg, and much higher electrolytic conductivity and KMnO4 consumption as a result of meromixis. The primary production of the study period from 2. VI. to 15. IX. 1971 was relatively high 53 g Cass m-2 in Lovojrvi, and 33 g in Ormajrvi. During the time of high production, both lakes had vigorous blooms of Cyanophyta species, but diatoms were sparse. The V/O, P/B and 1/R quotients and the efficiency of production were calculated and their relationships to each other discussed.
43922205|Vegetation changes in mown and unmown plots in a management experiment were studied in a road verge grassland in southern Sweden. The species additions to the vegetation in twelve 2.5  10 m plots were compared with the soil seed bank composition in the plots at the start of the experiment in 1990. Between 1990 and 1993, 33 cases were recorded of a new plant species appearing in a plot. Species additions occurred much more often in mown plots than in unmown ones. In 42% of the cases, the species had been recorded in the soil seed bank in 1990. However, many species present only in the seed bank in 1990 did not appear in the vegetation in 1993. We conclude that the seed bank is a poor predictor of future species composition of the vegetation.
23726977|This paper provides a taxonomic revision of Gueldenstaedtia (Fabaceae). Four species and one form are recognized. The revision is based on herbarium material and includes pollen and seed morphological observations. I treat the genus as distinct from the closely related Tibetia based on pollen and seed morphology, other morphological characters and chromosome data. A number of names in Gueldenstaedtia are reduced to synonyms. A key to all species of the genus is provided. For each taxon, its description, ecology, phenology, notes and an illustration and distribution map are also provided.
43922328|Bark from living trees was collected from 10 localities in northern Norway and Finland, where the climate ranged from oceanic to continental. In moist chambers, 16 species of Myxomycetes emerged. Eight are new to Norway: Echinostelium minutum de Perichaena chrysosperma (Currey) A. Lister, Macbrideola cornea (G. Lister & Gran) Alexop., Comatricha ellae Hrknen, C. rigidireta. Nann.-Brem., Paradiacheopsis fimbriata (G. Lister & Gran) Hertel, P. solitaria (Nann.-Brem.), P. cribrata Nann.-Brem. One species, Physarum nudum Macbr., is new to Finland. Of the three tree species tested, the bark of Pinus sylvestris L. produced the greatest number of fructifications; next in order was Juniperus communis L., and the least productive, Betula pubescens Ehrh. subsp. tortuosa (Ledeb.) Nyman, had only a few fructifications. The Myxomycete flora was richest in the oceanic localities. The pH amplitude of the bark appeared to be narrower than in southern Finland.
23726633|Chromosome counts are published for Gymnocarpium continentale (Petrov) Pojark. (n = 80), G. dryopteris (L.) Newman (n = 80), G. continentale x dryopteris (n = 80) and G. robertianum (Hoffm.) Newman (n = 80).
23726294|Several new macrofossil finds of Sambucus are presented, dating from the Viking Age to the 19th century. They were all identified as S. racemosa and indicate that this plant is more probably an archaeophytic species than a neophyte in Finland. It is also possible that the plant called S. hortensis by E. Tillandz (1673) was S. racemosa and not S. nigra as has been supposed.
23728072|New taxa in Crocus are described from Turkey: C. chrysanthus subsp. chrysanthus var. bicoloraceus F. Candan & N. zhatay var. nov. and C. chrysanthus subsp. chrysanthus var. atroviolaceus F. Candan & N. zhatay var. nov.; C. chrysanthus subsp. punctatus F. Candan & N. zhatay subsp. nov., C. chrysanthus subsp. kesercioglui F. Candan & N. zhatay subsp. nov. and C. chrysanthus subsp. sipyleus F. Candan & N. zhatay subsp. nov. A new classification of the species is based mainly on the colour of flowers and anthers, type of pollen grains, seed surface ornamentation, and chromosome numbers.
23726901|Morphological variation of Saussurea esthonica Baer ex Rupr. and S. alpina (L.) DC. s. str. was studied with different multivariate methods. The most important characters supporting the clustering of the specimens into groups are the shoot hight and characters correlated to it, and hairiness of leaves, while the type of trichomes in both taxa is the same. Hence, these characters depend very much on ecological conditions and are, therefore, taxonomically not reliable enough. It appeared also that several specimens were morphologically intermediate between typical representatives of S. esthonica and S. alpina s. str. Therefore, we consider it more appropriate to treat these taxa as ecogeographical subspecies: S. alpina subsp. esthonica (Baer ex Rupr.) Kupff. and S. alpina subsp. alpina. Chromosome numbers established for S. alpina subsp. esthonica are 2n = 52, 54.
23725290|Records made in the late 1940s and the late 1970s in 54 small (0.5200 ha) lakes in southern Finland (about 6130'N) were used to examine changes in the occurrences of ten pleustophytic macrophytes (in order of decreasing frequency: Utricularia vulgaris, Lemna minor, Utricularia minor, Hydrocharis morsus-ranae, Riccia fluitans, Ceratophyllum demersum, Spirodela polyrhiza, Ricciocarpos natans, Lemna trisulca and Stratiotes aloides). The lakes mostly have brown (humic) water, and represent a wide range of variation as regards the water chemistry, aquatic vegetation and degree of human influence. Most of the species have been favoured by increases in the nutrient content of the water, and by factors making the habitats more sheltered. Species which are able to grow well in cool waters, Lemna minor, Riccia and Ricciocarpos, have increased most in abundance. The expansion of Ricciocarpos in the area is explained by eutrophication, and also by its general spread in southern Finland during recent decades. Hypertrophy, caused by excessive eutrophication in some lakes, has led to the marked decline or even to the disappearance of some species (Stratiotes, Lemna trisulca, Utricularia spp.). In heavily eutrophicated lakes the submerged vegetation has greatly decreased, probably due to the shading effect of the very high production of phytoplankton. Brief accounts are given of the ecological characteristics of the ten pleustophytes.
23725165|The lichen Parmelia (subg. Parmelia) hygrophila Goward & Ahti, sp. nova, is reported from Alaska, British Columbia (typus), Idaho and Washington, where it is a widespread epiphyte in humid and subhumid sectors at low and middle elevations. Salazinic acid and atranorin are its major phenolic constituents. A key to the species of the P. saxatilis group in the Pacific Northwest is presented.
23724652|A natural occurrence of Asarum europaeum in two stands in S.E. Finland is reported, with floristic notes. The chromosome number is reported to be 2n = 26 in specimens from the locality and from three gardens in southern Finland.
23726820|A new species, Helichrysum persicum F. Ghahremani. & Noori (Asteraceae, Inuleae), is described and illustrated from Iran. It is related to and compared with H. davisianum Rech.f. and H. artemisioides Boiss. & Hausskn.
23727867|Field investigations on wood-rotting fungi in Jiangxi Province, eastern China, were made in 20052009, and nearly 600 specimens were collected by the authors. Based on the collected materials 149 poroid wood-rotting fungi were identified, and this paper provides a checklist of our results. Substrates and collecting data are provided for each species. Phellinus tenuiculus B.K. Cui sp. nova is described and illustrated. It is characterized by an annual growth habit, resupinate and very thin basidiocarps, lack of setae, and by ellipsoid, yellowish brown and fairly thick-walled basidiospores, which are usually collapsed when mature.
23726773|Acantholimon kycegizicum Doan Doan & Akaydin sp. nova and A. gksunicum Doan & Akaydin sp. nova (Plumbaginaceae) are described and illustrated from Anatolia, Turkey. Acantholimon kycegizicum grows on serpentine mountain slopes between kyceiz and Kaplicalar (C2 Mula) in South West Anatolia, and A. gksunicum grows on calcareous mountain steppe in Gksun (B6 Kahramanmara) in SE Anatolia. The species are closely related to A. calvertii, an endemic confined to East Anatolia. Diagnostic morphological characters are discussed. A revised key to Turkish Acantholimon species with 25-branched terminal spikes and previous years' stem with persistent circinate leaf bases is also presented along with notes on the ecology, biogeography and conservational status of the new species.
23727647|Myriophyllum oguraense Miki subsp. yangtzense D. Wang subsp. nova (Haloragaceae) from China, is described and illustrated. An identification key to the morphologically most similar taxa is provided. The new subspecies differs from M. oguraense subsp. oguraense by having large fruits and mericarps with two longitudinal ridges on the dorsal surface. The two taxa exhibit a disjunct distribution pattern, M. oguraense subsp. yangtzense being confined to the lower Yangtze valley in China, whereas M. oguraense subsp. oguraense is restricted to Japan.
23727838|Three new species of the orchid genus Pachygenium are described and illustrated: Pachygenium schmidtianum Mytnik, Szlach. & Grniak, P. triangulare Mytnik, Szlach. & Grniak and P. arechavaletae Mytnik, Szlach. & Grniak. A new combination on the species level, Pachygenium callosum (M.N. Correa) Mytnik, Szlach. & Grniak is validated. The taxonomic position of the new taxa is briefly discussed. Pachygenium is compared in a table with Pelexia on the generic level. A brief taxonomic history of Pachygenium is presented.
23725314|The sulphur content was studied in the epiphytic lichens Hypogymnia physodes (L.) Nyl. and Pseudevernia furfuracea (L.) Zopf, in the terricolous lichens Cladonia sp. and Peltigera aphthosa (L.) Willd. (incl. some Nephroma arcticum (L.) Torss.), and also in pine and birch bark and in the layer below the birch bark in 31 sites in Finland. Sulphur was determined by the isotope excited X-ray fluorescence method, using a semiconductor detector. The total sulphur content of the lichens appeared to depend closely upon the species and to vary considerably due to several factors. In H. physodes and P. furfuracea it had a highly significant correlation with the wet and dry sulphate deposition. In P. aphthosa (and N. arcticum) the sulphur content also correlated with the sulphate deposition. In Cladonia, however, there was no correlation between the sulphur content and the sulphate deposition, which indicates that the sulphur uptake mechanism is different in this lichen. The sulphur contents of H. physodes and P. furfuracea in different parts of Finland showed statistically significant regional variation. The microclimatic factors were considered, account being taken of the sources and chemical form of the sulphur, and the phorophyte species and their habitats.
23728135|Impatiens yangshanensis A.Q. Dong & F.W. Xing sp. nova (Balsaminaceae) from Guangdong, China, is described and illustrated. It is morphologically similar to I. macrovexilla, but differs mainly by its bifid spur, 2-bracted pedicel and lateral united petals with triangular basal lobes, acuminate apex, and dolabriform distal lobes. It also resembles I. pterosepala, but that species differs mainly in its 1-flowered inflorescence, 1-bracted pedicel and oblong basal lobes of lateral united petals.
23726559|The paper describes six new species of Taraxacum L. from Hautes Alpes, Basses-Pyrnes, Aveyron and Lozre, viz. T. artificis Sonck, T. clavatifrons Sonck, T. conturbatum Sonck, T. pseudoporrigens Sonck, T. radens Sonck, and T. turbidum Sonck.
23725389|Clasmatocolea vermicularis (Lehm.) Grolle and Heteroscyphus parvulus (Schiffn.) Schiffn. are new records for Western Melanesia. H. timppae Piippo is described as new. The species are described, discussed and illustrated. H. caesius (Schiffn.) Schiffn. from Java and Sumatra is lectotypified.
23727756|We aimed to quantify the effects of anthropogenic disturbances on forest structure and diversity in deciduous and mixed boreo-nemoral stands, conditioned on potential confounding factors. Based on these results, we created a statistically-supported indicator list of stand "naturalness". We surveyed 50 quantitative and qualitative characteristics of a stand, the understorey and forest floor, and several widely accepted biodiversity indicators in 171 forests in Estonia. Multi-factorial GLM and GLIM analyses showed that many forest structural characteristics were confounded by forest site-type specificity, stand age and/or biogeography. Near-natural old-growth forests had higher proportions of deciduous trees, a larger amount of coarse woody debris, a higher frequency of logs in each decay class, a denser understorey, and were more homogeneous in the horizontal pattern of each layer than mature managed forests. By improving light conditions, forest management indirectly increased herb layer richness and coverage and the proportion of graminoids. The critical easy-to-apply set of indicators to assess forest ecosystem quality includes the amount and type of dead wood, the canopy closure of a stand and the presence of specially-shaped trees, specific epiphytic indicator lichens, mosses and wood-dwelling insects, and forest site-type specific herb layer species.
23726772|The paper describes the following species of Lophozia (Dum.) Dum. s. stricto: L. lantratoviae Bakalin sp. nova, L. austro-sibirica Bakalin sp. nova, and L. nepalensis Bakalin sp. nova. Lophozia lantratoviae is characterised by brown gemmae and biconcentric oil-bodies, L. austro-sibirica by paroecious inflorescences and greenish to colourless gemmae, and L. nepalensis by slender, attenuate shoot tips with reduced leaves. Lophozia handelii Herzog is synonymised with L. ventricosa (Dicks.) Dum. var. guttulata (Lindb. & H.W. Arnell) Bakalin.
23728015|Aethionema anatolica A. Duran & M. ztrk sp. nova (Brassicaceae) is described and illustrated from South Anatolia, Turkey. It is similar especially to A. demirizii, but differs by the habit, crenate margin of the fruits, and the style that is around the same size as the sinus.
23724266|The taxonomic position of Otidea is discussed, and Wynnella is considered to be so different that it should be treated as a separate tribe of Pezizaceae. Sowerbyella had also certainly better be given the same rank. The correct name of the sole species of Wynnella is shown to be W. silvicola (Beck ap. Sacc.) Nannf. n. comb., and to its known distribution is added Sweden (two localities) and Canada (one locality). The pattern of variation within Otidea is discussed, and three large-spored species are treated in detail. O. platyspora is described as new, O. indivisa Vel. is found to be the correct name of O. abietina auctt., and the totally forgotten O. caligata (Nyl.) Sacc. is shown to be widely distributed in East Sweden and Finland and to occur in the Tatra Mts also.
23727265|Michelia guangdongensis Y.H. Yan, Q.W. Zeng & F.W. Xing sp. nova (Magnoliaceae) is described from Guangdong, China and illustrated. It is compared with M. foveolata and M. elegans, from which it differs mainly in its shorter stature, smaller leaves with fewer lateral veins, more numerous and wider tepals, and shorter stamens.
23726195|The recent (20th century) tree-limit change and ecological behaviour of the rowan (Sorbus aucuparia L.) were evaluated in the subalpine region of the southern Swedish Scandes. The tree-limit was found to have risen altitudinally by a mean of ca. 40 m during this century. This process was evidently caused by warmer summers during the 1930s and 1940s. The tree-limit response was mainly achieved by accelerated height growth of pre-existing stunted individuals; i.e. no range extension occurred. The results are discussed with reference to general theories on animal/plant interactions. It is suggested that rapid growth and dispersal by birds are tactics for coping with browsing by herbivores. The general low abundance of rowan is explained by this model. Rowan occurred on a wide spectrum of edaphic types. Topographically, it preferred steep slopes, cliff ledges, boulder fields etc., i.e. sites not easily accessible or profitable to large herbivores. Nevertheless, most individuals had been exploited by vertebrate herbivores (hare, reindeer, voles). These factors were concluded to affect local abundance and distribution patterns. Flowering was frequent close to the tree-limit in certain years, but ripe fruits and seedlings were rarely produced by subalpine individuals. The spatial pattern of rowans indicated that the subalpine occurrences are mediated by bird seed dispersal from lower regions (montane spruce forests).
23727254|Two species of Diplophyllum, D. serrulatum (Mll. Frib.) Steph. and D. taxifolium (Wahlenb.) Dumort., and three species of Scapania, S. ciliata Sande Lac., S. koponenii Potemkin, and S. ligulata Steph. are recorded and described for Hunan. A previous report of S. griffithii Schiffn. from Hunan is considered doubtful and its distribution and differentiation are discussed. Diplophyllum taxifolium is recorded for the first time for Hunan and it is very rare there. Diplophyllum serrulatum and Scapania koponenii are rare, and Scapania ciliata is moderately common. Scapania ligulata has two subspecies, subsp. ligulata and subsp. stephanii (Mll. Frib.) Potemkin, Piippo & T.J. Kop., comb. nova. Subspecies ligulata is rather rare and subsp. stephanii fairly common. Subsp. ligulata is more frequent in disturbed (more open and free of competition) than in primeval habitats, which might explain its larger size. Diplophyllum serrulatum and Scapania koponenii occur mostly in the warm-temperate zone. Scapania ciliata is mainly warm-temperate, but has some localities in the orotemperate zone. The general distribution, habitat ecology, reproduction and distinction of the taxa are discussed. Scapania ciliata is recorded as new for Vietnam.
23726049|Comparison of the gametophytic structures of Orthocaulis cavifolius Buch & S. Arnell, Anastrophyllum minutum (Schreb. in Cranz) Schust. and A. minutum var. grande (Lindb.) Schust. showed such remarkable affinities that all three taxa are regarded as congeneric and the combination A. (subg. Sphenolobus) cavifolium (Buch & S. Arnell) Lammes is proposed. A lectotype is selected for Orthocaulis cavifolius.
23725079|Six volatile compounds present in the oleoresin fraction of coniferous wood were tested for their effect on the growth of cultures of 12 wood-decomposing Hymenomycetes. The compounds were myrcene, D-fenchol, -terpineol, terpinyl acetate, bornyl acetate and 1,8-cineole. The fungi of coniferous trees tolerated higher concentrations than the species occurring on deciduous trees. The fungi causing white rot in conifers were generally more tolerant of the compounds than the species causing brown decay, but one very tolerant brown rot species is Lentinus lepideus Fr. Of the compounds tested, only -terpineol and D-fenchol completely inhibited the mycelial growth of Heterobasidion annosum (Fr.) Bref. (Fomes annosus (Fr.) Cooke).
23725255|The lectotype is selected for Stereodon himalayanus Mitt. [= Hylocomium himalayanum (Mitt.) Jaeg.]. The species ranges from the Himalayas to Japan, where it occurs in the meridional to temperate zones. H. umbratum (Hedw.) B.S.G. is incompletely circumpolar. In Japan it is strictly oroboreal and spatially separate from H. himalayanum. The taxonomy of these species is discussed and their distribution in Asia and Japan mapped.
23727629|Baccharis malmei Jochen Mll. sp. nova is described from southeastern Brazil. Its morphological delimitation, especially against the similar B. singularis, is discussed and the history of misapplication of B. cassinifolia and B. daphnoides, which are synonyms of B. singularis, is depicted. Two synonyms of B. singularis are lectotypified.
23725789|The ability to restore fertility in msm1 cytoplasm was tested in 191 accessions of the wild progenitor of barley from Israel. When the results were considered together with those for 113 previously tested accessions, 56.7 % of the accessions appeared to be maintainers of sterility, 21.1 % were found to be partial restorers with 0.15.0 % restoration of fertility, 16.4 % had restoration of 5.160.0 %, and 5.8 % were complete restorers with over 90.1 % seed sets in spikes under bags. No F1 restoration in the range 60.190.0 % was found with the msm1-Adorra seed parent background used. The reciprocals of the frequencies of the accessions belonging to different fertility restoration classes from 0.0 to 60.0 % form a linear regression (r = 0.975***) when plotted against the mean percentages of the respective classes. The Judean Foothills region differs significantly from most of the various geobotanical regions, or groups of regions, in the distribution of its accessions by restoration ability. The desert of Negev seems to be populated by maintainers of sterility. In this sample, the complete restorers occur most frequently, with about 10 % frequency, in the central inland regions of the Judean Foothills and Judean Mountains. All the restorer accessions found so far are carriers of a fertile cytoplasm, and of a single dominant restorer gene. Four new restorer genes were designated: Rfm,,p in PI 391118, Rfm,,q in PI 405181, Rfm,,r in 79BS15-B and Rfm,,s in 79BS19-B.
23727866|Peniophora junipericola is a decayer on dead junipers (Juniperus communis). It is locally-common near the shores of the Baltic Sea. The aim of the present study was to characterise its habitat requirements by measuring the diameter of the substrate, as well as the stage of decay and the pH values of the infested twigs. Precipitation at the localities where P. junipericola is present was also taken into account. The results of the study show that the fungus can grow on thin and thick juniper branches as well as on hard, newly dead ones and on twigs more or less decayed. Most of its habitats are situated close to the sea.
23726199|The artificial F1 hybrids Papaver somniferum  bracteatum, P. somniferum  orientale and P. somniferum  pseudo-orientale were produced, using various strains of each species. Seed set and germination were lowest in the second and highest in the first combination, but the germination also depended greatly on the P. somniferum strain used. The chromosome numbers counted on the hybrids were 2n = 18, 2n = 25 and 2n = 32, respectively. Morphologically, all the hybrids were more or less intermediate between the parents, but the effect of the paternal species clearly strengthened as their ploidy level rose. Semilethal dwarfism occurred in all three combinations, the frequencies of the dwarf individuals being 53.4, 2.8 and 6.4%, respectively. In all, about 33% of the hybrids flowered towards the end of their first growing season, but most of them produced new basal shoots after flowering. In greenhouse conditions the hybrids from all combinations showed a potential for perennial growth, although they never survived the winter outdoors. Reduced or abnormal flower parts were common in all hybrid combinations, and only about 34% of the pollen grains had normal size, shape and stainability. The frequencies of uni-, bi- and multivalents at metaphase I showed that the amount of pairing increased with the ploidy level of the paternal parent, the percentages of paired chromosomes in the three hybrid combinations being 31, 44 and 60, respectively. The chromosomes of P. somniferum show some pairing with those of all three species of sect. Oxytona.
23726513|We studied the distribution of aquatic macrophytes with respect to physicochemical characteristics of water in rivers of Galicia (northwest Iberian Peninsula). Of the 27 species found at 43 sampling sites, 17 showed a statistically significant correlation with at least one of the 17 physicochemical variables considered. Of these, we consider 14 species to be useful indicators of particular aspects of water quality.
23727852|Asperula pseudochlorantha Ehrend. and Asperula antalyensis Ehrend. from Turkey were described in 1958. General characteristics, seed structure and micromorphology, pollen measurements and other pollen characteristics were examined to determine the taxonomic status of these taxa. Morphologically, the two taxa cannot be easily distinguished, and the seeds and pollen grains are similar. The chromosome number is 2n = 22 for both taxa. Based on morphological, palynological and cytological similarities, and the fact that both taxa are found in the same habitats, we propose that A. antalyensis should be recognized as A. pseudochlorantha Ehrend. var. antalyensis (Ehrend.) Minareci & K. Yldz, comb. et stat. nov.
23726956|Allium elmaliense I.G. Deniz & Smbl sp. nova (Alliaceae) is described and illustrated from SW Anatolia, Turkey. It is compared with the morphologically fairly similar species A. cyrilli, A. orientale and A. asclepiadeum.
23727673|Hemsleya kunmingensis H.T. Li & D.Z. Li sp. nova (Cucurbitaceae) is described and illustrated from the Yunnan Province, China. It appears to have been rarely collected and the previous collections examined have remained undetermined to species level or were misidentified due to the absence of flowers and fruits. The most prominent features of the species are the very small, yellowish green, laxly patelliform corolla with evaginate petals that revolute into an anchor shape at the apex, the well-developed dichasium, the obconic fruit, and the lenticulated seed without seed-wing. Its relationship to closely similar species is discussed in the light of morphological and molecular data.
23727222|Lotus glaber is a herbaceous forage legume, which became naturalized in the Flooding Pampa grasslands (Buenos Aires Province, Argentina). Experiments to evaluate defoliation effects on seed and shoot production were conducted in field conditions in Balcarce (Argentina). Lotus glaber plants were clipped (85% aerial biomass) at the beginning of the flowering period. Clipped plants commenced flowering again 21 days after being cut and compensated the vegetative biomass without affecting the reproduction. Clipped and control plants did not differ in seed number, pods and umbels per plant, mean seed weight and seed viability. Lotus glaber has indeterminate flowering, thus allowing to compensate vegetative and reproductive attributes under clipping conditions. Lotus glaber seed weight stability is important because this attribute is positively related to seedling vigor.
23725278|Twenty-two samples of fungi (Agaricales) were collected from six parks in Helsinki, Finland, and analysed for lead, cadmium and zinc. The lead and cadmium contents were higher than had been observed in earlier investigations concerning vegetables. The lead contents were 2.241 ppm, the cadmium contents 0.17 10.3 ppm and the zinc contents 24345 ppm of dry weight. The lead concentrations were significantly higher in decomposer fungi than in mycorrhizal fungi. The lead and cadmium concentrations correlated well with the traffic density in the adjacent streets. Beside busy streets the concentrations were so high that the fungi could not be recommended for use as food.
23726474|A new subspecies Chenopodium foliosum Ascherson subsp. montanum Uotila is described and two new combinations C. litwinowii (Paulsen) Uotila and C. novopokrovskyanum (Aellen) Uotila made. A neglected taxon from Afghanistan/Himalayas is re-defined and by lectotypification its name retained as C. atripliciforme J. Murr. Lectotypifications for C. glaucum L., C. novopokrovskyanum, C. polyspermum L., C. rubrum L. and C. urbicum L. are made, and the lectotype of the genus is discussed. Chromosome numbers are reported for C. foliosum, C. litwinowii and C. novopokrovskyanum.
23725401|Nitrate reductase (NR) activity in Pinus sylvestris needles showed seasonal fluctuations, being very low (0.1-0.5 nkat  kg-1 protein) during the summer months (June-August) and reaching its maxima (12 nkat) during the autumn and winter (SeptemberMarch). Winter time activity was highest in the youngest needles, and became lower the older the needles were, while there were no differences in summer time activity. The NR activity of the needles was greatly dependent on frost and temperature conditions. In 1987 the summer was cold and the frost melted from the ground slowly, which meant that foliar NR activity was low throughout the year, an imbalance which continued into 1988. The growth of the pines also suffered a serious setback during this period and many trees died. One reason for this could have been an imbalance in nitrogen metablism, due to the exceptionally low activity of at least one key enzyme of nitrogen metabolism, NR.
43922233|Sobralia (Orchidaceae) is a genus of about 150 species distributed in Mesoamerica and tropical and subtropical regions of South America. Its species are most often tall plants with single, showy but fugacious flowers. As the result of a morphological study based on herbarium material examined by the authors, Sobralia pakaraimense Baranow & Szlach. from Guyana is described and illustrated as a new species. A key for determination of all Sobralia species reported till now from Guyana is provided.
43922187|Homaliodendron neckeroides Broth. (Neckeraceae, Musei) is transferred to the genus Neckera Hedw. and the new combination TV. N. neckeroides (Broth.) Enroth & Tan is made. A few characters of the sporophyte, here reported for the first time, are considered crucial at the generic level. The species is lectotypified, described in detail and illustrated.
