30033813|Quantifying the extent to which seed production is limited by the availability of pollen has been an area of intensive empirical study over the past few decades. Whereas theory predicts that pollen augmentation should not increase seed production, numerous empirical studies report significant and strong pollen limitation. Here, we use a variety of approaches to examine the correlates of pollen limitation in an effort to understand its occurrence and importance in plant evolutionary ecology. In particular, we examine the role of recent ecological perturbations in influencing pollen limitation and discuss the relation between pollen limitation and plant traits. We find that the magnitude of pollen limitation observed in natural populations depends on both historical constraints and contemporary ecological factors.
30245172|Considerable progress has been made in documenting evidence of very early plants starting in the basal Ordovician employing dispersed spore, phytodebris, and mesofossil data. Macrofossil evidence is sparse until Late Silurian, but recent new data are improving our understanding of aspects of earliest plants. The considerable information about the possible source of cryptospores and trilete spores especially from the well-preserved mesofossils of the Late Silurian and Early Devonian is summarized. Promising avenues of research are the study of spore ultrastructure, and neo-paleo comparisons between newly discovered resistant components of extant bryophytes and fragmentary fossil remains. Recent macrofossil discoveries in the Late Silurian advance our understanding of early events in plant evolution and raise new questions about the timing of evolution or relationships among earliest (mostly vascular) plants.
30245152|There is a growing appreciation that chromosome inversions affect rates of adaptation, speciation, and the evolution of sex chromosomes. Comparative genomic studies have identified many new paracentric inversion polymorphisms. Population models suggest that inversions can spread by reducing recombination between alleles that independently increase fitness, without epistasis or coadaptation. Areas of linkage disequilibrium extend across large inversions but may be interspersed by areas with little disequilibrium. Genes located within inversions are associated with a variety of traits including those involved in climatic adaptation. Inversion polymorphisms may contribute to speciation by generating underdominance owing to inviable gametes, but an alternative view gaining support is that inversions facilitate speciation by reducing recombination, protecting genomic regions from introgression. Likewise, inversions may facilitate the evolution of sex chromosomes by reducing recombination between sex determining alleles and alleles with sex-specific effects. However, few genes within inversions responsible for fitness effects or speciation have been identified.
30245157|Herbivores not only consume resources, but they are resources for other consumers. Consequently, they have much potential to mediate effects that cascade up and down trophic chains in ecosystems. The way those effects are mediated depends on individual-scale properties of herbivores including constraints determining resource limitation, herbivore feeding mode, the adaptive trade-off to balance nutrient intake and predation risk avoidance, and the need to maintain homeostatic balance of elemental chemistry in the face of widely varying elemental composition of plant resources. These factors determine the rates of ecosystem functions such as production, decomposition and nutrient cycling. This review integrates those factors to build a conceptual framework for looking at herbivore-mediated effects in ecosystems. The framework systematically resolves how herbivores and carnivores directly and indirectly interact with plants to shape ecosystem functions. It can be used to motivate new field experimentation aimed at elucidating mechanisms of trophic control of ecosystem function.
