2678636|The functional causes of life history trade-offs have been a topic of interest to evolutionary biologists for over six decades. Our review of life history trade-offs discusses conceptual issues associated with physiological aspects of trade-offs, and it describes recent advances on this topic. We focus on studies of four model systems: wing polymorphic insects, Drosophila, lizards, and birds. The most significant recent advances have been: (a) incorporation of genetics in physiological studies of trade-offs, (b) integration of investigations of nutrient input with nutrient allocation, (c) development of more sophisticated models of resource acquisition and allocation, (d) a shift to more integrated, multidisciplinary studies of intraspecific trade-offs, and (e) the first detailed investigations of the endocrine regulation of life history trade-offs.
221717|Heterotrophic bacteria perform two major functions in the transformation of organic matter: They produce new bacterial biomass (bacterial secondary production [BP]), and they respire organic C to inorganic C (bacterial respiration [BR]). For planktonic bacteria, a great deal has been learned about BP and its regulation during the past several decades but far less has been learned about BR. Our lack of knowledge about BR limits our ability to understand the role of bacteria in the carbon cycle of aquatic ecosystems. Bacterial growth efficiency (BGE) is the amount of new bacterial biomass produced per unit of organic C substrate assimilated and is a way to relate BP and BR: BGE = (BP)/(BP + BR). Estimates of BGE for natural planktonic bacteria range from <0.05 to as high as 0.6, but little is known about what might regulate this enormous range. In this paper we review the physiological and ecological bases of the regulation of BGE. Further, we assemble the literature of the past 30 years for which both BP and BR were measured in natural planktonic ecosystems and explore the relationship between BGE and BP. Although the relationship is variable, BGE varies systematically with BP and the trophic richness of the ecosystem. In the most dilute, oligotrophic systems, BGE is as low as 0.01; in the most eutrophic systems, it plateaus near 0.5. Planktonic bacteria appear to maximize carbon utilization rather than BGE. A consequence of this strategy is that maintenance energy costs (and therefore maintenance respiration) seems to be highest in oligotrophic systems.
2678644|The world's population is concentrated in urban areas. This change in demography has brought landscape transformations that have a number of documented effects on stream ecosystems. The most consistent and pervasive effect is an increase in impervious surface cover within urban catchments, which alters the hydrology and geomorphology of streams. This results in predictable changes in stream habitat. In addition to imperviousness, runoff from urbanized surfaces as well as municipal and industrial discharges result in increased loading of nutrients, metals, pesticides, and other contaminants to streams. These changes result in consistent declines in the richness of algal, invertebrate, and fish communities in urban streams. Although understudied in urban streams, ecosystem processes are also affected by urbanization. Urban streams represent opportunities for ecologists interested in studying disturbance and contributing to more effective landscape management.
221701|Geographic patterns in mtDNA variation are compiled for 22 species of freshwater and terrestrial turtles in the southeastern United States, and the results are employed to evaluate phylogeographic hypotheses and principles of genealogical concordance derived previously from similar analyses of other vertebrates in the region. The comparative molecular findings are interpreted in the context of intraspecific systematics for these taxa, the historical geology of the area, traditional nonmolecular zoogeographic information, and conservation significance. A considerable degree of phylogeographic concordance is registered with respect to (a) the configuration of intraspecific mtDNA subdivisions across turtle species, (b) the principal molecular partitions and traditional morphology-based taxonomic boundaries, (c) genetic patterns in turtles versus those described previously for freshwater fishes and terrestrial vertebrates in the region, and (d) intraspecific molecular subdivisions versus the boundaries between major zoogeographic provinces as identified by composite ranges of species in the Testudines. Findings demonstrate shared elements in the biogeographic histories of a diverse regional biota. Such phylogeographic concordances (and discordances) have ramifications for evolutionary theory as well as for the pragmatic efforts of taxonomy and conservation biology.
2097221|The importance of genetic interactions in the evolutionary process has been debated for more than half a century. Genetic interactions such as underdominance and epistasis (the interaction among genetic loci in their effects on phenotypes or fitness) can play a special role in the evolutionary process because they can create multiple fitness optima (adaptive peaks) separated by fitness minima (adaptive valleys). The valleys prevent deterministic evolution from one peak to another. We review the evidence that genetic interaction is a common phenomenon in natural populations. Some studies give strong circumstantial evidence for multiple fitness peaks, although the mapping of epistatic interactions onto fitness surfaces remains incompletely explored, and absolute proof that multiple peaks exist can be shown to be empirically impossible. We show that there are many reasons that epistatic polymorphism is very difficult to find, even when interactions are an extremely important part of the genetic system. When polymorphism results in the presence of multiple fitness peaks within a group of interbreeding populations, one fitness peak will quickly be nearly fixed within all interbreeding populations, but when epistatic or underdominant loci are nearly fixed, there will be no direct evidence of genetic interaction. Thus when complex landscapes are evolutionarily most important, evidence for alternative high fitness genetic combinations will be most ephemeral. Genetic interactions have been most clearly demonstrated in wide crosses within species and among closely related species. This evidence suggests that genetic interactions may play an important role in taxonomic diversification and species-level constraints. Population genetic analyses linked with new approaches in metabolic and molecular genetic research are likely to provide exciting new insights into the role of gene interactions in the evolutionary process.
2952501|Trophic structure, the partitioning of biomass among trophic levels, is a major characteristic of ecosystems. Most studies of the forces that shape trophic structure emphasize either "bottom-up" or "top-down" regulation of populations and communities. Recent work has shown that these two forces are not mutually exclusive alternatives, but efforts to model their interaction still often yield unrealistic predictions. We focus on the problems involved with modeling situations in which community composition, including both the number of trophic levels and the species composition within a trophic level, can change. We review the development of these ideas, emphasizing in particular how compositional change can alter theoretical expectations about the regulation of trophic structure. A comparison of studies on the effects of predators and resource productivity in limnetic ecosystems reveals an intriguing disparity between the results of manipulative experiments and those of correlational studies. We suggest that this contrast is a result of the difference in the temporal scales operating in the two types of studies. Ecosystem-level variables may appear to approach an equilibrium in short-term press experiments; however, processes such as invasion and extinction of species will not have time to play out in most such experiments. We found that the responses of ecosystems to short-term experimental treatments involve less change in species composition than is found in natural communities that have diverged in response to local conditions over longer periods. We argue that the results of short-term experiments support the predictions of models in which the species pool does not change, whereas correlational studies among systems support theories that incorporate compositional change.
3069266|Animals are important in nutrient cycling in freshwater ecosystems. Via excretory processes, animals can supply nutrients (nitrogen and phosphorus) at rates comparable to major nutrient sources, and nutrient cycling by animals can support a substantial proportion of the nutrient demands of primary producers. In addition, animals may exert strong impacts on the species composition of primary producers via effects on nutrient supply rates and ratios. Animals can either recycle nutrients within a habitat, or translocate nutrients across habitats or ecosystems. Nutrient translocation by relatively large animals may be particularly important for stimulating new primary production and for increasing nutrient standing stocks in recipient habitats. Animals also have numerous indirect effects on nutrient fluxes via effects on their prey or by modification of the physical environment. Future studies must quantify how the importance of animal-mediated nutrient cycling varies among taxa and along environmental gradients such as ecosystem size and productivity.
2097322|When multiple victim species (e.g. prey, host) are attacked by one or more shared enemy species (e.g. predator, pathogen), the potential exists for apparent competition between victim populations. We review ideas on apparent competition (also called "competition for enemy-free space") and sketch illustrative examples. One puzzling aspect of this indirect interaction is the repeated rediscovery of the essential ideas. Apparent competition arises between focal and alternative prey populations because, in the long term, enemy abundance depends on total prey availability; by increasing enemy numbers, alternative prey intensify predation on focal prey. A frequent empirical finding, consistent with theory, is exclusion of victim species from local communities by resident enemies. Theory suggests victim-species coexistence depends on particular conditions. To understand fully the consequences of shared enemies requires a body of contingent theory, specifying the time-scale of the interactions (short- and long-term consequences of sharing enemies generally differ), the structure of the food-web encompassing the interactions, its spatial context, etc. The "core criterion" for a focal victim species to invade a community supporting a resident, polyphagous enemy is r > aP (the invader's intrinsic rate of increase should exceed attack rate times average enemy abundance). A growing body of data and observations test, and support, this prediction.
2097303|Organisms differ in the proportions of major elements that they contain, including N and P, which are known to be highly dynamic and potentially limiting to production of aquatic ecosystems. Such contrasting elemental composition between, for example, algae and herbivores, or between different herbivores, generates a suite of ecological predictions and opens up new dynamical possibilities. Here we review studies relating to the nutritional physiology of aquatic herbivores, especially freshwater pelagic species, and we relate element content to secondary production and nutrient recycling. A variety of evidence from many types of studies--physiological modelling, whole-ecosystem surveys, laboratory growth studies, etc--is assembled into an internally consistent picture of mineral limitation of aquatic herbivores. Herbivores with high nutrient demands (the best example is probably Daphnia and phosphorus) appear frequently to be limited not by the food quantity or energy available to them but by the quantity of mineral elements in their food.
2097326|Male parental care is rare in most groups of animals but common in birds. Among birds considerable variation exists in the form of care provided their young; recent developments in several areas may help to explain this variation. These include (i) improvements in the comparative method, particularly the use of phylogenies to investigate questions about the evolution (origin) of behavior; (ii) field studies designed to determine the fitness benefits of care and the selective factors that maintain it; and (iii) investigations of the mechanisms of care, especially its neural and hormonal bases. The greatest challenge to functional explanations of male care has come from the revelation that males frequently provide care for offspring that are not genetically their own. Resolving this apparent paradox will require more accurate accounting of the costs and the benefits of care, and greater attention to the form of care provided by males. Data support the following working hypothesis: In taxa in which males incubate, as opposed to providing other forms of care, sexual selection may be less intense and males may resemble females more in appearance and physiology. Males may also be more likely to be the genetic sires of the offspring they care for, perhaps because of the greater cost to females of multiple matings or perhaps because male incubation is incompatible with sustained sexual behavior. Ultimately, an integrated consideration of history, function, mechanism, and development should reveal the interplay of factors that have led to male parental care in birds and that account for its maintenance in various forms today.
2097187|Evolutionary trends among mammals over the past 66 Myr have been profoundly influenced by changing climates, in turn the result of tectonic events. The global tropical forest type of ecosystem of the early Tertiary was disrupted by Late Eocene climatic changes, with the extinction of most archaic mammalian lineages and the appearance of most modern families. Later Tertiary trends reflect increasing aridity, with the appearance of open-habitat mammals such as grazing ungulates, although true grasslands probably did not appear until the Late Miocene in the New World and the Pliocene in the Old World. Patterns of mammalian diversity track paleotemperature curves for the northern latitudes, with maxima in the early Middle Eocene and early Middle Miocene. Major dispersals occurred at times of sea level lows, resulting in loss of endemism in originally isolated continents such as South America and Africa, and changes in faunal composition across Holarctica. Dispersal in conjunction with climatic changes accounted for major extinction events in the Late Eocene to Early Oligocene, at the end of the Miocene, and in the mid Pliocene. Outstanding problems include the origin and dispersal routes of many extant orders that appeared at the start of the Eocene and the apparent asymmetry of many dispersal events. Finally, although many higher latitude paleoenvironments resembled present day equatorial ones, such as Early Eocene tropical forests and Late Miocene savannas, the mammalian paleocommunities were not precise analogs of present day communities in similar Recent habitats.
2952505|The study of alternative reproductive behaviors in fishes has contributed to our general understanding of reproductive strategies and mating systems. Despite extensive research on the mechanisms and patterns of alternatives, two important factors have not been addressed, and both may strongly influence the evolution of alternative reproductive behaviors. First, alternative female reproductive behaviors exist and should be considered in theoretical and empirical work. Second, interactions between the sexes will influence the evolution of alternative reproductive behaviors. In this review, we explore these two points and suggest the development of a more comprehensive theory of alternatives that will increase our ability to make predictions regarding the existence and expression of alternative reproductive behaviors in both sexes.
3069274|Here we review the biology of early generation neopolyploids and discuss the profound changes that accompany their formation. Newly formed auto- and allopolyploids exhibit considerable meiotic complexity, including multivalent pairing, multisomic inheritance, and the production of unbalanced gametes. The cytogenetic behavior of allopolyploids and autopolyploids differ statistically, but are more similar than commonly believed. The progeny of neopolyploids include a high frequency of aneuploids, pseudoeuploids and homeologue-recombinant genotypes that may contribute to the phenotypic variability observed in early generation polyploids. We find no evidence to support the traditional view that autopolyploids possess lower fertility than allopolyploids, casting doubt on the paradigm that allopolyploids should be more frequent due to their inherent fertility. The fertility of early generation polyploids increases rapidly, owing largely to selection against meiotic configurations that generate unbalanced gametes. Neopolyploids are commonly differentiated from progenitors by a combination of morphological, phenological and life-history characteristics. Further progress toward understanding polyploid evolution will require studies in natural populations that can evaluate the demographic and larger ecological significance of the cytogenetic and phenotypic character of neopolyploids.
2097215|Most aspects of dinosaur biology cannot be observed directly but must be reconstructed by a variety of often speculative approaches. Overall body form can be established if good skeletal material of a dinosaur species is available. From a skeletal reconstruction, interpretations of the animal's soft parts, and inferences about how the creature's skeleton functioned as a living machine, can be made. Inferences about dinosaur habitat preferences and sociality are made from observations of the preservational contexts of skeletons, nesting sites, and trackways. Some aspects of dinosaur biology are interpreted on the basis of relationships between body size and physiological and ecological parameters in living animals, but this involves much uncertainty. Primary tissues of dinosaur bone suggest that dinosaurs had rapid growth rates, but calibrating dinosaur growth rates in terms of body mass gained per unit time is difficult. It is uncertain whether dinosaurs needed metabolic rates comparable to those of living birds and mammals in order to grow quickly enough to form the primary bone tissues commonly found in dinosaur skeletons. No evidence convincingly shows that dinosaurs were endotherms, and some evidence suggests that they were not. Dinosaurs routinely achieved considerably larger body sizes than do terrestrial mammals, and they maintained viable populations in smaller geographic areas than is possible for elephant-sized mammals. This suggests that dinosaurian food requirements were proportionately less than those of birds and mammals, thus permitting large population densities.
2096843|The aim of this paper is to integrate the results of the several experi- ments reported in this series, to review other published evidence of competitive interaction among rodent species, and to formulate some general statements.
221684| Mimicry and warning color are highly paradoxical adaptations. Color patterns in both Mllerian and Batesian mimicry are often determined by relatively few pattern-regulating loci with major effects. Many of these loci are "supergenes," consisting of multiple, tightly linked epistatic elements. On the one hand, strong purifying selection on these genes must explain accurate resemblance (a reduction of morphological diversity between species), as well as monomorphic color patterns within species. On the other hand, mimicry has diversified at every taxonomic level; warning color has evolved from cryptic patterns, and there are mimetic polymorphisms within species, multiple color patterns in different geographic races of the same species, mimetic differences between sister species, and multiple mimicry rings within local communities. These contrasting patterns can be explained, in part, by the shape of a "number-dependent" selection function first modeled by Fritz Muller in 1879: Purifying selection against any warning-colored morph is very strong when that morph is rare, but becomes weak in a broad basin of intermediate frequencies, allowing opportunities for polymorphisms and genetic drift. This Mullerian explanation, however, makes unstated assumptions about predator learning and forgetting which have recently been challenged. Today's "receiver psychology" models predict that classical Mullerian mimicry could be much rarer than believed previously, and that "quasi-Batesian mimicry," a new type of mimicry intermediate between Mullerian and Batesian, could be common. However, the new receiver psychology theory is untested, and indeed it seems to us unlikely; alternative assumptions could easily lead to a more traditional Mullerian/Batesian mimicry divide. 
2097177|Sibling species are common in all major marine groups and habitats. Their abundance reflects both inadequate study of morphological features of living organisms ("pseudo-sibling species") and divergence in habitat, life history, and chemical recognition systems without parallel divergence in morphology. Many marine sibling species are quite distinct genetically. Others, however, exhibit slight genetic differences whose significance is only clear in sympatry and in combination with other subtle but concordant patterns of differentiation. A large number of abundant, well-studied, or economically important taxa have recently been shown to be complexes of sibling species. The broad habitat and geographic distributions characteristic of many marine species require reevaluation in this context.
3069269|For many years biologists have debated whether mast seeding (the synchronous intermittent production of large seed crops in perennial plants) results from weather conditions or is an evolved plant reproductive strategy. In this review, we analyze the evidence for the underlying causes of masting. In the absence of selection for higher or lower variability, plants will vary in tandem with the environment (resource matching). Two selective factors often favor the evolution of masting: increased pollination efficiency in wind-pollinated species, and satiation of seed predators. Other factors select against masting, including animal pollination and frugivore dispersal. A survey of 570 masting datasets shows that wind-pollinated species had higher seed production coefficients of variation (CVs) than biotically pollinated ones. Frugivore-dispersed species had low CVs whereas predator-dispersed plants had high CVs, consistent with gaining benefits from predator satiation rather than dispersal. The global pattern of masting shows highest seed crop variability at mid latitudes and in the Southern Hemisphere, which are similar to the patterns in variability of rainfall. We conclude that masting is often an adaptive reproductive trait overlaid on the direct influence of weather.
2952502|Extinction is rarely random across ecological and geological time scales. Traits that make some species more extinction-prone include individual traits, such as body size, and abundance. Substantial consistency appears across ecological and geological time scales in such traits. Evolutionary branching produces phylogenetic (as often measured by taxonomic) nesting of extinction-biasing traits at many scales. An example is the tendency, seen in both fossil and modern data, for higher taxa living in marine habitats to have generally lower species extinction rates. At lower taxononomic levels, recent bird and mammal extinctions are concentrated in certain genera and families. A fundamental result of such selectivity is that it can accelerate net loss of biodiversity compared to random loss of species among taxa. Replacement of vulnerable taxa by rapidly spreading taxa that thrive in human-altered environments will ultimately produce a spatially more homogenized biosphere with much lower net diversity.
2097216|We review experimental studies to evaluate how the nitrogen cycle influences the response of forest net primary production (NPP) to elevated CO
2097317|Cetacean species are widely distributed in the world's oceans, and their populations are impacted by human activity both directly through hunting and indirectly. The determination of genetic stock boundaries and genetic diversity within stocks is essential to the conservation of genetic diversity in these as in any other species, but cetaceans present special challenges. The definition of stock boundaries based on assumptions drawn from experience with terrestrial species has proven inadequate for cetaceans. For example, genetic stock boundaries do not necessarily correspond to patterns of apparent geographic isolation. Cetaceans are capable of migrating great distances, and in some cases breeding populations mix in seasonal feeding grounds up to thousands of miles from where they breed. Among those species that breed and forage within the same geographic range, intraspecific differences in feeding ecology can lead to the genetic differentiation of local populations. This review presents a summary of the available data on genetic diversity and differentiation within cetacean species, with an emphasis on the ecological context.
2097208|Paleontologists have always been concerned about the documentary quality of the fossil record, and this has also become an important issue for biologists, who increasingly look to accumulations of bones, shells, and plant material as possible ways to extend the time-frame of observation on species and community behaviors. Quantitative data on the postmortem behavior of organic remains in modern environments are providing new insights into death and fossil assemblages as sources of biological information. Important findings include: 1. With the exception of a few circumstances, usually recognizable by independent criteria, transport out of the original life habitat affects few individuals. 2. Most species with preservable hardparts are in fact represented in the local death assemblage, commonly in correct rank importance. Molluscs are the most durable of modern aquatic groups studied so far, and they show highest fidelity to the original community. 3. Time-averaging of remains from successive generations and communities often prevents the detection of short-term (seasons, years) variability but provides an excellent record of the natural range of community composition and structure over longer periods. Thus, although a complex array of processes and circumstances influences preservation, death assemblages of resistant skeletal elements are for many major groups good to excellent records of community composition, morphological variation, and environmental and geographic distribution of species, and such assemblages can record temporal dynamics at ecologically and evolutionarily meaningful scales.
221724|Herbivory first evolved in terrestrial mammals during the late Cretaceous,  100 million years ago (Mya). Of the  35 ordinal-level clades of extinct or extant eutherian mammals from the New World,  24 have been adapted to herbivory in one form or another. Dental adaptations for specialized terrestrial browsing are first recognized during the early Cenozoic (Paleocene-Eocene). Mammalian herbivores adapted for grazing did not become widespread in the New World until the middle Cenozoic; it seems that this adaptation and the spread of grasslands occurred during the late Oligocene (30 Mya) in South America  10 million years earlier than in North America (20 Mya). Carbon isotopic evidence from fossil herbivore teeth indicates that C3 plants predominated until the late Miocene ( 8 Mya). Thereafter, C3 and C4 terrestrial communities diversified. Late Pleistocene extinctions  10,000 years ago decimated the diversity of mammalian herbivores, particularly those of larger body size.
2097233|The vertebrate fauna of the West Indies (1262 species) exhibits high levels of endemism and has a taxonomic composition characteristic of more isolated oceanic islands. Many groups that are widespread on the mainland are absent in the islands, and some of those present are characterized by large adaptive radiations. The growing fossil record of West Indian vertebrates, including mid-Tertiary amber fossils (considered here to be 20-30 million years old), indicates that this pattern of reduced higher-taxon diversity has persisted for a long period of time. Phylogenetic relationships of nonvolant groups display a strong South American influence, whereas volant groups (birds and bats) and freshwater fish show closer ties with Central and North America. Molecular estimates of divergence times between island taxa and their mainland counterparts indicate a Cenozoic origin (within the last 65 million years) for nearly all groups examined. Together, data from different sources point to an origin by overwater dispersal for a large majority of the vertebrate fauna. The prevailing current direction, from southeast to northwest, and the wide scattering of estimated times of origin suggest that much of the nonvolant fauna arrived by flotsam carried from the mouths of major rivers in northeastern South America. Spatial relationships, especially considering low sea levels during the Pleistocene, appear to better explain the routes of colonization taken by the volant fauna and freshwater fish. Caribbean geologic history does not preclude an origin by late Mesozoic vicariance for several possibly ancient groups, although an early Cenozoic arrival by dispersal also cannot be discounted. An integrative approach to historical biogeography is shown to be more insightful than the current trend in the field, cladistic biogeography, which places prime emphasis only on phylogenetic relationships.
221682|Declines and losses of amphibian populations are a global problem with complex local causes. These may include ultraviolet radiation, predation, habitat modification, environmental acidity and toxicants, diseases, changes in climate or weather patterns, and interactions among these factors. Understanding the extent of the problem and its nature requires an understanding of how local factors affect the dynamics of local populations. Hypotheses about population behavior must be tested against appropriate null hypotheses. We generated null hypotheses for the behavior of amphibian populations using a model, and we used them to test hypotheses about the behavior of 85 time series taken from the literature. Our results suggest that most amphibian populations should decrease more often than they increase, due to highly variable recruitment and less variable adult mortality. During the period covered by our data (1951-1997), more amphibian populations decreased than our model predicted. However, there was no indication that the proportion of populations decreasing changed over time. In addition, our review of the literature suggests that many if not most amphibians exist in metapopulations. Understanding the dynamics of amphibian populations will require an integration of studies on and within local populations and at the metapopulation level.
2097172|To achieve a coherent evolutionary theory, it is necessary to account for the effects of the environment on the process of development. Phenotypic plasticity is the change in the expressed phenotype of a genotype as a function of the environment. Various measures of plasticity exist, many of which can be united within the framework of a polynomial function. This function is the norm of reaction. For the special case of a linear reaction norm, genetic variation can be partitioned into portions that are independent and dependent on the environment. From this partition two heritability measures are derived which can be used, alternatively, to compare populations or make predictions about the response to selection. Genetically, plasticity is likely due both to differences in allelic expression across environments and to changes in interactions among loci; plasticity is not a function of heterozygosity. Plasticity responds to both artificial and natural selection. The evolution of plasticity is modeled in three ways: optimality models, quantitative genetic models, and gametic models. All models make similar predictions about the conditions that will favor plasticity. In need of further development are the extension of quantitative genetic models, and structured population models; also needed are data on the true shapes of reaction norms and genetic variation and covariation for nonlinear reaction norm parameters and multiple environments.
2097185|C
221696|Interspecific hybridization can disrupt normal resistance of plant and animal species to their parasites. Resistance to parasites is affected by hybridization in the following ways: no difference between hybrids and parentals, additivity, hybrid susceptibility, and dominance to susceptibility. Similar patterns were seen across host taxa. Responses of different parasite species vary widely to the same hybrid host, which indicates diverse genetic effects of interspecific hybridization on resistance. Differences between field and common garden or laboratory studies suggest that environmental factors in hybrid zones influence the patterns seen in the field. Based on recent studies of hybrid-parasite interactions, three avenues of future research will provide a more complete understanding of the roles of hybrids and the roles of parasites in host evolution. First, the relationship between inheritance of putative resistance mechanisms of hosts and responses of parasites needs study using analyses of recombinant progenies. Second, the interaction among environmental variation in hybrid zones, resistance mechanisms, responses of parasites, and the impact of parasites on host fitness needs experimental analysis using reciprocal transplant experiments in hybrid zones. Finally, the role of hybrids in the community structure and interactions of parasites needs study.
2952489|The diversity of organismic form has evolved nonuniformly during the history of life. Quantitative morphological studies reveal profound changes in evolutionary rates corresponding with the generation of morphological disparity at low taxonomic diversity during the early radiation of many clades. These studies have also given insight into the relative importance of genomic and ecological factors in macroevolution, the selectivity of extinction, and other issues. Important progress has been made in the development of morphological spaces that can accommodate highly disparate forms, although this area still needs more attention. Other future directions include the relationship between morphological and ecological diversification, geographic patterns in morphological diversity, and the role of morphological disparity as a causal factor in macroevolution.
221680|Over the past ten years the scientific basis for reserve selection and design have rapidly developed. This period has also been characterized by a shift in emphasis toward large spatial and organizational scales of conservation efforts. I discuss the evidence in support of this shift toward larger scale conservation by contrasting the success of fine-filter (genes, populations, species) conservation and coarse-filter (communities, habitats, ecosystems, landscapes) conservation. Conservation at both organizational scales has been successful and merits continued support, although fine-filter conservation is more straightforward. Ecological theory suggests that conservation at large scales is preferred. Despite this preference, both fine- and coarse-filter conservation objectives have been met by small reserves. In many landscapes there are no opportunities for the conservation of native species diversity that encompass a large spatial scale. Thus, reserve selection at any organizational scale may include conservation at a variety of spatial scales. A variety of methods have been suggested that integrate across scales of conservation. Some, such as umbrella, flagship, and indicator species, remain very problematic. Reserve selection algorithms and gap analyses, in contrast, offer promising opportunities to increase the efficiency of conservation at all scales.
2678650|Wolbachia bacteria are cytoplasmic endosymbionts with a wide range of effects on their hosts and are known to infect two major invertebrate groups, arthropods and nematodes. In arthropods Wolbachia alter host reproduction, causing unidirectional and bidirectional cytoplasmic incompatibility, parthenogenesis, feminization, and embryonic male killing. Wolbachia variation in reproductive effects is indicative of a high degree of evolutionary plasticity. As many as 75% of arthropods may be infected with Wolbachia, which in addition to affecting reproduction, can also directly affect host fitness by either increasing or decreasing survival and fecundity. We review the dynamics of embryonic male-killing, including effects on insect mating behavior, as well as the distribution and implication of Wolbachia infections in filarial nematodes. Arthropod host-Wolbachia phylogenies are not congruent, which is suggestive of horizontal transmission. The opposite has been shown in nematode-Wolbachia phylogenies, indicative of long-term association and vertical transmission. Multiple levels of parasitism within arthropods may promote horizontal transmission. Bacteriophage WO has recently been identified and is found in all Wolbachia-infected insect hosts so far examined. Extensive horizontal transmission of the phage occurs between different Wolbachia strains within a host as well as between Wolbachia in different hosts. The phage genome may carry genes important in determining both the effect of Wolbachia on arthropod host reproduction and host fitness and fecundity. The extensive horizontal transmission of the phage may explain the plasticity of Wolbachia's effect on arthropod hosts.
2097210|Although nothing specific has been written about women as systematic biologists, women have always been integral contributors to this scientific field. Like their male colleagues, they have contributed to systematics in a variety of ways and in roles compatible with their location in history. In the middle ages, women clerics kept the study of plant and animal diversity alive. During the zenith of natural history studies in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, women worked not only as assistants but also as independent professional naturalists collecting, describing, and classifying plants and animals. As science became professionalized at the end of the nineteenth century, women systematists joined the professional ranks first at women's colleges, then at coeducational universities, and at museums, herbaria, and government laboratories. What distinguishes women systematists from their male contemporaries are the added social obstacles they faced because of their gender. The ingenuity and perseverance they used to overcome these artificial barriers make their scientific achievements remarkable personal achievements as well.
2097202|Economics is not only a technical subject; it also reflects a strong set of values. The values embedded in the economic way of thinking are often at odds with the way of thinking of biologists, ecologists, and other physical scientists. Economists value nature in terms of its benefits for human consumption and its usefulness in promoting economic growth. Growth is so critical because it can alleviate material scarcity in the world, and poverty is the true source of evil behavior. A recent dissident group of "ecological economists" argues that, rather than growth, a more appropriate goal is sustainability. The conflicting values implicit in mainstream economics and in ecological economics partly reflect deep underlying theological differences. These differences can be traced back to old messages of the Judeo-Christian tradition, now being manifested in secular form.
3069259|An important aim of plant ecology is to identify leading dimensions of ecological variation among species and to understand the basis for them. Dimensions that can readily be measured would be especially useful, because they might offer a path towards improved worldwide synthesis across the thousands of field experiments and ecophysiological studies that use just a few species each. Four dimensions are reviewed here. The leaf mass per area-leaf lifespan (LMA-LL) dimension expresses slow turnover of plant parts (at high LMA and long LL), long nutrient residence times, and slow response to favorable growth conditions. The seed mass-seed output (SM-SO) dimension is an important predictor of dispersal to establishment opportunities (seed output) and of establishment success in the face of hazards (seed mass). The LMA-LL and SM-SO dimensions are each underpinned by a single, comprehensible tradeoff, and their consequences are fairly well understood. The leaf size-twig size (LS-TS) spectrum has obvious consequences for the texture of canopies, but the costs and benefits of large versus small leaf and twig size are poorly understood. The height dimension has universally been seen as ecologically important and included in ecological strategy schemes. Nevertheless, height includes several tradeoffs and adaptive elements, which ideally should be treated separately. Each of these four dimensions varies at the scales of climate zones and of site types within landscapes. This variation can be interpreted as adaptation to the physical environment. Each dimension also varies widely among coexisting species. Most likely this within-site variation arises because the ecological opportunities for each species depend strongly on which other species are present, in other words, because the set of species at a site is a stable mixture of strategies.
2097181|The notion of constraints is a central one in evolutionary biology. That limits may exist in the patterns resulting from diverse evolutionary processes, and the possibility that these limits can be discovered and explained mechanistically, suggests that much of evolution may be interpretable through an integrated theory of constraint. Phylogenetic constraint has been invoked in a variety of contexts but as yet there is no consensus on its definition. It is defined here as any result or component of the phylogenetic history of a lineage that prevents an anticipated course of evolution in that lineage. Hypotheses of constraint can be tested within a phylogenetic framework; understanding the nature of the constraints themselves will require a mechanistic approach that identifies the genetic and developmental components of "limits to design."
2097325|Life cycles that incorporate discrete, morphologically distinct phases predominate among animals. One explanation for the abundance and long-term persistence of complex life cycles is that they represent adaptive mechanisms for decoupling the developmental processes that underlie morphological traits of alternative phases, thereby allowing phases to respond independently to different selective forces. Another explanation is that complex life cycles persist due to developmental constraints acting on particular phases; in particular, larvae may represent the conservation of traits of early development while adult traits evolve more freely in response to selection. A role of adaptive decoupling is generally supported by comparative data on the relative extent of morphological evolution of larvae and adults and on the frequency of elimination of phases from complex life cycles. Adaptive decoupling could result from developmental compartmentalization, and within such developmental systems, heterochrony could be a route to the deletion of a life cycle phase. The extent to which complex life cycles represent adaptive mechanisms for severing developmental linkages could be elucidated both by quantitative genetic studies comparing levels of genetic correlation among phase-specific traits and by molecular developmental studies of gene expression in alternative phases.
3069257|The origin and early evolution of Cetacea (whales, dolphins, and porpoises) is one of the best examples of macroevolution as documented by fossils. Early whales are divided into six families that differ greatly in their habitats, which varied from land to freshwater, coastal waters, and fully marine. Early cetaceans lived in the Eocene (55-37 million years ago), and they show an enormous morphological diversity. Toward the end of the Eocene the modern cetacean body plan originated, and this body plan remained more or less the same in the subsequent evolution. It is possible that some aspects of this body plan are rooted in constraints that are dictated by cetacean embryologic development and controlled by genes that affect many organ systems at once. It may be possible to use a study of patterns of correlations among morphological traits to test hypotheses of developmental links among organ systems.
2097312|The large coral genus Acropora occurs throughout the world's reefs and is potentially a model for evolution and development of modern reef faunas. New research including breeding trials and genetic analyses of sympatric populations of Acropora and other corals is suggesting misalignments of breeding, morphological and genetic boundaries such that species limits may be sometimes narrower, sometimes broader, than presently perceived. Ongoing biogeographic and phylogenetic analyses are reexamining coral species in space and time and generating hypotheses about the origination of species. Synthesis of new findings from these research areas with preliminary insights from molecular data on species boundaries and phylogenies is allowing assessment of the current taxonomic framework of Acropora and of the order Scleractinia. The tacit assumption that currently defined coral species encompass biological, evolutionary, and phylogenetic species concepts may be unfounded.
2097205|The critique of modern agriculture has spawned a host of alternatives, collectively known as the alternative agriculture movement. Its critics have been fierce, its proponents zealous. Making sense of the movement is similar to making sense of the original critique--always eclectic, sometimes contradictory, too often romantic, now and then nonsensical, and occasionally brilliant. This review discusses definitions of the alternative agriculture movement, substitutes for pest control, soil management, integration of all aspects of the farming operation, and the problem of conversion of one form to another.
2097324|In marine species, high dispersal is often associated with only mild genetic differentiation over large spatial scales. Despite this generalization, there are numerous reasons for the accumulation of genetic differences between large, semi-isolated marine populations. A suite of well-known evolutionary mechanisms can operate within and between populations to result in genetic divergence, and these mechanisms may well be augmented by newly discovered genetic processes. This variety of mechanisms for genetic divergence is paralleled by great diversity in the types of reproductive isolation shown by recently diverged marine species. Differences in spawning time, mate recognition, environmental tolerance, and gamete compatibility have all been implicated in marine speciation events. There is substantial evidence for rapid evolution of reproductive isolation in strictly allopatric populations (e.g. across the Isthmus of Panama). Evidence for the action of selection in increasing reproductive isolation in sympatric populations is fragmentary. Although a great deal of information is available on population genetics, reproductive isolation, and cryptic or sibling species in marine environments, the influence of particular genetic changes on reproductive isolation is poorly understood for marine (or terrestrial) taxa. For a few systems, like the co-evolution of gamete recognition proteins, changes in a small number of genes may give rise to reproductive isolation. Such studies show how a focus on the physiology, ecology, or sensory biology of reproductive isolation can help uncover the genetic changes associated with speciation and can also help provide a link between the genetics of population divergence and the speciation process.
2097212|The five basic historical biogeographic methods are: dispersalism, phylogenetic biogeography, panbiogeography, cladistic biogeography, and parsimony analysis of endemicity. Dispersalism derives from the traditional concepts of center of origin and dispersal. Bremer's recent cladistic implementation of dispersalism estimates the relative probability that different areas were part of the ancestral distribution of a group. Phylogenetic biogeography applies the rules of progression and deviation to elucidate the history of the geographical distribution of a group. Panbiogeography consists of plotting distributions of different taxa on maps, connecting their distribution areas together with lines called individual tracks, and looking for coincidence among individual tracks to determine generalized tracks. Generalized tracks indicate the preexistence of widespread ancestral biotas, subsequently fragmented by geological or climatic changes. Cladistic biogeography assumes a correspondence between taxonomic relationships and area relationships, where comparisons between area cladograms derived from different taxa allow one to obtain general area cladograms. The most important cladistic biogeographic procedures are: component analysis, Brooks parsimony analysis, three-area statements, and reconciled trees. Parsimony analysis of endemicity (PAE) classifies areas by their shared taxa, analogous to characters, according to the most parsimonious solution. We think the various methods are not mutually-exclusive alternatives, but some of them can be integrated in a single biogeographic approach, with the capability of resolving different problems, such as the recognition of spatial homology (panbiogeography), the identification of areas of endemism (PAE), and the formulation of hypotheses about area relationships (cladistic biogeography).
221731|Macroevolution in the grasses has often involved change in the position (heterotopy) of developmental programs, possibly via ectopic gene expression. Heterotopy apparently has been involved in the evolution of unique epidermal morphology in the grasses and their sister genus, Joinvillea; in the origin of the grass flower and possibly in the spikelet as well; in the formation of unisexual flowers in the panicoid grasses, and in the repeated origin of C
2097201|We define the concept of a common-pool resource based on two attributes: the difficulty of excluding beneficiaries and the subtractability of use. We present similarities and differences among common-pool resources in regard to their ecological and institutional significance. The design principles that characterize long-surviving, delicately balanced resource systems governed by local rules systems are presented, as is a synthesis of the research on factors affecting institutional change. More complex biological resources are a greater challenge to the design of sustainable institutions, but the same general principles appear to carry over to more complex systems. We present initial findings from pilot studies in Uganda related to the effects of institutions on forest conditions.
3069268|Examples of androdioecy, the coexistence of males and hermaphrodites, was unknown when the subject was last reviewed about two decades ago. Since then, several examples have been discovered in both plants and animals, and we are now in a position to reappraise theoretical work on the subject. Whereas early ideas were framed largely in terms of the invasion of males into hermaphroditic populations, all of the clearest examples of androdioecy now known appear to have evolved from dioecy. There are strong indications that this has occurred repeatedly as a result of the selection of self-fertile hermaphroditism for reproductive assurance during colonization. Male frequencies in these species are highly variable, self-fertilization in hermaphrodites is delayed, and mating opportunities appear to depend strongly on population density. Results from theoretical work on the evolution and maintenance of androdioecy in single populations and in metapopulations are summarized, and several case studies of androdioecious plants and animals are reviewed.
3069273|Advances in taphonomy and stratigraphy over the past two decades have dramatically improved our understanding of the causes, effects, and remedies of incompleteness in the fossil record for the study of evolution. Taphonomic research has focused on quantifying probabilities of preservation across taxonomic groups, the temporal and spatial resolution of fossil deposits, and secular changes in preservation over the course of the Phanerozoic. Stratigraphic research has elucidated systematic trends in the formation of sedimentary gaps and permanent stratigraphic records, the quantitative consequences of environmental change and variable rock accumulation rates over short and long timescales, and has benefited from greatly improved methods of correlation and absolute age determination. We provide examples of how these advances are transforming paleontologic investigations of the tempo and mode of morphologic change, phylogenetic analysis, and the environmental and temporal analysis of macroevolutionary patterns.
3069276|Politicians, scientists, government agencies, and the public are all engaged in recovery planning for Pacific salmon. In order for science to fulfill its potential in the arena of salmon recovery planning, several shortcomings of the science and its application to decision-making must be rectified. The definition of conservation units using genetic and phylogenetic inference needs to be sharpened. Ecological analyses must get beyond casting blame for past declines in salmon numbers and examine mixed strategies of management that consider interactions between hatcheries, harvest, hydropower, and habitat factors as well as background natural stresses and invasive species. Glib acceptance of expert opinion and extrapolated or inferred data should be tempered. To deal with uncertainty, recovery teams should engage in scenario analyses in which a wide variety of assumptions are played out. Finally, there is a pressing need for analyses aimed at determining what circumstances and communication strategies give science an effective voice in decision-making.
2097209|After briefly introducing the hierarchical perspective, I discuss several theoretical issues concerning the nature of species selection and Vrba's effect hypothesis, and I review recent empirical evidence supporting hierarchical approaches to macroevolution. I argue that Vrba's influential definition of species selection is flawed in two ways. First, species selection does not require emergent traits because higher-level selection acting on aggregate traits can oppose lower-level selection. Second, clades do not play the same role in species selection that populations play in organismic selection. If explanatory and ontological reductionism are distinguished, then even though effect macroevolution does not involve a distinct macroevolutionary process, effect hypothesis explanations can be irreducible. A few well-documented cases of species selection and effect macroevolution suggest the need for a hierarchical expansion of neodarwinism.
2097179|We assessed the current state of avian molecular systematics by (i) considering some of the historical factors that have shaped the field in the last 20 years, (ii) reviewing the most commonly used molecular methods, and (iii) comparing higher-level phylogenies via congruence analysis. This three-pronged approach permitted us to identify strongly supported aspects of avian phylogeny and to propose technological and methodological explanations when congruence was low. We found, in general, that few areas of higher-level avian phylogeny are well supported and, hence, well understood. One main reason for this is that, despite a great deal of effort, few studies of higher-level avian phylogenetic relationships have been well planned and executed. Some investigations, for example, have gone astray because of preconceptions about rates of molecular evolution and monophyly, and others suffer from such problems as failure to find the shortest tree, lack of an outgroup, use of a nonmetric distance measure, and simple mistakes. This is not to say, however, that available techniques are incapable of reconstructing avian phylogeny. The extent of congruence that we found among branching patterns estimated by different methods, including carefully designed cladistic morphological analyses, indicates that when applied appropriately, a variety of methods provide useful insight into phylogeny.
2097313|We develop a model that outlines the movements and fates of seeds after they leave the parent plant, and then we examine the relative influences of abiotic and biotic factors on those movements and fates. Phase I dispersal is movement of a seed from the parent to a surface, while Phase II dispersal includes subsequent horizontal or vertical movements. Although less studied, Phase II dispersal is more likely to account for the patterning of plants in communities and ecosystems and is the focus of this review. Abiotic factors influence Phase II dispersal--the distance and type of movement depend on seed morphology, surface attributes, and the nature of the physical forces. Biotic factors (animals) move seeds to new sites passively either on body surfaces or by ingestion, or actively by consuming fruits or hoarding seeds. Animals also influence the movements of seeds through digging and burrowing activities. Arrival at microsites suitable for germination and establishment is critical and is affected not only by abiotic and biotic factors but also by seed morphology and germination responses. We emphasize that seed banks are much more dynamic than they are usually portrayed. Although often poorly quantified, seed mortality can occur at any point in the model. Sufficient differences exist among biomes that certain generalizations can be made regarding seed dynamics. Knowledge of seed movements and fates is essential for ecosystem restoration and conservation efforts and for the control of alien species in all biomes. The consequence of all this activity of the animals and of the elements in transporting seeds is that almost every part of the earth's surface is filled with seeds or vivacious roots of seedlings of various kinds, and in some cases probably seeds are dug up from far below the surface which still retain their vitality. The very earth itself is a granary and a seminary, so that to some minds its surface is regarded as the cuticle of one great living creature.
2678634|Sex chromosome drive refers to the unequal transmission of X and Y chromosomes from individuals of the heterogametic sex, resulting in biased sex ratios among progeny and within populations. The presence of driving sex chromosomes can reduce mean fitness within a population, bring about intragenomic conflict between the X chromosome, the Y, and the autosomes, and alter the intensity or mode of sexual selection within species. Sex chromosome drive, or its genetic equivalent, is known in plants, mammals, and flies. Many species harboring driving X chromosomes have evolved Y-linked and autosomal suppressors of drive. If a drive polymorphism is not stable, then driving chromosomes may spread to fixation and cause the extinction of a species. Certain characteristics of species, such as population density and female mating rate, may affect the probability of fixation of driving chromosomes. Thus, sex chromosome drive could be an agent of species-level selection.
2097319|Asclepiadaceae are the dicot counterparts to the Orchidaceae, which also transmit their pollen grains in large groups within pollinia. Unlike many terrestrial, nectar-producing orchids, however, milkweeds are characterized by low fruit-set, typically averaging 1-5%. Transfer of hundreds of pollen grains as a unit makes it possible to quantify pollinator activity and male and female reproductive success more directly and more easily in milkweeds than in plants with loose pollen grains. It also leads to the production of fruits whose seeds all share a single father, thus simplifying paternity analysis. Recent anatomical work has demonstrated that three of the five stigmatic chambers of milkweed flowers transmit pollen tubes to one of the two separate ovaries, whereas the other two chambers transmit only to the second ovary. Milkweed flowers are long-lived and produce copious nectar, which flows from nectaries within the stigmatic chambers to fill the hoods, which serve as reservoirs. Nectar also serves as the germination fluid for pollen grains, but concentrations above 30% inhibit germination. Most milkweeds are genetically self-incompatible and express an unusual late-acting form of ovarian rejection. Some weedy milkweeds, however, are self-compatible, and levels of self-insertion of pollinia are apparently high in these, as well as in self-incompatible, species. Early attempts to explain the evolution of inflorescence size in milkweeds were hampered by failure to consider the genetic basis of the variation observed and by failure to determine the unit on which selection should act. Direct tests of the "pollen donation" hypothesis have cast doubt on the validity of the view that flower number and other floral traits evolved primarily to enhance male reproductive success. Milkweeds are pollinated by a diverse array of large bees, wasps, and butterflies, and these generalist pollinators effect extensive gene flow within and between populations, augmented by wind dispersal of comose seeds. Morphological and biochemical evidence support the view that limited, localized hybridization occurs between sympatric species of milkweeds.
221742|Understanding the evolutionary processes that generate and sustain diversity in tropical faunas has challenged biologists for over a century and should underpin conservation strategies. Molecular studies of diversity within species and relationships among species, when integrated with more traditional approaches of biogeography and paleoecology, have much to contribute to this challenge. Here we outline the current major hypotheses, develop predictions relevant to integrated molecular approaches, and evaluate the current evidence, focusing on central African, Australian, and South American systems. The available data are sparse relative to the scale of the questions. However, the following conclusions can be drawn: (a) in most cases, the divergence of extant sister taxa predates the Pleistocene; (b) areas with high habitat heterogeneity and recent climatic or geological instability appear to harbor more species of recent origin; (c) there is support for both allopatric and gradient models of diversification and more attention should be given to the role of diversifying selection regardless of geographic context; and (d) conservation strategies should seek to protect heterogeneous landscapes within and adjacent to large rainforest areas, rather than rainforests alone.
3069272|The use of stable isotope techniques in plant ecological research has grown steadily during the past two decades. This trend will continue as investigators realize that stable isotopes can serve as valuable nonradioactive tracers and nondestructive integrators of how plants today and in the past have interacted with and responded to their abiotic and biotic environments. At the center of nearly all plant ecological research which has made use of stable isotope methods are the notions of interactions and the resources that mediate or influence them. Our review, therefore, highlights recent advances in plant ecology that have embraced these notions, particularly at different spatial and temporal scales. Specifically, we review how isotope measurements associated with the critical plant resources carbon, water, and nitrogen have helped deepen our understanding of plant-resource acquisition, plant interactions with other organisms, and the role of plants in ecosystem studies. Where possible we also introduce how stable isotope information has provided insights into plant ecological research being done in a paleontological context. Progress in our understanding of plants in natural environments has shown that the future of plant ecological research will continue to see some of its greatest advances when stable isotope methods are applied.
2678642|Intraspecific variation in territory size and shape can have strong effects on population structure and dynamics. The traditional theoretical approach to the study of territory size is based on optimality models that analyze decisions of focal residents as responses to the costs and benefits of defense. These models have stimulated numerous empirical studies showing that territory holders adjust their behavior according to rates of intrusion and availability of food. However, models of optimal territory size are applicable only in limited circumstances because they focus on unilateral decisions rather than on interactions. Furthermore, observational and experimental studies often find that territory sizes are insensitive to food supply. Recently, greater emphasis has been placed on two alternative approaches. The first concerns interactions among contiguous neighbors and how these affect use of space. In these models territory size and shape are determined by the balance of pressure exerted at boundaries or arise as the results of local rules of movement and interaction. The second alternative approach views territory size as the outcome of interactions between established residents and potential settlers attempting to acquire territories. By considering the simultaneous actions of multiple competitors, these models allow quantitative prediction of the effects of territory defense on population density and spatial patterns as well as responses to environmental change.
2097196|This paper reviews the current status of the debate about the concept of environmental sustainability and discusses related aspects of growth, limits, scale, and substitutability. While the paths leading to environmental sustainability in each country or sector will differ, the goal remains constant. But this conceptualization is far from an academic exercise. Ensuring, within less than two human generations, that as many as 10 billions people are decently fed and housed without damaging the environment on which we all depend represents a monumental challenge.
221683|Until recently, studies of plant reproductive systems have been at the population level, using microevolutionary approaches. The development of cladistic approaches, combined with the emergence of molecular systematics, has resulted in an explosion of phylogenetic studies and an increase in interdisciplinary approaches combining ecological and systematic methodology. These new approaches offer the possibility of testing explicit hypotheses about the number of evolutionary transitions in reproductive characters and the evolutionary relationship of these characters to changes in the environment. Character mapping may be especially useful for detecting convergent evolution. In a number of cases, character mapping has provided new insights into the evolution of plant breeding systems and pollination biology, especially in suggesting the number of times evolutionary transitions have taken place, indicating where there have been reversals and suggesting when preadaptation has been important. The insights provided by character mapping are determined by a number of factors, including the degree of confidence in phylogenies underlying these studies and the identification of appropriate outgroups. Assumptions about character coding, character ordering, inclusion vs. exclusion of characters that are mapped on trees in the data matrix, and weighting of characters will have profound effects on interpretation of character evolution. Highly labile characters that evolve frequently and have the potential to undergo reversals may make it difficult to detect the pattern of character evolution. Characters that are very strongly correlated with each other or with ecological shifts may make prediction of cause and effect using phylogenetic approaches difficult because changes in characters and ecological shifts will occur, apparently simultaneously, on the same branches. Results from microevolutionary studies have been used in several cases to weight transitions, suggesting that results of phylogenetic studies may not provide fully independent assessments of character evolution. While not a simple cure to understanding problems that have been studied only in the realm of microevolutionary studies, phylogenetic approaches offer clear potential for providing new insights for evolutionary studies.
2097241|The proliferation of molecular data in systematics has opened a Pandora's box of alternate approaches to inferring hierarchical patterns of relationship among taxa. In this review, we examine practical and theoretical reasons for employing some methods and avoiding others. We offer a philosophical overview of the relationship between systematics patterns and evolutionary processes, and we discuss the differential emphasis given to each of these areas by opposing methodological camps. We review the sources and types of incongruence between data partitions from different sources and recommend a specific procedure for contending with incongruence. We then focus on inference of relationships among closely related taxa, with particular emphasis on mtDNA as a source of characters, its advantages and potential pitfalls. We conclude with a review of several widely cited empirical studies and suggest that the gene tree-species tree problem may be less severe than its prevalence in the literature would suggest.
2097175|In the light of available paleontological, genetic, and ecological data, we attempt to reconstruct the natural history of the house mouse (Mus musculus) and to justify a systematics. The house mouse is the most recent phylogenetic offshoot of the genus Mus. Its present components result from a radiation that took place most probably in the north of the Indian subcontinent about 0.5 MYA. The different colonization paths into the rest of Eurasia led to the present day subspecies: M. m. domesticus in western Europe and the Mediterranean basin, M. m. musculus from central Europe to northern China, and M. m. castaneus in southeast Asia. The central populations remain very polymorphic and are not attributable to any of these subspecies; the status of M. m. bactrianus is unclear. This radiation led to a mosaic evolution of the different parts of the genome in these subspecies. The expansion to the periphery of the Eurasian range, and more recently to the rest of the world, is related to human activity. In the case of M. m. domesticus commensalism apparently started with human sedentism in the Fertile Crescent, but its extension to the western Meditteranean basin occurred only after Neolithic times. The recent expansion has produced zones of secondary contact at the periphery of the continent. For instance, in Europe M. m. domesticus and M. m. musculus have formed a narrow hybrid zone where selection prevents the introgression of sex chromosomes. M. m. musculus and M. m. castaneus have extensively mixed in the Japanese archipelago, and intergrade in central China. The house mouse thus offers a series of replicates of the process of geographic speciation. Commensalism with humans has modified the population structure mainly through fragmentation of populations and high local densities. Possibly in relation to this way of life, M. m. domesticus has evolved many populations with various combinations of Robertsonian translocations, a choice model to study stasipatric speciation. Finally its commensalism has led to its domestication in the form of laboratory strains, which have a polyphyletic origin.
2097217|Food web theory makes quantitative and qualitative predictions about the patterns of population dynamics to be expected in food webs with particular structures. Some of these predictions can be tested by comparing population dynamics in simple food chains of different architecture. Few studies have been designed specifically to manipulate food chain properties as a test of food web theory, but relevant information can be gleaned from studies of predator-prey dynamics in which food chain structure is known to vary in important ways. For example, comparisons of prey population dynamics in the presence or absence of a predator can be used to infer the consequences of a small change in food chain length. Common consequences of increased food chain length include greater temporal variation in abundance and a greater frequency of local extinctions. Studies that compare the impact of omnivore and nonomnivore predators are so infrequent that few conclusions can be reached. Experimental studies of links between productivity and food chain length or population dynamics are also scarce. However, an emerging theme is that both increased and decreased productivity sometimes result in shorter food chains, probably for different mechanistic reasons. Studies of trophic cascades indicate that differences in the length of linear food chains have important consequences for the standing stock of species in different trophic levels, regardless of any effects on dynamics. Finally, a few studies of relations between food web complexity and the dynamics suggest that more complex systems can be less stable than simple systems, although these effects probably depend on how complexity is distributed among trophic levels.
221740| Selective reporting--e.g., the preferential publication of results that are statistically significant, or consistent with theory or expectation--presents a challenge to meta-analysis and seriously undermines the quest for generalizations. Funnel graphs (scatterplots of effect size vs. sample size) help reveal the extent of selective reporting. They also allow the strength of biological effects to be judged easily, and they reaffirm the value of graphical presentations of data over statistical summaries. Funnel graphs of published results, including: (a) sex-ratio variation in birds, (b) field estimates of heritabilities, and (c) relations between fluctuating asymmetry and individual attractiveness or fitness, suggest selective reporting is widespread and raise doubts about the true magnitude of these phenomena. Quasireplication--the "replication" of previous studies using different species or systems--has almost completely supplanted replicative research in ecology and evolution. Without incentives for formal replicative studies, which could come from changes to editorial policies, graduate training programs, and research funding priorities, the contract of error will continue to thwart attempts at robust generalizations. 
221737|In large-herbivore populations, environmental variation and density dependence co-occur and have similar effects on various fitness components. Our review aims to quantify the temporal variability of fitness components and examine how that variability affects changes in population growth rates. Regardless of the source of variation, adult female survival shows little year-to-year variation [coefficient of variation (CV <10%)], fecundity of prime-aged females and yearling survival rates show moderate year-to-year variation (CV <20%), and juvenile survival and fecundity of young females show strong variation (CV >30%). Old females show senescence in both survival and reproduction. These patterns of variation are independent of differences in body mass, taxonomic group, and ecological conditions. Differences in levels of maternal care may fine-tune the temporal variation of early survival. The immature stage, despite a low relative impact on population growth rate compared with the adult stage, may be the critical component of population dynamics of large herbivores. Observed differences in temporal variation may be more important than estimated relative sensitivity or elasticity in determining the relative demographic impact of various fitness components.
2097243|The majority of marine populations are demographically open; their replenishment is largely or exclusively dependent on a supply of juveniles from the plankton. In spite of much recent research, no consensus has yet been reached regarding the importance of recruitment relative to other demographic processes in determining local population densities. We argue 1. that demographic theory suggests that, except under restrictive and unlikely conditions, recruitment must influence local population density to some extent. Therefore, 2. the question as to whether the size of a particular population is limited by recruitment is misguided. Finally, 3. the effect of recruitment on population size can be difficult to detect but is nonetheless real. A major weakness of most existing studies is a lack of attention to the survival of recruits over appropriate scales of time and space. Acknowledgement of the multifactorial determination of population density should guide the design of future experimental studies of the demography of open populations.
3069262|The second largest zone of coastal hypoxia (oxygen-depleted waters) in the world is found on the northern Gulf of Mexico continental shelf adjacent to the outflows of the Mississippi and Atchafalaya Rivers. The combination of high freshwater discharge, wind mixing, regional circulation, and summer warming controls the strength of stratification that goes through a well-defined seasonal cycle. The physical structure of the water column and high nutrient loads that enhance primary production lead to an annual formation of the hypoxic water mass that is dominant from spring through late summer. Paleoindicators in dated sediment cores indicate that hypoxic conditions likely began to appear around the turn of the last century and became more severe since the 1950s as the nitrate flux from the Mississippi River to the Gulf of Mexico tripled. Whereas increased nutrients enhance the production of some organisms, others are eliminated from water masses (they either emigrate from the area or die) where the oxygen level falls below 2 mg 1
221733|We summarize the influences of harvester ants of the genus Pogonomyrmex on communities and ecosystems. Because of nest densities, the longevity of nests, and the amount of seed harvested and soil handled, harvester ants have significant direct and indirect effects on community structure and ecosystem functioning. Harvester ants change plant species composition and diversity near their nests. These changes result from differential seed predation by the ants, their actions as seed dispersers and competitors with other granivores, and the favorable soil conditions they create through their digging. Their nest building creates islands of increased nutrient density. In some areas, the effects of their activities may be so pervasive that plant community structure is strongly influenced. Ant removal studies, which would reveal their total impact, have generally not been done. Granivore removals have been conducted in North America where ants are of lesser importance than small mammals, in contrast to other areas (except Israel) where ants are dominant granivores. We review the influence of harvester ants on their competitors, predators, and nest associates, and catalog the factors that influence their foraging patterns and consequently their local distribution.
2097188|Miniaturization, or the evolution of extremely small adult body size, is a widespread phenomenon in animals. It has important consequences for both organismal biology and phyletic diversification above the species level. The miniaturized phenotype is a complex combination of ancestral and derived traits, including reduction and structural simplification, increased variability, and morphological novelty. Many features likely represent secondary consequences of size decrease, which may be the result of selection primarily for small body size or some related attribute such as life history characteristics. In some cases, miniaturization has resulted in novel bauplans associated with the origin of higher taxa. Evaluation of causes and consequences of miniaturization should consider obvious features of physical size as well as less obvious, but biologically important, features such as genome and cell size.
2678639|Evolutionary biology is widely perceived as a discipline with relevance that lies purely in academia. Until recently, that perception was largely true, except for the often neglected role of evolutionary biology in the improvement of agricultural crops and animals. In the past two decades, however, evolutionary biology has assumed a broad relevance extending far outside its original bounds. Phylogenetics, the study of Darwin's theory of "descent with modification," is now the foundation of disease tracking and of the identification of species in medical, pharmacological, or conservation settings. It further underlies bioinformatics approaches to the analysis of genomes. Darwin's "evolution by natural selection" is being used in many contexts, from the design of biotechnology protocols to create new drugs and industrial enzymes, to the avoidance of resistant pests and microbes, to the development of new computer technologies. These examples present opportunities for education of the public and for nontraditional career paths in evolutionary biology. They also provide new research material for people trained in classical approaches.
2678651|Terrestrial and marine ecosystems function as sources and sinks for reactive trace gases, and in doing so, profoundly influence the oxidative photochemistry in the troposphere. Principal biogenic processes include microbial methane production and oxidation, the emission of volatile organic compounds from forest ecosystems, the emission of nitric oxide from soils, the emission of reactive sulfur compounds and carbon monoxide from marine ecosystems, control over the production of hydroxyl radical concentration by regional hydrologic processes, and deposition of ozone and nitrogen oxides to ecosystems. The combined influence of these processes is to affect the tropospheric concentrations of ozone, hydroxyl radicals, reactive nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, and inorganic acids, all of which constitute fundamental components of oxidative photochemistry. In this review we discuss the recent literature related to the primary controls over the biosphere-atmosphere exchange of reactive trace gases, and also to efforts to model the dominant biospheric influences on oxidative dynamics of the troposphere. These studies provide strong support for the paradigm that biospheric processes exert the dominant control over oxidative chemistry in the lower atmosphere. Improvements in our ability to model biospheric influences on tropospheric chemistry, and its susceptibility to global change, will come from inclusion of more explicit information on the processes that control the emission and uptake of reactive trace gases and the impact of changes in ecosystem cover and land-use change.
221705|It has recently been argued that the paradox of helping behavior in birds has been solved (73). This optimism may be premature. I argue that there is no obvious dichotomy between cooperative societies based on natal philopatry and the formation of extended families, and those formed via recruitment of unrelated individuals into coalitions. Tests of the effect of helping behavior suggest that kinship may have been overemphasized for male helpers but underestimated for females. The first studies applying molecular techniques to resolve genealogy in these societies suggest that reproductive sharing occurs commonly across all types of social organization. Incest avoidance may be an important constraint on sharing in families, but molecular techniques have thus far been inappropriate to assess its importance. The interests of males and female helpers may be quite different because females often have less opportunity to inherit a territory vacancy on the death of the breeder, less opportunity to court mates by helping them, and less opportunity to share reproduction without perturbing the size of the brood. We still have only a weak understanding of sex biases in helping behavior.
2097211|Recent topics in molecular anthropology are reviewed with special reference to hominoid DNA sequences and population genetics theory. To cover a wide range of possible demographic situations in the human lineage since the Miocene, a model is introduced that allows temporal changes in population structure and size. The coalescence process of neutral genes is formulated and used to make quantitative inferences on the origin and history of humans. Nuclear DNA sequence data support the theory that humans and chimpanzees diverged from each other 4.6 million years (mya) and the gorilla lineage branched off as early as 7.0-7.4 mya. The same data estimate the effective size of the Pliocene hominoid population as 10
221695|Domesticated plant taxa cannot be regarded as evolutionarily discrete from their wild relatives. Most domesticated plant taxa mate with wild relatives somewhere in the world, and gene flow from crop taxa may have a substantial impact on the evolution of wild populations. In a literature review of the world's 13 most important food crops, we show that 12 of these crops hybridize with wild relatives in some part of their agricultural distribution. We use population genetic theory to predict the evolutionary consequences of gene flow from crops to wild plants and discuss two applied consequences of crop-to-wild gene flow-the evolution of aggressive weeds and the extinction of rare species. We suggest ways of assessing the likelihood of hybridization, introgression, and the potential for undesirable gene flow from crops into weeds or rare species.
221730|The composition and structure of the semiarid or desert grasslands of southwestern North America have changed over the past 150 y. Brushy or woody species in these communities have increased in density and cover. This increase in density of woody species is called brush encroachment because most of these species have been present in these communities at lower densities for thousands of years. The brushy or woody species were not introduced from other continents or from great distances. They are indigenous species that have increased in density or cover because of changes in local abiotic or biotic conditions. The brushy and woody plants are not the cause of these changes, but their increase is the result of other factors. The causes of changes that have led to the present woody-brushy composition of these semiarid grasslands has been difficult to determine. Warming of the climate seems to be a background condition, but the driving force seems to be chronic, high levels of herbivory by domestic animals. This herbivory has reduced the aboveground grass biomass, leading to the reduction of fine fuel and a concomitant reduction or complete elimination of grassland fires. This combination of factors favors the encroachment, establishment, survival and growth of woody plants. Less competition from grasses, dispersal of seeds of woody plants by domestic animals, and changes in rodent, lagomorph, and insect populations seem to modify the rate of change. Elevated levels of atmospheric CO
2097190|The interaction of physical and biological processes is extremely important in structuring the biological communities in all marine environments, yet the complexity of this interaction at all scales is just beginning to be appreciated. We review the patterns of plankton biomass and the processes that influence plankton production, and in particular emphasize the importance of different processes at different time and space scales (small-scale, mesoscale, and large-scale). Examples of two different systems (the Southern Ocean and the subarctic North Pacific and North Atlantic Oceans) are given to illustrate the complexity and strength of the interactions. We conclude that biological processes may be more important at smaller scales where behavior such as vertical migration and predation may control the plankton production, whereas physical processes may be more important at larger scales in structuring biological communities. An understanding of both, however, is critical to an understanding of the distribution of plankton and the processes governing production in the ocean.
2097219|A central tenet of evolutionary theory is that mutation is random with respect to its adaptive consequences for individual organisms; that is, the production of variation precedes and does not cause adaptation. Several recent experimental reports have challenged this tenet by suggesting that bacteria (and yeast) "may have mechanisms for choosing which mutations will occur" (6, p. 142). The phenomenon of nonrandom mutation claimed in these experiments was initially called "directed mutation" but has undergone several name changes during its brief and controversial history. The directed mutation hypothesis has not fared well; many examples of apparently directed mutation have been rejected in favor of more conventional explanations, and several reviews questioning the validity of directed mutation have appeared (53, 54, 59-61, 79, 80). Nonetheless, directed mutation has recently been reincarnated under the confusing label "adaptive mutation" (5, 23, 24, 27, 35, 74). Here we discuss the many experimental and conceptual problems with directed/adaptive mutation, and we argue that the most plausible molecular models proposed to explain "adaptive mutation" are entirely consistent with the modern Darwinian concept of adaptation by natural selection on randomly occurring variation. In the concluding section of the paper, we discuss the importance of an informed evolutionary approach in the study of the potential adaptive significance of mutational phenomena. Knowledge of the molecular bases of mutation is increasing rapidly, but rigorous evolutionary understanding lags behind. We note that ascribing adaptive significance to mutational phenomena (for example, "adaptive mutation") is beset with some of the same difficulties as ascribing adaptive significance to features of whole organisms (29). We consider some examples of mutational phenomena along with possible adaptive and nonadaptive explanations.
2952487|Although the history of life has been characterized by intermittent episodes of radiation that can be recognized in global compilations of biodiversity, it does not necessarily follow that these episodes are caused by processes that occurred uniformly around the world. Major diversity increases could be generated by the cumulative effects of different mechanisms operating simultaneously at several geographic or environmental scales. The purpose of this review is to describe ongoing research on the manifestations, at several scales, of the Ordovician Radiation, which was among the most extensive intervals of diversification in the history of life. Through much of the period, diversity was concentrated most heavily near regions of active mountain building and volcanism; differences in diversity patterns from continent to continent, and among regions within continents, reflect this overprint. While this suggests a linkage of the Radiation and tectonic activity, this is by no means the only mediating agent. Outcrop-based research in North America has demonstrated that tectonic activity was detrimental to some biotic elements, in contrast to its effects on other organisms. Moreover, in the Great Basin of North America where the local stratigraphic record is of particularly high quality, biotic transitions characteristic of the period occurred far more rapidly than observed in global compilations of diversity, suggesting that the global rate of transition may represent the aggregate sum of transitions that occurred abruptly, but at different times, around the world. Finally, it has been demonstrated that, in concert with an increase in average age, the environmental and geographic ranges of Ordovician genera both increased significantly through the period, indicating a role for intrinsic factors in producing Ordovician biotic patterns.
2952494|The development of theory on density-dependent natural selection has seen a transition from very general, logistic growth-based models to theories that incorporate details of specific life histories. This transition has been justified by the need to make predictions that can then be tested experimentally with specific model systems like bacteria or Drosophila. The most general models predict that natural selection should increase density-dependent rates of population growth. When trade-offs exist, those genotypes favored in low-density environments will show reduced per capita growth rates under crowded conditions and vice versa for evolution in crowded environments. This central prediction has been verified twice in carefully controlled experiments with Drosophila. Empirical research in this field has also witnessed a major transition from field-based observations and conjecture to carefully controlled laboratory selection experiments. This change in approach has permitted crucial tests of theories of density-dependent natural selection and a deeper understanding of the mechanisms of adaptation to different levels of population crowding. Experimental research with Drosophila has identified several phenotypes important to adaptation, especially at high larval densities. This same research revealed that an important trade-off occurs between competitive ability and energetic efficiency.
2952486|The evolutionary genetics of haplodiploids and X-linked genes share many features and are different from diploid (autosomal) genes in many respects. For example, the conditions for a stable polymorphism, the amount of genetic load, and the effective population size are all expected to be quite different between haplodiploids or X-linked genes and diploids. From experimental data, the genetic load for X-linked genes is much less than autosomal genes and appears less for haplodiploids than for diploids. The observed amount of molecular variation for haplodiploids is much less than that for diploids, even more so than predicted from the differences in effective population size. Extensive recently published data suggest that the differences in variation for X-linked and autosomal genes for Drosophila, mice, and humans are consistent with the differences predicted theoretically based on the relative effective population sizes.
2097310|In species assemblages of larval trematodes in individual snail hosts, fewer multispecies infections are observed than might be expected by chance. Both interspecific competition and the isolating effect of heterogeneity in recruitment may explain this pattern of community structure. Here, we analyzed the expected and observed frequency of double infections, using data culled from 62 studies. Our analysis included 296,180 host snails. Of these, 62,942 were infected with one or more species of trematode (23% pooled over all studies, 24% average across studies). By incorporating information from subsamples, we were able to estimate the proposed isolating effect of heterogeneity in recruitment. Surprisingly, spatial and temporal heterogeneity as well as differential prevalence among host size classes typically led to intensification of interactions (average increases in interactions by +19%, +19%, and +23%, respectively), while partitioning among host species usually led to isolation of potential competitors (a -1% average decrease in interactions). We calculated the expected number of interspecific double infections by applying rules of independent assortment to the frequency of trematode species. The majority of the 14,333 expected interactions did not persist; only 4,346 double infections were actually observed (a 69% decrease, 62% average). Competition, via a variety of interspecific competitive mechanisms by dominant species, is the structuring process most consistent with this paucity of observed multispecies interactions. How important is competition? Overall, we estimated that 13% (10% average) of the trematode infections were lost to interspecific interactions. Subordinate species in particular suffered very high losses.
221741|Biological invasions of marine habitats have been common, and many patterns emerge from the existing literature. In North America, we identify 298 nonindigenous species (NIS) of invertebrates and algae that are established in marine and estuarine waters, generating many "apparent patterns" of invasion: (a) The rate of reported invasions has increased exponentially over the past 200 years; (b) Most NIS are crustaceans and molluscs, while NIS in taxonomic groups dominated by small organisms are rare; (c) Most invasions have resulted from shipping; (d) More NIS are present along the Pacific coast than the Atlantic and Gulf coasts; (e) Native and source regions of NIS differ among coasts, corresponding to trade patterns. The validity of these apparent patterns remains to be tested, because strong bias exists in the data. Overall, the emergent patterns reflect interactive effects of propagule supply, invasion resistance, and sampling bias. Understanding the relative contribution of each component remains a major challenge for invasion ecology and requires standardized, quantitative measures in space and time that we now lack.
2097307|Various invertebrate and vertebrate species in which males produce acoustic or bioluminescent signals for long-range sexual advertisement exhibit collective patterns of temporal signal interactions. These patterns range from simple concentrations of signaling during a narrow diel interval to synchronous and alternating interactions entailing precisely timed phase relationships between neighboring individuals. Signals involved in synchrony and alternation are generally produced with rhythms that are under the control of central nervous oscillators. Neighboring individuals effect these interactions via mutual phase delays or phase advances of their oscillators or actual changes in the free-running periods of their oscillators. Both synchrony and alternation may represent adaptations to avoid spiteful behavior or to maximize the ability of a local group to attract females or evade natural enemies. Alternatively, these collective patterns may represent incidental outcomes of competition between males jamming each other's signals. The neural mechanisms that effect signal jamming can be selected for by critical psychophysical factors such as precedence effects. Additional competitive pressures that may generate synchrony, alternation, and other collective patterns of signal interaction include mutual assessment of rivals, evasion of detection by dominant individuals, disruption of communication within courting pairs, and narrowness of the time intervals during which receptive females are present.
2952507|Riparian zones possess an unusually diverse array of species and environmental processes. The ecological diversity is related to variable flood regimes, geographically unique channel processes, altitudinal climate shifts, and upland influences on the fluvial corridor. The resulting dynamic environment supports a variety of life-history strategies, biogeochemical cycles and rates, and organisms adapted to disturbance regimes over broad spatial and temporal scales. Innovations in riparian zone management have been effective in ameliorating many ecological issues related to land use and environmental quality. Riparian zones play essential roles in water and landscape planning, in restoration of aquatic systems, and in catalyzing institutional and societal cooperation for these efforts.
2952492|New robust phylogenies for echinoderms, based on congruent patterns derived from multiple data sets, provide a sound foundation for plotting the evolution of life-history strategies and comparing rates and patterns of larval and adult morphological change. This approach demonstrates that larval morphology has been evolving independently of adult morphology, that larval morphology displays more homoplasy than adult morphology, and that early developmental patterns are remarkably flexible. Larval morphology on its own can mislead phylogenetic analysis, not because of lateral gene transfer among distantly related taxa, but because of massive convergence in the form of nonfeeding larvae brought about by the loss of complex structures and the strong functional constraints on feeding larvae. The degree to which larval tissue is resorbed at metamorphosis is believed to be important in determining adult body plan. Although the correspondence is not precise, it does provide a model for understanding skeletal homologies among the classes.
2097225|Investigations on vertebrate seed dispersal systems in the Mediterranean show that extremely efficient plant-disperser mutualisms do not require, and thus are not evidence for, mutual evolutionary adjustments of participants. Current Mediterranean dispersal systems have apparently been shaped by means of 1. trophic and behavioral adaptations of birds morphologically preadapted to pre-existing plant resources, and 2. disperser-mediated processes of habitat-shaping occurring at an ecological time scale. These processes depend on differential recruitment of plant species as a function of disperser preferences, rather than on adjustments based on evolutionary processes. On the plant side, there is a prevalence of historical and phylogenetic effects, which reflects a series of ecological limitations inherent to the interactions between plants and dispersal agents that constrain plant adaptation to dispersers. To test adaptive hypotheses and explanations, future investigations on Mediterranean plant-disperser systems should concentrate more on the animal than on the plant side of the interaction.
221688|Polymorphism, or variation within species, is common in all kinds of data and is the major focus of research on microevolution. However, polymorphism is often ignored by those who study macroevolution: systematists and comparative evolutionary biologists. Polymorphism may have a profound impact on phylogeny reconstruction, species-delimitation, and studies of character evolution. A variety of methods are used to deal with polymorphism in phylogeny reconstruction, and many of these methods have been extremely controversial for more than 20 years. Recent research has attempted to address the accuracy of these methods (their ability to estimate the true phylogeny) and to resolve these issues, using computer simulation, congruence, and statistical analyses. These studies suggest three things: that (a) the exclusion of polymorphic characters (as is commonly done in morphological phylogenetics) is unjustified and may greatly decrease accuracy relative to analyses that include these characters; (b) methods that incorporate frequency information on polymorphic characters tend to perform best, and (c) distance and likelihood methods designed for polymorphic data may often outperform parsimony methods. Although rarely discussed, polymorphism may also have a major impact on comparative studies of character evolution, such as the reconstruction of ancestral character states. Finally, polymorphism is an important issue in the delimitation of species, although this area has been somewhat neglected methodologically. The integration of within-species variation and microevolutionary processes into studies of systematics and comparative evolutionary biology is another example of the benefits of exchange of ideas between the fields of population genetics and systematics.
221713|The study of digestive physiology provides a framework for analyzing food resources, feeding patterns, and evolutionary trends in vertebrate herbivores. Most of the research in this field, nutritional ecology, has been focused on terrestrial herbivores, especially mammals. By integrating physiological, demographic, and evolutionary approaches, the study of terrestrial herbivores has generated several important hypotheses, notably on factors determining body mass. Marine vertebrate herbivores are abundant and locally diverse, but with the exception of reptiles and mammals, we lack information on digestive physiology and processing of plant foods, the key element in terrestrial studies. This review provides a foundation for a nutritional ecology of marine vertebrate herbivores, especially teleost fish, by summarizing the available information on their digestive physiology and identifying research priorities in the field.
2678645|Understanding adaptation in morphological and physiological traits requires elucidation of how traits relate to whole-organism performance and how performance relates to fitness. A common assumption is that performance capacities are utilized by and important to organisms. For some systems, it is assumed that high levels of physical fitness, as indexed by measures of locomotor performance, lead to high fitness levels. Although biologists have appreciated this, little attention has been paid to quantifying how organisms use their performance capacities in nature. We argue that for the study of adaptation to proceed, greater integration of laboratory studies of performance and behavioral/ecological studies is needed, and we illustrate this approach by examining two questions. First, how does the environment affect locomotor function in nature? Second, what percentage of locomotor capacities do animals use in nature? A review of studies in several animal groups shows widespread effects of the environment on measures of locomotor function.
2952496|A feature common to many benthic marine plants and animals is the release of propagules that serve as the organism's only mechanism of dispersal. Successful dispersal depends to a large extent on the process of settlement--the transient phase between the pelagic life of the propagule and the benthic existence of the adult. The flow of water may affect settlement on three levels: 1. Flow can act by exerting hydrodynamic forces on settling propagules. These forces may affect the propagule's encounter with the substratum, its behavior following encounter, or both. 2. Flow may provide a settlement cue that induces active behavior of motile propagules. 3. Flow may act to mediate various settlement cues (e.g. sediment load and the concentration of attractants). We discuss these three levels of flow effects as a means of examining the potential importance of flow in the settlement process, and then we explore the ecological consequences of settlement in different flow-regimes in light of the direct effects of flow and flow-derived factors.
2097214|The genetic mosaicism hypothesis (GMH) proposed that arborescent plants accumulate spontaneous mutations and become genetically mosaic as they grow. GMH predicted that the intraplant heterogeneity influences plant-pest interactions ecologically and provided a partial solution to the problem of how long-lived trees evolve resistance to short-lived pests. Theoretical models predict that genetic mosaics should be rare (about 5%) and that genetic variation within a clonal unit should be difficult to detect. Somatic mutations can contribute more to standing genetic variation in populations than do gametic mutations and thereby can increase plant evolutionary rates. If population size is small, somatic mutations can increase heterozygosity by two or more orders of magnitude. Reported frequencies of somatic mutants match the values expected in theory: The average value of mutant frequencies per locus is 10
3069261|Invasions by non-native ants are an ecologically destructive phenomenon affecting both continental and island ecosystems throughout the world. Invasive ants often become highly abundant in their introduced range and can outnumber native ants. These numerical disparities underlie the competitive asymmetry between invasive ants and native ants and result from a complex interplay of behavioral, ecological, and genetic factors. Reductions in the diversity and abundance of native ants resulting from ant invasions give rise to a variety of direct and indirect effects on non-ant taxa. Invasive ants compete with and prey upon a diversity of other organisms, including some vertebrates, and may enter into or disrupt mutualistic interactions with numerous plants and other insects. Experimental studies and research focused on the native range ecology of invasive ants will be especially valuable contributions to this field of study.
2097232|Official conservation efforts for the northern spotted owl began in the United States in 1975 when it was declared "threatened" in the state of Oregon; efforts continued in a sporadic and unsystematic way through the 1980s. In 1989 the Interagency Scientific Committee (ISC) was established by Congress and charged with the development of a scientifically defensible conservation strategy covering the entire range of the northern spotted owl, which includes parts of the states of Oregon, Washington, and California. The ISC collated all spotted owl research and approached questions concerning the need for a conservation strategy and the efficacy of potential reserve designs as testable hypotheses. Because the hypothesis tests were based on incomplete data and highly stylized population models, uncertainty concerning the conclusions of the ISC remained. Subsequent research focused on answering those uncertainties, and here we revisit the ISC's conclusions, asking which if any of them have been invalidated. The ISC's major conclusions have remained robust: The population of spotted owls is declining due to reductions in old growth habitat. Subsequent trend-analyses confirmed the levels of population decline calculated by the ISC and in addition concluded that the rate of decline was accelerating. The ISC's response to these conclusions was to recommend the establishment of an extensive network of large reserves. Subsequent research and more detailed computer modeling have confirmed the conceptual validity of this conservation plan but suggest that optimistic assumptions led the ISC to propose a minimal reserve structure. Current federal management plans in the Pacific Northwest propose more habitat than the ISC envisioned, providing a greater likelihood of persistence.
2952508|Sexual size dimorphism (SSD) is common in both plants and animals, and current evidence suggests that it reflects the adaptation of males and females to their different reproductive roles. When species are compared within a clade, SSD is frequently found to vary with body size. This allometry is detected as   1, where  is the slope of a model II regression of log (male size) on log(female size). Most frequently,  exceeds 1, indicating that SSD increases with size where males are the larger sex, but decreases with size where females are larger, a trend formalized as "Rensch's rule." Exceptions are uncommon and associated with female-biased SSD. These trends are derived from a sample of 40 independent clades of terrestrial animals, primarily vertebrates. Their extension to plants and aquatic animals awaits quantitative assessments of allometry for SSD within these groups. Many functional hypotheses have been proposed to explain the evolution of allometry for SSD, most featuring sexual selection on males or reproductive selection on females. Of these, the hypothesis that allometry evolves because of correlational selection between the sexes appears most promising as a general model but remains untested.
2097186|Selfing, the fusion of male and female gametes from a single genetic individual or colony, is possible in many plants and also in hermaphrodite animals. We review the occurrence of selfing and mechanisms for its avoidance, in functionally hermaphrodite animal and plants. We discuss means by which selfing can be detected and briefly review techniques for estimation of selfing frequencies in natural populations. Although many functionally hemaphrodite species are probably almost complete outcrossers or inbreeders, mixed mating systems are also found in both plant and animal populations. We review theories for the advantages and disadvantages of selfing, and for the maintenance of mixed mating systems, together with empirical data showing that at least some of the factors involved in the theories (for instance, reproductive assurance, cost of mating, and inbreeding depression) are detectable in actually or potentially selfing organisms. More work is still needed on animal selfing and selfing avoidance and, for both animals and plants, on the evolutionary origins of selfing and on the effects of selfing on genetic diversity.
2097245|Animals may be camouflaged by a coloration that matches their surroundings or by a combination of color and shape. Some species make themselves conspicuous and rely upon bold and bright coloration as a means of warning off their potential predators. Population biologists have accumulated information on the adaptive significance of coloration for a large number of species. To elucidate the mechanisms underpinning such natural selection events, it is necessary to understand the visual systems of interacting organisms. Molecular genetic analyses on the human opsin genes by Nathans and his colleagues made it possible to characterize the opsin genes of various vertebrates. A striking level of diversity in the opsin gene sequences reflects adaptive responses of various species to different environments. Comparative analyses of opsins reveal that gene duplications and accumulation of mutations have been important in achieving that diversity. The analyses also identify amino acid changes that are potentially important in controlling wavelength absorption by the photosensitive molecules, the visual pigments. These hypotheses can now be rigorously tested using tissue culture cells. Thanks to the molecular characterization of the opsin genes, it is now possible to study the types of opsins associated with certain environmental conditions. Such surveys will provide important first molecular clues to how animals adapt to their environments with respect to their coloration and behavior.
221707|A huge road network with vehicles ramifies across the land, representing a surprising frontier of ecology. Species-rich roadsides are conduits for few species. Roadkills are a premier mortality source, yet except for local spots, rates rarely limit population size. Road avoidance, especially due to traffic noise, has a greater ecological impact. The still-more-important barrier effect subdivides populations, with demographic and probably genetic consequences. Road networks crossing landscapes cause local hydrologic and erosion effects, whereas stream networks and distant valleys receive major peak-flow and sediment impacts. Chemical effects mainly occur near roads. Road networks interrupt horizontal ecological flows, alter landscape spatial pattern, and therefore inhibit important interior species. Thus, road density and network structure are informative landscape ecology assays. Australia has huge road-reserve networks of native vegetation, whereas the Dutch have tunnels and overpasses perforating road barriers to enhance ecological flows. Based on road-effect zones, an estimated 15-20% of the United States is ecologically impacted by roads.
2097247|Comparative, quantitative biogeographic studies are revealing empirical patterns of interspecific variation in the sizes, shapes, boundaries, and internal structures of geographic ranges; these patterns promise to contribute to understanding the historical and ecological processes that influence the distributions of species. This review focuses on characteristics of ranges that appear to reflect the influences of environmental limiting factors and dispersal. Among organisms as a whole, range size varies by more than 12 orders of magnitude. Within genera, families, orders, and classes of plants and animals, range size often varies by several orders of magnitude, and this variation is associated with variation in body size, population density, dispersal mode, latitude, elevation, and depth (in marine systems). The shapes of ranges and the dynamic changes in range boundaries reflect the interacting influences of limiting environmental conditions (niche variables) and dispersal/extinction dynamics. These processes also presumably account for most of the internal structure of ranges: the spatial patterns and orders-of-magnitude of variation in the abundance of species among sites within their ranges. The results of this kind of "ecological biogeography" need to be integrated with the results of phylogenetic and paleoenvironmental approaches to "historical biogeography" so we can better understand the processes that have determined the geographic distributions of organisms.
2097306|Since their discovery in 1932, all-female "species" of fish have provided rich material for ecological and evolutionary studies. The significance of these rare organisms lies in the perspective they provide on what is considered normal (i.e. biparental sexuality). Study of these fish and their sexual relatives has contributed to our understanding of: (i) the origins and evolution of asexuality; (ii) the ecology of hybrids; (iii) genotypic and environmental effects on ecologically relevant traits; and (iv) the maintenance of sex in higher organisms. A consistent message emerging from these studies is the significance of genetic diversity for survival in spatially and temporally heterogeneous environments. Consequently, unisexual fish also serve as useful models for studying the role of genetic variation in the survival of small endangered populations. Finally, unisexual fish serve as genetically uniform systems for environmental and biomedical studies. The purpose of this review is to bring wider attention to the range of biological problems that can be attacked with these remarkable organisms.
2097238|Lentic freshwater habitats in temperate regions exist along a gradient from small ephemeral ponds to large permanent lakes. This environmental continuum is a useful axis for understanding how attributes of individuals ultimately generate structure at the level of the community. Community structure across the gradient is determined by both (a) physical factors, such as pond drying and winter anoxia, that limit the potential breadth of species distributions, and (b) biotic effects mediated by ecological interactions, principally predation, that determine the realized success of species. Fitness tradeoffs associated with a few critical traits of individuals often form the basis for species turnover along the gradient. Among species that inhabit temporary ponds, distributions are often constrained because traits that enhance developmental rate and competitive ability also increase susceptibility to predators. In permanent ponds, changes in the composition of major predators over the gradient limit distributions of prey species because traits that reduce mortality risk in one region of the gradient cause increased risk in other regions of the gradient. Integrated across the gradient, these patterns in species success generate distinct patterns in community structure. Additionally, spatial heterogeneity among habitats along the gradient and the fitness tradeoffs created by this heterogeneity may hold important evolutionary implications for habitat specialization and lineage diversification in aquatic taxa.
2678647|Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) exists in a nested hierarchy of populations. There are multiple mtDNAs within each mitochondrion, a population of mitochondria in each cell, multiple oocytes within each reproductive female, multiple females in each population, and so on up through species and higher clades. The metabolic properties of mitochondria make them highly mutagenic environments for the naked, circular mtDNAs that lie within them. This mutational pressure introduces mtDNA variation (i.e., heteroplasmy) into the cytoplasmic population of cell lineages that are particularly prone to mutational decay and Muller's ratchet owing to the asexual, maternal inheritance of mtDNA. Neutrality tests show that deleterious mutations are common in mtDNA evolution. Population cage experiments further show that mtDNA fitnesses are influenced by nuclear-mitochondrial interactions. These selective processes are pervasive despite the long-standing use of mtDNA as a neutral marker in population and evolutionary biology. These evolutionary dynamics are also unique in the nested hierarchy of mtDNA populations because mutation, selection, and drift can act-and interact-at multiple levels. Multi-level selection can facilitate the escape from Muller's ratchet and help resolve intragenomic conflicts. This review addresses recent advances in the transmission genetics, population genetics, and evolution of mtDNA. A primary goal of the review is to motivate additional empirical studies that might clarify the many units of selection acting on mtDNA.
2678649|A new sense of urgency about environmental problems has changed the relationship between ecology, other disciplines, and public policy. Issues of uncertainty and scientific inference now influence public debate and public policy. Considerations that formerly may have appeared to be mere technicalities now may have decisive influence. It is time to re-examine our methods to ensure that they are adequate for these new requirements. When science is used in support of policy-making, it cannot be separated from issues of values and equity. In such a context, the role of specialists diminishes, because nobody can be an expert in all the aspects of complicated environmental, social, ethical, and economic issues. The disciplinary boundaries that have served science so well in the past are not very helpful in coping with the complex problems that face us today, and ecology now finds itself in intense interaction with a host of other disciplines. The next generation of ecologists must be prepared to interact with such disciplines as history, religion, philosophy, geography, economics, and political science. The requisite training must involve not only words, but core skills in these disciplines. A sense of urgency has affected not only ecology but other disciplines that influence environmental problems: they are undergoing a similar transformation of their outlook and objectives.
221715| Over the past two decades forestry in the United States has diverged into two approaches with quite different objectives and scientific priorities. The management focus of most industrial lands is on increasing productivity of wood fiber via plantations and various cultural tools, especially genetic selection, fertilization, and control of noncrop vegetation. Federal forest management has shifted from a similar focus to greater emphasis on protecting diversity and water. Issues of long-term sustainability are important regardless of ownership. Science has played and continues to play a fundamental role in all aspects. Selection for fast-growing genotypes has increased yields on the order of 10% to 20% depending on species. Fertilization often increases growth significantly but responses are variable and difficult to predict. Significant questions remain concerning the sustainability of intensive forestry, particularly when practiced over wide areas. Soils are heavily impacted by some harvesting practices, and the degree to which damage can be repaired by fertilizers is an important scientific issue. Intensive forestry often results in increased pest problems. In at least one case (fusiform rust in southern pines), a pest has been contained by selecting resistant cultivars, a situation that may or may not be evolutionarily stable. Species diversity is clearly reduced under intensive management, raising questions about the functional role of species with no commercial value. Many of the questions facing forestry science--particularly those dealing with the relation between complexity and function--are precisely the ones confronting basic ecology. Over the past decade scientists have labored to develop ecosystem-based management approaches that maintain system complexity and function, and scientists have increasingly played nontraditional roles at the interface between biology, sociology, and policy. 
2097206|The World Commission on Environment and Development adopted and legitimated the idea of sustainable development in its report Our Common Future. Without substantiation, WCED claimed that economic growth and environmental protection were compatible. The 1992 UN Conference on Environment and Development at Rio de Janeiro adopted the idea, without further testing, as its intellectual core. Since 1992, the United Nations, the United States, and many other nations have created agencies to track progress toward sustainable development. In favor of the idea are individuals, including, it appears, most economists, who advocate centralization, internationalization, and rapid economic development. The opposition consists principally of people from academic disciplines, especially ecologists and humanists. This group does not communicate effectively, but if it did, it might agree that: economic development and environmental protection are not compatible; insistence by economists that all natural resources be given a dollar value is useless, if not harmful; biodiversity has intrinsic value; sustainable development weakens local autonomy; and social welfare is a key component of environmental health. To strengthen the defense of ecosystems, ecologists, humanists, and others should apply their knowledge to practical environmental problems. By making their knowledge accessible in local political arenas, they will concurrently shore up the ability of local units to protect their environments and speak with force in larger political arenas. All proponents of environmental health must become advocates of environmental justice.
2952491|Haldane's rule--the preferential sterility or inviability of hybrids of the heterogametic (XY) sex--characterizes speciation in all known animals. Over the past decade, an enormous amount of experimental and theoretical work has been devoted to explaining this pattern. This work has falsified several once-popular theories and, more important, has produced a strong consensus on the likely causes of Haldane's rule. Experiments show that the dominance theory, which posits that "speciation genes" act as partial recessives in hybrids, can explain Haldane's rule for hybrid inviability. Dominance likely also contributes to Haldane's rule for sterility. Recent experiments further show that faster evolution of hybrid male steriles plays an important role. Faster evolution of X-linked loci may also contribute, though the evidence here is weaker. Evolutionary geneticists now largely agree that the simultaneous action of these forces explains Haldane's rule.
2097316|Most animal phyla appeared in the Cambrian radiation, and many have a rich fossil record. The phylogenetic relationships among phyla are, however, still poorly understood. Although systematics based on morphological characters has been revitalized by cladistic methods, incongruent results have been obtained for most relationships. Gene sequence data offer the potential for adding substantial new characters for evaluating phylum level relationships. Molecular studies of the Cambrian radiation are just beginning, and only a few of the potential characters available from genes have been examined. The achievements and controversies between molecular studies are reviewed and compared to corresponding studies based on morphological data. Because molecular systematics is intensely dependent upon the methods used to infer trees, important methodological considerations that affect the studies of phylum-level molecular systematics are discussed. The analysis of available gene sequence data has resolved conflicts between morphological interpretations. However, molecular systematics has not yet produced phylogenetic trees of broad phylum relationships more robust than those based on morphology.
2097315|Members of Leguminosae (legumes), the third largest family of flowering plants, are cosmopolitan in distribution, diverse in form, and of considerable ecological, agricultural, and scientific importance. Objective phylogeny reconstruction at all taxonomic levels is in the process of reshaping the taxonomy of the family as well as providing new hypotheses concerning the affinities of the family with other angiosperms. Cladistic analyses of morphological and DNA variation for the entire family are in relatively good agreement and echo long-held beliefs, based on more intuitive methods, that many recognized taxa are unnatural. Of the three subfamilies, Mimosoideae and Papilionoideae are most probably monophyletic, while Caesalpinioideae, as suspected, is a paraphyletic grade of basal elements. Phylogenetic hypotheses are being used to address a diversity of questions including biogeography, evolution of pollination systems, origins of economically important species, and genome evolution. Phylogenetic considerations suggest that the ability of legumes to fix atmospheric nitrogen in symbiosis with soil bacteria (nodulation) has arisen several times in the family. Nodules appear to be structurally homologous across the family. The orthology relationships and expression patterns of genes expressed solely or predominantly in the nodule (nodulins) may eventually provide additional criteria for elucidating homologies.
2097224|Geographical isolation and climatic constraints are responsible for the low biodiversity and structural simplicity of the antarctic terrestrial ecosystem. Under projected scenarios of global change, both limiting factors may be released. Alien species immigration is likely to be facilitated as modified ocean and atmospheric circulation introduce exotic water- and air-borne propagules from neighboring continents. Elevated temperature, UV radiation, CO
2097171|We review the role of chaos and the study of chaos in ecology. We use sensitive dependence on initial conditions as the best heuristic definition of chaos. This definition forms the common theme for our review of approaches for demonstrating the importance of chaos in ecology. We emphasize that this definition of chaos can include the effects of noise, and that there is no dichotomy between stochasticity and chaos. We review three classes of approaches for studying chaos in ecology: models, analysis of time series, and experiments. Current ideas from modelling approaches demonstrate the plausibility of chaos. New approaches for analyzing time series are based on using the presence of a positive Lyapunov exponent to indicate sensitive dependence on initial conditions. The methods can deal with relatively short time series that include the effects of noise, with chaotic dynamics appearing in at least some cases. Experimental work is just beginning, spurred by modelling results and the new methods for analyzing times series. We suggest directions for further work in each of these approaches.
2952500|One of the strengths of the maximum likelihood method of phylogenetic estimation is the ease with which hypotheses can be formulated and tested. Maximum likelihood analysis of DNA and amino acid sequence data has been made practical with recent advances in models of DNA substitution, computer programs, and computational speed. Here, we describe the maximum likelihood method and the recent improvements in models of substitution. We also describe how likelihood ratio tests of a variety of biological hypotheses can be formulated and tested using computer simulation to generate the null distribution of the likelihood ratio test statistic.
2097235|The study of natural plant populations has provided some of the strongest and most convincing cases of the operation of natural selection currently known, partly because of amenability to reciprocal transplant experiments, common garden work, and long-term in situ manipulation. Genetic differentiation among plant populations over small scales (a few cm to a few hundred cm) has been documented and is reviewed here, in herbaceous annuals and perennials, woody perennials, aquatics, terrestrials, narrow endemics, and widely distributed species. Character differentiation has been documented for most important features of plant structure and function. Examples are known for seed characters, leaf traits, penology, physiological and biochemical activities, heavy metal tolerance, herbicide resistance, parasite resistance, competitive ability, organellar characters, breeding systems, and life history. Among the forces that have shaped these patterns of differentiation are toxic soils, fertilizers, mowing and grazing, soil moisture, temperature, light intensity, pollinating vectors, parasitism, gene flow, and natural dynamics. The breadth and depth of the evidence reviewed here strongly support the idea that natural selection is the principal force shaping genetic architecture in natural plant populations; that view needs to be more widely appreciated than it is at present.
2678648|A rich fossil record documents nonmammalian evolution. In recent years, the application of cladistic methodology has shed valuable light on the relationships within the therapsid clades Biarmosuchia, Dinocephalia, Anomodontia, and Cynodontia. Recent discoveries from South Africa suggest that Gondwana, rather than Laurasia, was the center of origin and radiation for many early therapsids. Because of their relative abundance and global distribution, therapsids have enjoyed widespread use in biostratigraphy, basin analysis, and paleo-environmental and -continental reconstructions. Synapsids (including therapsids) form the bulk of tetrapod diversity (in terms of both number of species and abundance) from Early Permian to Middle Triassic times and thus can provide critical information on the nature of the Permo-Triassic extinction in the terrestrial realm. Quantitative techniques have produced headway into understanding the relative importance of homoplasy and convergent evolution in the origin of mammals.
2097311|The hypothesis of escalation states that enemies--competitors, predators, and dangerous prey--are the most important agents of natural selection among individual organisms, and that enemy-related adaptation and responses brought about long-term evolutionary trends in the morphology, behavior, and distribution of organisms over the course of the Phanerozoic. In contrast to this top-down view of the role of organisms in determining the directions of evolution, the hypothesis of coevolution holds that two interacting species or groups of species change in response to each other. I review and evaluate these hypotheses in the light of criticisms about the existence of evolutionary trends and the role of interactions of species in evolution. Models describing the evolutionary effects organisms have on each other have been based largely on population dynamics and on cost-benefit analyses of the net outcome of interactions between species. Yet, the hypotheses of escalation and coevolution are statements about the nature, frequency, causes, and role of selection. Although these models have provided valuable insights and have forced some modifications in the hypotheses of escalation, studies seeking to distinguish between escalation and coevolution will require empirical observations and cost-benefit evaluations of the discrete events of interaction that collectively constitute organism-caused selection.
221735|Evolutionary physiology represents an explicit fusion of two complementary approaches: evolution and physiology. Stimulated by four major intellectual and methodological developments (explicit consideration of diverse evolutionary mechanisms, phylogenetic approaches, incorporation of the perspectives and tools of evolutionary genetics and selection studies, and generalization of molecular techniques to exotic organisms), this field achieved prominence during the past decade. It addresses three major questions regarding physiological evolution: (a) What are the historical, ecological, and phylogenetic patterns of physiological evolution? (b) How important are and were each of the known evolutionary processes (natural selection, sexual selection, drift, constraint, genetic coupling/hitchhiking, and others) in engendering or limiting physiological evolution? and (c) How do the genotype, phenotype, physiological performance, and fitness interact in influencing one another's future values? To answer these questions, evolutionary physiology examines extant and historical variation and diversity, standing genetic and phenotypic variability in populations, and past and ongoing natural selection in the wild. Also, it manipulates genotypes, phenotypes, and environments of evolving populations in the laboratory and field. Thus, evolutionary physiology represents the infusion of paradigms, techniques, and approaches of evolutionary biology, genetics, and systematics into physiology. The reciprocal infusion of physiological approaches into evolutionary biology and systematics can likewise have great value and is a future goal.
2097197|The finite quantities of essential elements contained in soil determine its sustainable use for food production. Various soils differ substantially in their ability to provide essential elements. Methods of managing soil to facilitate production of food crops differ depending upon the type of crop grown and the characteristics of the soil. Historical evidence reveals that low rates of food crop production are possible for 100 or more years on some soils, while only one or two crops are obtainable on others. High rates of food production can be achieved only if the concentrations of essential elements in the soil are enhanced. When dedicated to food crop production, soil properties are altered by management practices to favor the requirements of the crop plant and discourage the growth of other vegetation. No soil can sustain the constant depletion of critical elements contained in the plant parts used as food products and transported to another location for consumption. This elemental depletion must be compensated for use to be sustainable.
2678646|The Araucariaceae are important to biogeography because they have an ancient origin and are a distinctive and sometimes dominant component of southern hemisphere forest communities. This paper examines recent information on ecology and phylogeny and on pollen and macrofossil assemblages to assess the history and present-day status of the family and its potential for refinement of past environmental, particularly climatic, conditions. From an origin in the Triassic, the family expanded and diversified in both hemispheres in the Jurassic and Early Cretaceous and remained a significant component of Gondwanan vegetation until the latter part of the Cenozoic. The development of angiosperms in the Middle Cretaceous probably assisted in the demise of some araucarian components but there was also evolution of new genera. Recorded diversity in the early Cenozoic of Australia is as high as it was in the Early Cretaceous. Continental separation and associated climatic drying, cooling, and increased variability progressively reduced the ranges of conifers to moist, predominantly mesothermal climates on continents. However, tectonic and volcanic activity, partially associated with Australia's collision with Southeast Asia, provided new opportunities for some araucarian components on Asia-Pacific islands. Araucarians provide information on climatic conditions suitable for rainforest vegetation throughout their recorded period, even prior to the recognition or even existence of these forests in the fossil record. High pollen abundance is also indicative of marginal rainforest environments where these canopy emergents can compete effectively with angiosperm forest taxa. Despite their apparent relictual status in many areas, they provide precise paleoclimatic estimates in late Quaternary pollen records and have particular value in providing evidence of climatic variability that has otherwise been difficult to detect.
221677|A critical reexamination of turtle relationships continues to support a sister-group relationship of turtles with a clade of marine reptiles, Sauropterygia, within crown-group Diapsida (Sauria). The high Homoplasy Index raises concerns about the phylogenetic information content of various morphological characters in broadscale phylogenetic analyses. Such analyses may also suffer from inadequate statements of primary homology. Several such statements that have played an important role in the analysis of turtle relationships (dermal armor, acromion, astragalo-calcaneal complex, hooked fifth metatarsal) are reviewed in detail. An evolutionary scenario for the origin of the turtle bauplan suggests an aquatic origin of turtles, which is supported not only by their sauropterygian relationships, but also by paleobiogeographic and stratigraphic considerations. However, turtle relationships remain labile, and further investigations of their relationships are required, involving molecular and physiological data.
2097231|Resource polymorphism in vertebrates is generally underappreciated as a diversifying force and is probably more common than is currently recognized. Research across diverse taxa suggest they may play important roles in population divergence and speciation. They may involve various kinds of traits, including morphological and behavioral traits and those related to life history. Many of the evolutionary, ecological, and genetic mechanisms producing and maintaining resource polymorphisms are similar among phylogenetically distinct species. Although further studies are needed, the genetic basis may be simple, in some cases under the control of a single locus, with phenotypic plasticity playing a proximate role in some taxa. Divergent selection including either directional, disruptive, or frequency-dependent selection is important in their evolution. Generally, the invasion of "open" niches or underutilized resources requiring unique trophic characters and decreased interspecific competition have promoted the evolution of resource polymorphisms. Further investigations centered on their role in speciation, especially adaptive radiation, are likely to be fruitful.
221689|Flowing water has profound effects on a diverse array of ecological processes and patterns in streams and rivers. We propose a conceptual framework for investigating the multiple causal pathways by which flow influences benthic biota and focus particular attention on the local scales at which these organisms respond to flow. Flow (especially characteristics linked to the velocity field) can strongly affect habitat characteristics, dispersal, resource acquisition, competition, and predation; creative experiments will be needed to disentangle these complex interactions. Benthic organisms usually reside within the roughness layer, where the unique arrangement of sediment particles produces strongly sheared and highly three-dimensional flow patterns. Thus, accurate characterization of the local flow environments experienced by benthic organisms often requires the use of flow measurement technology with high spatial and temporal resolution. Because flow exhibits variation across a broad range of scales, it is also necessary to examine how organism-flow relationships at one scale are linked to those at others. Interdisciplinary approaches are needed in the study of physical-biological coupling; increased collaboration between ecologists and experts in fluid mechanics and hydraulic engineering is particularly desirable. A greater understanding of physical-biological coupling will not only yield deeper insights into the ecological organization of streams and rivers, it will also improve our ability to predict how flow alterations caused by various human activities affect these vital ecosystems.
221690|The search for the origins of life and its presence beyond Earth is strengthened by new technology and by evidence that life tolerates extreme conditions and that planets are widespread. Astrobiologists learn how planets develop and maintain habitable conditions. They combine biological and information sciences to decipher the origins of life. They examine how biota, particularly microorganisms, evolve, at scales from the molecular to the biosphere level, including interactions with long-term planetary changes. Astrobiologists learn how to recognize the morphological, chemical, and spectroscopic signatures of life in order to explore both extraterrestrial samples and electromagnetic spectra reflected from extrasolar planets.
221723|The inclusive fitness effect attributable to an allele can be divided into an effect on matrilineal kin when the allele is maternally derived and an effect on patrilineal kin when paternally derived. However, the allele is not subject to selection on its effects on patrilineal kin when maternally derived nor on its effects on matrilineal kin when paternally derived. As a result, natural selection may favor alleles with effects that differ, depending on the allele's parental origin. At autosomal loci, this process is predicted to lead to the silencing of alleles when inherited from one or the other parent. At X-linked loci subject to random X inactivation, the process is predicted to lead to quantitative differences of expression between maternal and paternal alleles but not to complete silencing of one allele. The implications of this theory and some challenges to the theory are reviewed.
2678633|Food webs are overlaid with infochemical webs that mediate direct and indirect interactions. The infochemicals may result in shifts in trait values, which affect the strength of species interactions. As a consequence, population dynamics and evolutionary changes can be affected. Chemical information can mediate the interactions between animals and their resources, competitors and enemies. Of all chemical information gathered by animals, cues about predation risk are of special significance because predation risk usually has important and immediate consequences on fitness. In this paper we selectively review the role of chemical information in enemy avoidance by arthropods. Arthropods not only constitute important components of food webs, being the largest group in numbers and species diversity; they also make excellent models for ecological studies. We discuss the evidence, the key mechanisms, and the trade-offs involved in chemical detection of enemies by potential arthropod prey. Further, we address the variation in prey responses and the evidence for learning in avoiding enemies by arthropods. Finally, we identify and prioritize major questions to be tackled by future studies.
221727|Understanding seed physiology is central to reconstructing how angiosperms have evolved, to characterizing dormancy and germination regimes shared by suites of species, and to devising sound strategies for seed bank conservation, agriculture, and forestry. While species with dormant seeds have received the lion's share of attention, hundreds of plant species exhibit no seed dormancy and germinate either viviparously on the parent plant or shortly after release. Embryos of these recalcitrant and viviparous species cannot tolerate the maturation drying that is usually prerequisite to dormancy; such desiccation intolerance creates challenges for storing and preserving such embryos. I review the physiology, morphology, and ecology of these desiccation-intolerant, nondormant lineages. Differences in the production and function of plant hormones are implicated in the occurrence of recalcitrance and vivipary in plant families. Plant hormones are key regulators of seed physiology and simultaneously coordinate responses of the seedling and mature plant to their environment. Desiccation-intolerant embryos occur most commonly among species of wet or flooded environments and have evolved multiple times in disparate lineages. Natural selection in wetland environments simply may not eliminate these seed types or may select for changes in hormone physiology that simultaneously affect both maternal and embryonic tissues. Integrative data from ecological, genetic, and physiological studies are needed to elucidate evolutionary origins and maintenance of reproductive strategies in organisms.
3069267|Ozone depletion by anthropogenic gases has increased the atmospheric transmission of solar ultraviolet-B radiation (UV-B, 280-315 nm). Our understanding of the consequencences of enhanced UV-B levels on primary producers has grown dramatically over the past 20 years, but it has been hampered by how realistically experimental UV-B exposures mimic ozone-depletion scenarios. Overcoming these shortcomings will require sophisticated and creative approaches. Biological weighting functions and solar spectral irradiance estimates are critical in evaluating effects and require more attention. Whereas UV screening compounds in terrestrial and aquatic producers commonly increase with UV-B exposure, the implications, while potentially far reaching, are unclear. Photosynthesis is more sensitive to UV-B in phytoplankton than in terrestrial plants, probably owing to less effective screening in phytoplankton. Productivity of terrestrial plants is usually unaffected by enhanced UV-B, although reduced growth has been observed and may increase in magnitude over successive years. Aquatic productivity is often compromised by short-term exposures to enhanced UV-B, and long-term assessments are complicated by the dynamic nature of aquatic systems and by nonlinear responses. Recent work examining UV-B effects on multiple trophic levels suggests that outcomes will be diverse and difficult to predict. Such effects may lead to feedbacks on primary producers.
2952493|A variety of phylogenetic measures have been proposed to quantify distinctiveness, often held to mark species of high conservation worth. However, distinctiveness of species and their numbers have different implications for conservation policy, depending on whether moral, esthetic, or utilitarian reasons are accepted as justifying conservation. The utilitarian position values species according to increasing numbers, and as they are more, as opposed to less, distinctive. The view is taken that conservation should seek to maximize the preserved information of the planet's biota, best expressed in terms of genetic information held in genes and not in portions of the genome of uncertain or no function. Gene number is thus an important component of assessing conservation value. Phylogenetic measures are better indicators of conservation worth than species richness, and measures using branch-lengths are better than procedures relying solely on topology. Distance measures estimating the differences between genomes are preferable to substitution distances. Higher-taxon richness is a promising surrogate for branch-length measures. Complete enumeration of biotas in terms of phylogeny is desirable to avoid uncertainties in the use of indicator groups, and this is achievable now for bacteria. Phylogenetic measures are already important for management of sets of populations within species and are applicable for sets of species. Measures incorporating extinction probabilities and decision costs are being developed, and these, in conjunction with the use of confidence limits on the conservation worth of alternative reserves, are vital for conservation decision-making.
2952488|The estimation of gene flow from the distribution of genetic markers in populations requires an indirect approach. Gene flow parameters are defined by demographic models, and population genetic models provide the link between these parameters and the distributions of genetic markers. Following the introduction of allozyme methods in the 1960s, a standard approach to the estimation of gene flow was developed. Wright's island model of population structure was used to relate the distribution of allozyme alleles in populations to N_em, the product of the effective population size and the rate of migration. Alternative strategies for the estimation of gene flow have been developed using different genetic markers, different models of demography and population genetics, and different methods of parameter estimation. No alternative strategy now available is clearly superior to the standard approach based on Wright's model and allozyme markers. However, this may soon change as methods are developed that fully utilize the genealogical relationships of DNA sequences. At present, alternative strategies do fill important needs. They can provide independent estimates of gene flow, measure different components of gene flow, and detect historical changes in population structure.
2097236|The proper relationship between systematics practice and our understanding of evolution has been long debated. Systematists seek to avoid assumptions about evolutionary process in their methods, yet a growing body of evidence indicates that patterns in rates of evolution can be used to reduce effects of homoplasy. We review variable evolutionary rates for molecular characters in the context of constraints on mutation and fixation. Some constraints, like the genetic code for protein-coding genes, are consistent in the direction of their effects, whereas others, like population size and cladogenesis frequency, are historically variable within and among lineages. We review methods for assessing rate variability, and we estimate comparative absolute rates of change for five sets of mitochondrial DNAs in 12 vertebrates for application in phylogenetic analyses. Unequal weights for subsets of mitochondrial DNAs improved congruence with the most highly corroborated tree in many but not all cases. The largest data set (12, 120 bases) yielded the same tree under all four weighting alternatives. This is consistent with the notion, echoing the law of large numbers, that as data sets increase in size, homoplasy will tend to cancel itself out. Even if this notion has validity, however, evolutionary biology will remain vital in systematics if we want to: match sets of taxa with characters likely to be historically informative (when data sets are not sufficiently large); avoid comparing characters with different histories due to reticulations, horizontal transfer, or lineage sorting; avoid assuming random distribution of homoplasy; be alerted to the possibility of long-branch attraction problems; and understand the cause of the hierarchy of taxa in nature as inheritance of genetic material and descent with modification.
2097309|Metapopulation dynamics as originally defined by Levins consists of the extinction and colonization of local populations. Theory suggests that these processes can profoundly affect demographic persistence, the coexistence of interacting species, genetic variation, and evolution. However, a review of empirical studies illustrates the limitations of the Levins definition and indicates the need for a more complex view of metapopulation dynamics. We describe a modeling approach that can incorporate a greater range of ecological and genetic processes within local populations. We discuss uses of this general formulation, its connections to other modeling frameworks, and directions for the future integration of ecological and genetic studies of metapopulations.
2097323|Mesembryanthemaceae (ca. 2000 species, 116 genera) is the dominating family in the succulent flora of the Succulent Karoo Region (southern Africa), to which the vast majority of species of this family are restricted. The success of this family is due to an extremely broad spectrum of highly specialized life forms and life strategies. The family must have developed a tempo of evolution that is probably unrivaled within angiosperms, since the mega-niche Succulent Karoo opened up only 5 million years BCE at most. The remarkable biodiversity of this family is the result of a complex interaction between the availability of numerous diverse niches, often very small in extent, a climate characterized by steep gradients, and a strong genetic drift caused by a very low rate of gene exchange among populations and frequent breakdown of populations. It is suggested that a special genetic potentiality plays a crucial role in the evolutionary processes of this family. This potentiality allows fast and easy rearrangement of high-ranking regulatory "homeotic" genes. This process is strongly canalized by the shortage of resources, i.e. changes in one place in the life cycle usually force changes in other places. Perhaps by repeated changes in homeotic genes, this family has succeeded in evolving numerous novel and diverse complex life forms and life cycles in spite of a very limited set of subordinate ontogenetic programs.
221729|Cichlid fishes (Perciformes: Teleostei) found in the lakes of Africa have served as model systems for the study of evolution. The enormous number of species (1000 in Lake Malawi alone), the great diversity of trophic adaptations and behaviors, and the extreme rapidity of their divergence (<50,000 y for some faunas) single out these organisms as examples of evolution in progress. Because these fishes are confined to discrete lacustrine environments and their origination is bounded by geological features, these groups provide models with which to study evolution. We review theoretical studies and empirical research on the cichlid faunas of Africa to provide a synthetic overview of current knowledge of the evolutionary processes at work in this group. This view provides the critical information needed to formulate and test hypotheses that may permit discrimination among the diverse theories and models that have been advanced to explain the evolution of these fishes.
2097198|Sustainable exploitation of renewable resources depends on the existence of a reproductive surplus, which is determined by the balance between births, deaths, and somatic growth. The reproductive surplus differs spatially and temporally as environmental conditions vary, and even in the absence of exploitation, change is the rule and constancy is the exception. Sustainable yields may be estimated by direct experimentation, observation of natural systems, or deduction from biological understanding. Each of these approaches has limitations, and for large-scale unique resources, the only way to determine the response of the population to harvesting is by direct exploitation. To find the maximum potential yield, the resource must be overexploited at some time, or very similar resources must have been overexploited. Temporal changes in environmental conditions mean that information on sustainability collected in the past may have limited applicability in the future. The unregulated dynamic of exploiters is to push the resources to overexploitation, and even when regulated, exploiters have been very successful at modifying their behavior so that regulations are less effective than anticipated. The most successful institutions at maintaining sustainability have been small-scale community or private ownership.
2678637|Ecological studies of terrestrial urban systems have been approached along several kinds of contrasts: ecology in as opposed to ecology of cities; biogeochemical compared to organismal perspectives, land use planning versus biological, and disciplinary versus interdisciplinary. In order to point out how urban ecological studies are poised for significant integration, we review key aspects of these disparate literatures. We emphasize an open definition of urban systems that accounts for the exchanges of material and influence between cities and surrounding landscapes. Research on ecology in urban systems highlights the nature of the physical environment, including urban climate, hydrology, and soils. Biotic research has studied flora, fauna, and vegetation, including trophic effects of wildlife and pets. Unexpected interactions among soil chemistry, leaf litter quality, and exotic invertebrates exemplify the novel kinds of interactions that can occur in urban systems. Vegetation and faunal responses suggest that the configuration of spatial heterogeneity is especially important in urban systems. This insight parallels the concern in the literature on the ecological dimensions of land use planning. The contrasting approach of ecology of cities has used a strategy of biogeochemical budgets, ecological footprints, and summaries of citywide species richness. Contemporary ecosystem approaches have begun to integrate organismal,nutrient, and energetic approaches, and to show the need for understanding the social dimensions of urban ecology. Social structure and the social allocation of natural and institutional resources are subjects that are well understood within social sciences, and that can be readily accommodated in ecosystem models of metropolitan areas. Likewise, the sophisticated understanding of spatial dimensions of social differentiation has parallels with concepts and data on patch dynamics in ecology and sets the stage for comprehensive understanding of urban ecosystems. The linkages are captured in the human ecosystem framework.
2097182|Within-population variability in plant reproductive traits can influence both male and female fitness, but research on the male function of flowers has been hindered by the difficulty of measuring male fertility. Here we evaluate studies that employ paternity analysis to examine how specific plant traits affect male reproductive success (RS) in both natural and artificial populations. These studies illustrate the risks of assuming that male RS is correlated with female RS or with components of male fitness, such as the amount of pollen produced per plant. In some studies, paternity was assigned by simple genetic exclusion using unique multilocus allozyme profiles. More powerful methods involve statistical procedures that assign paternity to the most likely father of each offspring. Lack of genetic markers is a common problem in paternity analysis, and we discuss the types of molecular markers that may soon become more widely used in small, natural populations.
221718|Because it is very toxic and accumulates in organisms, particularly in fish, mercury is an important pollutant and one of the most studied. Nonetheless we still have an incomplete understanding of the factors that control the bioconcentration of mercury. Elemental mercury is efficiently transported as a gas around the globe, and even remote areas show evidence of mercury pollution originating from industrial sources such as power plants. Besides elemental mercury, the major forms of mercury in water are ionic mercury (which is bound to chloride, sulfide, or organic acids) and organic mercury, particularly methylmercury. Methylmercury rather than inorganic mercury is bioconcentrated because it is better retained by organisms at various levels in the food chain. The key factor determining the concentration of mercury in the biota is the methylmercury concentration in water, which is controlled by the relative efficiency of the methylation and demethylation processes. Anoxic waters and sediments are an important source of methylmercury, apparently as the result of the methylating activity of sulfate-reducing bacteria. In surface waters, methylmercury may originate from anoxic layers or be formed through poorly known biological or chemical processes. Demethylation is effected both photochemically and biologically.
2097204|Informed management of waterfowl (or any animal population) requires management goals and objectives, the ability to implement management actions, periodic information about population and goal-related variables, and knowledge of effects of management actions on population and goal-related variables. In North America, international treaties mandate a primary objective of protecting migratory bird populations, with a secondary objective of providing hunting opportunity in a manner compatible with such protection. Through the years, annual establishment of hunting regulations and acquisition and management of habitat have been the primary management actions taken by federal agencies. Various information-gathering programs were established and, by the 1960s, had developed into arguably the best monitoring system in the world for continentally distributed animal populations. Retrospective analyses using estimates from this monitoring system have been used to investigate effects of management actions on waterfowl population and harvest dynamics, but key relationships are still characterized by uncertainty. We recommend actively adaptive management as an approach that can meet short-term harvest objectives, while reducing uncertainty and ensuring sustainable populations over the long-term.
2097220|Studies on allozyme variation in eastern plethodontid salamanders of the woodland genus Plethodon have revealed a large number of cryptic species. Genetic variation within and among species reveals patterns of speciation. In the late Miocene and early Pliocene there appear to have been only five clades of eastern North American Plethodon that still survive today. A burst of speciation took place in the Pliocene, so there are now at least 35 species in four species groups in eastern North America. It is hypothesized that the arid climates of the Pliocene isolated many populations in wetter forested mountainous areas where in isolation allopatric speciation occurred. With the return of wetter climates, many of these species dispersed and a large number of parapatric contact zones may now be studied where closely related species are interacting. Hybridization between closely related species is frequent in these contact zones.
2097321|Two approaches characterize the study of evolutionary ecology. Prospective studies investigate how present-day ecological processes may lead to evolutionary change; retrospective studies ask how present-day ecological conditions can be understood as the outcome of historical events. I argue that the most appropriate test of an evolutionary ecological hypothesis requires an integration of these approaches. I illustrate this approach by examining the hypothesis that interspecific competition has been the driving force behind the evolutionary radiation of Anolis lizards in the Caribbean. This hypothesis is supported by four lines of evidence: 1. Anole communities are structured by competition; 2. Populations alter resource use in the presence of congeners; 3. Microevolutionary adaptation occurs in response to resource shifts; and 4. Macroevolutionary patterns are consistent with interspecific competition as the driving force behind anole adaptive radiation.
2097244|The performance of an organism is the crucial link between its phenotype and its ecological success. When does an organism's morphology affect its performance? Quantitative mechanistic analyses of how function depends on biological form have shown that the relationship between morphology and performance can be nonlinear, context-dependent, and sometimes surprising. In some cases, small changes in morphology or simple changes in size can lead to novel functions, while in other cases changes in form can occur without performance consequences. Furthermore, the effect of a specific change in morphology can depend on the size, shape, stiffness, or habitat of an organism. Likewise, a particular change in posture or behavior can produce opposite effects when performed by bodies with different morphologies. These mechanistic studies not only reveal potential misconceptions that can arise from the descriptive statistical analyses often used in ecological and evolutionary research, but they also show how new functions, and novel consequences of changes in morphology, can arise simply as the result of changes in size or habitat. Such organismal-level mechanistic research can be used in concert with other tools to gain insights about issues in ecology (e.g. foraging, competition, disturbance, keystone species, functional groups) and evolution (e.g. adaptation, interpretation of fossils, and origin of novelty).
2952498|The origin of new homoploid species via hybridization is theoretically difficult because it requires the development of reproductive isolation in sympatry. Nonetheless, this mode is often and carelessly used by botanists to account for the formation of species that are morphologically intermediate with respect to related congeners. Here, I review experimental, theoretical, and empirical studies of homoploid hybrid speciation to evaluate the feasibility, tempo, and frequency of this mode. Theoretical models, simulation studies, and experimental syntheses of stabilized hybrid neospecies indicate that it is feasible, although evolutionary conditions are stringent. Hybrid speciation appears to be promoted by rapid chromosomal evolution and the availability of a suitable hybrid habitat. A selfing breeding system may enhance establishment of hybrid species, but this advantage appears to be counterbalanced by lower rates of natural hybridization among selfing taxa. Simulation studies and crossing experiments also suggest that hybrid speciation can be rapid--a prediction confirmed by the congruence observed between the genomes of early generation hybrids and ancient hybrid species. The frequency of this mode is less clear. Only eight natural examples in plants have been rigorously documented, suggesting that it may be rare. However, hybridization rates are highest in small or peripheral populations, and hybridization may be important as a stimulus for the genetic or chromosomal reorganization envisioned in founder effect and saltational models of speciation.
221736|The focus of most ideas on diversity maintenance is species coexistence, which may be stable or unstable. Stable coexistence can be quantified by the long-term rates at which community members recover from low density. Quantification shows that coexistence mechanisms function in two major ways: They may be (a) equalizing because they tend to minimize average fitness differences between species, or (b) stabilizing because they tend to increase negative intraspecific interactions relative to negative interspecific interactions. Stabilizing mechanisms are essential for species coexistence and include traditional mechanisms such as resource partitioning and frequency-dependent predation, as well as mechanisms that depend on fluctuations in population densities and environmental factors in space and time. Equalizing mechanisms contribute to stable coexistence because they reduce large average fitness inequalities which might negate the effects of stabilizing mechanisms. Models of unstable coexitence, in which species diversity slowly decays over time, have focused almost exclusively on equalizing mechanisms. These models would be more robust if they also included stabilizing mechanisms, which arise in many and varied ways but need not be adequate for full stability of a system. Models of unstable coexistence invite a broader view of diversity maintenance incorporating species turnover.
221709|The Siluro-Devonian primary radiation of land biotas is the terrestrial equivalent of the much-debated Cambrian "explosion" of marine faunas. Both show the hallmarks of novelty radiations (phenotypic diversity increases much more rapidly than species diversity across an ecologically undersaturated and thus low-competition landscape), and both ended with the formation of evolutionary and ecological frameworks analogous to those of modern ecosystems. Profound improvements in understanding early land plant evolution reflect recent liberations from several research constraints: Cladistic techniques plus DNA sequence data from extant relatives have prompted revolutionary reinterpretations of land plant phylogeny, and thus of systematics and character-state acquisition patterns. Biomechanical and physiological experimental techniques developed for extant plants have been extrapolated to fossil species, with interpretations both aided and complicated by the recent knowledge that global landmass positions, currents, climates, and atmospheric compositions have been profoundly variable (and thus nonuniformitarian) through the Phanerozoic. Combining phylogenetic and paleoecological data offers potential insights into the identity and function of key innovations, though current evidence suggests the importance of accumulating within lineages a critical mass of phenotypic character. Challenges to further progress include the lack of sequence data and paucity of phenotypic features among the early land plant clades, and a fossil record still inadequate to date accurately certain crucial evolutionary and ecological events.
3069270|The direct effects of marine habitat disturbance by commercial fishing have been well documented. However, the potential ramifications to the ecological function of seafloor communities and ecosystems have yet to be considered. Soft-sediment organisms create much of their habitat's structure and also have crucial roles in many population, community, and ecosystem processes. Many of these roles are filled by species that are sensitive to habitat disturbance. Functional extinction refers to the situation in which species become so rare that they do not fulfill the ecosystem roles that have evolved in the system. This loss to the ecosystem occurs when there are restrictions in the size, density, and distribution of organisms that threaten the biodiversity, resilience, or provision of ecosystem services. Once the functionally important components of an ecosystem are missing, it is extremely difficult to identify and understand ecological thresholds. The extent and intensity of human disturbance to oceanic ecosystems is a significant threat to both structural and functional biodiversity and in many cases this has virtually eliminated natural systems that might serve as baselines to evaluate these impacts.
221743|Recent theoretical studies suggest that the ability to tolerate consumer damage can be an important adaptive response by plants to selection imposed by consumers. Empirical studies have also found that tolerance is a common response to consumers among plants. Currently recognized mechanisms underlying tolerance include several general sets of traits: allocation patterns; plant architecture; and various other traits that may respond to consumer damage, e.g., photosynthetic rate. Theoretical studies suggest that tolerance to consumer damage may be favored under a range of conditions, even when the risk and intensity of damage varies. However, most of these models assume that the evolution of tolerance is constrained by internal resource allocation trade-offs. While there is some empirical evidence for such trade-offs, it is also clear that external constraints such as pollinator abundance or nutrient availability may also limit the evolution of tolerance. Current research also suggests that a full understanding of plant adaptation to consumers can only be achieved by investigating the joint evolution of tolerance and resistance. While tolerance to consumer damage has just recently received significant attention in the ecological literature, our understanding of it is rapidly increasing as its profound ecological and evolutionary implications become better appreciated.
3069278| Variations in Earth's orbit with periods of 10-100 thousand years (kyr) (Milankovitch oscillations) have led to recurrent and rapid climatic shifts throughout Earth's history. These cause changes in the geographical distributions of clades, which we term orbitally forced range dynamics (ORD). The magnitude of ORD varies geographically, e.g., with latitude. Climatic shifts cause extinction, splitting, and merging of gene pools and clades. They select among individuals and clades for traits enhancing the ability to survive in situ and to establish new populations. There is also nonadaptive sorting caused by the large geographical variation in ORD, as only gene pools that are in the right place when climate shifts survive. ORD lead to sorting at many levels of genealogic inclusiveness. Clades that have survived climatic shifts during at least one entire period of the longest significant Milankovitch oscillations (100 kyr), we name -clades. The products of more recent cladogenesis are -clades, which are always nested within a -clade. We conclude that ORD may promote -clade formation but curb rates of -clade formation. In areas with little ORD, where gene pools persist without going extinct or merging, clade splits and divergence may accumulate leading to high rates of -clade formation and -anagenesis (evolutionary change persisting > 100 kyr). High ORD should lead to low numbers of -clades, -clades with low levels of spatial genetic divergence, little geographical subdivision and large ranges, organisms with high vagility and low specialization, high proportions of -clades formed by polyploidization, and little -anagenesis. We predict global and interregional geographic patterns in these variables caused by differential ORD. Thus, ORD potentially explains a wide array of patterns, suggesting ORD as a fundamental factor in evolution. The vulnerability of biotas to many human activities should vary with the magnitude of ORD. 
221678|The Human Genome Project (HGP) originally sought to sequence the human genome but excluded studies on genetic diversity. Now genetic diversity is a major focus, and evolutionary theory provides needed analytical tools. One type of diversity research focuses on complex traits. This is often done by screening genetic variation at candidate loci functionally related to a trait followed by gene/phenotype association tests. Linkage disequilibrium creates difficulties for association tests, but evolutionary analyses using haplotype trees can circumvent these problems and result in greater statistical power, better disease risk prediction, the elimination of some polymorphisms as causative, and physical localization of causative variation when combined with an analysis of recombination. The HGP also now proposes to map over 100,000 single nucleotide polymorphisms to test for gene/phenotype associations through linkage disequilibrium in isolated human populations affected by past founder or bottleneck events. This strategy requires prior knowledge of recent human evolutionary history and current population structure, but other evolutionary considerations dealing with disequilibrium and nonrandom mutation pose difficulties for this approach. Studies on population structure also focus upon traits of medical relevance, and an understanding of the evolutionary ultimate cause for the predisposition of some populations to certain diseases is a useful predictor for shaping public health policies. Studies on the genetic architecture of common traits reveal much epistasis and variation in norms of reaction, including drug response. Because of these interactions, context dependency and sampling bias exist in disease association studies that require population information for effective use. Overall, the population thinking of evolutionary biology is an important counterweight to naive genetic determinism in applying the results of the HGP to issues of human health and well-being.
221708|Genetic mechanisms of sex determination are unexpectedly diverse and change rapidly during evolution. We review the role of genetic conflict as the driving force behind this diversity and turnover. Genetic conflict occurs when different components of a genetic system are subject to selection in opposite directions. Conflict may occur between genomes (including paternal-maternal and parental-zygotic conflicts) or within genomes (between cytoplasmic and nuclear genes or sex chromosomes and autosomes). The sex-determining system consists of parental sex-ratio genes, parental-effect sex determiners, and zygotic sex determiners, which are subject to different selection pressures because of differences in their modes of inheritance and expression. Genetic conflict theory is used to explain the evolution of several sex-determining mechanisms, including sex chromosome drive, cytoplasmic sex-ratio distortion, and cytoplasmic male sterility in plants. Although still limited, there is growing evidence that genetic conflict could be important in the evolution of sex-determining mechanisms.
3069258|Until recently, most knowledge of the early history of birds and the evolution of their unique specializations was based on just a handful of diverse Mesozoic taxa widely separated in time and restricted to marine environments. Although Archaeopteryx is still the oldest and only Jurassic bird, a wealth of recent discoveries combined with new phylogenetic analyses have documented the divergence of a number of lineages by the beginning of the Cretaceous. These and younger Cretaceous fossils have filled much of the morphological chasm that existed between Archaeopteryx and its living counterparts, providing insights into the evolutionary development of feathers and other important features of the avian flight system. Dramatic new perceptions of the life history, growth and development of early birds have also been made possible by the latest data. Although no primitive birds are known to have survived beyond the end of the Cretaceous, the present fossil record provides no evidence for a sudden disappearance. Likewise, a Mesozoic origin for extant birds remains controversial.
2097199|Large areas of the tropics are inherently marginal for general agriculture, and inappropriate management is decreasing productivity on even high-quality soils. For improving the biological basis of long-term agriculture sustainability, especially on marginal lands with low fertility and depleted soil organic matter, we must improve management practices. These practices include increasing soil organic matter and water-stable aggregates by using cover crops during fallow, finding better matches between crops and local environment, enhancing microbial activities in the rhizosphere, and selecting for more beneficial VA mycorrhizal species and better crop-VAM matches. New crop varieties, including transgenic crops, with improved pest and disease resistances and improved root characteristics to increase the beneficial interactions in the rhizosphere could increase productivity with low environmental cost. Analysis of environmental risks associated with release of transgenic plants, including possible risks from hybridization with wild relatives, must be considered as part of any implementation plan.
2097173|Tropical rainforest plants produce seeds showing a wide range of sizes, shapes, structures, chemical composition, water content, dormancy mechanisms, and patterns of longevity. Prompt germination seems to be the most common behavior, although there are many cases where germination is delayed by a hard coat or endogenous or enforced dormancy mechanisms. Some gap colonizers show sophisticated light or temperature regulated dormancy. Most rainforest seeds remain alive for a short time in the soil, even those that form part of the soil seed bank.
221703|The pollination of flowering plants by animals represents a critical ecosystem service of great value to humanity, both monetary and otherwise. However, the need for active conservation of pollination interactions is only now being appreciated. Pollination systems are under increasing threat from anthropogenic sources, including fragmentation of habitat, changes in land use, modern agricultural practices, use of chemicals such as pesticides and herbicides, and invasions of non-native plants and animals. Honeybees, which themselves are non-native pollinators on most continents, and which may harm native bees and other pollinators, are nonetheless critically important for crop pollination. Recent declines in honeybee numbers in the United States and Europe bring home the importance of healthy pollination systems, and the need to further develop native bees and other animals as crop pollinators. The "pollination crisis" that is evident in declines of honeybees and native bees, and in damage to webs of plant-pollinator interaction, may be ameliorated not only by cultivation of a diversity of crop pollinators, but also by changes in habitat use and agricultural practices, species reintroductions and removals, and other means. In addition, ecologists must redouble efforts to study basic aspects of plant-pollinator interactions if optimal management decisions are to be made for conservation of these interactions in natural and agricultural ecosystems.
2097176|Phylogenies based on molecular sequence data and on morphology are surveyed and compared within animals (concentrating on vertebrates, mammals, and hominids in particular) and within plants (concentrating on Asterales, angiosperms, seed plants, and major groups of "green plants"). The theoretical problem of assessing congruence between trees generated from different data sets is still unsolved. However, in practice, we find that incongruence between molecular trees (generated from different data sets or by different analytical methods) is as striking or pervasive as is incongruence between trees generated by morphologists in the long history of their discipline. Morphologists achieved much during that time, and none of their well-supported phylogenies is overthrown by molecular data. So far, molecular sequences have contributed most significantly in areas where morphological data are inconclusive, deficient, nonexistent, or poorly analyzed. The interrelationships of extant hominines (Gorilla, Homo, Pan), where morphology is inconclusive, are exemplary. The pattern [Gorilla [Homo, Pan]] is significantly favored by nucleotide sequence data, but the effort necessary to achieve resolution in that simple case (ca. 30 kb of aligned sequences, sampling all four extant species) may foreshadow the workload that lies ahead.
2097237|In this review, we discuss the ecological and evolutionary consequences of plant-herbivore interactions in tropical forests. We note first that herbivory rates are higher in tropical forests than in temperate ones and that, in contrast to leaves in temperate forests, most of the damage to tropical leaves occurs when they are young and expanding. Leaves in dry tropical forests also suffer higher rates of damage than in wet forests, and damage is greater in the understory than in the canopy. Insect herbivores, which typically have a narrow host range in the tropics, cause most of the damage to leaves and have selected for a wide variety of chemical, developmental, and phenological defenses in plants. Pathogens are less studied but cause considerable damage and, along with insect herbivores, may contribute to the maintenance of tree diversity. Folivorous mammals do less damage than insects or pathogens but have evolved to cope with the high levels of plant defenses. Leaves in tropical forests are defended by having low nutritional quality, greater toughness, and a wide variety of secondary metabolites, many of which are more common in tropical than temperate forests. Tannins, toughness, and low nutritional quality lengthen insect developmental times, making them more vulnerable to predators and parasitoids. The widespread occurrence of these defenses suggests that natural enemies are key participants in plant defenses and may have influenced the evolution of these traits. To escape damage, leaves may expand rapidly, be flushed synchronously, or be produced during the dry season when herbivores are rare. One strategy virtually limited to tropical forests is for plants to flush leaves but delay "greening" them until the leaves are mature. Many of these defensive traits are correlated within species, due to physiological constraints and tradeoffs. In general, shade-tolerant species invest more in defenses than do gap-requiring ones, and species with long-lived leaves are better defended than those with short-lived leaves.
2678635|Most of our knowledge of biodiversity and its causes in the deep-sea benthos derives from regional-scale sampling studies of the macrofauna. Improved sampling methods and the expansion of investigations into a wide variety of habitats have revolutionized our understanding of the deep sea. Local species diversity shows clear geographic variation on spatial scales of 100-1000 km. Recent sampling programs have revealed unexpected complexity in community structure at the landscape level that is associated with large-scale oceanographic processes and their environmental consequences. We review the relationships between variation in local species diversity and the regional-scale phenomena of boundary constraints, gradients of productivity, sediment heterogeneity, oxygen availability, hydrodynamic regimes, and catastrophic physical disturbance. We present a conceptual model of how these interdependent environmental factors shape regional-scale variation in local diversity. Local communities in the deep sea may be composed of species that exist as metapopulations whose regional distribution depends on a balance among global-scale, landscape-scale, and small-scale dynamics. Environmental gradients may form geographic patterns of diversity by influencing local processes such as predation, resource partitioning, competitive exclusion, and facilitation that determine species coexistence. The measurement of deep-sea species diversity remains a vital issue in comparing geographic patterns and evaluating their potential causes. Recent assessments of diversity using species accumulation curves with randomly pooled samples confirm the often-disputed claim that the deep sea supports higher diversity than the continental shelf. However, more intensive quantitative sampling is required to fully characterize the diversity of deep-sea sediments, the most extensive habitat on Earth. One considered to be constant, spatially uniform, and isolated, deep-sea sediments are now recognized as a dynamic, richly textured environment that is inextricably linked to the global biosphere. Regional studies of the last two decades provide the empirical background necessary to formulate and test specific hypotheses of causality by controlled sampling designs and experimental approaches.
221734|Fossil plankton are difficult to identify but have formed a major component of most marine ecosystems throughout geological time. The earliest fossil heterotrophs include planktic forms, and subsequent adaptive innovations quickly appeared in the plankton; these include metazoans and animals with hard parts. Movement into the plankton occurred sporadically throughout geological history and seems to have been independent of any biological or environmental forcing mechanism. Subsequent radiations and extinctions in the cohort of plankton closely reflect events in the benthos. The diversity of zooplankton rose quickly during the early Paleozoic era, but low plankton diversity characterized the late Paleozoic. Significant radiations during early Mesozoic times led to an overall increase in diversity through the Phanerozoic eon. As the composition of the zooplankton has changed, so has their effect on biogeochemical cycles.
221712|Floral symmetry has figured prominently in the study of both pollination biology and animal behavior. However, a confusion of terminology and the diffuse nature of the literature has limited our understanding of the role that this basic characteristic of flower form has played in plant-pollinator interactions. Here, we first contribute a classification scheme for floral symmetry that we hope will resolve some of the confusion resulting from the inconsistent application of terms. Next, we present a short review of the distribution of floral forms in angiosperm families. Finally, we provide a list of hypotheses and, when available, supporting evidence for the causes of the evolution of floral symmetry.
2097191|Hypotheses about the adaptive significance of a trait have long been tested by making comparisons among species. Many recent studies emphasized that conclusions about the origin and maintenance of adaptations as well as the underlying selective processes derived from comparative tests may be strengthened with the inclusion of a phylogenetic hypothesis. Major advances in the comparative approach have therefore occurred with the coincident developments in numerical methods available for phylogenetic inference. In this review, we outline the advantages and possible disadvantages of adopting an historical approach in ecological and evolutionary studies. We begin by discussing the need for including information on the phyletic relationships among taxa in ecological and evolutionary analyses. Next we describe how an historical approach not only refines the definition and recognition of adaptations, but also provides an objective definition of "phylogenetic constraints." Because conceptual and analytical advances in comparative methods are occurring quite rapidly, we provide a brief summary of the goals, assumptions, and potential applications of the various methods presently available to biologists. Finally, the relative performance of various comparative methods is discussed as well as the problems inherent in choosing a well-supported phylogeny and the potential weaknesses inherent when using taxonomic classification instead of a phylogenetic tree. Current phylogenetic trees are testable hypotheses, and the conclusions emanating from recent comparative analyses should be considered tentative. Our interpretations regarding the adaptive significance of a character may be subject to retesting or revisions as additional data regarding a trait complex are collected and the available phylogenetic hypotheses are refined.
2097184|In dynamic models of energy allocation, assimilated energy is allocated to reproduction, somatic growth, maintenance or storage, and the allocation pattern can change with age. The expected evolutionary outcome is an optimal allocation pattern, but this depends on the environment experienced during the evolutionary process and on the fitness costs and benefits incurred by allocating resources in different ways. Here we review existing treatments which encompass some of the possibilities as regards constant or variable environments and their predictability or unpredictability, and the ways in which production rates and mortality rates depend on body size and composition and age and on the pattern of energy allocation. The optimal policy is to allocate resources where selection pressures are highest, and simultaneous allocation to several body subsystems and reproduction can be optimal if these pressures are equal. This may explain balanced growth commonly observed during ontogeny. Growth ceases at maturity in many models; factors favouring growth after maturity include non-linear trade-offs, variable season length, and production and mortality rates both increasing (or decreasing) functions of body size. We cannot yet say whether these are sufficient to account for the many known cases of growth after maturity and not all reasonable models have yet been explored. Factors favouring storage are also reviewed.
221728|Inbreeding depression is of major concern in the management and conservation of endangered species. Inbreeding appears universally to reduce fitness, but its magnitude and specific effects are highly variable because they depend on the genetic constitution of the species or populations and on how these genotypes interact with the environment. Recent natural experiments are consistent with greater inbreeding depression in more stressful environments. In small populations of randomly mating individuals, such as are characteristic of many endangered species, all individuals may suffer from inbreeding depression because of the cumulative effects of genetic drift that decrease the fitness of all individuals in the population. In three recent cases, introductions into populations with low fitness appeared to restore fitness to levels similar to those before the effects of genetic drift. Inbreeding depression may potentially be reduced, or purged, by breeding related individuals. However, the Speke's gazelle example, often cited as a demonstration of reduction of inbreeding depression, appears to be the result of a temporal change in fitness in inbred individuals and not a reduction in inbreeding depression.
2097234|The Exxon Valdez oil spill was the largest in US maritime history. We review post-spill research and set it in its legal context. The Exxon Corporation, obviously responsible for the spill, focused on restoration, whereas the Trustees, a coalition of state and federal entities, focused on damage and its assessment. Despite billions of dollars expended, little new understanding was gained about the recovery dynamics of a high latitude marine ecosystem subject to an anthropogenic pulse perturbation. We discuss a variety of case studies that highlight the limitations to and shortcomings of the research effort. Given that more spills are inevitable, we recommend that future studies address spatial patterns in the intertidal, and focus on the abundances of long-lived species and on organisms that preserve a chronological record of growth. Oil spills, while tragic, represent opportunities to gain insight into the dynamics of marine ecosystems and should not be wasted.
221685|The squid-vibrio light-organ symbioses, which have been under investigation for just over 10 years, offer the opportunity to decipher aspects of the dynamics of stable associations between animals and bacteria. The two best-studied partners, the Hawaiian sepiolid squid Euprymna scolopes and the marine luminous bacterium Vibrio fischeri, engage in the most common type of animal-bacterial association, i.e., between extracellular, gram-negative bacteria and animal epithelia. Similar to most such symbioses, the squid-vibrio relationship begins anew each generation when the-host animal acquires the symbiont from the surrounding environment. To establish a specific association, mechanisms have evolved to ensure recognition between the host and symbiont and the exclusion of other potential partnerships. Once the association has been established, the bacteria induce significant morphological changes in the host that result in a transition of the light organ from a form associated with initiation of the symbiosis to one characteristic of the mature, functional relationship.
2678640|Mistletoes are a diverse group of parasitic plants with a worldwide distribution. The hemiparasitic growth form is critical to understanding their biology, buffering variation in resource availability that constrains the distribution and growth of most plants. This is manifested in many aspects of mistletoe life history, including extended phenologies, abundant and high-quality fruits and nectar, and few chemical or structural defenses. Most mistletoe species rely on animals for both pollination and fruit dispersal, and this leads to a broad range of mistletoe-animal interactions. In this review, I summarize research on mistletoe biology and synthesize results from studies of mistletoe-animal interactions. I consolidate records of mistletoe-vertebrate interactions, incorporating species from 97 vertebrate families recorded as consuming mistletoe and from 50 using mistletoe as nesting sites. There is widespread support for regarding mistletoe as a keystone resource, and all quantitative data are consistent with mistletoe functioning as a determinant of alpha diversity. Manipulative experiments are highlighted as a key priority, and six explicit predictions are provided to guide future experimental research.
2678638|Movement between discrete habitat patches can present significant challenges to organisms. Freshwater invertebrates achieve dispersal using a variety of mechanisms that can be broadly categorized as active or passive, and which have important consequences for processes of colonization, gene flow, and evolutionary divergence. Apart from flight in adult freshwater insects, active dispersal appears relatively uncommon. Passive dispersal may occur through transport by animal vectors or wind, often involving a specific desiccation-resistant stage in the life cycle. Dispersal in freshwater taxa is difficult to study directly, and rare but biologically significant dispersal events may remain undetected. Increased use of molecular markers has provided considerable insight into the frequency of dispersal in freshwater invertebrates, particularly for groups such as crustaceans and bryozoans that disperse passively through the transport of desiccation-resistant propagules. The establishment of propagule banks in sediment promotes dispersal in time and may be particularly important for passive dispersers by allowing temporal escape from unfavorable conditions. Patterns that apply to dispersal in freshwater invertebrates can be readily extended to other fresh-water taxa, since common challenges arise from the colonization of isolated aquatic systems.
2097174|(i) Varied origins of larval forms and metamorphoses are indicated by comparisons among extant animals. (ii) Size-specific and stage-specific constraints on survival and growth may result in distinctive larval traits, but to explain larval origins, size- or stage-specific advantages must be extrapolated to ancient environments and ancestral traits. Adaptations for habitat selection or dispersal do not account for evolution of long precompetent periods of larval feeding and growth or for larvae in holoplanktonic life histories. (iii) Transverse bands of cilia on ridges or posterior edges of larvae meet a common functional requirement for propulsion, are expected to be convergently similar, and may have arisen numerous times. (iv) Biases imposed by ancestral larval or juvenile traits might result in convergent similarity of derived larval traits with a result resembling homology. (v) Some extant feeding larvae persist with unusually simple structures or low performance. These larvae suggest possible intermediate steps in the evolution of feeding larvae. (vi) Direction of evolutionary transitions of larval traits are indicated by distribution of traits within clades and by vestigial structures. Feeding larval stages have been lost often and gained rarely. (vii) Most types of feeding larvae evolved at most once, are in clades that diverged early, and are therefore of ancient origin. Other evidences of antiquity are fossil traces of larval molluscs and brachiopods from the Ordovician and fossils of crustacean nauplii from the Upper Cambrian. (viii) Inferred combinations of ancestral traits can differ from combinations known from extant descendants. Examples are external fertilization combined with a feeding larva or small adult size. (ix) In some clades, feeding larval forms that originated earlier may be associated with small parental investment per offspring. (x) Unreliable rules for evolutionary inferences include the assumptions that primitive traits are correlated in extant animals, that evolution proceeds from simple to complex structures, that earlier stages in development are more conservative, and that structures that develop earlier evolved earlier.
2097180|Phylogenetic relationships among eutherian mammal orders are discussed in light of previous morphological and molecular studies. Congruence within and between these two major groups of characters is evaluated, and several phylogenetic hypotheses are examined using recent nucleotide sequence data from both mitochondrial and nuclear genes. The results of an assessment of these molecular data using parsimony analysis are as follows: (i) An examination of the 13 mitochondrial protein encoding gene sequences derived from five orders of mammals provided strong support for a relationship between the order Carnivora and an Artiodaclya/Cetacea clade. (ii) The monophyly of the superorder Archonta (Primates, Scadentia, Dermoptera, and Chiroptera) is not supported, and the molecular phylogenies do not support a Chiroptera/Dermoptera clade, a finding incongruent with some morphological evidence. (iii) The monophyly of the superorder Glires (Rodentia and Lagomorpha) is only weakly supported by a subset of molecular data and strongly supported by morphology. (iv) The monophyly of the orders Rodentia and Chiroptera is supported.
2097242|Inherited environmental effects are those components of the phenotype that are derived from either parent, apart from nuclear genes. Inherited environmental effects arise as the product of parental genes and the parental environment, or their interation, and can include contributions that reflect the abiotic, nutritional, and other ecological features of a parental environment. Separating the impact of inherited environmental effects from inherited genetic effects on offspring phenotype variation has been and continues to be a challenge. This complexity is represented in the presentation of a qualitative model that distinguishes the possible paths of nongenetic cross-generational transmission. This model serves as the framework for considering the nature, in published works, of what was actually measured. Empirical evidence of inherited environmental effects arising from these pathways is documented for a diversity of plant and animal taxa. From these results one can conclude that the impact of inherited environmental effects on offspring can be positive or negative depending on the nature of the contribution and the ecological context in which the offspring exists. Finally, there is a description of theoretical and experimental efforts to understand the consequences of parental effects relative to their impact on population dynamics, the expression of adaptive phenotype plasticity, and character evolution.
2678641|Natural ecological disturbance creates habitats that are used by diverse groups of birds. In North America, these habitats or ecosystems include grasslands or prairies, shrublands, savannas, early successional forests, and floodplains. Whereas the extent of all natural habitats has diminished significantly owing to outright loss from agriculture and development, the suppression of disturbance by agents such as fire and flooding has led to further losses. Accordingly, the abundances of many bird species adapted to disturbance-mediated habitats have declined as well. In North America, these declines have been more severe and common than those of species associated with less frequently disturbed habitats such as mature or closed-canopy forests. Field studies consistently reveal the direct role of disturbance and successional processes in structuring avian habitats and communities. Conservation strategies involving the management of disturbance through some combination of flooding, application of fire, or the expression of wildfire, and use of certain types of silviculture have the potential to diversify avian habitats at the local, landscape, and regional scale. Many aspects of the disturbance ecology of birds require further research. Important questions involve associations between the intensity and frequency of disturbance and the viability of bird populations, the scale of disturbance with respect to the spatial structure of populations, and the role of natural vs. anthropogenic disturbance. The effects of disturbance and ensuing successional processes on birds are potentially long-term, and comprehensive monitoring is essential.
221716|Polyploidy is widely acknowledged as a major mechanism of adaptation and speciation in plants. The stages in polyploid evolution include frequent fertility bottlenecks and infrequent events such as gametic nonreduction and interspecific hybridization, yet little is known about how these and other factors influence overall rates of polyploid formation. Here we review the literature regarding polyploid origins, and quantify parameter values for each of the steps involved in the principal pathways. In contrast to the common claim that triploids are sterile, our results indicate that the triploid bridge pathway can contribute significantly to autopolyploid formation regardless of the mating system, and to allopolyploid formation in outcrossing taxa. We estimate that the total rate of autotetraploid formation is of the same order as the genic mutation rate (10
221719|Morphological and molecular analyses resolve many aspects of vascular plant phylogeny, though others remain uncertain. Vascular plants are nested within bryophytes; lycopsids and zosterophylls are one branch of crown-group vascular plants, and euphyllophytes (Psilophyton, sphenopsids, ferns, seed plants) are the other. In Filicales, Osmundaceae are basal; water ferns and Polypodiaceae sensu lato are both monophyletic. Seed plants are nested within progymnosperms, and coniferophytes are nested within platyspermic seed ferns. Morphology indicates that angiosperms and Gnetales are related, but detailed scenarios depend on uncertain relationships of fossils; molecular data are inconsistent but indicate that both groups are monophyletic. Amborella, Nymphaeales, Austrobaileya, and Illiciales appear basal in angiosperms. Groups with tricolpate pollen form a clade (eudicots), with ranunculids and lower hamamelids basal. Most eudicots belong to the rosid and asterid lines, with higher hamamelids in the rosid line and dilleniids scattered in both. Alismids, Arales, and Acorus are basal in monocots; palms are linked with Commelinidae.
3069275|Herbivore offense describes traits that allow herbivores to increase their feeding and other uses of host plants when these uses benefit the herbivores. We argue that ecological interactions and coevolution between plants and herbivores cannot be understood without an offense-defense framework. Thus far, plant defense theory and data have far outpaced knowledge of herbivore offense. Offensive tactics include feeding and oviposition choices, enzymatic metabolism of plant compounds, sequestration, morphological adaptations, symbionts, induction of plant galls, and induced plant susceptibility, trenching, and gregarious feeding. We propose that offensive tactics can be categorized usefully depending upon when they are effective and whether they are plastic or fixed traits. The advantages of offensive traits have not been adequately described in terms of herbivore fitness. Similarly, a more complete understanding of the costs and limitations of offensive traits will help put the herbivore back in plant-herbivore interactions and coevolution.
2952497|Parasite communities are arranged into hierarchical levels of organization, covering various spatial and temporal scales. These range from all parasites within an individual host to all parasites exploiting a host species across its geographic range. This arrangement provides an opportunity for the study of patterns and structuring processes operating at different scales. Across the parasite faunas of various host species, several species-area relationships have been published, emphasizing the key role of factors such as host size or host geographical range in determining parasite species richness. When corrections are made for unequal sampling effort or phylogenetic influences, however, the strength of these relationships is greatly reduced, casting a doubt over their validity. Component parasite communities, or the parasites found in a host population, are subsets of the parasite fauna of the host species. They often form saturated communities, such that their richness is not always a reflection of that of the entire parasite fauna. The species richness of component communities is instead influenced by the local availability of parasite species and their probability of colonization. At the lowest level, infracommunities in individual hosts are subsets of the species occurring in the component community. Generally, their structure does not differ from that expected from a random assembly of available species, although comparisons with precise null models are still few. Overall studies of parasite communities suggest that the action of processes determining species richness of parasite assemblages becomes less detectable as focus shifts from parasite faunas to infracommunities.
2097240|We review deterministic and stochastic demographic models as well as classical population genetic models that have been applied to tropical rain forest tree species. We discuss their implications for conservation. The main conclusions of deterministic demographic models are the key importance of species' longevity in determining susceptibility of population growth rate to harvesting of individuals at different life-stages, the critical effect of patch dynamics, and the importance of density-dependent mechanisms at least for abundant species. Population viability analysis to predict extinction times of tropical rain forest tree species has only been performed for four tropical rain forest tree species using the simplest Lefkovitch matrix linear model. Results obtained are in accordance with results of simple stochastic models for nonstructured populations that have been solved analytically. Population genetic models have shown that tropical rain forest trees: (a) possess high levels of genetic diversity, (b) maintain greater proportions of genetic variation within than among populations, (c) are predominantly outcrossed, and (d) have high levels of gene flow. These results suggest that tropical tree species may not be in immediate danger of extinction from genetic factors if actual conditions are maintained. However, the impact of forest fragmentation is expected to be particularly strong for most tropical rain forest tree species due mainly to the high genetic load kept by their present population genetic structures. Recent theoretical demographic-genetic models for simple systems suggest that the fixation of new mildly detrimental mutations may be comparable in importance to environmental stochasticity, implying minimum viable populations as large as a few thousands. It is urgent to develop a model that integrates genetic and demographic factors, that enables evaluations of their relative importance in long-term persistence of tropical rain forest tree species.
221691|The disjunct distributions of morphologically similar plants between eastern Asia and eastern North America have fascinated botanists and biogeographers since the Linnaean era. This biogeographic pattern is currently recognized by the disjunct distributions of some species, approximately 65 genera, and a few closely related genera in these two widely separated areas. Early workers treated many disjuncts as conspecific, but most were later recognized as intercontinental species pairs. Recent phylogenetic studies confirm affinities between many of the disjunct taxa but also indicate that the disjunct pairs of species are rarely each other's closest relatives. Instead, a pattern of further diversification of species on one or both continents is commonly found. Phylogenetic, molecular, geologic, and fossil data all support the hypothesis that the eastern Asian and eastern North American disjunct distributions are relicts of the maximum development of temperate forests in the northern hemisphere during the Tertiary. Fossil and geologic evidence supports multiple origins of this pattern in the Tertiary, with both the North Atlantic and the Bering land bridges involved. In many genera of flowering plants, current estimates of divergence times using molecular and fossil data suggest that the disjunct patterns were established during the Miocene. Morphological stasis, evidenced by the minimal morphological divergence of species after a long time of separation, must have occurred in some of the disjunct groups in the north temperate zone.
221732|Tropical Asian rivers support a rich but incompletely known biota, including a host of fishes, a diverse array of benthic invertebrates, and an assemblage of mammals adapted to riverine wetlands. River ecology is dominated by flow seasonality imposed by monsoonal rains with profound consequences for fishes and zoobenthos. Information on life histories, feeding, and the trophic base of production of these animals is summarized. Widespread use of allochthonous foods by fishes and zoobenthos is apparent. Migration by fishes is often associated with breeding and results in seasonal occupation of different habitats. Riverine biodiversity is threatened by habitat degradation (pollution, deforestation of drainage basins), dams and flow regulation, as well as over-harvesting. Conservation efforts in tropical Asia are constrained by a variety of factors, including lack of ecological information, but the extent of public awareness and political commitment to environmental protection are likely determinants of the future of riverine biodiversity.
2097229|Forest canopies contain a major portion of the diversity of organisms on Earth and constitute the bulk of photosynthetically active foliage and biomass in forest ecosystems. For these reasons, canopy research has become integral to the management of forest ecosystems, and to our better understanding of global change. Ecological research in forest canopies is relatively recent and has been primarily descriptive in scope. The development of new methods of canopy access has enabled scientists to conduct more quantified research in tree crowns. Studies of sessile organisms, mobile organisms, and canopy interactions and processes have emerged as subdisciplines of canopy biology, each requiring different methods for collecting data. Canopy biology is beginning to shift from a descriptive autecology of individuals to a more complex ecosystem approach, although some types of field work are still limited by access. Questions currently addressed in canopy research are extremely diverse but emphasize comparisons with respect to spatial and temporal variation. Spatial scales range from leaves (e.g., quantifying the number of mites on individual phylloplanes) to trees (e.g. measuring photosynthesis between sun and shade leaves), to forest stands (e.g. measuring turbulence above the canopy), and entire landscapes (e.g. comparing mammals between different forest types). Temporal variation is of particular significance in tropical forest canopies, where populations of organisms and their resources have diurnal, seasonal, or even annual periodicity. As the methods for canopy access improve, more rigorous hypotheses-driven field studies remain a future priority of this newly coalesced discipline.
2097207|Reduction and total loss of characters are common evolutionary phenomena. Vestigialization of any morphological, physiological, or behavioral feature can be expected upon relaxation of selection on the trait. Direct selection of vestigialization is rarely documented. Most explanations of evolutionary reductions invoke indirect selection through energy economy or antagonistic pleiotropy arguments, while some invoke the effects of accumulation of neutral mutations. A few documented cases of trade-offs between fitness and wing reduction or pesticide resistance in some insects, and between fitness and resistance to phages or antibiotics in bacteria suggest that indirect selection is a plausible mechanism for evolutionary reductions. Expression of presumably useless genes suggests that neutral mutation arguments require a longer time than is available for the observed reductions. Rapid decay of useless behaviors may require explanations in terms of trade-offs among neural pathways for information processing.
2097305|Population biologists adopted protein electrophoresis to measure genetic variation in the 1960s and, more recently, have adopted a variety of techniques to detect variation in DNA sequences directly. In comparison to protein polymorphisms, DNA markers reveal more genetic variation, and provide population biologists with choices among sets of loci with different patterns of inheritance. Use of both protein polymorphisms and organellar genomes has dramatically increased the ability to detect patterns of mating in hybrid zones. The use of both proteins and DNA markers has also produced some intriguing puzzles; patterns of geographic variation and inferences of gene flow differ dramatically between these sets of loci, and nuclear markers may not show the correlations between heterozygosity and components of fitness that have been reported for protein polymorphisms.
221681|The evolution of reproductive isolation is perhaps the most significant stage in the process of species formation, and the study of reproductive barriers currently dominates investigations of speciation. The discovery that conspecific sperm and pollen precedence play an important role in the reproductive isolation of some closely related animals and plants is one of the real surprises to emerge from this field in recent years. This review begins with a brief history of the study of reproductive isolation with the aim of understanding why conspecific sperm and pollen precedence were generally overlooked in early work on reproductive barriers. It then examines: case studies, the prevalence of conspecific sperm and pollen precedence, the isolating potential of this class of reproductive barriers, the mechanisms that account for the operation of these barriers, and potential explanations for the rapid divergence of populations in traits related to fertilization. Conspecific sperm and pollen precedence appear to be quite effective in limiting gene exchange; these barriers are widespread although not universal in animals and plants, and they operate through a number of different mechanisms. Much more work remains to be done on a number of fronts to elucidate the processes responsible for the evolution of these reproductive barriers.
2952499|The life cycles of cellular species are reviewed from the genetic perspective. Almost all life cycles include stages during which only one genome is transmitted from a parent to its offspring. This, together with interorganismal gene exchange, which occurs regularly in at least some prokaryotes and in the majority of eukaryotes, allows selection to evaluate different alleles more or less independently. Regular genetic changes due to intraorganismal ploidy cycles or recombination may also be important in life cycles of many unicellular forms. Eukaryotic amphimixis is generally similar in all taxa, but the current data on the phylogeny and reproduction of unicellular eukaryotes are insufficient to determine whether it evolved several times or just once. Theoretically, gradual origin of amphimixis from apomixis, with each step favored by natural selection, is feasible. However, we still do not know how this process occurred nor what selection caused it. For reasons not entirely clear, some properties of amphimictic life cycles are much less variable and more conservative than the others. Evolution of many aspects of reproduction requires more theoretical studies, while the existing data are insufficient to choose among the currently competing hypotheses.
221692|The discovery that DNA survives in ancient remains and can be amplified by the polymerase chain reaction has added a direct temporal dimension to evolutionary studies. Initial reports suggested that the time period open to investigation was vast, extending back into the Cretaceous period. However, attempts to replicate of results involving DNA purported to be over a million years old have not succeeded. Theoretical studies suggest that DNA is unlikely to survive intact more than about 100,000 years. However, even over this time period, the evolutionary questions that can be addressed are far reaching and include systematics, paleoecology, the origin of diseases, and evolutionary processes at the population level.
2678643|Contributions from the field of population biology hold promise for understanding and managing invasiveness; invasive species also offer excellent opportunities to study basic processes in population biology. Life history studies and demographic models may be valuable for examining the introduction of invasive species and identifying life history stages where management will be most effective. Evolutionary processes may be key features in determining whether invasive species establish and spread. Studies of genetic diversity and evolutionary changes should be useful for understanding the potential for colonization and establishment, geographic patterns of invasion and range expansion, lag times, and the potential for evolutionary responses to novel environments, including management practices. The consequences of biological invasions permit study of basic evolutionary processes, as invaders often evolve rapidly in response to novel abiotic and biotic conditions, and native species evolve in response to the invasion.
3069277|Molecular clocks have profoundly influenced modern views on the timing of important events in evolutionary history. We review recent advances in estimating divergence times from molecular data, emphasizing the continuum between processes at the phylogenetic and population genetic scales. On the phylogenetic scale, we address the complexities of DNA sequence evolution as they relate to estimating divergences, focusing on models of nucleotide substitution and problems associated with among-site and among-lineage rate variation. On the population genetic scale, we review advances in the incorporation of ancestral population processes into the estimation of divergence times between recently separated species. Throughout the review we emphasize new statistical methods and the importance of model testing during the process of divergence time estimation.
3069265|Twenty-five years ago, the centuries-old Pacific Island practice of community-based marine resource management (CBMRM) was in decline, the victim of various impacts of westernization. During the past two decades, however, this decline has reversed in various island countries. Today CBMRM continues to grow, refuting the claim that traditional non-Western attitudes toward nature cannot provide a sound foundation for contemporary natural resource management. Limited entry, marine protected areas, closed areas, closed seasons, and restrictions on damaging or overly efficient fishing methods are some of the methods being used. Factors contributing to the upsurge include a growing perception of scarcity, the restrengthening of traditional village-based authority, and marine tenure by means of legal recognition and government support, better conservation education, and increasingly effective assistance, and advice from regional and national governments and NGOs. Today's CBMRM is thus a form of cooperative management, but one in which the community still makes and acts upon most of the management decisions.
2097239|Natural freeze-tolerance supports the winter survival of many animals including numerous terrestrial insects, many intertidal marine invertebrates, and selected species of terrestrially hibernating amphibians and reptiles. Freeze-tolerant animals typically endure the conversion of 50% or more of total body water into extracellular ice and employ a suite of adaptations that counter the negative consequences of freezing. Specific adaptations control the sites and rate of ice formation to prevent physical damage by ice. Other adaptations regulate cell-volume change: Colligative cryoprotectants minimize cell shrinkage during extracellular ice formation; other protectants stabilize membrane structure; and a high density of membrane transporter proteins ensure rapid cryoprotectant distribution. Cell survival during freezing is also potentiated by anoxia tolerance, mechanisms of metabolic rate depression, and antioxidant defenses. The net result of these protective mechanisms is the ability to reactivate vital functions after days or weeks of continuous freezing. Magnetic resonance imaging has allowed visual examinations of the mode of ice penetration through the body of freeze-tolerant frogs and turtles, and cryomicroscopy has illustrated the effects of freezing on the cellular and microvasculature structure of tissues. Various metabolic adaptations for freezing survival appear to have evolved out of pre-existing physiological capacities of animals, including desiccation-resistance and anoxia-tolerance.
2097203|Unless sustainable development becomes much more prevalent in tropical forests, appreciable areas of unprotected tropical forests will not survive far into the twenty-first century. Sustainable tropical forestry must integrate forest conservation and economic development. Key ecological factors discussed here include: reproduction, natural regeneration, growth, ecosystem functions, and biodiversity conservation. Four models of sustainable tropical forestry are described: 1) Industrial timber production based on the PORTICO company in Costa Rica that owns and manages its production forests and makes a substantive investment in research. 2) Community-based timber production using the Yanesha Forestry Cooperative in the Peruvian Amazon as an example of local empowerment over the protection and use of forests. This Coop has a local processing facility that enables most of the timber to be marketed, and it uses an innovative strip-cut management system that promotes excellent natural regeneration of native tree species. 3) Community-based production of nontimber forest products depends on local rights of access or tenure to tropical forests. However, more information is needed on harvestable levels and management techniques as local preferences move from subsistence uses to commercial production. 4) Locally controlled nature tourism is touted as the most benign use of tropical forests, but local communities receive minimal economic returns and have little say in prioritizing development objectives.
2952504|Belowground competition occurs when plants decrease the growth, survival, or fecundity of neighbors by reducing available soil resources. Competition belowground can be stronger and involve many more neighbors than aboveground competition. Physiological ecologists and population or community ecologists have traditionally studied belowground competition from different perspectives. Physiologically based studies often measure resource uptake without determining the integrated consequences for plant performance, while population or community level studies examine plant performance but fail to identify the resource intermediary or mechanism. Belowground competitive ability is correlated with such attributes as root density, surface area, and plasticity either in root growth or in the properties of enzymes involved in nutrient uptake. Unlike competition for light, in which larger plants have a disproportionate advantage by shading smaller ones, competition for soil resources is apparently more symmetric. Belowground competition often decreases with increases in nutrient levels, but it is premature to generalize about the relative importance of above- and belowground competition across resource gradients. Although shoot and root competition are often assumed to have additive effects on plant growth, some studies provide evidence to the contrary, and potential interactions between the two forms of competition should be considered in future investigations. Other research recommendations include the simultaneous study of root and shoot gaps, since their closures may not occur simultaneously, and improved estimates of the belowground neighborhood. Only by combining the tools and perspectives from physiological ecology and population and community biology can we fully understand how soil characteristics, neighborhood structure, and global climate change influence or are influenced by plant competition belowground.
3069271|As better phylogenetic hypotheses become available for many groups of organisms, studies in community ecology can be informed by knowledge of the evolutionary relationships among coexisting species. We note three primary approaches to integrating phylogenetic information into studies of community organization: 1. examining the phylogenetic structure of community assemblages, 2. exploring the phylogenetic basis of community niche structure, and 3. adding a community context to studies of trait evolution and biogeography. We recognize a common pattern of phylogenetic conservatism in ecological character and highlight the challenges of using phylogenies of partial lineages. We also review phylogenetic approaches to three emergent properties of communities: species diversity, relative abundance distributions, and range sizes. Methodological advances in phylogenetic supertree construction, character reconstruction, null models for community assembly and character evolution, and metrics of community phylogenetic structure underlie the recent progress in these areas. We highlight the potential for community ecologists to benefit from phylogenetic knowledge and suggest several avenues for future research.
3069260|The evolution of proteins involved in reproduction is only now beginning to be studied. A reoccurring observation is the rapid evolution of the molecules mediating reproductive events following the release of gametes. We review the examples where rapid evolution of reproductive proteins has been documented, covering taxa ranging from diatoms to humans. The selective pressures causing this divergence remain unknown, but several hypotheses are presented. The functional consequences of this rapid divergence could be involved in speciation.
2097218|The commonly observed proximal-to-distal decrease within inflorescences of fruit and/or seed maturation per flower has frequently been attributed to competition among developing fruits for resources. The research summarized in this review suggests, however, that the observed variation can also be due to architecture--that is, to sources of variation inherent in plant axes. Thus, the fate of a developing flower depends not only on the reproductive events that have preceded it during the ontogeny of the organism, but on where it occurs within the architecture of an individual. The effects of architecture are separable experimentally from the effects of differential resource allocation, and careful experimental analysis of these two factors will enhance our understanding of the physiological, developmental, and evolutionary controls of fruit and seed production in flowering plants.
2952495|We focus on the implications of movement, landscape variables, and spatial heterogeneity for food web dynamics. Movements of nutrients, detritus, prey, and consumers among habitats are ubiquitous in diverse biomes and can strongly influence population, consumer-resource, food web, and community dynamics. Nutrient and detrital subsidies usually increase primary and secondary productivity, both directly and indirectly. Prey subsidies, by movement of either prey or predators, usually enhance predator abundance beyond what local resources can support. Top-down effects occur when spatially subsidized consumers affect local resources by suppressing key resources and occasionally by initiating trophic cascades. Effects on community dynamics vary with the relative amount of input, the trophic roles of the mobile and recipient entities, and the local food web structure. Landscape variables such as the perimeter/area ratio of the focal habitat, permeability of habitat boundaries, and relative productivity of trophically connected habitats affect the degree and importance of spatial subsidization.
221687|Allozyme polymorphisms have been the focus of studies of selection at single enzyme loci, and most involve the enzymes of central metabolism. DNA sequencing of enzyme loci has shown numerous examples of multiple amino acid polymorphisms segregating within electromorphs. The amino acid heterogeneity underlying many allozyme polymorphisms should confound analysis of functional differences and selection. Metabolic control theory proposed that pathways will be insensitive to functional changes in allozymes; however, there is evidence that many polymorphisms modulate fluxes. Studies of model systems have provided detailed evidence for selection acting on enzyme polymorphisms in metabolic genes. There is also evidence that regulatory changes are superimposed on structural changes. Codon bias implies that the functional differences encountered in allozyme studies should be detectable by natural selection; however, amino acid polymorphisms may also represent weakly deleterious mutations. Future studies should connect structural changes with effects on function and stability, and they should emphasize the multilocus nature of responses to selection.
3069255|The 500 cone snail species (Conus) use complex venoms to capture prey, defend against predators and deter competitors. Most biologically active venom components are small, highly structured peptides, each encoded by a separate gene. Every Conus species has its own distinct repertoire of 100-200 venom peptides, with each peptide presumably having a physiologically relevant target in prey or potential predators/competitors. There is a remarkable interspecific divergence observed in venom peptide genes, which can be rationalized because of biotic interactions that are species specific. The peptide families/subfamilies characteristic of clades of related Conus species are potentially useful clade markers and can be used to indicate common biological mechanisms characterizing that clade. By knowing both the distribution and the physiological function of venom peptides, a type of reverse ecology becomes possible; the peptides in a Conus venom are a molecular readout of the biotic interactions of a species or clade.
221706| Many groups of extinct and extant organisms have aggregated to form reefs for over 3.5 billion yr (Ga). Most of these communities, however, grew under ecological and environmental controls profoundly different from those that govern modern coral reefs. Not only has the global distribution of reefs varied considerably through geological time--determined largely by sea level, and latitudinal temperature/saturation gradients--but more importantly the trophic demands of reef-building organisms have changed, as has the degree of biological disturbance faced by sessile biota in shallow marine environments. Reefs differentiated into open surface and cryptic communities as soon as open frameworks developed in the Proterozoic, some 1.9 million yr ago (mya) and diverse and complex ecosystems were established by the early Cambrian ( 520 mya). Calcified heterotrophs were conspicuous in reefs during the Paleozoic and early Mesozoic, but considerable rigidity was imparted to these often otherwise fragile communities both by indirect microbial processes that induced the formation of carbonate and by rapid early cementation. While photosymbiosis was probably acquired by scleractinian corals early in their history ( 210 mya), this does not appear to have immediately conferred a superior reef-building ability. Large, modular corals and coralline algae showed notable powers of regeneration after partial mortality but poor ability to compete with macroalgae for limited substrate in the absence of intense herbivory; they did not rise to prominence in reef communities until the early to mid-Cenozoic. This may be related to the appearance at this time of major predator groups such as echinoids, limpets, and particularly fish that are capable of rapid algal denudation and excavation. The existence of this reciprocal relationship is corroborated by the observation that branching corals, which appear to flourish because and not in spite of breakage, show a particularly dramatic increase in diversity coincident with the increase in predation pressure from the late Mesozoic onwards. 
221726|Recent theories regarding the evolution of predator-prey interactions is reviewed. This includes theory about the dynamics and stability of both populations and traits, as well as theory predicting how predatory and anti-predator traits should respond to environmental changes. Evolution can stabilize or destabilize interactions; stability is most likely when only the predator evolves, or when traits in one or both species are under strong stabilizing selection. Stability seems least likely when there is coevolution and a bi-directional axis of prey vulnerability. When population cycles exist, adaptation may either increase or decrease the amplitude of those cycles. An increase in the defensive ability of prey is less likely to produce evolutionary counter-measures in its partner than is a comparable increase in attack ability of the predator. Increased productivity may increase or decrease offensive and defensive adaptations. The apparent predominance of evolutionary responses of prey to predators over those of predators to prey is in general accord with equilibrium theory, but theory on stability may be difficult to confirm or refute. Recent work on geographically structured populations promises to advance our understanding of the evolution of predator-prey interactions.
2097314|The most commonly heard vocalizations of frogs are advertisement calls, which attract gravid females and mediate aggressive interactions between males. Frog vocalizations are energetically costly to produce, and body size often constrains the dominant frequency and intensity of vocalizations; propagation and degradation of these signals are affected by diverse physical and biotic factors. Behaviors and auditory mechanisms that mitigate these problems are discussed. With some exceptions, female preferences based on dominant frequency are intensity-dependent and mediate stabilizing selection within populations. Female preferences based on dynamic, gross-temporal properties typically mediate strong directional selection. The high values of these properties preferred by females increase a male's detectability in dense choruses and are a reliable predictor of his energetic investment in courtship. Female preferences based on fine-temporal properties (e.g. pulse rate) are often intensity-independent and usually mediate stabilizing selection within populations. The overall attractiveness of a signal depends on variation in more than one of these acoustic properties; their relative importance differs between species. Parsimony analysis supports the idea that auditory biases preceded the evolutionary appearance of call elements that enhance the attractiveness of advertisement calls in one species group of neotropical frogs. A more specific claim that the bias has not been modified by selection after the establishment of the new signal has little empirical support. Indeed, the selective consequences of positive phonotaxis to any "new" stimulus, whether or not there is a sensory bias, must play a critical role in its establishment and maintenance as a mate-attraction signal and on the further evolution of the female preference. The hypothesis that present-day selective consequences of mate choice have also acted in the past evolution of call structure and preferences is supported by a few examples of reproductive character displacement. However, evolutionary divergence in signals and preferences will have multiple causes, most of which do not involve interactions between species. Phylogenetic analyses and studies of selection and other evolutionary forces in contemporary populations are complementary approaches to gaining insights about the evolution of frog vocalizations and animal communication in general.
2952490|One of the most intensively examined and abundantly documented structures in the animal world is insect mouthparts. Major structural types of extant insect mouthparts are extensive, consisting of diverse variations in element structure within each of the five mouthpart regions--labrum, hypopharynx, mandibles, maxillae, and labium. Numerous instances of multielement fusion both within and among mouthpart regions result in feeding organs capable of ingesting in diverse ways foods that are solid, particulate, and liquid in form. Mouthpart types have a retrievable and interpretable fossil history in well-preserved insect deposits. In addition, the trace-fossil record of insect-mediated plant damage, gut contents, coprolites, and insect-relevant floral features provides complementary data documenting the evolution of feeding strategies during the past 400 million years. From a cluster analysis of insect mouthparts, I recognize 34 fundamental mouthpart classes among extant insects and their geochronological evolution by a five-phase pattern. This pattern is characterized, early in the Devonian, by coarse partitioning of food by mandibulate and piercing-and-sucking mouthpart classes, followed by a rapid rise in herbivore mouthpart types for fluid- and solid-feeding during the Late Carboniferous and Early Permian. Mouthpart innovation during the Late Triassic to Early Jurassic added mouthpart classes for fluid and aquatic particle-feeding. This ecomorphological expansion of mouthpart design was associated with the radiation of holometabolous insects, especially Diptera. The final phase of mouthpart class expansion occurred during the Late Jurassic and Early Cretaceous, with addition of surface-fluid-feeding mouthpart classes that subsequently became important during the ecological expansion of angiosperms. Conclusions about the evolution of mouthpart design are based on the mapping of phenetic mouthpart classes onto (ideally) cladistic phylogenies of lineages bearing those same mouthpart classes. The plotting of phenetic and associated ecological attributes onto baseline phylogenies is one of the most important uses of cladistic data.
221704|The accidental introduction of the brown treesnake (Boiga irregularis) on Guam around 1950 induced a cascade of extirpations that may be unprecedented among historical extinction events in taxonomic scope and severity. Birds, bats, and reptiles were affected, and by 1990 most forested areas on Guam retained only three native vertebrates, all of which were small lizards. Of the hypotheses to account for the severity of this extinction event, we find some support for the importance of lack of coevolution between introduced predator and prey, availability of alternate prey, extraordinary predatory capabilities of the snake, and vulnerabilities of the Guam ecosystem. In addition, there were important interactions among these factors, especially the presence of introduced prey (possessing coevolutionary experience) that were thus able to maintain their populations and provide alternate prey to the introduced predator while it was driving the native prey species to extinction. This complex of vulnerabilities is common on oceanic islands.
221738|The impacts of airborne pollutants have been studied in only a few groups of soil animals, notably protozoans, nematodes, potworms, earthworms, mites, and collembolans. Pollutants in the form of acid depositions, which contain SO
3069256|The number, size, and scope of phylogenetic analyses using molecular data has increased steadily in recent years. This has simultaneously led to a dramatic improvement in our understanding of phylogenetic relationships and a better appreciation for an array of methodological problems that continue to hinder progress in phylogenetic studies of certain data sets and/or particular parts of the tree of life. This review focuses on several persistent problems, including rooting, conflict among data sets, weak support in trees, strong but evidently incorrect support, and the computational issues arising when methods are applied to the large data sets that are becoming increasingly commonplace. We frame each of these issues as a specific problem to be overcome, review the relevant theoretical and empirical literature, and suggest solutions, or at least strategies, for further investigation of the issues involved.
221686|Recent overviews have suggested that the relationship between species richness and productivity (rate of conversion of resources to biomass per unit area per unit time) is unimodal (hump-shaped). Most agree that productivity affects species richness at large scales, but unanimity is less regarding underlying mechanisms. Recent studies have examined the possibility that variation in species richness within communities may influence productivity, leading to an exploration of the relative effect of alterations in species number per se as contrasted to the addition of productive species. Reviews of the literature concerning deserts, boreal forests, tropical forests, lakes, and wetlands lead to the conclusion that extant data are insufficient to conclusively resolve the relationship between diversity and productivity, or that patterns are variable with mechanisms equally varied and complex. A more comprehensive survey of the ecological literature uncovered approximately 200 relationships, of which 30% were unimodal, 26% were positive linear, 12% were negative linear, and 32% were not significant. Categorization of studies with respect to geographic extent, ecological extent, taxonomic hierarchy, or energetic basis of productivity similarly yielded a heterogeneous distribution of relationships. Theoretical and empirical approaches increasingly suggest scale-dependence in the relationship between species richness and productivity; consequently, synthetic understanding may be contingent on explicit considerations of scale in analytical studies of productivity and diversity.
2097304|Nonadditive gene interaction or epistasis is a central component of hypotheses that postulate a creative role for small populations and founder events in character evolution and speciation. Because quantitative or small effect variation is considered to be the basis of evolutionary change, the claim that this variation shows mostly additive behavior has represented a serious obstacle for these hypotheses. The literature on classical phenotypic genetics as well as the contemporary counterpart of this work, developmental genetics, harbors a considerable wealth of information relevant to the issue of gene-character relationship. In particular, recent studies of gene interaction in Drosophila developmental genetics provide important insights into the structure and behavior of nonadditive gene action. It is proposed that the importance of these studies for population genetics lies in suggesting that the small-effect of at least some genetic variation can hide a potential for strong phenotypic effects which can be expressed through interlocus interactions within sets of functionally related loci. At the population level this genetic behavior implies that strong effects should become apparent in quantitative variation when the genotypic frequencies of the population are substantially disturbed. That at least some quantitative variation can show strong interaction effects with substantial disturbance of the population genotypic combinations is supported by results from quantitative genetic analyses of chromosome and inbred lines and long-term artificial selection on quantitative characters. An experiment comparing the genetic variance resulting from the same set of wild third-chromosomes in a wild type and mutant backgrounds revealed substantial amounts of unexpressed strong effects for a typical quantitative character in a wild population of Drosophila melanogaster. The claim that quantitative variation will show strong epistatic behavior under population disturbance is of fundamental importance for theories that postulate a positive role for small population size and population bottlenecks in phenotypic evolution and speciation.
221714|The coastal zone is where land, ocean, and atmosphere interact. It exhibits a wide diversity of geomorphological types and ecosystems, each one displaying great variability in terms of physical and biogeochemical forcings. Despite its relatively modest surface area, the coastal zone plays a considerable role in the biogeochemical cycles because it receives massive inputs of terrestrial organic matter and nutrients, is among the most geochemically and biologically active areas of the biosphere, and exchanges large amounts of matter and energy with the open ocean. Coastal ecosystems have therefore attracted much attention recently and are the focus of several current national and international research programs (e.g. LOICZ, ELOISE). The primary production, respiration, calcification, carbon burial and exchange with adjacent systems, including the atmosphere, are reviewed for the major coastal ecosystems (estuaries, macrophyte communities, mangroves, coral reefs, and the remaining continental shelf). All ecosystems examined, except estuaries, are net autotrophic. The contribution of the coastal zone to the global carbon cycle both during pristine times and at present is difficult to assess due to the limited metabolic data available as well as because of major uncertainties concerning the magnitude of processes such as respiration, exchanges at the open ocean boundary, and air-sea fluxes of biogases.
2952506|Although hybridization and introgression have been considered important in generation of plant diversity, their role in evolutionary diversification of animals remains unclear. In this review, we reconsider the significance of introgressive hybridization in evolution and diversification of animals to determine if the generally negative assessment of these processes is warranted. Unlike the situation for plants, hybrid animal taxa appear to be relatively rare. This could, however, be due to negative attitudes toward hybridization and difficulty in detecting such forms. Hybridization has been responsible for instantaneous creation of several unique complexes of polyploid and unisexual animals. Allopolyploidy has allowed for diversification, whereas unisexual taxa have acted as conduits of gene exchange among related sexual species. Many instances of diploid, bisexual taxa of hybrid origin have been put forward, but few have been carefully tested. Changing attitudes toward hybrids and technological advances should allow for careful consideration of hypothesized hybrid taxa and will undoubtedly increase the number of known animal hybrid taxa.
2097327|This review provides a theoretical framework and global maps for relations between nitrogen-(N)-nutrition and stomatal conductance, g
221700|Trans-species polymorphism (TSP) is the occurrence of similar alleles in related species. Excluding instances in which the similarity arose by convergent evolution, TSP is generated by the passage of alleles from ancestral to descendant species. Closely related, recently diverged species, such as those of the Lake Victoria cichlid flock, may share neutral alleles, but long-lasting TSPs occur only in genetic systems evolving under balancing selection. Two such systems have been studied extensively, the major histocompatibility complex (Mhc) of jawed vertebrates and the self-incompatibility (SI) system of flowering plants. Allelic lineages that diverged many millions of years ago and passed through numerous speciation events have been described in both systems. The lineages may differ at up to 50% of their coding sites, both synonymous and nonsynonymous. The differences arise by the process of incorporation of mutations, which is different from the process of fixation. TSP, on the one hand, complicates phylogenetic analysis, but on the other, it is a useful tool for the study of speciation.
221739|In 1973, C. S. Holling introduced the word resilience into the ecological literature as a way of helping to understand the non-linear dynamics observed in ecosystems. Ecological resilience was defined as the amount of disturbance that an ecosystem could withstand without changing self-organized processes and structures (defined as alternative stable states). Other authors consider resilience as a return time to a stable state following a perturbation. A new term, adaptive capacity, is introduced to describe the processes that modify ecological resilience. Two definitions recognize the presence of multiple stable states (or stability domains), and hence resilience is the property that mediates transition among these states. Transitions among stable states have been described for many ecosystems, including semi-arid rangelands, lakes, coral reefs, and forests. In these systems, ecological resilience is maintained by keystone structuring processes across a number of scales, sources of renewal and reformation, and functional biodiversity. In practice, maintaining a capacity for renewal in a dynamic environment provides an ecological buffer that protects the system from the failure of management actions that are taken based upon incomplete understanding, and it allows managers to affordably learn and change.
221702|The hyporheic zone is an active ecotone between the surface stream and groundwater. Exchanges of water, nutrients, and organic matter occur in response to variations in discharge and bed topography and porosity. Upwelling subsurface water supplies stream organisms with nutrients while downwelling stream water provides dissolved oxygen and organic matter to microbes and invertebrates in the hyporheic zone. Dynamic gradients exist at all scales and vary temporally. At the microscale, gradients in redox potential control chemical and microbially mediated nutrient transformations occurring on particle surfaces. At the stream-reach scale, hydrological exchange and water residence time are reflected in gradients in hyporheic faunal composition, uptake of dissolved organic carbon, and nitrification. The hyporheic corridor concept describes gradients at the catchment scale, extending to alluvial aquifers kilometers from the main channel. Across all scales, the functional significance of the hyporheic zone relates to its activity and connection with the surface stream.
2952503|Savannas occur where trees and grasses interact to create a biome that is neither grassland nor forest. Woody and gramineous plants interact by many mechanisms, some negative (competition) and some positive (facilitation). The strength and sign of the interaction varies in both time and space, allowing a rich array of possible outcomes but no universal predictive model. Simple models of coexistence of trees and grasses, based on separation in rooting depth, are theoretically and experimentally inadequate. Explanation of the widely observed increase in tree biomass following introduction of commercial ranching into savannas requires inclusion of interactions among browsers, grazers, and fires, and their effects on tree recruitment. Prediction of the consequences of manipulating tree biomass through clearing further requires an understanding of how trees modify light, water, and nutrient environments of grasses. Understanding the nature of coexistence between trees and grass, which under other circumstances are mutually exclusive or unequal partners, yields theoretical insights and has practical implications.
2097200|Practical approaches to measuring biodiversity are reviewed in relation to the present debate on systematic approaches to conservation, to fulfil the goal of representativeness: to identify and include the broadest possible sample of components that make up the biota of a given region. Rather than adapting earlier measures that had been developed for other purposes, the most recent measures result from a fresh look at what exactly is of value to conservationists. Although debate will continue as to where precisely these values lie, more of the discussion has been devoted to ways of estimating values in the absence of ideal information. We discuss the current principles by assuming that the currency of biodiversity is characters, that models of character distribution among organisms are required for comparisons of character diversity, and that character diversity measures can be calculated using taxonomic and environmental surrogates.
3069254|Saproxylic insects comprise a diverse, species-rich and dominant functional group that share a dependence on dead wood and the old trees that generate it (mature timber habitat). Recent research has highlighted their sensitivity to forest management, with managed or secondary forests generally supporting fewer individuals, fewer species, and different assemblages compared to old-growth or primary forests. This sensitivity is a product of their association with a habitat that tends to diminish in managed forests. Many species also have low powers of dispersal relative to human-induced fragmentation, making breaks in habitat continuity particularly harmful. In western Europe, many species are now regionally extinct. Information is largely lacking elsewhere, but similar ecological and management principles should apply. Measures taken to protect the habitat of hollow-dependent vertebrates may ensure the survival of some saproxylic insects, but unless their needs are expressly considered, there remains the risk that many others may be lost as forest areas shrink and management of remaining areas intensifies.
2097222|Social organisms exhibit conspicuous intraspecific variation in all facets of their social organization. A prominent example of such variation in the highly eusocial Hymenoptera is differences in the number of reproductive queens per colony. Differences in queen number in ants are associated with differences in a host of reproductive and social traits, including queen phenotype and breeding strategy, mode of colony reproduction, and pattern of sex allocation. We examine the causes and consequences of changes in colony queen number and associated traits using the fire ant Solenopsis invicta as a principal model. Ecological constraints on mode of colony founding may act as important selective forces causing the evolution of queen number in this and many other ants, with social organization generally perpetuated across generations by means of the social environment molding appropriate queen phenotypes and reproductive strategies. Shifts in colony queen number have profound effects on genetic structure within nests and may also influence genetic structure at higher levels (aggregations of nests or local demes) because of the association of queen number with particular mating and dispersal habits. Divergence of breeding habits between populations with different social organizations has the potential to promote genetic differentiation between these social variants. Thus, evolution of social organization can be important in generating intrinsic selective regimes that channel subsequent social evolution and in initiating the development of significant population genetic structure, including barriers to gene flow important in cladogenesis.
2952484|The life of social insects centers around sedentary colonies that can include individuals belonging to different patrilines or matrilines, with a turnover of reproductives. The colony is a scene for both cooperation and conflicts, and the conceptual framework for the evolution of social life and colony organization is provided by the kin selection theory. Variable molecular markers make it possible to dissect kinship within colonies, identifying patrilines and matrilines and estimating genetic relatednesses. Such markers have been used to test hypotheses on social conflicts between queens and workers (split sex ratio hypothesis), among workers (worker policing hypothesis), and among reproductive females (skew hypothesis). The data from several species of ants, bees, and wasps indicate that workers can obtain information on the genetic heterogeneity of their colonies and use that information to manipulate reproductive decisions. The social structure of colonies and the mode of colony founding affect the population-wide dispersal of sexuals. Populations with multi-queen colonial networks have limited dispersal; females stay in their natal colonies, and mating flights can be restricted. As a result, coexisting queens tend to be related to each other, maintaining the genetic integrity of colonies, and populations become spatially differentiated to an extent that can lead even to socially driven speciation.
2097230|Nonindigenous species can bring about a form of extinction of native flora and fauna by hybridization and introgression either through purposeful introduction by humans or through habitat modification, bringing previously isolated species into contact. These phenomena can be especially problematic for rare species coming into contact with more abundant ones. Increased use of molecular techniques focuses attention on the extent of this underappreciated problem that is not always apparent from morphological observations alone. Some degree of gene flow is a normal, evolutionarily constructive process, and all constellations of genes and genotypes cannot be preserved. However, hybridization with or without introgression may, nevertheless, threaten a rare species' existence.
3069264|Biotic homogenization is the increased similarity of biotas over time caused by the replacement of native species with nonindigenous species, usually as a result of introductions by humans. Homogenization is the outcome of three interacting processes: introductions of nonnative species, extirpation of native species, and habitat alterations that facilitate these two processes. A central aspect of the homogenization process is the ability of species to overcome natural biogeographic barriers either through intentional transport by humans or through colonization routes created by human activities. Habitat homogenization through reservoir construction contributes to biotic homogenization as local riverine faunas are replaced with cosmopolitan lentic species. The homogenization process has generally increased biodiversity in most freshwater faunas, as the establishment of new species has outpaced the extinction of native species. There are important exceptions, however, where the establishment of nonindigenous species has had devastating impacts on endemic species. The homogenization process appears likely to continue, although it could be slowed through reductions in the rate of invasions and extirpations and by rehabilitating aquatic habitats so as to favor native species.
2097308|The human immunodeficiency viruses, HIV-1 and HIV-2, are members of a group of closely related viruses found in a number of different African primate species. More distantly related lentiviruses are found in several different mammalian orders. All are associated with long-term infections, but the outcome of infection ranges from a complete absence of symptoms to a rapidly developing immunodeficiency and death. While HIV-2 is probably directly related to a virus that is responsible for an asymptomatic infection in the Sooty Mangabey, no obvious candidate for the progenitor of HIV-1 has yet been found. Substantial genetic diversity is present in all immunodeficiency viruses, and phylogenetic analysis of HIV-1 sequences obtained from a wide range of geographic locations has revealed 5-7 groups of viral strains, all equally distant from each other. All groups have been found in Africa, but their distribution elsewhere reflects chance links between individuals at high risk of infection. In some areas large epidemics have spread through groups of such individuals to infect thousands within a few months, resulting in an increase in the global frequency of the particular strain responsible, without the occurrence of any significant diversification. In contrast, within infected patients, substantial diversity is developed over the period of the infection, especially in regions of the envelope gene which are targets for immune recognition (frequency-dependent selection). However, this diversity appears to be reduced at transmission (stabilizing selection). Analysis of these different evolutionary forces gives insights into the development of drug resistance and to potentially protective immune responses which are of practical value, while providing novel observations on molecular evolution in real time.
2097178|Although the potential genetic risks associated with rare or endangered plants and small populations have been discussed previously, the practical role of population genetics in plant conservation remains unclear. Using theory and the available data, we examine the effects of genetic drift, inbreeding, and gene flow on genetic diversity and fitness in rare plants and small populations. We identify those circumstances that are likely to put these plant species and populations at genetic risk. Warning signs that populations may be vulnerable include changes in factors such as population size, degree of isolation, and fitness. When possible, we suggest potential management strategies.
3069263|Supertree construction is a new, rigorous approach for combining phylogenetic information to produce more inclusive phylogenies. It has been used to provide some of the largest, most complete phylogenies for diverse groups (e.g., mammals, flowering plants, and dinosaurs) at a variety of taxonomic levels. We critically review methods for assembling supertrees, discuss some of their more interesting mathematical properties, and describe the strengths and limitations of the supertree approach. To document the need for supertrees in biology, we identify how supertrees have already been used beyond the systematic information they provide to examine models of evolution, test rates of cladogenesis, detect patterns of trait evolution, and extend phylogenetic information to biodiversity conservation.
221711| Endophytic fungi living asymptomatically within plant tissues have been found in virtually all plant species. Endophytes are considered plant mutualists: They receive nutrition and protection from the host plant while the host plant may benefit from enhanced competitive abilities and increased resistance to herbivores, pathogens, and various abiotic stresses. Limited evidence also indicates that endophytes may influence population dynamics, plant community diversity, and ecosystem function. However, most of the empirical evidence for this mutualism and its ecological consequences has been based on a few agronomic grass endophytes. More recent studies suggest that endophyte-host plant interactions are variable and range from antagonistic to mutualistic. A more comprehensive view of the ecology and evolution of endophytes and host plants is needed. This article discusses how life history traits--such as fungal reproduction and pattern of infections and genotypic variation and ecological factors--influence the direction and strength of the endophyte-host plant interaction. 
2097228|Although women are increasingly prominent as ecologists, a report on their progress through the history of ecology in overcoming personal and societal obstacles provides interesting insights regarding their research achievements. Selected, predominantly American, women ecologists are presented within five time frames according to the date of their PhD, an event marking the beginning of their careers. A general view is given for pre-1900 Protoecologists, followed by brief professional sketches for 10 Early Pioneers (1900-1934), 16 Late Pioneers (1935-1960), and 28 members of the First Modern Wave (1961-1975). The relatively large number of women who earned doctorates after 1975 precludes discussion of individuals from this time in this review. The following issues are discussed in the context of their research contributions: 1) motivating factors, 2) graduate education and subfield entered, 3) mentors and role models, 4) employment, 5) marriage and family constraints, and 6) recognition. These issues are compared with data from recent surveys for post-1976 women doctorates. Each selected woman still alive was contacted for her assessment of her research; 156 research citations display the significance and range of subjects studied. A steady, albeit slow, progress since 1900 is evident, although some problems regarding gender equality in professional development of women ecologists persist. These issues, however, are now more clearly recognized and addressed.
221710|Historically, a great many features of organisms have been said to show a trend over the history of life, and many rationales for such trends have been proposed. Here I review eight candidates, eight "live hypotheses" that are inspiring research on largest-scale trends today: entropy, energy intensiveness, evolutionary versatility, developmental depth, structural depth, adaptedness, size, and complexity. For each, the review covers the principal arguments that have been advanced for why a trend is expected, as well as some of the empirical approaches that have been adopted. Also discussed are three conceptual matters arising in connection with trend studies: 1. Alternative bases for classifying trends: pattern versus dynamics; 2. alternative modes in which largest-scale trends have been studied: "exploratory" versus "skeptical"; and 3. evolutionary progress.
221679|Streams in mediterranean-climate regions (areas surrounding the Mediterranean Sea, parts of western North America, parts of west and south Australia, southwestern South Africa and parts of central Chile) are physically, chemically, and biologically shaped by sequential, predictable, seasonal events of flooding and drying over an annual cycle. Correspondingly, aquatic communities undergo a yearly cycle whereby abiotic (environmental) controls that dominate during floods are reduced when the discharge declines, which is also a time when biotic controls (e.g. predation, competition) can become important. As the dry season progresses, habitat conditions become harsher; environmental pressures may again become the more important regulators of stream populations and community structure. In contrast to the synchronous input of autumn litterfall in forested temperate streams, riparian input to mediterranean-type streams is more protracted, with fall and possibly spring peaks occurring in streams in the Northern Hemisphere and a summer peak existing in their Southern Hemisphere counterparts. We present 25 testable hypotheses that relate to the influence of the stream hydrograph on faunal richness, abundance, and diversity; species coexistence; seasonal changes in the relative importance of abiotic and biotic controls on the biotic structure; riparian inputs and the relative importance of heterotrophy compared to autotrophy; and the impact of human activities on these seasonally water-stressed streams. Population increases in mediterranean-climate regions (particularly in fertile regions) result in an intensification of the competition for water among different users; consequently, water abstraction, flow regulation, increased salinity, and pollution severely limit the ability of the streams to survive as sustainable, self-regulated systems.
2097183|Most tropical woody plants produce new leaves and flowers in bursts rather than continuously, and most tropical forest communities display seasonal variation in the presence of new leaves, flowers, and fruits. This patterning suggests that phenological changes represent adaptations to either biotic or abiotic factors. Biotic factors may select for either a staggering or a clustering of the phenological activity of individual plant species. We review the evidence for several hypotheses. The idea that plant species can reduce predation by synchronizing their phenological activity has the best support. However, because biotic factors are often arbitrary with respect to the timing of these peaks, it is essential also to consider abiotic influences. A review of published studies demonstrates a major role for climate. Peaks in irradiance are accompanied by peaks in flushing and flowering except where water stress makes this impossible. Thus, in seasonally dry forests, many plants concentrate leafing and flowering around the start of the rainy season; they also tend to fruit at the same time, probably to minimize seedling mortality during the subsequent dry season. Phenological variation at the level of the forest community affects primary consumers who respond by dietary switching, seasonal breeding, changes in range use, or migration. During periods of scarcity, certain plant products, keystone resources, act as mainstays of the primary consumer community.
2097213|Our understanding of the causes of molecular evolution is not as certain as it was a decade ago when Kimura's neutral theory appeared to explain major features of DNA conservation and change. The last ten years have seen the development of empirical approaches and statistical tests for detecting selection in DNA and a proliferation of data that challenge our current understanding of the molecular evolutionary process. We begin this review with a discussion of protein polymorphism and divergence: two major areas of research where the strictly neutral model cannot explain general patterns in the data. We then present a survey of statistical methods for detecting positive selection, which includes tests for balancing selection, for sequence convergence, and for unusually high rates of evolution that cannot be accounted for by neutral models. Finally, we present findings of a number of groups working on within- and between-species variation in Drosophila: These highlight the importance of adaptive evolution, purifying selection, and recombination in understanding levels and patterns of nucleotide variation.
2097320|Indirect effects occur when the impact of one species on another requires the presence of a third species. They can arise in two general ways: through linked chains of direct interactions, and when a species changes the interactions among species. Indirect effects have been uncovered largely by experimental studies that have monitored the response of many species and discovered "unexpected results," although some studies have looked for specific indirect effects predicted from simple models. The characteristics of such approaches make it likely that the many indirect effects remain uncovered, but the application of techniques such as path analysis may reduce this problem. Deterministic theory indicates that indirect effects should often be important, although stochastic models need exploration. Simulation models indicate that some indirect effects may stabilize multi-species assemblages. Five simple types of indirect effects have been regularly demonstrated in nature: exploitative competition, trophic cascades, apparent competition, indirect mutualism, and interaction modifications. Detailed experimental investigations of natural communities have yielded complicated effects. Indirect effects have the potential to affect evolutionary patterns, but empirical examples are limited. Future directions in the study of indirect effects include developing techniques to estimate interaction strength in dynamic models, deriving more efficient approaches to detecting indirect effects, evaluating the effectiveness of approaches such as path analysis, and investigating mechanisms in which a species changes how other species interact.
2097246|With the discovery of the eukaryote nucleus, all living organisms were neatly divided into prokaryotes, which lacked a nucleus, and eukaryotes, which possessed it. As data derived directly from the genome became available, it was clear that prokaryotes were comprised of two groups, Eubacteria and Archaebacteria. These were subsequently renamed at the new taxonomic level of Domain as Bacteria and Archaea, with the eukaryotes named as the Eucarya Domain. The interrelationships of the three Domains are still subject to discussion and evaluation, as is their monophyly. Further data, drawn from various protein sequences, suggest conflicting schemes, and resolution may not be straightforward. Additionally, Bacteria and Archaea as well as Eucarya are largely based on organisms already in culture. Investigation of the potentially enormous quantity of uncultured organisms in nature is likely to have as broad-ranging implications as the exploration of new protein sequences.
221725|Conservation in New Zealand is failing to halt an ongoing decline in biodiversity. Classical problems of ecosystem loss and fragmentation have largely been countered in some regions by reservation of 30% of total land area. Unsustainable harvesting of native biodiversity has stopped; indeed harvesting of terrestrial species is rare. In contrast, marine reserves do not cover even 1% of the managed area, and harvest of native species, some of it unsustainable, are a major industry. Introduced pests, especially mammals, are the overwhelming conservation problem. Legislation, management, and considerable public opinion is based on preservationist ideals that demand the sanctity of native land biodiversity. Considerable success in threatened species management, island eradications, and mainland control of pests is increasing opportunities for restoration. New legislation is increasingly built on concepts of sustainability and offers the opportunity for integrating conservation, use, and development. Realization of these opportunities requires greater understanding of the relative merits of preservation versus sustainability, the dynamics and costs of pest control, the need for ecosystem processes in addition to individual species, and the involvement of people, especially the rights of indigenous Maori. Understanding marine environments and linking attitudes to land and sea is also a challenge.
2097223|There has been much discussion in the recent systematic literature over whether different data sets bearing on phylogenetic relationships should be analyzed separately or combined and analyzed simultaneously. We review arguments in favor of each of these views. Assuming that the goal is to uncover the true phylogeny of the entities in question, arguments for combining data based on the notions that one should use the "total evidence" available, or that the combined analysis gives the tree with the greatest descriptive and explanatory power, are not compelling. However, combining data sets can enhance detection of real phylogenetic groups. On the other hand, if there is heterogeneity among data sets with respect to some property that affects phylogeny estimation, then combining the data can give misleading results. Thus, there are reasonable arguments on both sides of the debate. We present a conceptual framework based on the reasons that different data sets may give conflicting estimates of phylogeny. The framework illustrates the point that the precise nature of the difference among data sets is critical in the choice of a method of analysis. In particular, very different approaches are necessary to deal with data sets that differ in processes of character change compared to ones that differ in branching histories. We highlight several recently developed methods designed to deal with these different situations. All of these methods avoid the loss of information that is likely to be associated with summarizing data sets as trees in an intermediate step (an advantage of typical combined analyses), while taking into account heterogeneity among data sets (an advantage of separate analyses). We suggest that the recognition and further development of such methods will help depolarize the debate over combined and separate analysis.
2097318|This review examines the application of fisheries ecological data in the development and testing of ecological and evolutionary theory, and the use of such theory in the pursuit of fisheries science. The development of modern fisheries ecology is traced from the beginning of the twentieth century to illustrate the paradigm shifts that have influenced the discipline. The major influence of ecological theory on the development of fisheries ecology was the application of the theory of density dependence, developed in the context of studies of insect population biology. This led to the theoretical construct of a functional relationship between stock and recruitment--a central concept in fisheries ecology. Fisheries ecological data have not been used extensively in the testing of theory. Important exceptions include contributions to the development and testing of self-thinning, the role of density independence in population dynamics, metapopulation modelling and associated theory, and life history theory. The potential for the use of fisheries ecological data in the development and testing of ecological and evolutionary theory is great. The importance of a greater consideration of ecological and evolutionary theory in the development of fisheries ecology is advocated.
2952485|Eusociality in Isoptera (termites) converges along many lines with colony organization and highly social behavior in the phylogenetically distinct insect order Hymenoptera (ants, bees, wasps). Unlike the haplodiploid Hymenoptera, however, both sexes of Isoptera are diploid. Termite families thus lack asymmetric degrees of genetic relatedness generated by meiosis and fertilization, so explanations for eusocial evolution based on such asymmetries are not applicable to Isoptera. The evolution of eusociality in termites likely occurred in small families in which most helpers retained developmental flexibility and reproductive options. A suite of ecological and life-history traits of termites and their ancestors may have predisposed them toward eusocial evolution. These characteristics include familial associations in cloistered, food-rich habitats; slow development; overlap of generations; monogamy; iteroparity; high-risk dispersal for individuals; opportunities for nest inheritance by offspring remaining in their natal nest; and advantages of group defense. Such life-history components are particularly persuasive as fostering social evolution because many are present in a broad group of eusocial taxa, including Hymenoptera, beetles, aphids, thrips, naked mole rats, and shrimp. The evolution of eusociality in Isoptera likely evolved in response to a variety of contributing elements and the selective pressures that they generated.
2097189|Cytonuclear disequilibria provide a new array of conceptual tools for the analysis of hybrid zone data. By measuring the associations of cytoplasmic genes with nuclear genes and genotypes within a hybrid zone, cytonuclear disequilibria provide fresh insights into: (i) levels of gene flow; (ii) age of reproductive barriers, (iii) directionality of crosses between hybridizing taxa; (iv) levels of assortative mating; (v) and mechanisms of selection on hybrids. The application of these cytonuclear disequilibria are illustrated in several hybrid zone studies.
221693|Inbreeding depression critically influences both mating system evolution and the persistence of small populations prone to accumulate mutations. Under some circumstances, however, inbreeding will tend to purge populations of enough deleterious recessive mutations to reduce inbreeding depression (ID). The extent of purging depends on many population and genetic factors, making it impossible to make universal predictions. We review 52 studies that compare levels of ID among species, populations, and lineages inferred to differ in inbreeding history. Fourteen of 34 studies comparing ID among populations and species found significant evidence for purging. Within populations, many studies report among-family variation in ID, and 6 of 18 studies found evidence for purging among lineages. Regression analyses suggest that purging is most likely to ameliorate ID for early traits (6 studies), but these declines are typically modest (5-10%). Meta-analyses of results from 45 populations in 11 studies reveal no significant overall evidence for purging, but rather the opposite tendency, for more selfing populations to experience higher ID for early traits. The likelihood of finding purging does not vary systematically with experimental design or whether early or late traits are considered. Perennials are somewhat less likely to show purging than annuals (2 of 10 vs. 7 of 14). We conclude that although these results doubtless reflect variation in population and genetic parameters, they also suggest that purging is an inconsistent force within populations. Such results also imply that attempts to deliberately reduce the load via inbreeding in captive rearing programs may be misguided. Future studies should examine male and female fitness traits over the entire life cycle, estimate mating histories at all levels (i.e. population and families within populations), report data necessary for meta-analysis, and statistically test for purging of genetic loads.
221703|The pollination of flowering plants by animals represents a critical ecosystem service of great value to humanity, both monetary and otherwise. However, the need for active conservation of pollination interactions is only now being appreciated. Pollination systems are under increasing threat from anthropogenic sources, including fragmentation of habitat, changes in land use, modern agricultural practices, use of chemicals such as pesticides and herbicides, and invasions of non-native plants and animals. Honeybees, which themselves are non-native pollinators on most continents, and which may harm native bees and other pollinators, are nonetheless critically important for crop pollination. Recent declines in honeybee numbers in the United States and Europe bring home the importance of healthy pollination systems, and the need to further develop native bees and other animals as crop pollinators. The "pollination crisis" that is evident in declines of honeybees and native bees, and in damage to webs of plant-pollinator interaction, may be ameliorated not only by cultivation of a diversity of crop pollinators, but also by changes in habitat use and agricultural practices, species reintroductions and removals, and other means. In addition, ecologists must redouble efforts to study basic aspects of plant-pollinator interactions if optimal management decisions are to be made for conservation of these interactions in natural and agricultural ecosystems.
2097176|Phylogenies based on molecular sequence data and on morphology are surveyed and compared within animals (concentrating on vertebrates, mammals, and hominids in particular) and within plants (concentrating on Asterales, angiosperms, seed plants, and major groups of "green plants"). The theoretical problem of assessing congruence between trees generated from different data sets is still unsolved. However, in practice, we find that incongruence between molecular trees (generated from different data sets or by different analytical methods) is as striking or pervasive as is incongruence between trees generated by morphologists in the long history of their discipline. Morphologists achieved much during that time, and none of their well-supported phylogenies is overthrown by molecular data. So far, molecular sequences have contributed most significantly in areas where morphological data are inconclusive, deficient, nonexistent, or poorly analyzed. The interrelationships of extant hominines (Gorilla, Homo, Pan), where morphology is inconclusive, are exemplary. The pattern [Gorilla [Homo, Pan]] is significantly favored by nucleotide sequence data, but the effort necessary to achieve resolution in that simple case (ca. 30 kb of aligned sequences, sampling all four extant species) may foreshadow the workload that lies ahead.
2097237|In this review, we discuss the ecological and evolutionary consequences of plant-herbivore interactions in tropical forests. We note first that herbivory rates are higher in tropical forests than in temperate ones and that, in contrast to leaves in temperate forests, most of the damage to tropical leaves occurs when they are young and expanding. Leaves in dry tropical forests also suffer higher rates of damage than in wet forests, and damage is greater in the understory than in the canopy. Insect herbivores, which typically have a narrow host range in the tropics, cause most of the damage to leaves and have selected for a wide variety of chemical, developmental, and phenological defenses in plants. Pathogens are less studied but cause considerable damage and, along with insect herbivores, may contribute to the maintenance of tree diversity. Folivorous mammals do less damage than insects or pathogens but have evolved to cope with the high levels of plant defenses. Leaves in tropical forests are defended by having low nutritional quality, greater toughness, and a wide variety of secondary metabolites, many of which are more common in tropical than temperate forests. Tannins, toughness, and low nutritional quality lengthen insect developmental times, making them more vulnerable to predators and parasitoids. The widespread occurrence of these defenses suggests that natural enemies are key participants in plant defenses and may have influenced the evolution of these traits. To escape damage, leaves may expand rapidly, be flushed synchronously, or be produced during the dry season when herbivores are rare. One strategy virtually limited to tropical forests is for plants to flush leaves but delay "greening" them until the leaves are mature. Many of these defensive traits are correlated within species, due to physiological constraints and tradeoffs. In general, shade-tolerant species invest more in defenses than do gap-requiring ones, and species with long-lived leaves are better defended than those with short-lived leaves.
2678635|Most of our knowledge of biodiversity and its causes in the deep-sea benthos derives from regional-scale sampling studies of the macrofauna. Improved sampling methods and the expansion of investigations into a wide variety of habitats have revolutionized our understanding of the deep sea. Local species diversity shows clear geographic variation on spatial scales of 100-1000 km. Recent sampling programs have revealed unexpected complexity in community structure at the landscape level that is associated with large-scale oceanographic processes and their environmental consequences. We review the relationships between variation in local species diversity and the regional-scale phenomena of boundary constraints, gradients of productivity, sediment heterogeneity, oxygen availability, hydrodynamic regimes, and catastrophic physical disturbance. We present a conceptual model of how these interdependent environmental factors shape regional-scale variation in local diversity. Local communities in the deep sea may be composed of species that exist as metapopulations whose regional distribution depends on a balance among global-scale, landscape-scale, and small-scale dynamics. Environmental gradients may form geographic patterns of diversity by influencing local processes such as predation, resource partitioning, competitive exclusion, and facilitation that determine species coexistence. The measurement of deep-sea species diversity remains a vital issue in comparing geographic patterns and evaluating their potential causes. Recent assessments of diversity using species accumulation curves with randomly pooled samples confirm the often-disputed claim that the deep sea supports higher diversity than the continental shelf. However, more intensive quantitative sampling is required to fully characterize the diversity of deep-sea sediments, the most extensive habitat on Earth. One considered to be constant, spatially uniform, and isolated, deep-sea sediments are now recognized as a dynamic, richly textured environment that is inextricably linked to the global biosphere. Regional studies of the last two decades provide the empirical background necessary to formulate and test specific hypotheses of causality by controlled sampling designs and experimental approaches.
221734|Fossil plankton are difficult to identify but have formed a major component of most marine ecosystems throughout geological time. The earliest fossil heterotrophs include planktic forms, and subsequent adaptive innovations quickly appeared in the plankton; these include metazoans and animals with hard parts. Movement into the plankton occurred sporadically throughout geological history and seems to have been independent of any biological or environmental forcing mechanism. Subsequent radiations and extinctions in the cohort of plankton closely reflect events in the benthos. The diversity of zooplankton rose quickly during the early Paleozoic era, but low plankton diversity characterized the late Paleozoic. Significant radiations during early Mesozoic times led to an overall increase in diversity through the Phanerozoic eon. As the composition of the zooplankton has changed, so has their effect on biogeochemical cycles.
221712|Floral symmetry has figured prominently in the study of both pollination biology and animal behavior. However, a confusion of terminology and the diffuse nature of the literature has limited our understanding of the role that this basic characteristic of flower form has played in plant-pollinator interactions. Here, we first contribute a classification scheme for floral symmetry that we hope will resolve some of the confusion resulting from the inconsistent application of terms. Next, we present a short review of the distribution of floral forms in angiosperm families. Finally, we provide a list of hypotheses and, when available, supporting evidence for the causes of the evolution of floral symmetry.
2097191|Hypotheses about the adaptive significance of a trait have long been tested by making comparisons among species. Many recent studies emphasized that conclusions about the origin and maintenance of adaptations as well as the underlying selective processes derived from comparative tests may be strengthened with the inclusion of a phylogenetic hypothesis. Major advances in the comparative approach have therefore occurred with the coincident developments in numerical methods available for phylogenetic inference. In this review, we outline the advantages and possible disadvantages of adopting an historical approach in ecological and evolutionary studies. We begin by discussing the need for including information on the phyletic relationships among taxa in ecological and evolutionary analyses. Next we describe how an historical approach not only refines the definition and recognition of adaptations, but also provides an objective definition of "phylogenetic constraints." Because conceptual and analytical advances in comparative methods are occurring quite rapidly, we provide a brief summary of the goals, assumptions, and potential applications of the various methods presently available to biologists. Finally, the relative performance of various comparative methods is discussed as well as the problems inherent in choosing a well-supported phylogeny and the potential weaknesses inherent when using taxonomic classification instead of a phylogenetic tree. Current phylogenetic trees are testable hypotheses, and the conclusions emanating from recent comparative analyses should be considered tentative. Our interpretations regarding the adaptive significance of a character may be subject to retesting or revisions as additional data regarding a trait complex are collected and the available phylogenetic hypotheses are refined.
2097184|In dynamic models of energy allocation, assimilated energy is allocated to reproduction, somatic growth, maintenance or storage, and the allocation pattern can change with age. The expected evolutionary outcome is an optimal allocation pattern, but this depends on the environment experienced during the evolutionary process and on the fitness costs and benefits incurred by allocating resources in different ways. Here we review existing treatments which encompass some of the possibilities as regards constant or variable environments and their predictability or unpredictability, and the ways in which production rates and mortality rates depend on body size and composition and age and on the pattern of energy allocation. The optimal policy is to allocate resources where selection pressures are highest, and simultaneous allocation to several body subsystems and reproduction can be optimal if these pressures are equal. This may explain balanced growth commonly observed during ontogeny. Growth ceases at maturity in many models; factors favouring growth after maturity include non-linear trade-offs, variable season length, and production and mortality rates both increasing (or decreasing) functions of body size. We cannot yet say whether these are sufficient to account for the many known cases of growth after maturity and not all reasonable models have yet been explored. Factors favouring storage are also reviewed.
221728|Inbreeding depression is of major concern in the management and conservation of endangered species. Inbreeding appears universally to reduce fitness, but its magnitude and specific effects are highly variable because they depend on the genetic constitution of the species or populations and on how these genotypes interact with the environment. Recent natural experiments are consistent with greater inbreeding depression in more stressful environments. In small populations of randomly mating individuals, such as are characteristic of many endangered species, all individuals may suffer from inbreeding depression because of the cumulative effects of genetic drift that decrease the fitness of all individuals in the population. In three recent cases, introductions into populations with low fitness appeared to restore fitness to levels similar to those before the effects of genetic drift. Inbreeding depression may potentially be reduced, or purged, by breeding related individuals. However, the Speke's gazelle example, often cited as a demonstration of reduction of inbreeding depression, appears to be the result of a temporal change in fitness in inbred individuals and not a reduction in inbreeding depression.
2097234|The Exxon Valdez oil spill was the largest in US maritime history. We review post-spill research and set it in its legal context. The Exxon Corporation, obviously responsible for the spill, focused on restoration, whereas the Trustees, a coalition of state and federal entities, focused on damage and its assessment. Despite billions of dollars expended, little new understanding was gained about the recovery dynamics of a high latitude marine ecosystem subject to an anthropogenic pulse perturbation. We discuss a variety of case studies that highlight the limitations to and shortcomings of the research effort. Given that more spills are inevitable, we recommend that future studies address spatial patterns in the intertidal, and focus on the abundances of long-lived species and on organisms that preserve a chronological record of growth. Oil spills, while tragic, represent opportunities to gain insight into the dynamics of marine ecosystems and should not be wasted.
221685|The squid-vibrio light-organ symbioses, which have been under investigation for just over 10 years, offer the opportunity to decipher aspects of the dynamics of stable associations between animals and bacteria. The two best-studied partners, the Hawaiian sepiolid squid Euprymna scolopes and the marine luminous bacterium Vibrio fischeri, engage in the most common type of animal-bacterial association, i.e., between extracellular, gram-negative bacteria and animal epithelia. Similar to most such symbioses, the squid-vibrio relationship begins anew each generation when the-host animal acquires the symbiont from the surrounding environment. To establish a specific association, mechanisms have evolved to ensure recognition between the host and symbiont and the exclusion of other potential partnerships. Once the association has been established, the bacteria induce significant morphological changes in the host that result in a transition of the light organ from a form associated with initiation of the symbiosis to one characteristic of the mature, functional relationship.
2678640|Mistletoes are a diverse group of parasitic plants with a worldwide distribution. The hemiparasitic growth form is critical to understanding their biology, buffering variation in resource availability that constrains the distribution and growth of most plants. This is manifested in many aspects of mistletoe life history, including extended phenologies, abundant and high-quality fruits and nectar, and few chemical or structural defenses. Most mistletoe species rely on animals for both pollination and fruit dispersal, and this leads to a broad range of mistletoe-animal interactions. In this review, I summarize research on mistletoe biology and synthesize results from studies of mistletoe-animal interactions. I consolidate records of mistletoe-vertebrate interactions, incorporating species from 97 vertebrate families recorded as consuming mistletoe and from 50 using mistletoe as nesting sites. There is widespread support for regarding mistletoe as a keystone resource, and all quantitative data are consistent with mistletoe functioning as a determinant of alpha diversity. Manipulative experiments are highlighted as a key priority, and six explicit predictions are provided to guide future experimental research.
2678638|Movement between discrete habitat patches can present significant challenges to organisms. Freshwater invertebrates achieve dispersal using a variety of mechanisms that can be broadly categorized as active or passive, and which have important consequences for processes of colonization, gene flow, and evolutionary divergence. Apart from flight in adult freshwater insects, active dispersal appears relatively uncommon. Passive dispersal may occur through transport by animal vectors or wind, often involving a specific desiccation-resistant stage in the life cycle. Dispersal in freshwater taxa is difficult to study directly, and rare but biologically significant dispersal events may remain undetected. Increased use of molecular markers has provided considerable insight into the frequency of dispersal in freshwater invertebrates, particularly for groups such as crustaceans and bryozoans that disperse passively through the transport of desiccation-resistant propagules. The establishment of propagule banks in sediment promotes dispersal in time and may be particularly important for passive dispersers by allowing temporal escape from unfavorable conditions. Patterns that apply to dispersal in freshwater invertebrates can be readily extended to other fresh-water taxa, since common challenges arise from the colonization of isolated aquatic systems.
2097174|(i) Varied origins of larval forms and metamorphoses are indicated by comparisons among extant animals. (ii) Size-specific and stage-specific constraints on survival and growth may result in distinctive larval traits, but to explain larval origins, size- or stage-specific advantages must be extrapolated to ancient environments and ancestral traits. Adaptations for habitat selection or dispersal do not account for evolution of long precompetent periods of larval feeding and growth or for larvae in holoplanktonic life histories. (iii) Transverse bands of cilia on ridges or posterior edges of larvae meet a common functional requirement for propulsion, are expected to be convergently similar, and may have arisen numerous times. (iv) Biases imposed by ancestral larval or juvenile traits might result in convergent similarity of derived larval traits with a result resembling homology. (v) Some extant feeding larvae persist with unusually simple structures or low performance. These larvae suggest possible intermediate steps in the evolution of feeding larvae. (vi) Direction of evolutionary transitions of larval traits are indicated by distribution of traits within clades and by vestigial structures. Feeding larval stages have been lost often and gained rarely. (vii) Most types of feeding larvae evolved at most once, are in clades that diverged early, and are therefore of ancient origin. Other evidences of antiquity are fossil traces of larval molluscs and brachiopods from the Ordovician and fossils of crustacean nauplii from the Upper Cambrian. (viii) Inferred combinations of ancestral traits can differ from combinations known from extant descendants. Examples are external fertilization combined with a feeding larva or small adult size. (ix) In some clades, feeding larval forms that originated earlier may be associated with small parental investment per offspring. (x) Unreliable rules for evolutionary inferences include the assumptions that primitive traits are correlated in extant animals, that evolution proceeds from simple to complex structures, that earlier stages in development are more conservative, and that structures that develop earlier evolved earlier.
2097180|Phylogenetic relationships among eutherian mammal orders are discussed in light of previous morphological and molecular studies. Congruence within and between these two major groups of characters is evaluated, and several phylogenetic hypotheses are examined using recent nucleotide sequence data from both mitochondrial and nuclear genes. The results of an assessment of these molecular data using parsimony analysis are as follows: (i) An examination of the 13 mitochondrial protein encoding gene sequences derived from five orders of mammals provided strong support for a relationship between the order Carnivora and an Artiodaclya/Cetacea clade. (ii) The monophyly of the superorder Archonta (Primates, Scadentia, Dermoptera, and Chiroptera) is not supported, and the molecular phylogenies do not support a Chiroptera/Dermoptera clade, a finding incongruent with some morphological evidence. (iii) The monophyly of the superorder Glires (Rodentia and Lagomorpha) is only weakly supported by a subset of molecular data and strongly supported by morphology. (iv) The monophyly of the orders Rodentia and Chiroptera is supported.
2097242|Inherited environmental effects are those components of the phenotype that are derived from either parent, apart from nuclear genes. Inherited environmental effects arise as the product of parental genes and the parental environment, or their interation, and can include contributions that reflect the abiotic, nutritional, and other ecological features of a parental environment. Separating the impact of inherited environmental effects from inherited genetic effects on offspring phenotype variation has been and continues to be a challenge. This complexity is represented in the presentation of a qualitative model that distinguishes the possible paths of nongenetic cross-generational transmission. This model serves as the framework for considering the nature, in published works, of what was actually measured. Empirical evidence of inherited environmental effects arising from these pathways is documented for a diversity of plant and animal taxa. From these results one can conclude that the impact of inherited environmental effects on offspring can be positive or negative depending on the nature of the contribution and the ecological context in which the offspring exists. Finally, there is a description of theoretical and experimental efforts to understand the consequences of parental effects relative to their impact on population dynamics, the expression of adaptive phenotype plasticity, and character evolution.
2678641|Natural ecological disturbance creates habitats that are used by diverse groups of birds. In North America, these habitats or ecosystems include grasslands or prairies, shrublands, savannas, early successional forests, and floodplains. Whereas the extent of all natural habitats has diminished significantly owing to outright loss from agriculture and development, the suppression of disturbance by agents such as fire and flooding has led to further losses. Accordingly, the abundances of many bird species adapted to disturbance-mediated habitats have declined as well. In North America, these declines have been more severe and common than those of species associated with less frequently disturbed habitats such as mature or closed-canopy forests. Field studies consistently reveal the direct role of disturbance and successional processes in structuring avian habitats and communities. Conservation strategies involving the management of disturbance through some combination of flooding, application of fire, or the expression of wildfire, and use of certain types of silviculture have the potential to diversify avian habitats at the local, landscape, and regional scale. Many aspects of the disturbance ecology of birds require further research. Important questions involve associations between the intensity and frequency of disturbance and the viability of bird populations, the scale of disturbance with respect to the spatial structure of populations, and the role of natural vs. anthropogenic disturbance. The effects of disturbance and ensuing successional processes on birds are potentially long-term, and comprehensive monitoring is essential.
221716|Polyploidy is widely acknowledged as a major mechanism of adaptation and speciation in plants. The stages in polyploid evolution include frequent fertility bottlenecks and infrequent events such as gametic nonreduction and interspecific hybridization, yet little is known about how these and other factors influence overall rates of polyploid formation. Here we review the literature regarding polyploid origins, and quantify parameter values for each of the steps involved in the principal pathways. In contrast to the common claim that triploids are sterile, our results indicate that the triploid bridge pathway can contribute significantly to autopolyploid formation regardless of the mating system, and to allopolyploid formation in outcrossing taxa. We estimate that the total rate of autotetraploid formation is of the same order as the genic mutation rate (10
221719|Morphological and molecular analyses resolve many aspects of vascular plant phylogeny, though others remain uncertain. Vascular plants are nested within bryophytes; lycopsids and zosterophylls are one branch of crown-group vascular plants, and euphyllophytes (Psilophyton, sphenopsids, ferns, seed plants) are the other. In Filicales, Osmundaceae are basal; water ferns and Polypodiaceae sensu lato are both monophyletic. Seed plants are nested within progymnosperms, and coniferophytes are nested within platyspermic seed ferns. Morphology indicates that angiosperms and Gnetales are related, but detailed scenarios depend on uncertain relationships of fossils; molecular data are inconsistent but indicate that both groups are monophyletic. Amborella, Nymphaeales, Austrobaileya, and Illiciales appear basal in angiosperms. Groups with tricolpate pollen form a clade (eudicots), with ranunculids and lower hamamelids basal. Most eudicots belong to the rosid and asterid lines, with higher hamamelids in the rosid line and dilleniids scattered in both. Alismids, Arales, and Acorus are basal in monocots; palms are linked with Commelinidae.
3069275|Herbivore offense describes traits that allow herbivores to increase their feeding and other uses of host plants when these uses benefit the herbivores. We argue that ecological interactions and coevolution between plants and herbivores cannot be understood without an offense-defense framework. Thus far, plant defense theory and data have far outpaced knowledge of herbivore offense. Offensive tactics include feeding and oviposition choices, enzymatic metabolism of plant compounds, sequestration, morphological adaptations, symbionts, induction of plant galls, and induced plant susceptibility, trenching, and gregarious feeding. We propose that offensive tactics can be categorized usefully depending upon when they are effective and whether they are plastic or fixed traits. The advantages of offensive traits have not been adequately described in terms of herbivore fitness. Similarly, a more complete understanding of the costs and limitations of offensive traits will help put the herbivore back in plant-herbivore interactions and coevolution.
2952497|Parasite communities are arranged into hierarchical levels of organization, covering various spatial and temporal scales. These range from all parasites within an individual host to all parasites exploiting a host species across its geographic range. This arrangement provides an opportunity for the study of patterns and structuring processes operating at different scales. Across the parasite faunas of various host species, several species-area relationships have been published, emphasizing the key role of factors such as host size or host geographical range in determining parasite species richness. When corrections are made for unequal sampling effort or phylogenetic influences, however, the strength of these relationships is greatly reduced, casting a doubt over their validity. Component parasite communities, or the parasites found in a host population, are subsets of the parasite fauna of the host species. They often form saturated communities, such that their richness is not always a reflection of that of the entire parasite fauna. The species richness of component communities is instead influenced by the local availability of parasite species and their probability of colonization. At the lowest level, infracommunities in individual hosts are subsets of the species occurring in the component community. Generally, their structure does not differ from that expected from a random assembly of available species, although comparisons with precise null models are still few. Overall studies of parasite communities suggest that the action of processes determining species richness of parasite assemblages becomes less detectable as focus shifts from parasite faunas to infracommunities.
2097240|We review deterministic and stochastic demographic models as well as classical population genetic models that have been applied to tropical rain forest tree species. We discuss their implications for conservation. The main conclusions of deterministic demographic models are the key importance of species' longevity in determining susceptibility of population growth rate to harvesting of individuals at different life-stages, the critical effect of patch dynamics, and the importance of density-dependent mechanisms at least for abundant species. Population viability analysis to predict extinction times of tropical rain forest tree species has only been performed for four tropical rain forest tree species using the simplest Lefkovitch matrix linear model. Results obtained are in accordance with results of simple stochastic models for nonstructured populations that have been solved analytically. Population genetic models have shown that tropical rain forest trees: (a) possess high levels of genetic diversity, (b) maintain greater proportions of genetic variation within than among populations, (c) are predominantly outcrossed, and (d) have high levels of gene flow. These results suggest that tropical tree species may not be in immediate danger of extinction from genetic factors if actual conditions are maintained. However, the impact of forest fragmentation is expected to be particularly strong for most tropical rain forest tree species due mainly to the high genetic load kept by their present population genetic structures. Recent theoretical demographic-genetic models for simple systems suggest that the fixation of new mildly detrimental mutations may be comparable in importance to environmental stochasticity, implying minimum viable populations as large as a few thousands. It is urgent to develop a model that integrates genetic and demographic factors, that enables evaluations of their relative importance in long-term persistence of tropical rain forest tree species.
221691|The disjunct distributions of morphologically similar plants between eastern Asia and eastern North America have fascinated botanists and biogeographers since the Linnaean era. This biogeographic pattern is currently recognized by the disjunct distributions of some species, approximately 65 genera, and a few closely related genera in these two widely separated areas. Early workers treated many disjuncts as conspecific, but most were later recognized as intercontinental species pairs. Recent phylogenetic studies confirm affinities between many of the disjunct taxa but also indicate that the disjunct pairs of species are rarely each other's closest relatives. Instead, a pattern of further diversification of species on one or both continents is commonly found. Phylogenetic, molecular, geologic, and fossil data all support the hypothesis that the eastern Asian and eastern North American disjunct distributions are relicts of the maximum development of temperate forests in the northern hemisphere during the Tertiary. Fossil and geologic evidence supports multiple origins of this pattern in the Tertiary, with both the North Atlantic and the Bering land bridges involved. In many genera of flowering plants, current estimates of divergence times using molecular and fossil data suggest that the disjunct patterns were established during the Miocene. Morphological stasis, evidenced by the minimal morphological divergence of species after a long time of separation, must have occurred in some of the disjunct groups in the north temperate zone.
221732|Tropical Asian rivers support a rich but incompletely known biota, including a host of fishes, a diverse array of benthic invertebrates, and an assemblage of mammals adapted to riverine wetlands. River ecology is dominated by flow seasonality imposed by monsoonal rains with profound consequences for fishes and zoobenthos. Information on life histories, feeding, and the trophic base of production of these animals is summarized. Widespread use of allochthonous foods by fishes and zoobenthos is apparent. Migration by fishes is often associated with breeding and results in seasonal occupation of different habitats. Riverine biodiversity is threatened by habitat degradation (pollution, deforestation of drainage basins), dams and flow regulation, as well as over-harvesting. Conservation efforts in tropical Asia are constrained by a variety of factors, including lack of ecological information, but the extent of public awareness and political commitment to environmental protection are likely determinants of the future of riverine biodiversity.
2097229|Forest canopies contain a major portion of the diversity of organisms on Earth and constitute the bulk of photosynthetically active foliage and biomass in forest ecosystems. For these reasons, canopy research has become integral to the management of forest ecosystems, and to our better understanding of global change. Ecological research in forest canopies is relatively recent and has been primarily descriptive in scope. The development of new methods of canopy access has enabled scientists to conduct more quantified research in tree crowns. Studies of sessile organisms, mobile organisms, and canopy interactions and processes have emerged as subdisciplines of canopy biology, each requiring different methods for collecting data. Canopy biology is beginning to shift from a descriptive autecology of individuals to a more complex ecosystem approach, although some types of field work are still limited by access. Questions currently addressed in canopy research are extremely diverse but emphasize comparisons with respect to spatial and temporal variation. Spatial scales range from leaves (e.g., quantifying the number of mites on individual phylloplanes) to trees (e.g. measuring photosynthesis between sun and shade leaves), to forest stands (e.g. measuring turbulence above the canopy), and entire landscapes (e.g. comparing mammals between different forest types). Temporal variation is of particular significance in tropical forest canopies, where populations of organisms and their resources have diurnal, seasonal, or even annual periodicity. As the methods for canopy access improve, more rigorous hypotheses-driven field studies remain a future priority of this newly coalesced discipline.
2097207|Reduction and total loss of characters are common evolutionary phenomena. Vestigialization of any morphological, physiological, or behavioral feature can be expected upon relaxation of selection on the trait. Direct selection of vestigialization is rarely documented. Most explanations of evolutionary reductions invoke indirect selection through energy economy or antagonistic pleiotropy arguments, while some invoke the effects of accumulation of neutral mutations. A few documented cases of trade-offs between fitness and wing reduction or pesticide resistance in some insects, and between fitness and resistance to phages or antibiotics in bacteria suggest that indirect selection is a plausible mechanism for evolutionary reductions. Expression of presumably useless genes suggests that neutral mutation arguments require a longer time than is available for the observed reductions. Rapid decay of useless behaviors may require explanations in terms of trade-offs among neural pathways for information processing.
2097305|Population biologists adopted protein electrophoresis to measure genetic variation in the 1960s and, more recently, have adopted a variety of techniques to detect variation in DNA sequences directly. In comparison to protein polymorphisms, DNA markers reveal more genetic variation, and provide population biologists with choices among sets of loci with different patterns of inheritance. Use of both protein polymorphisms and organellar genomes has dramatically increased the ability to detect patterns of mating in hybrid zones. The use of both proteins and DNA markers has also produced some intriguing puzzles; patterns of geographic variation and inferences of gene flow differ dramatically between these sets of loci, and nuclear markers may not show the correlations between heterozygosity and components of fitness that have been reported for protein polymorphisms.
221681|The evolution of reproductive isolation is perhaps the most significant stage in the process of species formation, and the study of reproductive barriers currently dominates investigations of speciation. The discovery that conspecific sperm and pollen precedence play an important role in the reproductive isolation of some closely related animals and plants is one of the real surprises to emerge from this field in recent years. This review begins with a brief history of the study of reproductive isolation with the aim of understanding why conspecific sperm and pollen precedence were generally overlooked in early work on reproductive barriers. It then examines: case studies, the prevalence of conspecific sperm and pollen precedence, the isolating potential of this class of reproductive barriers, the mechanisms that account for the operation of these barriers, and potential explanations for the rapid divergence of populations in traits related to fertilization. Conspecific sperm and pollen precedence appear to be quite effective in limiting gene exchange; these barriers are widespread although not universal in animals and plants, and they operate through a number of different mechanisms. Much more work remains to be done on a number of fronts to elucidate the processes responsible for the evolution of these reproductive barriers.
2952499|The life cycles of cellular species are reviewed from the genetic perspective. Almost all life cycles include stages during which only one genome is transmitted from a parent to its offspring. This, together with interorganismal gene exchange, which occurs regularly in at least some prokaryotes and in the majority of eukaryotes, allows selection to evaluate different alleles more or less independently. Regular genetic changes due to intraorganismal ploidy cycles or recombination may also be important in life cycles of many unicellular forms. Eukaryotic amphimixis is generally similar in all taxa, but the current data on the phylogeny and reproduction of unicellular eukaryotes are insufficient to determine whether it evolved several times or just once. Theoretically, gradual origin of amphimixis from apomixis, with each step favored by natural selection, is feasible. However, we still do not know how this process occurred nor what selection caused it. For reasons not entirely clear, some properties of amphimictic life cycles are much less variable and more conservative than the others. Evolution of many aspects of reproduction requires more theoretical studies, while the existing data are insufficient to choose among the currently competing hypotheses.
221692|The discovery that DNA survives in ancient remains and can be amplified by the polymerase chain reaction has added a direct temporal dimension to evolutionary studies. Initial reports suggested that the time period open to investigation was vast, extending back into the Cretaceous period. However, attempts to replicate of results involving DNA purported to be over a million years old have not succeeded. Theoretical studies suggest that DNA is unlikely to survive intact more than about 100,000 years. However, even over this time period, the evolutionary questions that can be addressed are far reaching and include systematics, paleoecology, the origin of diseases, and evolutionary processes at the population level.
2678643|Contributions from the field of population biology hold promise for understanding and managing invasiveness; invasive species also offer excellent opportunities to study basic processes in population biology. Life history studies and demographic models may be valuable for examining the introduction of invasive species and identifying life history stages where management will be most effective. Evolutionary processes may be key features in determining whether invasive species establish and spread. Studies of genetic diversity and evolutionary changes should be useful for understanding the potential for colonization and establishment, geographic patterns of invasion and range expansion, lag times, and the potential for evolutionary responses to novel environments, including management practices. The consequences of biological invasions permit study of basic evolutionary processes, as invaders often evolve rapidly in response to novel abiotic and biotic conditions, and native species evolve in response to the invasion.
3069277|Molecular clocks have profoundly influenced modern views on the timing of important events in evolutionary history. We review recent advances in estimating divergence times from molecular data, emphasizing the continuum between processes at the phylogenetic and population genetic scales. On the phylogenetic scale, we address the complexities of DNA sequence evolution as they relate to estimating divergences, focusing on models of nucleotide substitution and problems associated with among-site and among-lineage rate variation. On the population genetic scale, we review advances in the incorporation of ancestral population processes into the estimation of divergence times between recently separated species. Throughout the review we emphasize new statistical methods and the importance of model testing during the process of divergence time estimation.
3069265|Twenty-five years ago, the centuries-old Pacific Island practice of community-based marine resource management (CBMRM) was in decline, the victim of various impacts of westernization. During the past two decades, however, this decline has reversed in various island countries. Today CBMRM continues to grow, refuting the claim that traditional non-Western attitudes toward nature cannot provide a sound foundation for contemporary natural resource management. Limited entry, marine protected areas, closed areas, closed seasons, and restrictions on damaging or overly efficient fishing methods are some of the methods being used. Factors contributing to the upsurge include a growing perception of scarcity, the restrengthening of traditional village-based authority, and marine tenure by means of legal recognition and government support, better conservation education, and increasingly effective assistance, and advice from regional and national governments and NGOs. Today's CBMRM is thus a form of cooperative management, but one in which the community still makes and acts upon most of the management decisions.
2097239|Natural freeze-tolerance supports the winter survival of many animals including numerous terrestrial insects, many intertidal marine invertebrates, and selected species of terrestrially hibernating amphibians and reptiles. Freeze-tolerant animals typically endure the conversion of 50% or more of total body water into extracellular ice and employ a suite of adaptations that counter the negative consequences of freezing. Specific adaptations control the sites and rate of ice formation to prevent physical damage by ice. Other adaptations regulate cell-volume change: Colligative cryoprotectants minimize cell shrinkage during extracellular ice formation; other protectants stabilize membrane structure; and a high density of membrane transporter proteins ensure rapid cryoprotectant distribution. Cell survival during freezing is also potentiated by anoxia tolerance, mechanisms of metabolic rate depression, and antioxidant defenses. The net result of these protective mechanisms is the ability to reactivate vital functions after days or weeks of continuous freezing. Magnetic resonance imaging has allowed visual examinations of the mode of ice penetration through the body of freeze-tolerant frogs and turtles, and cryomicroscopy has illustrated the effects of freezing on the cellular and microvasculature structure of tissues. Various metabolic adaptations for freezing survival appear to have evolved out of pre-existing physiological capacities of animals, including desiccation-resistance and anoxia-tolerance.
2097203|Unless sustainable development becomes much more prevalent in tropical forests, appreciable areas of unprotected tropical forests will not survive far into the twenty-first century. Sustainable tropical forestry must integrate forest conservation and economic development. Key ecological factors discussed here include: reproduction, natural regeneration, growth, ecosystem functions, and biodiversity conservation. Four models of sustainable tropical forestry are described: 1) Industrial timber production based on the PORTICO company in Costa Rica that owns and manages its production forests and makes a substantive investment in research. 2) Community-based timber production using the Yanesha Forestry Cooperative in the Peruvian Amazon as an example of local empowerment over the protection and use of forests. This Coop has a local processing facility that enables most of the timber to be marketed, and it uses an innovative strip-cut management system that promotes excellent natural regeneration of native tree species. 3) Community-based production of nontimber forest products depends on local rights of access or tenure to tropical forests. However, more information is needed on harvestable levels and management techniques as local preferences move from subsistence uses to commercial production. 4) Locally controlled nature tourism is touted as the most benign use of tropical forests, but local communities receive minimal economic returns and have little say in prioritizing development objectives.
2952504|Belowground competition occurs when plants decrease the growth, survival, or fecundity of neighbors by reducing available soil resources. Competition belowground can be stronger and involve many more neighbors than aboveground competition. Physiological ecologists and population or community ecologists have traditionally studied belowground competition from different perspectives. Physiologically based studies often measure resource uptake without determining the integrated consequences for plant performance, while population or community level studies examine plant performance but fail to identify the resource intermediary or mechanism. Belowground competitive ability is correlated with such attributes as root density, surface area, and plasticity either in root growth or in the properties of enzymes involved in nutrient uptake. Unlike competition for light, in which larger plants have a disproportionate advantage by shading smaller ones, competition for soil resources is apparently more symmetric. Belowground competition often decreases with increases in nutrient levels, but it is premature to generalize about the relative importance of above- and belowground competition across resource gradients. Although shoot and root competition are often assumed to have additive effects on plant growth, some studies provide evidence to the contrary, and potential interactions between the two forms of competition should be considered in future investigations. Other research recommendations include the simultaneous study of root and shoot gaps, since their closures may not occur simultaneously, and improved estimates of the belowground neighborhood. Only by combining the tools and perspectives from physiological ecology and population and community biology can we fully understand how soil characteristics, neighborhood structure, and global climate change influence or are influenced by plant competition belowground.
3069271|As better phylogenetic hypotheses become available for many groups of organisms, studies in community ecology can be informed by knowledge of the evolutionary relationships among coexisting species. We note three primary approaches to integrating phylogenetic information into studies of community organization: 1. examining the phylogenetic structure of community assemblages, 2. exploring the phylogenetic basis of community niche structure, and 3. adding a community context to studies of trait evolution and biogeography. We recognize a common pattern of phylogenetic conservatism in ecological character and highlight the challenges of using phylogenies of partial lineages. We also review phylogenetic approaches to three emergent properties of communities: species diversity, relative abundance distributions, and range sizes. Methodological advances in phylogenetic supertree construction, character reconstruction, null models for community assembly and character evolution, and metrics of community phylogenetic structure underlie the recent progress in these areas. We highlight the potential for community ecologists to benefit from phylogenetic knowledge and suggest several avenues for future research.
3069260|The evolution of proteins involved in reproduction is only now beginning to be studied. A reoccurring observation is the rapid evolution of the molecules mediating reproductive events following the release of gametes. We review the examples where rapid evolution of reproductive proteins has been documented, covering taxa ranging from diatoms to humans. The selective pressures causing this divergence remain unknown, but several hypotheses are presented. The functional consequences of this rapid divergence could be involved in speciation.
2097218|The commonly observed proximal-to-distal decrease within inflorescences of fruit and/or seed maturation per flower has frequently been attributed to competition among developing fruits for resources. The research summarized in this review suggests, however, that the observed variation can also be due to architecture--that is, to sources of variation inherent in plant axes. Thus, the fate of a developing flower depends not only on the reproductive events that have preceded it during the ontogeny of the organism, but on where it occurs within the architecture of an individual. The effects of architecture are separable experimentally from the effects of differential resource allocation, and careful experimental analysis of these two factors will enhance our understanding of the physiological, developmental, and evolutionary controls of fruit and seed production in flowering plants.
2952495|We focus on the implications of movement, landscape variables, and spatial heterogeneity for food web dynamics. Movements of nutrients, detritus, prey, and consumers among habitats are ubiquitous in diverse biomes and can strongly influence population, consumer-resource, food web, and community dynamics. Nutrient and detrital subsidies usually increase primary and secondary productivity, both directly and indirectly. Prey subsidies, by movement of either prey or predators, usually enhance predator abundance beyond what local resources can support. Top-down effects occur when spatially subsidized consumers affect local resources by suppressing key resources and occasionally by initiating trophic cascades. Effects on community dynamics vary with the relative amount of input, the trophic roles of the mobile and recipient entities, and the local food web structure. Landscape variables such as the perimeter/area ratio of the focal habitat, permeability of habitat boundaries, and relative productivity of trophically connected habitats affect the degree and importance of spatial subsidization.
221687|Allozyme polymorphisms have been the focus of studies of selection at single enzyme loci, and most involve the enzymes of central metabolism. DNA sequencing of enzyme loci has shown numerous examples of multiple amino acid polymorphisms segregating within electromorphs. The amino acid heterogeneity underlying many allozyme polymorphisms should confound analysis of functional differences and selection. Metabolic control theory proposed that pathways will be insensitive to functional changes in allozymes; however, there is evidence that many polymorphisms modulate fluxes. Studies of model systems have provided detailed evidence for selection acting on enzyme polymorphisms in metabolic genes. There is also evidence that regulatory changes are superimposed on structural changes. Codon bias implies that the functional differences encountered in allozyme studies should be detectable by natural selection; however, amino acid polymorphisms may also represent weakly deleterious mutations. Future studies should connect structural changes with effects on function and stability, and they should emphasize the multilocus nature of responses to selection.
3069255|The 500 cone snail species (Conus) use complex venoms to capture prey, defend against predators and deter competitors. Most biologically active venom components are small, highly structured peptides, each encoded by a separate gene. Every Conus species has its own distinct repertoire of 100-200 venom peptides, with each peptide presumably having a physiologically relevant target in prey or potential predators/competitors. There is a remarkable interspecific divergence observed in venom peptide genes, which can be rationalized because of biotic interactions that are species specific. The peptide families/subfamilies characteristic of clades of related Conus species are potentially useful clade markers and can be used to indicate common biological mechanisms characterizing that clade. By knowing both the distribution and the physiological function of venom peptides, a type of reverse ecology becomes possible; the peptides in a Conus venom are a molecular readout of the biotic interactions of a species or clade.
221706| Many groups of extinct and extant organisms have aggregated to form reefs for over 3.5 billion yr (Ga). Most of these communities, however, grew under ecological and environmental controls profoundly different from those that govern modern coral reefs. Not only has the global distribution of reefs varied considerably through geological time--determined largely by sea level, and latitudinal temperature/saturation gradients--but more importantly the trophic demands of reef-building organisms have changed, as has the degree of biological disturbance faced by sessile biota in shallow marine environments. Reefs differentiated into open surface and cryptic communities as soon as open frameworks developed in the Proterozoic, some 1.9 million yr ago (mya) and diverse and complex ecosystems were established by the early Cambrian ( 520 mya). Calcified heterotrophs were conspicuous in reefs during the Paleozoic and early Mesozoic, but considerable rigidity was imparted to these often otherwise fragile communities both by indirect microbial processes that induced the formation of carbonate and by rapid early cementation. While photosymbiosis was probably acquired by scleractinian corals early in their history ( 210 mya), this does not appear to have immediately conferred a superior reef-building ability. Large, modular corals and coralline algae showed notable powers of regeneration after partial mortality but poor ability to compete with macroalgae for limited substrate in the absence of intense herbivory; they did not rise to prominence in reef communities until the early to mid-Cenozoic. This may be related to the appearance at this time of major predator groups such as echinoids, limpets, and particularly fish that are capable of rapid algal denudation and excavation. The existence of this reciprocal relationship is corroborated by the observation that branching corals, which appear to flourish because and not in spite of breakage, show a particularly dramatic increase in diversity coincident with the increase in predation pressure from the late Mesozoic onwards. 
221726|Recent theories regarding the evolution of predator-prey interactions is reviewed. This includes theory about the dynamics and stability of both populations and traits, as well as theory predicting how predatory and anti-predator traits should respond to environmental changes. Evolution can stabilize or destabilize interactions; stability is most likely when only the predator evolves, or when traits in one or both species are under strong stabilizing selection. Stability seems least likely when there is coevolution and a bi-directional axis of prey vulnerability. When population cycles exist, adaptation may either increase or decrease the amplitude of those cycles. An increase in the defensive ability of prey is less likely to produce evolutionary counter-measures in its partner than is a comparable increase in attack ability of the predator. Increased productivity may increase or decrease offensive and defensive adaptations. The apparent predominance of evolutionary responses of prey to predators over those of predators to prey is in general accord with equilibrium theory, but theory on stability may be difficult to confirm or refute. Recent work on geographically structured populations promises to advance our understanding of the evolution of predator-prey interactions.
2097314|The most commonly heard vocalizations of frogs are advertisement calls, which attract gravid females and mediate aggressive interactions between males. Frog vocalizations are energetically costly to produce, and body size often constrains the dominant frequency and intensity of vocalizations; propagation and degradation of these signals are affected by diverse physical and biotic factors. Behaviors and auditory mechanisms that mitigate these problems are discussed. With some exceptions, female preferences based on dominant frequency are intensity-dependent and mediate stabilizing selection within populations. Female preferences based on dynamic, gross-temporal properties typically mediate strong directional selection. The high values of these properties preferred by females increase a male's detectability in dense choruses and are a reliable predictor of his energetic investment in courtship. Female preferences based on fine-temporal properties (e.g. pulse rate) are often intensity-independent and usually mediate stabilizing selection within populations. The overall attractiveness of a signal depends on variation in more than one of these acoustic properties; their relative importance differs between species. Parsimony analysis supports the idea that auditory biases preceded the evolutionary appearance of call elements that enhance the attractiveness of advertisement calls in one species group of neotropical frogs. A more specific claim that the bias has not been modified by selection after the establishment of the new signal has little empirical support. Indeed, the selective consequences of positive phonotaxis to any "new" stimulus, whether or not there is a sensory bias, must play a critical role in its establishment and maintenance as a mate-attraction signal and on the further evolution of the female preference. The hypothesis that present-day selective consequences of mate choice have also acted in the past evolution of call structure and preferences is supported by a few examples of reproductive character displacement. However, evolutionary divergence in signals and preferences will have multiple causes, most of which do not involve interactions between species. Phylogenetic analyses and studies of selection and other evolutionary forces in contemporary populations are complementary approaches to gaining insights about the evolution of frog vocalizations and animal communication in general.
2952490|One of the most intensively examined and abundantly documented structures in the animal world is insect mouthparts. Major structural types of extant insect mouthparts are extensive, consisting of diverse variations in element structure within each of the five mouthpart regions--labrum, hypopharynx, mandibles, maxillae, and labium. Numerous instances of multielement fusion both within and among mouthpart regions result in feeding organs capable of ingesting in diverse ways foods that are solid, particulate, and liquid in form. Mouthpart types have a retrievable and interpretable fossil history in well-preserved insect deposits. In addition, the trace-fossil record of insect-mediated plant damage, gut contents, coprolites, and insect-relevant floral features provides complementary data documenting the evolution of feeding strategies during the past 400 million years. From a cluster analysis of insect mouthparts, I recognize 34 fundamental mouthpart classes among extant insects and their geochronological evolution by a five-phase pattern. This pattern is characterized, early in the Devonian, by coarse partitioning of food by mandibulate and piercing-and-sucking mouthpart classes, followed by a rapid rise in herbivore mouthpart types for fluid- and solid-feeding during the Late Carboniferous and Early Permian. Mouthpart innovation during the Late Triassic to Early Jurassic added mouthpart classes for fluid and aquatic particle-feeding. This ecomorphological expansion of mouthpart design was associated with the radiation of holometabolous insects, especially Diptera. The final phase of mouthpart class expansion occurred during the Late Jurassic and Early Cretaceous, with addition of surface-fluid-feeding mouthpart classes that subsequently became important during the ecological expansion of angiosperms. Conclusions about the evolution of mouthpart design are based on the mapping of phenetic mouthpart classes onto (ideally) cladistic phylogenies of lineages bearing those same mouthpart classes. The plotting of phenetic and associated ecological attributes onto baseline phylogenies is one of the most important uses of cladistic data.
221704|The accidental introduction of the brown treesnake (Boiga irregularis) on Guam around 1950 induced a cascade of extirpations that may be unprecedented among historical extinction events in taxonomic scope and severity. Birds, bats, and reptiles were affected, and by 1990 most forested areas on Guam retained only three native vertebrates, all of which were small lizards. Of the hypotheses to account for the severity of this extinction event, we find some support for the importance of lack of coevolution between introduced predator and prey, availability of alternate prey, extraordinary predatory capabilities of the snake, and vulnerabilities of the Guam ecosystem. In addition, there were important interactions among these factors, especially the presence of introduced prey (possessing coevolutionary experience) that were thus able to maintain their populations and provide alternate prey to the introduced predator while it was driving the native prey species to extinction. This complex of vulnerabilities is common on oceanic islands.
221738|The impacts of airborne pollutants have been studied in only a few groups of soil animals, notably protozoans, nematodes, potworms, earthworms, mites, and collembolans. Pollutants in the form of acid depositions, which contain SO
3069256|The number, size, and scope of phylogenetic analyses using molecular data has increased steadily in recent years. This has simultaneously led to a dramatic improvement in our understanding of phylogenetic relationships and a better appreciation for an array of methodological problems that continue to hinder progress in phylogenetic studies of certain data sets and/or particular parts of the tree of life. This review focuses on several persistent problems, including rooting, conflict among data sets, weak support in trees, strong but evidently incorrect support, and the computational issues arising when methods are applied to the large data sets that are becoming increasingly commonplace. We frame each of these issues as a specific problem to be overcome, review the relevant theoretical and empirical literature, and suggest solutions, or at least strategies, for further investigation of the issues involved.
221686|Recent overviews have suggested that the relationship between species richness and productivity (rate of conversion of resources to biomass per unit area per unit time) is unimodal (hump-shaped). Most agree that productivity affects species richness at large scales, but unanimity is less regarding underlying mechanisms. Recent studies have examined the possibility that variation in species richness within communities may influence productivity, leading to an exploration of the relative effect of alterations in species number per se as contrasted to the addition of productive species. Reviews of the literature concerning deserts, boreal forests, tropical forests, lakes, and wetlands lead to the conclusion that extant data are insufficient to conclusively resolve the relationship between diversity and productivity, or that patterns are variable with mechanisms equally varied and complex. A more comprehensive survey of the ecological literature uncovered approximately 200 relationships, of which 30% were unimodal, 26% were positive linear, 12% were negative linear, and 32% were not significant. Categorization of studies with respect to geographic extent, ecological extent, taxonomic hierarchy, or energetic basis of productivity similarly yielded a heterogeneous distribution of relationships. Theoretical and empirical approaches increasingly suggest scale-dependence in the relationship between species richness and productivity; consequently, synthetic understanding may be contingent on explicit considerations of scale in analytical studies of productivity and diversity.
2097304|Nonadditive gene interaction or epistasis is a central component of hypotheses that postulate a creative role for small populations and founder events in character evolution and speciation. Because quantitative or small effect variation is considered to be the basis of evolutionary change, the claim that this variation shows mostly additive behavior has represented a serious obstacle for these hypotheses. The literature on classical phenotypic genetics as well as the contemporary counterpart of this work, developmental genetics, harbors a considerable wealth of information relevant to the issue of gene-character relationship. In particular, recent studies of gene interaction in Drosophila developmental genetics provide important insights into the structure and behavior of nonadditive gene action. It is proposed that the importance of these studies for population genetics lies in suggesting that the small-effect of at least some genetic variation can hide a potential for strong phenotypic effects which can be expressed through interlocus interactions within sets of functionally related loci. At the population level this genetic behavior implies that strong effects should become apparent in quantitative variation when the genotypic frequencies of the population are substantially disturbed. That at least some quantitative variation can show strong interaction effects with substantial disturbance of the population genotypic combinations is supported by results from quantitative genetic analyses of chromosome and inbred lines and long-term artificial selection on quantitative characters. An experiment comparing the genetic variance resulting from the same set of wild third-chromosomes in a wild type and mutant backgrounds revealed substantial amounts of unexpressed strong effects for a typical quantitative character in a wild population of Drosophila melanogaster. The claim that quantitative variation will show strong epistatic behavior under population disturbance is of fundamental importance for theories that postulate a positive role for small population size and population bottlenecks in phenotypic evolution and speciation.
221714|The coastal zone is where land, ocean, and atmosphere interact. It exhibits a wide diversity of geomorphological types and ecosystems, each one displaying great variability in terms of physical and biogeochemical forcings. Despite its relatively modest surface area, the coastal zone plays a considerable role in the biogeochemical cycles because it receives massive inputs of terrestrial organic matter and nutrients, is among the most geochemically and biologically active areas of the biosphere, and exchanges large amounts of matter and energy with the open ocean. Coastal ecosystems have therefore attracted much attention recently and are the focus of several current national and international research programs (e.g. LOICZ, ELOISE). The primary production, respiration, calcification, carbon burial and exchange with adjacent systems, including the atmosphere, are reviewed for the major coastal ecosystems (estuaries, macrophyte communities, mangroves, coral reefs, and the remaining continental shelf). All ecosystems examined, except estuaries, are net autotrophic. The contribution of the coastal zone to the global carbon cycle both during pristine times and at present is difficult to assess due to the limited metabolic data available as well as because of major uncertainties concerning the magnitude of processes such as respiration, exchanges at the open ocean boundary, and air-sea fluxes of biogases.
2952506|Although hybridization and introgression have been considered important in generation of plant diversity, their role in evolutionary diversification of animals remains unclear. In this review, we reconsider the significance of introgressive hybridization in evolution and diversification of animals to determine if the generally negative assessment of these processes is warranted. Unlike the situation for plants, hybrid animal taxa appear to be relatively rare. This could, however, be due to negative attitudes toward hybridization and difficulty in detecting such forms. Hybridization has been responsible for instantaneous creation of several unique complexes of polyploid and unisexual animals. Allopolyploidy has allowed for diversification, whereas unisexual taxa have acted as conduits of gene exchange among related sexual species. Many instances of diploid, bisexual taxa of hybrid origin have been put forward, but few have been carefully tested. Changing attitudes toward hybrids and technological advances should allow for careful consideration of hypothesized hybrid taxa and will undoubtedly increase the number of known animal hybrid taxa.
2097327|This review provides a theoretical framework and global maps for relations between nitrogen-(N)-nutrition and stomatal conductance, g
221700|Trans-species polymorphism (TSP) is the occurrence of similar alleles in related species. Excluding instances in which the similarity arose by convergent evolution, TSP is generated by the passage of alleles from ancestral to descendant species. Closely related, recently diverged species, such as those of the Lake Victoria cichlid flock, may share neutral alleles, but long-lasting TSPs occur only in genetic systems evolving under balancing selection. Two such systems have been studied extensively, the major histocompatibility complex (Mhc) of jawed vertebrates and the self-incompatibility (SI) system of flowering plants. Allelic lineages that diverged many millions of years ago and passed through numerous speciation events have been described in both systems. The lineages may differ at up to 50% of their coding sites, both synonymous and nonsynonymous. The differences arise by the process of incorporation of mutations, which is different from the process of fixation. TSP, on the one hand, complicates phylogenetic analysis, but on the other, it is a useful tool for the study of speciation.
221739|In 1973, C. S. Holling introduced the word resilience into the ecological literature as a way of helping to understand the non-linear dynamics observed in ecosystems. Ecological resilience was defined as the amount of disturbance that an ecosystem could withstand without changing self-organized processes and structures (defined as alternative stable states). Other authors consider resilience as a return time to a stable state following a perturbation. A new term, adaptive capacity, is introduced to describe the processes that modify ecological resilience. Two definitions recognize the presence of multiple stable states (or stability domains), and hence resilience is the property that mediates transition among these states. Transitions among stable states have been described for many ecosystems, including semi-arid rangelands, lakes, coral reefs, and forests. In these systems, ecological resilience is maintained by keystone structuring processes across a number of scales, sources of renewal and reformation, and functional biodiversity. In practice, maintaining a capacity for renewal in a dynamic environment provides an ecological buffer that protects the system from the failure of management actions that are taken based upon incomplete understanding, and it allows managers to affordably learn and change.
221702|The hyporheic zone is an active ecotone between the surface stream and groundwater. Exchanges of water, nutrients, and organic matter occur in response to variations in discharge and bed topography and porosity. Upwelling subsurface water supplies stream organisms with nutrients while downwelling stream water provides dissolved oxygen and organic matter to microbes and invertebrates in the hyporheic zone. Dynamic gradients exist at all scales and vary temporally. At the microscale, gradients in redox potential control chemical and microbially mediated nutrient transformations occurring on particle surfaces. At the stream-reach scale, hydrological exchange and water residence time are reflected in gradients in hyporheic faunal composition, uptake of dissolved organic carbon, and nitrification. The hyporheic corridor concept describes gradients at the catchment scale, extending to alluvial aquifers kilometers from the main channel. Across all scales, the functional significance of the hyporheic zone relates to its activity and connection with the surface stream.
2952503|Savannas occur where trees and grasses interact to create a biome that is neither grassland nor forest. Woody and gramineous plants interact by many mechanisms, some negative (competition) and some positive (facilitation). The strength and sign of the interaction varies in both time and space, allowing a rich array of possible outcomes but no universal predictive model. Simple models of coexistence of trees and grasses, based on separation in rooting depth, are theoretically and experimentally inadequate. Explanation of the widely observed increase in tree biomass following introduction of commercial ranching into savannas requires inclusion of interactions among browsers, grazers, and fires, and their effects on tree recruitment. Prediction of the consequences of manipulating tree biomass through clearing further requires an understanding of how trees modify light, water, and nutrient environments of grasses. Understanding the nature of coexistence between trees and grass, which under other circumstances are mutually exclusive or unequal partners, yields theoretical insights and has practical implications.
2097200|Practical approaches to measuring biodiversity are reviewed in relation to the present debate on systematic approaches to conservation, to fulfil the goal of representativeness: to identify and include the broadest possible sample of components that make up the biota of a given region. Rather than adapting earlier measures that had been developed for other purposes, the most recent measures result from a fresh look at what exactly is of value to conservationists. Although debate will continue as to where precisely these values lie, more of the discussion has been devoted to ways of estimating values in the absence of ideal information. We discuss the current principles by assuming that the currency of biodiversity is characters, that models of character distribution among organisms are required for comparisons of character diversity, and that character diversity measures can be calculated using taxonomic and environmental surrogates.
3069254|Saproxylic insects comprise a diverse, species-rich and dominant functional group that share a dependence on dead wood and the old trees that generate it (mature timber habitat). Recent research has highlighted their sensitivity to forest management, with managed or secondary forests generally supporting fewer individuals, fewer species, and different assemblages compared to old-growth or primary forests. This sensitivity is a product of their association with a habitat that tends to diminish in managed forests. Many species also have low powers of dispersal relative to human-induced fragmentation, making breaks in habitat continuity particularly harmful. In western Europe, many species are now regionally extinct. Information is largely lacking elsewhere, but similar ecological and management principles should apply. Measures taken to protect the habitat of hollow-dependent vertebrates may ensure the survival of some saproxylic insects, but unless their needs are expressly considered, there remains the risk that many others may be lost as forest areas shrink and management of remaining areas intensifies.
2097222|Social organisms exhibit conspicuous intraspecific variation in all facets of their social organization. A prominent example of such variation in the highly eusocial Hymenoptera is differences in the number of reproductive queens per colony. Differences in queen number in ants are associated with differences in a host of reproductive and social traits, including queen phenotype and breeding strategy, mode of colony reproduction, and pattern of sex allocation. We examine the causes and consequences of changes in colony queen number and associated traits using the fire ant Solenopsis invicta as a principal model. Ecological constraints on mode of colony founding may act as important selective forces causing the evolution of queen number in this and many other ants, with social organization generally perpetuated across generations by means of the social environment molding appropriate queen phenotypes and reproductive strategies. Shifts in colony queen number have profound effects on genetic structure within nests and may also influence genetic structure at higher levels (aggregations of nests or local demes) because of the association of queen number with particular mating and dispersal habits. Divergence of breeding habits between populations with different social organizations has the potential to promote genetic differentiation between these social variants. Thus, evolution of social organization can be important in generating intrinsic selective regimes that channel subsequent social evolution and in initiating the development of significant population genetic structure, including barriers to gene flow important in cladogenesis.
2952484|The life of social insects centers around sedentary colonies that can include individuals belonging to different patrilines or matrilines, with a turnover of reproductives. The colony is a scene for both cooperation and conflicts, and the conceptual framework for the evolution of social life and colony organization is provided by the kin selection theory. Variable molecular markers make it possible to dissect kinship within colonies, identifying patrilines and matrilines and estimating genetic relatednesses. Such markers have been used to test hypotheses on social conflicts between queens and workers (split sex ratio hypothesis), among workers (worker policing hypothesis), and among reproductive females (skew hypothesis). The data from several species of ants, bees, and wasps indicate that workers can obtain information on the genetic heterogeneity of their colonies and use that information to manipulate reproductive decisions. The social structure of colonies and the mode of colony founding affect the population-wide dispersal of sexuals. Populations with multi-queen colonial networks have limited dispersal; females stay in their natal colonies, and mating flights can be restricted. As a result, coexisting queens tend to be related to each other, maintaining the genetic integrity of colonies, and populations become spatially differentiated to an extent that can lead even to socially driven speciation.
2097230|Nonindigenous species can bring about a form of extinction of native flora and fauna by hybridization and introgression either through purposeful introduction by humans or through habitat modification, bringing previously isolated species into contact. These phenomena can be especially problematic for rare species coming into contact with more abundant ones. Increased use of molecular techniques focuses attention on the extent of this underappreciated problem that is not always apparent from morphological observations alone. Some degree of gene flow is a normal, evolutionarily constructive process, and all constellations of genes and genotypes cannot be preserved. However, hybridization with or without introgression may, nevertheless, threaten a rare species' existence.
3069264|Biotic homogenization is the increased similarity of biotas over time caused by the replacement of native species with nonindigenous species, usually as a result of introductions by humans. Homogenization is the outcome of three interacting processes: introductions of nonnative species, extirpation of native species, and habitat alterations that facilitate these two processes. A central aspect of the homogenization process is the ability of species to overcome natural biogeographic barriers either through intentional transport by humans or through colonization routes created by human activities. Habitat homogenization through reservoir construction contributes to biotic homogenization as local riverine faunas are replaced with cosmopolitan lentic species. The homogenization process has generally increased biodiversity in most freshwater faunas, as the establishment of new species has outpaced the extinction of native species. There are important exceptions, however, where the establishment of nonindigenous species has had devastating impacts on endemic species. The homogenization process appears likely to continue, although it could be slowed through reductions in the rate of invasions and extirpations and by rehabilitating aquatic habitats so as to favor native species.
2097308|The human immunodeficiency viruses, HIV-1 and HIV-2, are members of a group of closely related viruses found in a number of different African primate species. More distantly related lentiviruses are found in several different mammalian orders. All are associated with long-term infections, but the outcome of infection ranges from a complete absence of symptoms to a rapidly developing immunodeficiency and death. While HIV-2 is probably directly related to a virus that is responsible for an asymptomatic infection in the Sooty Mangabey, no obvious candidate for the progenitor of HIV-1 has yet been found. Substantial genetic diversity is present in all immunodeficiency viruses, and phylogenetic analysis of HIV-1 sequences obtained from a wide range of geographic locations has revealed 5-7 groups of viral strains, all equally distant from each other. All groups have been found in Africa, but their distribution elsewhere reflects chance links between individuals at high risk of infection. In some areas large epidemics have spread through groups of such individuals to infect thousands within a few months, resulting in an increase in the global frequency of the particular strain responsible, without the occurrence of any significant diversification. In contrast, within infected patients, substantial diversity is developed over the period of the infection, especially in regions of the envelope gene which are targets for immune recognition (frequency-dependent selection). However, this diversity appears to be reduced at transmission (stabilizing selection). Analysis of these different evolutionary forces gives insights into the development of drug resistance and to potentially protective immune responses which are of practical value, while providing novel observations on molecular evolution in real time.
2097178|Although the potential genetic risks associated with rare or endangered plants and small populations have been discussed previously, the practical role of population genetics in plant conservation remains unclear. Using theory and the available data, we examine the effects of genetic drift, inbreeding, and gene flow on genetic diversity and fitness in rare plants and small populations. We identify those circumstances that are likely to put these plant species and populations at genetic risk. Warning signs that populations may be vulnerable include changes in factors such as population size, degree of isolation, and fitness. When possible, we suggest potential management strategies.
3069263|Supertree construction is a new, rigorous approach for combining phylogenetic information to produce more inclusive phylogenies. It has been used to provide some of the largest, most complete phylogenies for diverse groups (e.g., mammals, flowering plants, and dinosaurs) at a variety of taxonomic levels. We critically review methods for assembling supertrees, discuss some of their more interesting mathematical properties, and describe the strengths and limitations of the supertree approach. To document the need for supertrees in biology, we identify how supertrees have already been used beyond the systematic information they provide to examine models of evolution, test rates of cladogenesis, detect patterns of trait evolution, and extend phylogenetic information to biodiversity conservation.
221711| Endophytic fungi living asymptomatically within plant tissues have been found in virtually all plant species. Endophytes are considered plant mutualists: They receive nutrition and protection from the host plant while the host plant may benefit from enhanced competitive abilities and increased resistance to herbivores, pathogens, and various abiotic stresses. Limited evidence also indicates that endophytes may influence population dynamics, plant community diversity, and ecosystem function. However, most of the empirical evidence for this mutualism and its ecological consequences has been based on a few agronomic grass endophytes. More recent studies suggest that endophyte-host plant interactions are variable and range from antagonistic to mutualistic. A more comprehensive view of the ecology and evolution of endophytes and host plants is needed. This article discusses how life history traits--such as fungal reproduction and pattern of infections and genotypic variation and ecological factors--influence the direction and strength of the endophyte-host plant interaction. 
2097228|Although women are increasingly prominent as ecologists, a report on their progress through the history of ecology in overcoming personal and societal obstacles provides interesting insights regarding their research achievements. Selected, predominantly American, women ecologists are presented within five time frames according to the date of their PhD, an event marking the beginning of their careers. A general view is given for pre-1900 Protoecologists, followed by brief professional sketches for 10 Early Pioneers (1900-1934), 16 Late Pioneers (1935-1960), and 28 members of the First Modern Wave (1961-1975). The relatively large number of women who earned doctorates after 1975 precludes discussion of individuals from this time in this review. The following issues are discussed in the context of their research contributions: 1) motivating factors, 2) graduate education and subfield entered, 3) mentors and role models, 4) employment, 5) marriage and family constraints, and 6) recognition. These issues are compared with data from recent surveys for post-1976 women doctorates. Each selected woman still alive was contacted for her assessment of her research; 156 research citations display the significance and range of subjects studied. A steady, albeit slow, progress since 1900 is evident, although some problems regarding gender equality in professional development of women ecologists persist. These issues, however, are now more clearly recognized and addressed.
221710|Historically, a great many features of organisms have been said to show a trend over the history of life, and many rationales for such trends have been proposed. Here I review eight candidates, eight "live hypotheses" that are inspiring research on largest-scale trends today: entropy, energy intensiveness, evolutionary versatility, developmental depth, structural depth, adaptedness, size, and complexity. For each, the review covers the principal arguments that have been advanced for why a trend is expected, as well as some of the empirical approaches that have been adopted. Also discussed are three conceptual matters arising in connection with trend studies: 1. Alternative bases for classifying trends: pattern versus dynamics; 2. alternative modes in which largest-scale trends have been studied: "exploratory" versus "skeptical"; and 3. evolutionary progress.
221679|Streams in mediterranean-climate regions (areas surrounding the Mediterranean Sea, parts of western North America, parts of west and south Australia, southwestern South Africa and parts of central Chile) are physically, chemically, and biologically shaped by sequential, predictable, seasonal events of flooding and drying over an annual cycle. Correspondingly, aquatic communities undergo a yearly cycle whereby abiotic (environmental) controls that dominate during floods are reduced when the discharge declines, which is also a time when biotic controls (e.g. predation, competition) can become important. As the dry season progresses, habitat conditions become harsher; environmental pressures may again become the more important regulators of stream populations and community structure. In contrast to the synchronous input of autumn litterfall in forested temperate streams, riparian input to mediterranean-type streams is more protracted, with fall and possibly spring peaks occurring in streams in the Northern Hemisphere and a summer peak existing in their Southern Hemisphere counterparts. We present 25 testable hypotheses that relate to the influence of the stream hydrograph on faunal richness, abundance, and diversity; species coexistence; seasonal changes in the relative importance of abiotic and biotic controls on the biotic structure; riparian inputs and the relative importance of heterotrophy compared to autotrophy; and the impact of human activities on these seasonally water-stressed streams. Population increases in mediterranean-climate regions (particularly in fertile regions) result in an intensification of the competition for water among different users; consequently, water abstraction, flow regulation, increased salinity, and pollution severely limit the ability of the streams to survive as sustainable, self-regulated systems.
2097183|Most tropical woody plants produce new leaves and flowers in bursts rather than continuously, and most tropical forest communities display seasonal variation in the presence of new leaves, flowers, and fruits. This patterning suggests that phenological changes represent adaptations to either biotic or abiotic factors. Biotic factors may select for either a staggering or a clustering of the phenological activity of individual plant species. We review the evidence for several hypotheses. The idea that plant species can reduce predation by synchronizing their phenological activity has the best support. However, because biotic factors are often arbitrary with respect to the timing of these peaks, it is essential also to consider abiotic influences. A review of published studies demonstrates a major role for climate. Peaks in irradiance are accompanied by peaks in flushing and flowering except where water stress makes this impossible. Thus, in seasonally dry forests, many plants concentrate leafing and flowering around the start of the rainy season; they also tend to fruit at the same time, probably to minimize seedling mortality during the subsequent dry season. Phenological variation at the level of the forest community affects primary consumers who respond by dietary switching, seasonal breeding, changes in range use, or migration. During periods of scarcity, certain plant products, keystone resources, act as mainstays of the primary consumer community.
2097213|Our understanding of the causes of molecular evolution is not as certain as it was a decade ago when Kimura's neutral theory appeared to explain major features of DNA conservation and change. The last ten years have seen the development of empirical approaches and statistical tests for detecting selection in DNA and a proliferation of data that challenge our current understanding of the molecular evolutionary process. We begin this review with a discussion of protein polymorphism and divergence: two major areas of research where the strictly neutral model cannot explain general patterns in the data. We then present a survey of statistical methods for detecting positive selection, which includes tests for balancing selection, for sequence convergence, and for unusually high rates of evolution that cannot be accounted for by neutral models. Finally, we present findings of a number of groups working on within- and between-species variation in Drosophila: These highlight the importance of adaptive evolution, purifying selection, and recombination in understanding levels and patterns of nucleotide variation.
2097320|Indirect effects occur when the impact of one species on another requires the presence of a third species. They can arise in two general ways: through linked chains of direct interactions, and when a species changes the interactions among species. Indirect effects have been uncovered largely by experimental studies that have monitored the response of many species and discovered "unexpected results," although some studies have looked for specific indirect effects predicted from simple models. The characteristics of such approaches make it likely that the many indirect effects remain uncovered, but the application of techniques such as path analysis may reduce this problem. Deterministic theory indicates that indirect effects should often be important, although stochastic models need exploration. Simulation models indicate that some indirect effects may stabilize multi-species assemblages. Five simple types of indirect effects have been regularly demonstrated in nature: exploitative competition, trophic cascades, apparent competition, indirect mutualism, and interaction modifications. Detailed experimental investigations of natural communities have yielded complicated effects. Indirect effects have the potential to affect evolutionary patterns, but empirical examples are limited. Future directions in the study of indirect effects include developing techniques to estimate interaction strength in dynamic models, deriving more efficient approaches to detecting indirect effects, evaluating the effectiveness of approaches such as path analysis, and investigating mechanisms in which a species changes how other species interact.
2097246|With the discovery of the eukaryote nucleus, all living organisms were neatly divided into prokaryotes, which lacked a nucleus, and eukaryotes, which possessed it. As data derived directly from the genome became available, it was clear that prokaryotes were comprised of two groups, Eubacteria and Archaebacteria. These were subsequently renamed at the new taxonomic level of Domain as Bacteria and Archaea, with the eukaryotes named as the Eucarya Domain. The interrelationships of the three Domains are still subject to discussion and evaluation, as is their monophyly. Further data, drawn from various protein sequences, suggest conflicting schemes, and resolution may not be straightforward. Additionally, Bacteria and Archaea as well as Eucarya are largely based on organisms already in culture. Investigation of the potentially enormous quantity of uncultured organisms in nature is likely to have as broad-ranging implications as the exploration of new protein sequences.
221725|Conservation in New Zealand is failing to halt an ongoing decline in biodiversity. Classical problems of ecosystem loss and fragmentation have largely been countered in some regions by reservation of 30% of total land area. Unsustainable harvesting of native biodiversity has stopped; indeed harvesting of terrestrial species is rare. In contrast, marine reserves do not cover even 1% of the managed area, and harvest of native species, some of it unsustainable, are a major industry. Introduced pests, especially mammals, are the overwhelming conservation problem. Legislation, management, and considerable public opinion is based on preservationist ideals that demand the sanctity of native land biodiversity. Considerable success in threatened species management, island eradications, and mainland control of pests is increasing opportunities for restoration. New legislation is increasingly built on concepts of sustainability and offers the opportunity for integrating conservation, use, and development. Realization of these opportunities requires greater understanding of the relative merits of preservation versus sustainability, the dynamics and costs of pest control, the need for ecosystem processes in addition to individual species, and the involvement of people, especially the rights of indigenous Maori. Understanding marine environments and linking attitudes to land and sea is also a challenge.
2097223|There has been much discussion in the recent systematic literature over whether different data sets bearing on phylogenetic relationships should be analyzed separately or combined and analyzed simultaneously. We review arguments in favor of each of these views. Assuming that the goal is to uncover the true phylogeny of the entities in question, arguments for combining data based on the notions that one should use the "total evidence" available, or that the combined analysis gives the tree with the greatest descriptive and explanatory power, are not compelling. However, combining data sets can enhance detection of real phylogenetic groups. On the other hand, if there is heterogeneity among data sets with respect to some property that affects phylogeny estimation, then combining the data can give misleading results. Thus, there are reasonable arguments on both sides of the debate. We present a conceptual framework based on the reasons that different data sets may give conflicting estimates of phylogeny. The framework illustrates the point that the precise nature of the difference among data sets is critical in the choice of a method of analysis. In particular, very different approaches are necessary to deal with data sets that differ in processes of character change compared to ones that differ in branching histories. We highlight several recently developed methods designed to deal with these different situations. All of these methods avoid the loss of information that is likely to be associated with summarizing data sets as trees in an intermediate step (an advantage of typical combined analyses), while taking into account heterogeneity among data sets (an advantage of separate analyses). We suggest that the recognition and further development of such methods will help depolarize the debate over combined and separate analysis.
2097318|This review examines the application of fisheries ecological data in the development and testing of ecological and evolutionary theory, and the use of such theory in the pursuit of fisheries science. The development of modern fisheries ecology is traced from the beginning of the twentieth century to illustrate the paradigm shifts that have influenced the discipline. The major influence of ecological theory on the development of fisheries ecology was the application of the theory of density dependence, developed in the context of studies of insect population biology. This led to the theoretical construct of a functional relationship between stock and recruitment--a central concept in fisheries ecology. Fisheries ecological data have not been used extensively in the testing of theory. Important exceptions include contributions to the development and testing of self-thinning, the role of density independence in population dynamics, metapopulation modelling and associated theory, and life history theory. The potential for the use of fisheries ecological data in the development and testing of ecological and evolutionary theory is great. The importance of a greater consideration of ecological and evolutionary theory in the development of fisheries ecology is advocated.
2952485|Eusociality in Isoptera (termites) converges along many lines with colony organization and highly social behavior in the phylogenetically distinct insect order Hymenoptera (ants, bees, wasps). Unlike the haplodiploid Hymenoptera, however, both sexes of Isoptera are diploid. Termite families thus lack asymmetric degrees of genetic relatedness generated by meiosis and fertilization, so explanations for eusocial evolution based on such asymmetries are not applicable to Isoptera. The evolution of eusociality in termites likely occurred in small families in which most helpers retained developmental flexibility and reproductive options. A suite of ecological and life-history traits of termites and their ancestors may have predisposed them toward eusocial evolution. These characteristics include familial associations in cloistered, food-rich habitats; slow development; overlap of generations; monogamy; iteroparity; high-risk dispersal for individuals; opportunities for nest inheritance by offspring remaining in their natal nest; and advantages of group defense. Such life-history components are particularly persuasive as fostering social evolution because many are present in a broad group of eusocial taxa, including Hymenoptera, beetles, aphids, thrips, naked mole rats, and shrimp. The evolution of eusociality in Isoptera likely evolved in response to a variety of contributing elements and the selective pressures that they generated.
2097189|Cytonuclear disequilibria provide a new array of conceptual tools for the analysis of hybrid zone data. By measuring the associations of cytoplasmic genes with nuclear genes and genotypes within a hybrid zone, cytonuclear disequilibria provide fresh insights into: (i) levels of gene flow; (ii) age of reproductive barriers, (iii) directionality of crosses between hybridizing taxa; (iv) levels of assortative mating; (v) and mechanisms of selection on hybrids. The application of these cytonuclear disequilibria are illustrated in several hybrid zone studies.
221693|Inbreeding depression critically influences both mating system evolution and the persistence of small populations prone to accumulate mutations. Under some circumstances, however, inbreeding will tend to purge populations of enough deleterious recessive mutations to reduce inbreeding depression (ID). The extent of purging depends on many population and genetic factors, making it impossible to make universal predictions. We review 52 studies that compare levels of ID among species, populations, and lineages inferred to differ in inbreeding history. Fourteen of 34 studies comparing ID among populations and species found significant evidence for purging. Within populations, many studies report among-family variation in ID, and 6 of 18 studies found evidence for purging among lineages. Regression analyses suggest that purging is most likely to ameliorate ID for early traits (6 studies), but these declines are typically modest (5-10%). Meta-analyses of results from 45 populations in 11 studies reveal no significant overall evidence for purging, but rather the opposite tendency, for more selfing populations to experience higher ID for early traits. The likelihood of finding purging does not vary systematically with experimental design or whether early or late traits are considered. Perennials are somewhat less likely to show purging than annuals (2 of 10 vs. 7 of 14). We conclude that although these results doubtless reflect variation in population and genetic parameters, they also suggest that purging is an inconsistent force within populations. Such results also imply that attempts to deliberately reduce the load via inbreeding in captive rearing programs may be misguided. Future studies should examine male and female fitness traits over the entire life cycle, estimate mating histories at all levels (i.e. population and families within populations), report data necessary for meta-analysis, and statistically test for purging of genetic loads.
