27735063|Question: Do landscape metrics reflect differences in dominant factors controlling ribbon forest patterns among sites? Location: West Flattop Mountain, Glacier National Park, Montana (Flattop); Medicine Bow Mountains, Wyoming (Medicine Bow); Park Range, Colorado (Park Range). Methods: High-resolution aerial photography was used to delineate ribbon forest patches, and to calculate landscape metrics to distinguish between long, narrow, regular patterns expected from strong microtopographic control, and smaller, more compact, and variable patterns expected from wind-snowdrift interactions. Results: All but two metrics were significantly different (P<0.05) among the three sites. The rank and magnitude of differences indicated that ribbons at Flattop and Park Range are more similar to each other than to those at Medicine Bow. Flattop ribbons were also more elongated, narrower and less variable than those at Park Range, suggesting differences in the type and strength of structural control. Previous research showed that Flattop ribbons occupy regular lithologic ridges, while our observations of ribbons and analysis of geologic maps suggests weaker and less consistent microtopographic control at Park Range, and dominant wind-snowdrift interactions with little to no microtopographic influence at Medicine Bow. Conclusions: Landscape metrics indicate differences in pattern among sites that reflect differences in dominant factors influencing ribbon forest development and maintenance. Explanations of ribbon forest dynamics are site-specific and are more complex than is currently recognized. The sites vary in the level of endogenous versus exogenous control of ribbon patterns, and consequently in the sensitivity of this phenomenon to climate.
1478915|Semi-natural grasslands are a threatened biotope type in many countries. Typical grassland plant species are adapted to continuous grazing or mowing that keeps the environment open. With the decline in grassland area, these species are ever more reliant on alternative habitats such as road verges. To find out whether plant communities comparable to those of semi-natural grasslands can be maintained on modern road and railway sides, the vegetation of 92 grasslands and 90 road and railway verges was studied. These biotope types were compared with each other according to their community structure, total number of species, number of grassland species and restricted-range diversity. Further study of the vegetation of road and railway verges was carried out in order to identify the treatments and environments which are most likely to support diverse plant communities. The species number and the restricted-range diversity proved to be higher next to roads and railways than on grasslands. Grassland species were, however, most abundant on grasslands. Furthermore, the community structure of these biotope types was totally divergent. In their present state, road and railway verges are not a substitute for semi-natural grasslands. Nevertheless, the occurrence of grassland species in verges may be enhanced by a suitable mowing regime, by giving up the use of de-icing salt and herbicides and by allowing natural establishment of vegetation on the verges.
41058023|Question: Can we predict the spatial distribution of plant communities in semi-arid rangelands based on a limited set of environmental variables? Where are priority areas for conservation located? Location: Al Jabal al Akhdar, Sultanate of Oman. Methods: A Classification Tree Analysis (CTA) was used to model the presence/absence of seven rangeland communities and agricultural areas based on seven selected environmental predictor variables. The latter were either obtained from existing digital datasets or derived from a digital elevation model and satellite images, whereas the grazing intensity was spatially modelled with the kernel density estimation technique. The resulting decision rules of a CTA were applied for predictive mapping within the study area (400 km, resolution of 5 m) by means of ENVI's decision tree classifier. Plant communities of natural rangelands were subsequently evaluated to determine priority areas for nature conservation. Results: Altitude, grazing intensity and landform revealed the highest predictive power. Most of the rangelands were predicted as Sideroxylon-Oleetum. The overall classification accuracy was 89%, whereby agricultural areas and the Ziziphus spina-christi-Nerium oleander community at wadi sites had no misclassification. Inaccuracies occurred mainly because of low sample numbers and errors in available maps of predictor variables. The highest rank for nature conservation was observed for the Teucrio-Juniperetum occupying 20% of the study area. Conclusions: Vegetation mapping using CTA is a valuable tool for rangeland monitoring and identification of key representative areas for nature conservation. An extrapolation of the model used might be feasible to regions adjacent to the central Hajar Mountains.
1479087|Species richness in calcareous grassland is discussed against the background of historical dispersal processes associated with traditional land-use management such as grazing, but also the artificial establishment by hayseed. Important vectors in the traditionally man-made landscape were sheep and cattle or other livestock such as goats. Calcareous grasslands were not only connected to each other but also to other habitats such as villages, forests, arable fields and heathlands by these vectors which could cover large distances (e.g. transhumance shepherding), which is not the case in the current man-made landscape. Species richness after restoration management of abandoned and afforested calcareous grasslands was predicted by using characters of dispersability in space and time. These were the persistence of the species in the vegetation and the diaspore bank after abandonment or afforestation and the dispersal capacity through wind and sheep. The results reveal that reintroduction of sheep grazing is necessary to reestablish the original species richness. The first validation of the prediction of the succession on clear-cut sites and a comparison with data of species composition in abandoned quarries and the surroundings made it obvious that a species' own dispersal capacity in space is very low except for some well wind-dispersed species. Therefore, it is recommended to include and to simulate dispersal processes in future management to be able to restore the original species richness.
1478919| Alvars in the Baltic region, particularly on the Swedish islands of land and Gotland and in western Estonia, are well-known for their plant species richness and extensive populations of rare species. Grasslands make up most of alvar vegetation. The extent of these grasslands decreases because of bush enchroachment which takes place in most alvars when traditional land use practice changes, notably when grazing is ceased. The main threat for the alvar grassland is formed by the rapid expansion of Juniperus communis and Potentilla fruticosa in dry and wet sites, respectively. Applied research has been carried out during several years in order to develop plans for the restoration of alvar grassland. Thus it was shown that species richness in areas with a mixture of grassland and shrubland decreases in relation to the increased cover by shrubs. In the case of Juniperus there is a distinct drop in species number as soon as the cover exceeds 75-80%, while the decrease is more gradual with increased cover of Potentilla. The seed banks under dense stands of these shrubs only contain ca. 20% of the species found in dry and wet alvar meadows. This was confirmed by clearing experiments. Long-term recordings have shown that establishment of juniper seedlings takes place mainly in half-open areas between already existing junipers. Intermediate-sized junipers expanded faster than old and big shrubs. Potentilla shrubs recover fast from cutting or burning. After 2-4 yr they have almost attained their former size. This recovery can be prevented when cattle grazing is introduced. In the framework of a local alvar restoration project on land, covering 7000 ha, grazing regimes are re-established, fences erected and large-scale clearings carried out. Recently established juniper shrubs are being cleared, intermediate sized junipers (30-50 yr old) are selectively removed while creating a mosaic landscape with high biological diversity. Older dense juniper stands are left alone or are only partly cleared. Potentilla stands in moist areas are cut to create moist meadows which are breeding grounds for waders, and to establish corridors between remaining open areas. Three items are discussed (1) the importance of the Stora Alvar area; (2) re-introduction of grazing and (3) re-introduction of species. The outstanding importance of the area regarding species richness and endemism should be recognized through a 'golden list' to be used along with red and blue lists. 
41318177|Vegetation survey is an important research agenda in vegetation science. It defines vegetation types and helps understand differences among them, which is essential for both basic ecological research and applications in biodiversity conservation and environmental monitoring. In this editorial, we reflect on the historical development and current state of vegetation survey worldwide and introduce the Special Feature 'Vegetation Survey', as well as the new section of the same name in Applied Vegetation Science. The current Special Feature contains eight vegetation survey studies from North America, New Zealand, Europe and Asia. Most of these studies describe diversity of important vegetation types across large areas and some are also innovative from the methodological viewpoint. They illustrate current trends in vegetation survey in different parts of the world and also represent some examples of the type of studies that we wish to publish in the 'Vegetation Survey' section in future issues of Applied Vegetation Science.
1478975|A method is discussed for describing the intensity of disturbance, based on the floristic composition of vegetation types. It includes the development of a hemerobiotic scale (from hemeros = cultivated). We attempted to relate this scale based on floristic patterns with functional parameters. Following a large phytosociological survey of the Roman area, we selected 19 species of herbs and grasses, widely differing in 'hemeroby', and measured their Relative Growth Rate (RGR). RGR varies between 0.13 and 0.21 d
25488429|Question: Can GIS and GPS technology be used to quantify the hydrological regime of different plant communities on turloughs (groundwater dependent calcareous wetlands)? Location: Skealoghan turlough, County Mayo, Ireland. Methods: Plant communities were mapped and digitised with GIS software and a digital elevation model of the site was constructed from differential GPS data. Together with records of water level fluctuations on the site from May 2001 to May 2004, these data were used to calculate hydrological variables for each plant community. Hierarchical cluster analysis was used to identify groups of plant communities with similar hydrological regimes. Results: 15 plant communities were mapped at Skea loghan, with the Cirsio-Molinietum and Ranunculo-Potentilletum anserinae being the dominant phytosociological associations. Skealoghan is subject to large temporal and spatial variation in its hydrological regime and fluctuations in water level are intrinsically linked to rainfall. The spatial variation in flooding can be linked to the vegetation zones. Conclusions: GIS and DGPS technology can be used to quantify the hydrological regime of different plant communities on turloughs. Since the hydrological regime is a major environmental factor controlling the vegetation composition of the site, the maintenance of natural flooding regimes is a vital component for the conservation and management of the diverse vegetation mosaic at Skealoghan turlough.
1479068|Pteridium aquilinum (bracken) encroachment is an important factor in the loss of certain habitats in the United Kingdom. However, no information exists as to whether prevention of encroachment is a cost-effective strategy for Pteridium management. Conventional methods for the control of Pteridium (cutting, asulam application) were tested at one site (Levisham) to quantify their ability to prevent or delay encroachment and to affect the vigour of the Pteridium at the edge of the stand. The effects of encroachment and asulam application on the vegetation present were monitored at a second site (Ramsley), where techniques commonly used for moorland restoration were employed in combination with asulam application. Cutting once per year or a single application of asulam delayed the advance of the Pteridium front. At Levisham, the untreated front advanced 2.7 m in 5 yr, while in the same period the cut front advanced 0.88 m and the sprayed front was 1.5 m behind its initial position. At Ramsley, the untreated front invaded 1.8 m in 5 yr, and the sprayed front was again 1.5 m behind its starting position. Both spraying and cutting reduced frond biomass, frond cover and rhizome biomass. Herbicide spraying prevented the loss of Calluna vulgaris, though the restoration treatments had little effect. The merits of a balanced targeting of control on encroaching fronts or Pteridium at the stand level are discussed for different situations.
1479040| Changes in species richness and species turnover during secondary succession following experimental disturbance were studied in eight permanent plots in a species-rich dry heathland in the southern part of the Czech Republic. The treatments applied were sod-cutting, burning, cutting of above-ground biomass, and control. The plots were sampled annually between 1992 and 2000; species richness was analysed at three scales, 25 cm  25 cm, 1 m  1 m, and 3 m  3 m. Disturbances resulted in increased species richness. The highest vascular plant richness was attained during the secondary succession after sod-cutting, where species established on exposed bare ground. Less severe disturbances by burning and cutting also caused a slight increase in the number of vascular plant species. For bryophytes and lichens, the highest increase in the number of species was also found in the sod-cut plots, where all cryptogams were removed by the disturbance. At the scale of 3 m  3 m, species richness of both vascular plants and cryptogams peaked in 1995-1996, i.e. 3-4 yrs after the disturbance, and slowly decreased or slightly fluctuated without any trend thereafter. At smaller scales it either peaked later or constantly increased over the entire observation period of 9 yrs. Species mobility, expressed as species accumulation over time, was lower than reported from grasslands. Rates of species turnover, calculated as Jaccard dissimilarity between pairs of consecutive years, corresponded across different scales. This implies that successional dry heathlands have a higher small-scale mobility than heathlands which are apparently stable at larger scale. 
1478974| Rich-fen vegetation influenced by hay-making in the Slendet Nature Reserve, Central Norway, was fertilized with N, P and K in a full-factorial fertilization experiment to investigate the nutrient limitation of plant growth at both community and species levels. Above-ground biomass, shoot density and nutrient concentration were measured in several species and groups of species at three sites after two years of fertilization. At the community level, the results indicate multiple limitation by N and P in the two least productive rich-fen communities: one characterized by small sedges and herbs, and the other by high abundance of Menyanthes trifoliata and tall sedges. Increased nutrient availability had no effect on a more highly productive, tall-growing, spring-influenced community, indicating no nutrient limitation. The results at the species level correspond well with those at the community level, indicating multiple limitation by N and P in most of the dominant and sub-dominant species. However, P seems to limit growth more than N in Succisa pratensis, and N seems to limit growth more than P in Carex panicea. Furthermore, Eriophorum angustifolium seems to be limited by K. The results did not show which nutrient limits the growth of Carex dioica, C. lasiocarpa and Trichophorum cespitosum. Indications that growth in low-productive, boreal rich-fen communities is generally limited by P was not confirmed. 
40927807|Questions: Which nutrient(s) limit(s) vegetation productivity in Calthion grasslands? Is phosphorus release a bottleneck for restoration of species-rich Calthion grasslands on rewetted dairy meadows? Location: Three species-rich Calthion grasslands in the Western Peat District in the Netherlands. Methods: We conducted a field fertilization experiment with nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P) and potassium (K) in three existing Calthion grasslands to evaluate the potential for restoration on rewetted dairy meadows. Responses of above-ground biomass, tissue nutrient concentrations and nutrient ratios were determined after 2 yr of fertilization. Results: Biomass increased with fertilization with Nonly and K-only but did not react to P-only additions.Comparisons of tissue nutrient concentrations and nutrient ratios also gave indications of N and K limitation. Conclusions: The strong P release expected after rewetting should not necessarily interfere with restoration of Calthion communities on rewetted dairy meadows. It is concluded that for successful restoration management measures should focus on reducing N and/or K availability. Potassium might be an overlooked bottleneck in the restoration of species-rich grasslands.
1479044|In vitro acid-pepsin digestibility (IVDMD), crude protein (CP), fibre, lignin, and energy content were measured for a variety of forage plants collected annually from Banks Island over five summers and three winters from 1993-1998. Summer samples were collected during mid-June (start of growing season), mid-July (peak of growing season), and mid-late August (senescence). Winter samples were collected in early (November), mid- (February), and late- (April/May) winter. Samples, collected in areas of both high and low muskox density, included Carex aquatilis, unidentified Carex, Salix arctica, Dryas integrifolia, Cassiope tetragona, Saxifraga spp., Astragalus spp., Oxytropis spp., lichen, and grass. Seasonal dynamics in forage quality during the growing season were similar to those reported elsewhere in the arctic and high arctic and were consistent across years. However, there were significant year effects in lignin, fibre, and energy content of forages and the crude protein (CP) content of C. aquatilis in winter, indicating annual differences in the quality of forage available to herbivores. The quality of forages on Banks Island was similar between areas subjected to different densities of muskox (ca. 1.6-1.9 versus 0.3 -0.4/ km
4620514| Question: The use of variations in the spectral responses of remotely sensed images was recently proposed as an indicator of plant species richness (Spectral Variation Hypothesis, SVH). In this paper we addressed the issue of the potential use of multispectral sensors by testing the hypothesis that only some of the bands recorded in a remotely sensed image contain information related to the variation in species richness. Location: Montepulciano Lake, central Italy. Methods: We assessed how data compression techniques, such as Principal Component Analysis (PCA), influence the relationship between spectral heterogeneity and species richness and evaluated which spectral interval is the most adequate for predicting species richness by means of linear regression analysis. Results: The original multispectral data set and the first two non-standardized principal components can both be used as predictors of plant species richness (R  0.48; p < 0.001), confirming that PCAis an effective tool for compressing multispectral data without loss of information. Using single spectral bands, the near infrared band explained 41% of variance in species richness (p < 0.01), while the visible wavelengths had much lower prediction powers. Conclusions: The potential of satellite data for estimating species richness is likely to be due to the near infrared bands, rather than to the visible bands, which share highly redundant information. Since optimal band selection for image processing is a crucial task and it will assume increasing importance with the growing availability of hyperspectral data, in this paper we suggest a 'near infrared way' for assessing species richness directly from remotely sensed data. 
1478902|The patterns of species establishment, persistence and spread in a long-term experiment investigating the re-creation of chalk grassland using different seed mixtures on ex-arable land were analysed with the intention of providing enhanced re-creation/restoration prescriptions and a critique of experimental designs. Species had a wide range of behaviours; (1) species that did not establish from seed e.g. Blackstonia perfoliata, (2) establishment but poor persistence in closed sward e.g. Hieracium pilosella, (3) establishment and persistence but little spread e.g. Onobrychis viciifolia and (4) good establishment and spread over all treatments e.g. Centaurea nigra and Trisetum flavescens. Persistence appeared greater in species with lower germination rates in both light and dark. Spread was greater in species with higher seed mass and lower dark germination rates. However, results from small-plot experiments should be critically analysed. Though initial results show the potential for re-establishment of vegetation, subsequent vegetation dynamics may be more closely related to the invasion of species from other treatments than the original species sown. Experimental designs should employ either large plots and/or wide guard rows to extend their useful life span. Long-term data show which species are useful for cost-effective restoration. Some species need to be sown over the whole area to provide cover (a 'grass matrix') and competition with arable weeds. Others need to be sown over wide areas as they spread poorly. Some species can be sown at low densities or in small patches as they have the ability to spread in closed vegetation.
4620523|Question: How effective is high-resolution airborne LiDAR technology for quantifying biophysical characteristics of multiple community types within diverse rangeland environments? Location: Native Aspen Parkland vegetation in central Alberta, Canada. Methods: Vegetation within 117 reference plots stratified across eight types, including forest, shrubland, upland grassland and lowland meadow communities, were assessed in 2001 for the height, cover and density of vegetation within various strata (herb, shrub and tree layers). Actual ground data were subsequently compared against modelled values for each community type and strata derived from the analysis of airborne LiDAR data obtained in 2000. Results: LiDAR data were effective for quantifying vegetation height, cover and density of the overstory within closed-and open Populus forest communities. However, LiDAR measurements typically underestimated the height and cover of shrublands, as well as most of the herbaceous communities. Analysis of LiDAR intensity data indicated reflectance generally decreased as LiDAR sampling points moved upwards from the ground to the vegetation canopy. Conclusions: While LiDAR technology is useful for characterizing deciduous forest properties, the quantification of understory vegetation characteristics, as well as those of individual shrublands and grasslands, was more limiting. Further refinements in analysis methods are necessary to increase the reliability of characterizing these communities.
4620412| Question: Are the recruitment patterns of deliberately introduced wildflower species influenced by cutting frequencies and disturbance treatments? To what extent do these different treatments affect productivity and sward structure of an agriculturally improved grassland? Location: A mesic lowland grassland near Gttingen, Lower Saxony, Germany. Methods: Recruitment success of eight sown wildflower species was studied in a permanent grassland treated by a factorial combination of different pre-sowing cutting intervals (1,3 or 9 wk), post-sowing cutting intervals (1,3 or 9 wk) and disturbance (control, harrowing, removal of sward). Seedling emergence and survival, biomass production and sward structure were followed over two years. Results: For most species seedling emergence was highest in the harrowing treatment. The complete sward removal did not further increase seedling emergence. Seedling survival was strongly influenced by the post-sowing cutting frequency with highest mortality in the 9 wk cutting interval compared to one and 3 wk cutting intervals. Annual dry matter yield varied between 4.4, 5.9 and 9.4 t.ha in the 1,3 and 9 wk pre-sowing cutting treatment, respectively. In June, when the seeds were sown, the tiller number of the I wk cut plots was twice as high as for the 9 wk cut plots and five times higher than in the harrowing treatment. Conclusions: Disturbance by harrowing provided the optimal environmental cues to trigger germination, whereas seedling survival was facilitated by increased light penetration due to frequent cutting. The investigation revealed the overriding importance of frequent standing crop removal in the early phase of seedling establishment on agriculturally improved grassland. 
1478933|The nutrient status was studied in permanent plots of four plant communities, two rich-fen communities and two wooded grassland communities, all formerly used for hay-making. The concentrations of N, P and K in plant material of dominant and subdominant species (above-and below-ground) were measured in plots experimentally scythed annually or biennially for two decades, and in plots unscythed for four decades. Three of the communities had an N:P ratio of 14 or less, indicating N-limitation: the most fertile grassland community had particularly low values for the N:P ratio (6-12), as did a majority of the species, including all tall-herb species. A species-rich community of fen-margin vegetation in the lowest productive rich fen, had an N:P ratio of 17-19 in the above-ground biomass, which indicates P-limitation of nutrients. Molinia caerulea and Thalictrum alpinum were found to be the vascular plants with the highest N:P ratio, indicating P-limitation of nutrients. Calculations of N:K and K:P ratios indicated possible K-limitation in the rich-fen communities, especially for Thalictrum alpinum, the species with the highest N:K value. No expected change from N- to P-limited growth was found; in contrast, a reduction in the N:P ratio was found in the annually scythed plots of the rich fens, suggesting that reduced biomass production is mainly a result of disturbance by scything. As expected, a reduction in the concentration of K was detected in the scythed plots.
4620435|Questions: Do invasions of P. halepensis (Aleppo pine) from plantations into adjacent natural communities occur in the Mediterranean region, where the species is native? What are the spatio-temporal processes involved in pine invasions in contrasting Mediterranean and semi-arid climatic regions? Location: Mediterranean and semi-arid regions of Israel. Methods: The density of invading Pinus was measured in relation to the distance from the plantation edge. Plants were categorized by age, height, basal stem girth and developmental stage, their spatial distribution was also recorded. Results: Analysis of plant age distribution indicates that the invasion process started when the plantations were 20-25 years old. Most invading plants were found within 20 m from the plantation edge, but a few individuals reached distances up to 100 m and became new invasion foci. Plant density declined sharply with distance from adult trees, data showing a better fit to a power model than to a negative exponential model. Invading Pinus began to produce cones earlier in the semi-arid than in the Mediterranean region (9 vs 12 years to 50% reproductive plants). In both regions, higher densities of invading plants were found on the west side of the plantation, the opposite direction to the hot winds that prevail during seed release. Conclusion: The frontal advance of P. halepensis from plantations is relatively slow, but the populations also expand by a saltation process, creating spreading 'islands' of pine trees in the natural vegetation. Spatial pattern of recruits with distance from the source population was remarkably similar to the pattern of seed dispersal in the same region (Nathan et al. 1999). This implies that the probability of a dispersed seed developing into a plant is independent of the distance from the forest edge.
41318163|Question: Can managing disturbance regimes alone or in combination with seeding native species serve to shift the balance from exotic towards native species? Location: Central coast of California, USA. Methods: We measured vegetation composition for 10yr in a manipulative experiment replicated at three sites. Treatments included no disturbance, grazing and clipping at three frequencies with and without litter removal. We seeded eight native species into clipped plots and compared cover in comparable plots with no seeding. Results: Regardless of frequency, clipping generally shifted community dominance from exotic annual grasses to exotic annual forbs, rather than consistently favoring native species. At one site, perennial grass cover decreased in no-disturbance plots, but only after 4 yr. Litter removal had minimal impact on litter depth and plant community composition. Grazing had a highly variable effect on the abundance of different plant guilds across sites and years. Seeding increased abundance of only two of eight native species. Conclusions: Managing disturbance regimes alone is insufficient to restore native species guilds in highly-invaded grasslands and seeding native species has highly variable success.
1479093| The structure of dune ponds hygrophytic vegetation has a spatial organisation in belts around the pond basin, closely related to water level and flooding regime. Doana National Park has an important representation of temporal dune ponds, which are subjected to rainfall fluctuations and may be suffering the impact of water extraction from the neighbouring tourist resort. Permanent transects in a vegetation complex of five dune ponds have been monitored during a eight year period (1990-1997). This period was characterised by a number of dry years (annual rainfall around 300 mm), located between two wet cycles (800 - 900 mm). Transects were analysed in 1990 (wet period), 1994 (dry) and 1997 (wet) by hierarchical agglomerative clustering. During the dry period hygrophytic species showed regression, with a high mortality of some species like Ulex minor, while the xerophytic species advanced to lower areas. Seedlings of some xerophytic species colonised the dry surface of the pond basin. The lowering of the water table varied in the different ponds, ranging from 312 to 190 cm depending on topography and the distance to the pumping area. The new period of flooding during 1995-96 and 1996-97 cycles provided the opportunity for hygrophytic spe cies to re-establish themselves in their original places. This study suggest that changes in vegetation are caused by the interaction between weather conditions and human disturbance (water extractions). In our example man-made disturbance is more marked during the dry periods while wet periods tend to obscure the effects of water extractions. From a management perspective, long-term monitoring of water table and vegetation structure is revealed as a key procedure to the management of land-water ecotones on pressured areas and threatened habitats. 
1478948|Predictive mapping of vegetation using models linking vegetation units to mapped environmental variables has been advocated for remote areas. In this study, three different types of model were employed (within a GIS) to produce vegetation maps of the Hamersley Ranges region of Western Australia. The models were: (1) decision trees; (2) statistical models; and (3) heuristic/conceptual models. Maps were produced for three different levels of a floristic classification, i.e. 16 communities in two community groups with eight subgroups. All models satisfactorily established relationships between the vegetation units and available predictor variables, except where the number of sites of a particular unit was small. The different models often made similar predictions, especially for more widespread vegetation units. Map accuracy (as determined by field testing of maps) improved with increasing level of abstraction, with plant community maps ca. 50% correct, subgroup maps ca. 60% correct and group maps 90% correct. Map inaccuracies were due to several factors, including low sample numbers producing unrepresentative models, poor resolution of and errors in available maps of predictor variables, and available predictor variables not being able to differentiate between certain vegetation units, particularly at the plant community level. Of these factors, poor resolution of maps was seen as the most critical. One type of model could not be recommended over another; however the choice of model will be largely dependent on the nature of the data set and the type of map coverage required.
1479059| The objective of the present study was to map dominant plant communities of an alpine area in the northeastern Alps (Austria), based on computer modelling. We employed gradient analysis by means of Canonical Correspondence Analysis (CCA) as a prediction tool and image segmentation as a filter for reducing the number of incorrect predictions. Topographical variables reflecting relief properties at different scales were used as surrogates for environmental conditions in combination with spectral band values from infrared orthophotographs. Coupling topographic correlation using CCA and image analysis proved practicable to map the distribution of alpine plant communities. Although plant communities often showed similar spectral response, they were mapped according to their specific topographical niches. Generally, topographic variables, indicative of environmental gradients controlling plant distribution, provided this information in most cases. The importance of spectral vs topographic variables varied among plant communities. Whereas the correlation between topography and plant species distribution was particularly significant for mapping alpine grasslands, spectral texture measures proved to be of major importance in discriminating between pioneer communities. Post-processing by image segmentation improved overall accuracy by 12%. A total of 17 plant communities and their mosaics were mapped, with an overall accuracy of 69.4% and a  value of 0.64. Inaccuracy resulted from insufficient resolution of the available digital elevation model and confounding effects of additional controls like land use history, which could not be accounted for by topographic descriptors. 
1478897|In order to restore natural salt marsh in a 460-ha nature reserve established in man-made salt marsh in the Dollard estuary, The Netherlands, the artificial drainage system was neglected and cattle grazing reduced. Vegetation changes were traced through two vegetation surveys and monitoring of permanent plots over 15 yr after the management had been changed. Exclosure experiments were started to distinguish grazing effects from effects of increased soil waterlogging caused by the neglect of the drainage system. Both vegetation surveys and permanent plots demonstrated a dichotomy in vegetation succession. The incidence of secondary pioneer vegetation dominated by Salicornia spp. and Suaeda maritima increased from 0 to 20%, whereas the late-successional (Phragmites australis) vegetation from 10 to 15%. Grazing intensity decreased towards the sea. The grazed area contracted landward, which allowed vegetation dominated by tall species to increase seaward. Grazing and increased waterlogging interacted in several ways. The impact of trampling increased, and in the intensively grazed parts soil salinity increased. This can probably be explained by low vegetation cover in spring. Framework Ordination, an indirect-gradient-analysis technique, was used to infer the importance of environmental factors in influencing changes in species composition. Many changes were positively or negatively correlated with soil aeration and soil salinity, whereas elevation was of minor importance. Grazing accounted for only a few changes in species frequency. Changes in permanent plots were greater during the first than during the second half of the study period. In exclosures that were installed halfway through the study period, there was a relatively rapid recovery of previously dominant species that had decreased during the first half of the study period. Species richness per unit area in the reserve increased. At the seaward side of the marsh, the altered management allowed succession to proceed leading to establishment of stands of Phragmites australis, whereas on the landward side, the combination of moderate grazing with neglect of the drainage system appeared an effective measure in maintaining habitats for a wider range of halophytic species.
1478945| Since the introduction of 'potential natural vegetation' (PNV) as a concept in vegetation science by Txen (1956), many PNV-maps with different scales have been made. Txen emphasized the great value of PNV-maps for different purposes in land use, landscape planning and nature conservation, in particular with regard to forestry, agriculture and landscape management. Different aspects are discussed in order to examine the validity and applicability of PNV-maps in landscape planning and nature conservation. PNV-maps are useful for the differentiation of natural and landscape units on a small scale (< 1: 100 000). However, maps of the potential natural vegetation are less useful for purposes of detailed planning on larger scales (> 1: 100 000). Problems arise, for example, from the often highly hypothetical character of the construction and the practice of taking remnants of 'natural' vegetation as a reference object for the PNV. With regard to the goals of modern landscape planning and nature conservation purposes (e.g. conserving biodiversity in the cultural landscape of Central Europe) the exact documentation of the actual real vegetation (ARV) on intermediate and large scales gives much more detailed information than a hypothetical PNV. 
1479019| In terms of restoration planning, the analysis of natural regeneration processes represents a valuable starting point for the selection of suitable species to be used. This paper aims to identify colonizing key species among the pioneer vegetation of limestone quarries in Lebanon, to identify potential restoration strategies in terms of reconstitution of the pre-mining vegetation cover. Characteristics of the major ground colonizers after disturbance were identified in a representative quarry in the thermo-Mediterranean biozone. The floristic inventories resulted in a matrix of cover values of 107 species  14 plots. Correspondence analyses were used to pinpoint similarities in the distribution of key species among the different environmental characteristics of sites. The main results reveal a heterogeneous floristic composition along the regeneration gradient, where annual R-strategy taxa such as Inula viscosa and Ainsworthia cordata dominate on very perturbed and degraded sites. Less degraded areas within the quarry were rich in herbaceous perennial or shrub species such as Geranium dissectum, Stachys distans, Salvia triloba and Ptilostemon chamaepeuce. On relatively non-degraded areas woody and shrub perennials such as Pinus brutia, Pistacia palaestina and Quercus calliprinos dominate, along with less stress tolerant taxa such as Arbutus andrachne and Cistus creticus. Species to be used in restoration projects should be chosen from among the local vegetation, according to frequency of occurrence during the whole succession process which will reflect their adaptability to local conditions and their relevance to restoration objectives. 
1478904| To identify management treatments suitable for the conservation of extensively managed grasslands, the 'Fallow experiments in Baden-Wrttemberg' were set up in 1975. In this investigation, species composition of the grazing, mowing, mulching, controlled burning and unmanaged (succession) treatments were analysed after 25 yr of continuous management in Arrhenatherum elatius and Bromus erectus grasslands. Through ordination analyses it was found that species composition is strongly dependent on the management treatment. The first axis, identified by ordination analysis, essentially corresponded to a gradient of decreasing disturbance frequency. Controlled burning resulted in a unique species composition. Grazing, mowing and mulching twice a year were found to be most suitable for the conservation of unimproved, species-rich grasslands. 
40928282|Questions: How are heathland vegetation dynamics affected by different goat grazing management? Location: Cantabrian heathlands in Ulano, Asturias, northern Spain. Methods: During 4 years, vegetation dynamics (structural composition, canopy height and floristic diversity) were studied under three goat grazing treatments with three replicates: high stocking rate (11.7 goats ha) with a local Celtiberic breed, and high (15 goats ha) and low (6.7 goats ha) stocking rates with a commercial Cashmere breed. Results: The relative cover of woody plants, particularly heather species, decreased more while herbaceous cover increased more under local Celtiberic than under Cashmere breed grazing. Within Cashmere treatments, the cover and height of live shrubs decreased more and the herbaceous cover increased more under high than under low stocking rate. Redundancy analysis showed a significant effect of treatment  year interaction on floristic composition. Greater species richness was recorded under local goat grazing, but Shannon diversity index fell in the fourth year on these plots because of dominance by two grass species. Conclusions: Local Celtiberic goat grazing at such a high stocking rate (11.7 goats ha) hinders the development of sustainable systems on these heathlands, both in environmental and productive terms, owing to the limitations in soil fertility. Nevertheless, Celtiberic goats could be useful for controlling excessive shrub encroachment and reducing fire hazard. Cashmere goat grazing at high stocking rate promoted the highest Shannon diversity by generating a better balance between woody and herbaceous plants, while shrub dominance was not altered under the low stocking rate.
40927793|Question: Can spatial analytical techniques be used to extract quantitative measurements of vegetation communities from ground-based permanent photopoint images? Location: Mount Aspiring National Park, southwestern South Island, New Zealand. Methods: Sets of ground-based photographs representing two contrasting vegetation types were selected to test two spatial analytical techniques.In the grid technique, a grid was superimposed onto the photographs and the frequency of species presence in each grid-square was calculated to estimate species abundance/cover over the defined area.In the object-oriented technique, the photographs were segmented into meaningful objects, basedon the colour of the pixels and the textural patterns of the images, and the area occupied by an object in the image was used to derive species abundance/cover over the area. Results: Both techniques allow quick and easy classification of digital elements into ecologically relevant categories of vegetation components. The grid technique appeared more robust, being quick and efficient, accommodating all image types and providing presence/absence matrices for multivariate analysis. Fewer classes were identified using the object-oriented technique, in particular for the forest interior site and for small individual plants such as Astelia spp. Conclusions: Both techniques showed potential for the objective quantitative analysis of long-term vegetation monitoring of cover and changes of several component species, using repeat groundbased photographs more specifically for grassland habitats. However, both rely to various degrees on manual classification. Corrective factors and strict protocols for taking the photographs are necessary to account for variation in view angles and to compute values more representative of absolute species abundance.
41318164|Questions: (a) What are the rates and directions of vegetation succession in an inland sand-dune system? (b) What are the differences in successional trajectories in different relief types? and (c) Is it possible to preserve the last areas of still active dunes and under what circumstances? Location: The study sites were located in the northern part of the Veluwe Region, central Netherlands; longitude 5 44'E, latitude 5220'N, altitude 9 to 24m a.s.l. Methods: Vegetation and relief mapping was conducted in three permanent plots, 200 m X 200 m in size, in 1988 and 2003. Phytosociological relevs (2400) were recorded in each 10 m X 10 m subplots. Age of woody species was determined by wood coring. Geographic Information System, ordination analyses, and TWINSPAN were used for data exploration and elaboration. Results: A total of 70 vascular plants and 19 bryophytes were recorded over successional stages spanning approximately 190 years. The following dominant species formed the sequence of successional stages, but not all participated in all relief types: Ammophila arenaria, Festuca arenaria, Corynephorus canescens, Festuca ovina and Agrostis capillaris, and pine forest dominated in its herb layer at first by Deschampsia flexuosa and later by either Empetrum nigrum, Vaccinium myrtillus or Vaccinium vitis-idaea. Conclusions: The successional trajectory is basically unidirectional for more than 100 years; no clear multiple successional pathways were observed, as is frequent in coastal dunes. Successional divergence was observed after approximately 130 years in the composition of the herb layer in the closed pine forest. The obvious vegetation heterogeneity in the still active sand-blown area is related to differences in timing of vegetation establishment on particular relief types, thus the succession exhibits a terrain-dependent asynchronous character.We conclude that the last patches of still-active sand dunes can be preserved only by repeated strong artificial disturbances.
4620441|Question: Is the failure of establishment of rare flood-meadow species in habitat restoration primarily due to seed or microsite limitation? How do sown species respond to artificially created gaps and added litter at two neighbouring sites with similar physical conditions but contrasting vegetation matrix (young arable fallow field vs species-poor meadow sward)? Location: Upper Rhine valley, southwestern Germany, 85 m a.s.l. Methods: Seeds of six typical flood-meadow species were sown in four treatment combinations of the factors gap creation and litter addition. Seedling recruitment was monitored for three years. Results: Five of the six species established successfully at both sites largely irrespective of treatments, indicating seed limitation. Only in the small-seeded Arabis nemorensis, which was revealed to be strictly gap-dependent at the meadow site, could an obvious microsite limitation be shown. The non-significance of gap treatments in all other species at the relatively high productive meadow site is probably due to biomass removal by mowing in early summer. Only at the extremes of the seed size spectrum did the results meet predictions of plant ecological theory, such as the strict gap dependence of small-seeded species in closed swards or the positive to neutral response of large-seeded species to litter layers. Conclusions: Species identity was revealed to be the major factor influencing differences in recruitment. Due to the lack of a general trend in the response towards treatments the results support conceptual models that describe the interplay of facilitation and interference as a highly dynamic equilibrium, driven by variable abiotic and biotic marginal conditions.
40927819|Question: Is it possible to restore dry calcareous inland sand ecosystems with their characteristic plant community structure within a 4-yr period by means of combined abiotic-biotic techniques (topsoil replacement, inoculation with raked/mown plant material from target areas)? Location: Upper Rhine valley, Germany. Methods: Two 4-year experiments were carried out on former arable land, each in the proximity of a reference area bearing a similar complex of threatened sandy grasslands (experiment 1: fine-scale; experiment 2: landscape scale). In both experiments we used nutrient-poor deep-sand substrate (abiotic approach), raked/mown inoculation material from target areas and grazing as management tool (biotic and management approach). The vegetation of the restoration and donor areas was sampled once a year and analysed by non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) ordination and target-species ratios. Mixed linear models were calculated to determine effects of grazing (experiment 1) and year (both experiments). Results: NMDS revealed a continuous development of the restored sites towards the corresponding donor sites. Similarly, target-species ratios of the restored sites tended towards the ratios of the donor sites. To date, grazing effects have mainly been structural: reduction of a carpet-forming pleurocarpous moss species and of litter. In addition, cover of target species in relation to total plant cover was significantly enhanced by grazing in the last two study years. Conclusions: The combination of nutrient-poor substrate, inoculation with raked/mown plant material and grazing proved to be a very effective restoration method for dry base-rich sand ecosystems. After 4 yr the restored plant communities serve as well-developed parts of a habitat network.
40927825|Questions: Do large, old Sequoiadondron giganteum trees respond to the creation of adjacent canopy gaps? Do other co-occurring tree species and younger S. giganteum adjacent to gaps also respond? What are the likely factors affecting growth responses? Location: Mixed-conifer forests of the southern Sierra Nevada, California, USA. Methods: We measured the growth response of large, old S. giganteum trees (mean DBH = 164 cm; ages estimated > 1000yr) to gap creation by coring trees and comparing growth after gap creation to growth before gap creation. We also measured young Abies concolor, Pinus lamber tiana, and young S. giganteum. Gap-adjacent trees were compared with non-adjacent reference trees. Tree rings were analysed for carbon isotope discrimination and for longer-term growth trend correlations with climate. Results: Following gap creation gap-adjacent old S. giganteum grew more than reference trees. Abies concolor trees also exhibited a growth response to gap creation. No response was detected for young S. giganteum or P. lambertiana, although detection power was lower for these groups. There was no difference in carbon isotope discrimination response to gap creation between gap-adjacent and reference trees for old S. giganteum and radial growth was positively correlated with winter precipitation, but not growing season temperature. Conclusion: It is unclear what caused the growth release in old S. giganteum trees, although liberation of below-ground resources following removal of competing vegetation appears to be a significant contributor. Sequoiadondron giganteum, the thirdlongest lived and the largest of all species, remains sensitive to local environmental changes even after canopy emergence. Management activities that reduce vegetation surrounding individual specimen trees can be expected to result in increased vigor of even these very old and large trees.
4620426| Question: What is the long-term compositional response of grass and forb species to various combinations of burning and mowing? Can these responses be predicted from simple plant traits? Location: Ukulinga research and training farm (2424'E, 3024'S), Pietermaritzburg, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. Methods: Grass species relative abundance in 1996 in various burning and mowing treatments of a long-term (> 50 a) experiment was calculated from data obtained using a point sampling method, whereas forb species abundance in 1999 was determined using the importance score method. The experiment consisted of different frequencies (annual, biennial and triennial) of burning and mowing in winter or spring in combination with different frequencies of summer mowing (none, early, late or both). Results: Grasses responded to the type of disturbance (burn or mow) and frequency of burning, whereas forbs responded primarily to the presence or absence of any form of disturbance and secondarily to the timing of burning (spring versus winter). Summer mowing and annual or biennial dormantperiod burning maintained communities dominated by short grasses, whereas tall grasses dominated under annual dormant-period mowing, triennial burning or protection from disturbance. Grass tillering strategy (below- or above-ground) influenced response to burning frequency. Many erect herbaceous dicot species with aerial meristems were reduced in abundance by summer mowing whereas most small creeping herbaceous dicot species appeared to be dependent upon summer mowing. Conclusions: This long-term experiment demonstrated that: (1) grasses and forbs responded differently to burning and mowing; (2) simple plant traits, such as height, position of tiller initiation, and position of meristems have potential for predicting the response of species to the timing and frequency of burning and mowing. 
1478961|Disturbance may be an important determinant of plant community composition and diversity owing to its effects on competitive interactions, resources, dominance and vigour. The effect of type, timing and frequency of disturbance on grass and forb species richness was examined using data from a long-term (> 50 yr) grassland burning and mowing experiment in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. Grass species richness declined considerably (> 50%) in the absence of disturbance, whereas forb species richness was unaffected. Annual burning in sites not mown in summer tended to increase grass species richness relative to triennial burning (22% increase) with the reverse being true in sites mown twice in summer (37% decline). Forb species richness declined by 25% in sites mown twice in summer relative to sites mown in early summer only. Disturbance was necessary to achieve maximum grass species richness presumably by removing litter and increasing the availability of light. The interaction of time of mowing in summer (early versus late) and time of burning during the dormant period (spring versus winter) had the most dramatic effect on species richness. Time of burning had no effect on richness in sites mown in early summer, but winter burning resulted in a dramatic decline (27-42%) in richness in sites mown in late summer. This effect may be related to possible greater soil desiccation with this combination of disturbances.
41058029|Question: How is vegetation succession on coal mine wastes under a Mediterranean climate affected by the restoration method used (topsoil addition or not)? How are plant successional processes influenced by local landscape and soil factors? Location: Reclaimed coal mines in the north of Palencia province, northern Spain (4247'-4250' N, 432'-453' W). Methods: In Jun-Jul 2008, vascular plant species cover was monitored in 31 coal mines. The mines, which had been restored using two restoration methods (topsoil addition or not), comprised a chronosequence of different ages from 1 to 40 yr since restoration started. Soil and environmental factors at each mine were monitored and related to species cover using a combination of ordination methods and Huisman-Olff-Fresco modeling. Results: Plant succession was affected by restoration method. Where topsoil was added, succession was influenced by age since restoration and soil pH. Where no topsoil was added, soil factors seem to arrest succession. Vegetation composition on topsoiled sites showed a gradient with age, from the youngest, with early colonizing species, to oldest, with an increase in woody species. Vegetation on non-topsoiled sites comprised mainly early-successional species. Response to age and pH of 37 species found on topsoiled mines is described. Conclusions: Restoration of coal mines under this Mediterranean climate can be relatively fast if topsoil is added, with a native shrub community developing after 15 yr. However, if topsoil is not used, it takes more than 40 yr. For topsoiled mines, the species found in the different successional stages were identified, and their tolerance to soil pH was derived. This information will assist future restoration projects in the area.
4620513| Question: What is the contribution of a rise in groundwater level to vegetation restoration of degraded peat meadows compared to abandonment only? Location: Abandoned peat meadows in the central part of The Netherlands. Methods: Comparison of species composition and species abundance of vegetation and seed banks of reference and rewetted peat meadows, using plant trait and seed bank analysis. Results: Vegetation of rewetted meadows shared on average only 27% of their species with the reference meadow, while this was 50% on average for species in the seed bank. Rewetted meadows had a lower total number of species and a lower number of wet grassland and fen species present in the vegetation, but had higher species richness per m, although evenness was not affected. Rewetting increased the dominance of species of fertile and near neutral habitats, but did not result in an increase of species of wet or waterlogged habitats. Rewetted meadows were dominated by species relying mainly on vegetative reproduction and species with a low average seed longevity compared to the reference meadow. Conclusion: Rewetting was not effective as a restoration measure to increase plant species diversity or the number of wet grassland and fen species in the vegetation. If no additional restoration management is applied, the seed bank will be depleted of seeds of species of wet grassland or fen habitats, further reducing the chances of successful vegetation restoration. 
27735044|Questions: How do successional systems contribute to our understanding of plant invasions? Why is a community-level approach important in understanding invasion? Do native and non-native plant species differ in their successional trajectories within communities? Location: Northeastern United States, in the Piedmont region of New Jersey. Previously farmed since the 1700s, ten fields were experimentally retired from agriculture beginning in 1958. Methods: Fifty years of permanent plot data were used to quantify the population demographics of the 84 most abundant species during succession. These measures were then used to compare native, non-native and non-native invasive species' population dynamics in succession. Results: Once basic life-history characteristics were accounted for, there were no differences in the population dynamics of native, non-native, and non-native invasive plant species. However, the species pool in this study was biased towards ruderal species, which largely constrained non-native species to early succession. Conclusion: Successional systems are crucial to our understanding of invasions as they constrain all species to the role of colonizer. By focusing on the whole community, rather than on individual problematic species, we found no systematic differences between native and non-native species. Thus, knowing simple life-history information about a species would be much more useful in setting management priorities than where the species originated.
1479025|The impact of grazing pressure on gas exchange of Periploca laevigata was studied in relation to its nutritional status. P. laevigata, a woody and highly palatable shrub, is an important forage species in the dry season in Cabo de Gata Natural Park (Almeria, SE Spain) where this study was carried out. Seasonal and diurnal courses of net photosynthesis, transpiration and stomatal conductance were measured in the field. In addition, soil and plant nutrient status were measured as potential factors influencing leaf photosynthetic levels. Early in the growing season, ungrazed P. laevigata had higher photosynthetic activity than grazed plants suggesting that the defoliated plants were still recovering from herbivore damage in the previous summer. Later in the growing season grazed P. laevigata had higher photosynthetic activity than ungrazed plants, suggesting higher metabolic activity and a possible investment in chemical defences. Concentrations of P and N in the soil were higher in the grazed area. The nutrient concentration of the leaves of P. laevigata was similar in grazed and ungrazed plants.
27735040|Motivation: The Buell-Small Succession Study (BSS) is the longest running study of post agricultural succession in North America. To honor this program, a symposium at the Ecological Society of America meetings was organized to explore the state of succession theory and its contribution to the field of ecology and its application to restoration. The BSS was originally motivated by two controversies in the literature during the 1950's. The first was between a community versus and individual basis of secondary succession. The second was the validity of the Initial Floristic Composition hypothesis. Location: Hutcheson Memorial Forest, Somerset, New Jersey, USA Methods: Vegetation composition and cover has been continuously quantified in permanent plots established in 10 old fields. Continued Research Motivation: The rich data set has documented population and community dynamics and the spatio-temporal controls and historical contingencies that influence those dynamics. The regulation of community dynamics continues to be a line of inquiry as does the application of results to restoration and understanding the dynamics of non-native species. Conclusions: Long term vegetation studies are uncommon in ecology yet they are uniquely valuable for understanding system dynamics  particularly if the studies capture periodic events or system shifts such as droughts and invasions by non-native species. Resilient long term studies, of which the BSS is an example, maintain methods and data structure while allowing motivating questions to evolve along side advancements in the theoretical and conceptual realms of the field. Succession continues to serve as a basic tenet of ecology which is demonstrated by the papers making up this special issue.
1478973|Over the past decades outdoor recreation has become progressively more important and as a result human-induced potential damage has increased. In this study, short-term effects - a 2-yr period - of human trampling on some common forest and heath communities in Central Belgium were studied experimentally. Vulnerability to disturbance was compared among plant communities in terms of resistance, resilience and tolerance, which are based on cover measurements. The herb layer of the examined mesophilous forest communities appeared to be more sensitive than the heath and dry forest community, which were dominated by more resistant graminoid (Molinia caerulea, Deschampsia flexuosa) and dwarf-shrub species (Vaccinium myrtillus, Calluna vulgaris, Erica tetralix). The analysis showed that site structure and vegetation were already affected by low intensities of trampling, while vegetation recovery during the first year after trampling was limited in most plant communities. Recovery during the second year in vegetation cover as well as height was most pronounced in mesophilous forest communities. Occasional trampling clearly can lead to increased visual evidence of previous use and continued recreational disturbance. Therefore management plans should discourage hiking activity off paths and restrict recreation activities to the least vulnerable communities.
1478976| A southern ridge sandhill site in central Florida, USA, was burned in 1989, 1991, and 1995 after 63 years of fire-suppression to simulate a pre-settlement fire regime. Fire changed species abundance and vegetation structure but caused only minimal changes in species turnover and diversity. There was a general trend for an increase in the cover of herbs following fire but this was a statistically significant effect for only one species, Liatris tenuifolia var. tenuifolia. Aristida beyrichiana increased, litter cover and litter depth were significantly reduced, and ground lichens were eliminated in response to burning. Scrub oaks and palmettos in the ground cover and small shrub layers (height  1 m) either increased or did not respond to burning, reflecting strong post-fire resprouting. Diversity in the ground cover and small shrub layers were not affected by fire. Scrub oaks and palmettos in the large shrub and overstorey layers (height > 1 m) were reduced in density, basal area, and longest canopy measurements in response to fire. Species diversity also decreased within these layers following fire. Some Pinus elliottii var. densa survived fire, but their density was reduced. All Pinus clausa were eliminated by fire. Periodic burning can suppress the dominance of shrubs (Quercus spp.) while increasing the cover of grasses and herbs in southern ridge sandhill vegetation. 
40927824|Question: How can we model above-ground litterfall in Mediterranean conifer forests using remotely sensed and ground data, and geographic information systems (GIS)? Location: Eastern Mediterranean conifer forest of Turkey. Methods: Above-ground litterfall from Mediterranean forest stands of Pinus nigra, Cedrus libani, Pinus brutia and Juniperus excelsa and mixed Abies cilicica, C. libani and P. nigra was modeled as a function of fractional tree cover using a regression tree algorithm, based on IKONOS and Landsat TM/ETM+ data. Landsat TM/ETM+images for the study area were used to map actual stand patterns, based on a land-cover map of species stands using a supervised classification. Results: Total amount of annual above-ground litterfall for the entire study area (12260 km) was estimated at 417.2Mg ha for P. brutia, 291.1 Mg ha for the mixed stand, 115.5 Mg ha for P. nigra, 54.6 Mg ha for J. excelsa and 45.9 Mg ha for C. libani. The maps generated indicate the distribution of the seasonal amount of total aboveground litterfall for different species and the distribution of species stands in the study area. There was an increase in the amount of above-ground litterfall for P. brutia stand in summer, for J. excelsa in autumn and for C. libani, P. nigra and the mixed stand of A. cilicica, P. nigra and C. libani in winter. Conclusion: Application of this model helps to improve the accuracy of estimated litterfall input to soil organic carbon pools in the Mediterranean conifer forests.
41058032|Question: Which environmental and historical variables affect epiphytic lichen diversity in managed and unmanaged wooded meadows? Location: The island of Gotland located in the Baltic Sea east of the Swedish mainland. Methods: We examined total epiphytic lichen diversity (crustose, folise and fruticose species) on 1148 trees in eight grazed, eight traditionally managed (mowing, hay gathering and pollarding) and seven unmanaged wooded meadows. In addition to management, data on site location, habitat structure, history and adjacent habitat were analysed. Results: Lichen species richness increased with wooded meadow area and was greater within managed sites than in unmanaged meadows. Historic crown cover (ca. 1930) also influenced present-day lichen richness. Geographic location, distance to sea, wooded meadow area and average tree circumference were important determinants of lichen species composition. Tree circumference was the strongest overall predictor of the number of species on individual trees. However, tree circumference interacted with management regime, whereby cessation of management appeared to reduce species richness most on large trees. Traditionally managed sites, on average, supported the greatest richness of red-listed species. Conclusions: Management regime, wooded meadow area and canopy cover were the main drivers of lichen species richness, while geographic location, wooded meadow area, distance to sea and average tree circumference were important determinants of species composition.
40927790|Question:We investigated the spatial pattern of coastal landscapes invaded by iceplant (Carpobrotus aff. acinaciformis) focusing on two questions: (1) Does the spatial structure of iceplant patches differ from that of native natural costal dune cover types?; (2) Is the distribution of iceplant patches related to other cover types? Location: Tyrrhenian coast of Central Italy. Method: On the basis of a detailed land-cover map, we calculated structural metrics for iceplant patches and for each native coastal dune cover category (mean patch size and patch shape index) and compared them by means of ANOVA. TO assess the spatial association between iceplant patches and the different cover types, we implemented an electivity analysis which analyses the frequency of common borders. Results: The mapped coastal dune cover types included beaches, dunes and sand plain variants, related to the typical Tyrrhenian coastal dune vegetation zonation. Iceplant-dominated vegetation presented elongated and irregularly shaped patches, which were not significantly different from most of the natural cover types suggesting a natural spread along the territory analysed. Iceplant patches were positively associated with beach, mobile and interdune cover types indicating that these habitats are exposed to further alien spread. Iceplant patches were also positively associated with artificial surfaces highlighting this cover type as a possible source of propagule pressure. Conclusions: The proposed landscape approach combining patch-based metrics with edge-based metrics provided a comprehensive description of the invaded coastal landscape. From an appliedresearch perspective, this landscape approach could be useful in identifying the correct management strategies for alien-invaded areas.
4620521| Questions: What effect does sheep grazing have on the nutrient budgets of heathlands? Can grazing compensate for atmospheric nutrient loads in heathland ecosystems? What are the conclusions for heathland management? Location: Lneburg Heath, NW Germany. Methods: During a one-year grazing experiment (stocking rate 1.1 sheep/ha) nutrient balances for N, Ca, K, Mg and P were calculated by quantifying input rates (atmospheric deposition, sheep excrement) and output rates (biomass removal, leaching). Results: Atmospheric nutrient deposition amounted to 22.8 kg.ha.a for N and < 0.2 kg.ha.a for P. Sheep excrement increased the inputs for N and P by ca. 3.5 and 0.2 kg.ha.a, respectively. Grazing reduced N- and P-stores in the aboveground biomass by 25.6 and 1.9 kg.ha.a, respectively. N- and P-losses via leaching amounted to 2.2 and < 0.2 kg.ha.a. Output:input ratios for P were high, indicating that grazing severely affected P-budgets of heaths. Conclusions: Our results suggest that sheep grazing has the potential to compensate for atmospheric nutrient loads (particularly for current N deposition rates). However, in the long term the combination of elevated N-deposition and P-loss due to grazing may cause a shift from N-(co-) limited to more P-(co-) limited plant growth. To counteract an aggravation of P-deficiency in the long term, grazing may be combined with management measures that affect P-budgets to a lesser extent (e.g. prescribed burning). 
4620419|Question: What effects do leaf litter and rainfall regime have On seed germination (time and probability) and seedling survival of the endangered tree species Beilschmiedia miersii (Lauraceae)? Location: The species is a native tree from the mediterranean climate region of Chile. Seeds were collected from La Campana National Park (Chile). The study was carried out under controlled conditions at the Laboratory of Ecology, University of Chile, Santiago, Chile. Methods: During April 2001, 200 seeds were assigned to four experimental treatments: high precipitation, with and without litter and low precipitation, with and without litter. Each treatment had 50 individual seeds, each seed in an individual pot. For statistical purposes, we considered each seed as one replicate. High and low values of artificial rainfall corresponded to mean dry and wet years, respectively, for the period 1958-1993 in the central zone of Chile. Results: Seeds germinated earlier, and in higher proportion, in the presence of leaf litter, but only under low rainfall. Seedling survival was insensitive to both litter and precipitation. Conclusions: We conclude that the presence of litter in native populations facilitates seed germination and recruitment of B. miersii, particularly during dry years. We suggest that the reduction of leaf litter due to extraction for gardens and horticultural activities might preclude regeneration of this endangered species.
27735055|Question: Is satellite imagery an effective tool for mapping and examining the distribution of the invasive species Olea europaea L. ssp. cuspidata at a regional landscape scale? Location: Southwest Sydney, Australia. Methods: Remote sensing software was used to classify pixels of Olea europaea L. ssp. cuspidata (African Olive) and major vegetation types from satellite imagery, using a "supervised classification" technique across a 721 km2 study area in the Cumberland Plain region of western Sydney. A map of African Olive distribution was produced from the image analysis and checked for accuracy at 337 random locations using ground observation and comparison with existing vegetation maps. The African Olive distribution data were then used in a GIS analysis with additional spatial datasets to investigate the relationship between the distribution of African Olive and environmental factors, and to quantify the conservation threat to endangered native vegetation. Results: A total area of 1907 ha of dense African Olive infestation was identified, with an omission error of 7.5% and a commission error of 5.4%. African Olive was found to occur on the steepest slopes (mean slope 14.3) of the vegetation classes examined, with aspect analysis identifying a high prevalence on south- and southwest-facing slopes. The analysis also quantified the level of African Olive infestation in endangered ecological communities, with Western Sydney Dry Rainforest (25% affected) and Moist Shale Woodland (28% affected) identified as most vulnerable to African Olive invasion. Conclusion: The distribution of African Olive can be efficiently mapped at a landscape scale. This technique, used in association with additional spatial datasets, identified African Olive as a significant environmental weed in SW Sydney, occupying a greater area than previously recognised and threatening several endangered native vegetation communities.
25488434|Question: Are the biophysical conditions of abandoned limestone quarry floors and natural alvars sufficiently similar to each other for alvars to be used as a model for quarry floor restoration? Location: Ontario, Canada. Methods: We measured plant species frequency and environmental and soil variables in 13 abandoned limestone quarries and used ANOVA to compare them with data previously collected from seven natural alvars. We used multivariate ordinations on the quarry floor data alone and on the combined quarry floor and alvar data to determine how plant community structure was controlled by the abiotic environment in both habitats. Results: Except for higher levels of many nutrients, the physical characteristics were similar between quarry floors and alvars. 246 plant species were found on quarry floors as compared to 283 on alvars, with 79 species in common between the two habitat types. While quarry floors supported fewer bryophytes and more exotic vascular plants compared with alvars, five alvar endemics and 24 characteristic alvar species were found to grow there. The age of the site, nutrient levels, and presence of standing water and bare rock were important factors influencing species composition in both habitats. Conclusions: Through natural revegetation alone, the abandoned quarry floors surveyed in this study have already taken on many physical and vegetation characteristics of natural alvars. This makes alvars very suitable as the restoration goal for abandoned limestone quarries.
40927828|Question: How have species richness and vegetation patterns changed in a group of islands in the northern Baltic Sea over a 58-yr period of changing land use and increasing eutrophication? Location: A group of 116 islands, the Brunskr subarchipelago, in SW Finland. Methods: A complete survey of vascular plant species performed in 1947-1949 by Skult was repeated by our group using the same methodology in 2005-2007 (historical versus contemporary, respectively). DCAs were performed and total number of species, extinction-colonization rates, species frequency changes and mean Ellenberg indicator values for light, moisture and nitrogen and Eklund indicator values for dependence of human cultural influence were obtained for each island and relev. Results: Species richness has declined on large islands and increased on small islands. The increase in number of species on small islands is driven by a strong increase in frequency of shore species, which in turn is induced by more productive shores. The decrease in species richness on large islands is related to overgrowth of open semi-natural habitats after cessation of grazing and other agricultural practices. Conclusions: After the late 1940s, open habitats, which were created and maintained by cattle grazing and other traditional agricultural activities, have declined in favour of woody shrub and forest land. Shores have been stabilized and influenced by the eutrophication of the Baltic Sea, and the vegetation has become more homogeneous. This development, resulting in lower species diversity, poses a challenge for the preservation of biodiversity both on a local and on a landscape level.
40928279|Questions: What is the optimum combination of image dates across a growing season for tree species differentiation in multi-spectral data and how does species composition affect overstorey canopy density? Location: Monks Wood, Cambridgeshire, eastern England, UK. Methods: Six overstorey tree species were mapped using five Airborne Thematic Mapper images acquired across the 2003 growing season (17 March, 30 May, 16 July, 23 September, 27 October). After image pre-processing, supervised maximum likelihood classification was performed on the images and on all two-, three-, four-and five-date combinations. Relationships between tree species composition and canopy density were assessed using regression analyses. Results: The image with the greatest tree species discrimination was acquired on 27/10 when the overstorey species were in different stages of leaf tinting and fall. In this image, tree species were mapped with an overall classification accuracy (OCA) of 71% (kappa 0.63). A similar OCA was achieved from the other four images combined (OCA 72%, kappa 0.64). The highest classification accuracy was achieved by combining three images: 17 March, 16 July, 27 October. This achieved an OCA of 84% (kappa 0.79), increasing to 88% (kappa 0.85) after a post-classification clump and sieve procedure. Canopy height and percentage cover of oak explained 72% of variance in canopy density. Conclusions: The ability to discriminate and map temperate deciduous tree species in airborne multispectral imagery is increased using time-series data. An autumn image supplemented with an image from both the green-up and full-leaf phases was optimum. The derived tree species map provides a more powerful ecological tool for determining woodland structural/compositional relationships than field-based measures.
4620428| Question: Recognizing water table dynamics in wetlands is crucial for understanding species-environment relationships, ecosystem function and changes during restoration. The PVC tape discolouration method enables spatially and temporally extensive studies of reductive conditions associated with long-term water table dynamics in peat soils. The reliability of the method has been verified only for ombrotrophic bogs, even though wide usage can be expected in minerotrophic fens. Location: Teboii basi, Czech Republic. Methods: Using data from 49 plots in six poor and moderately rich fens, we correlated the directly measured lowest, highest and mean water table depths and the same variables indicated by discolouration of PVC tape attached to green bamboo stakes installed vertically in the soil profile. Results: The depth to the first sign of PVC discolouration was highly correlated with the directly measured position of the highest water table, the correlation between the depth of complete discolouration and the directly measured position of the lowest water table was poorer. The accuracy of the minimum water table measurement depended on the depth of the peat layer. Surprisingly, the depth at which the green bamboo stakes turned brown correlated highly with the minimum water table. Conclusions: The PVC tape discolouration method reliably indicates water table maxima in fens, but minima are not accurately indicated. The depth of the green bamboo discolouration is suggested as a new alternative indicator of the minimum water table, even in fens and mineral soils. Combining both methods enables efficient monitoring of water table dynamics at a large number of mire sites. 
1478930|The study site, Somerford Mead, is located on the river Thames floodplain and was a species-rich flood-meadow in the 1950s. In the 1960s and 1970s it was subjected to intensive grassland management with regular NPK additions and occasional herbicide treatment. In 1981 Somerford Mead was ploughed for the first time and converted to arable land. Seeds of an Alopecurus pratensis-Sanguisorba officinalis flood-meadow community (MG4; Rodwell 1992) were sown onto prepared soil in the autumn of 1986, and botanical records were made from 1985 to 1999. From 1989 to 1999, three replicates of three treatments: cow-grazing, sheep-grazing and no-grazing were introduced after hay-cutting. Analysis successfully separated the establishment phase from the experimental phase and showed a significant difference between the grazed and ungrazed treatments. Abiotic and biotic factors which might contribute to successional trends are discussed. A convoluted pattern for each treatment could be attributed in part to intrinsic 'cycles' of perennial hemicryptophytes behaving as short-lived species and in part to the percentage frequency of many species which was reduced in 1990 and 1995/1996, years of drought. After the initial inoculation of MG4 seed and the disappearance of arable therophytes, recruitment of new species was very slow. Coefficients for Somerford Mead matched against MG4 (Rodwell 1992) produced an equilibrium within three years. It subsequently fluctuated over a 10-yr period well below the level of Oxey Mead, the donor site. Land managers should ensure that their proposed site has the right soils and hydrology for MG4 grassland and that traditional management of hay-cutting and aftermath grazing is practised. Only one cut a year in July could lead to a reduction in percentage frequency of most species except Arrhenatherum elatius.
4620482|What is the relative importance of competition and physical factors in restricting the occurrence of different fen species to certain zones of the riparian landscape? Biebrza National Park, NE Poland. We carried out a two-season reciprocal transplantation experiment: sod-blocks were replaced between a low-productive groundwater-fed small-sedge fen and a high-productive fluviogenous tall-sedge fen. Five treatments were applied to the transplanted sods: (1) no manipulation; (2) fertilization with NPK to exclude the effect of nutrient limitation; (3) clipping vegetation around the transplant to exclude competition for light; (4) clipping + fertilizing; (5) sods were also transplanted within their own environment. After two seasons, the small-sedge sods transplanted into the high-productive zone had a biomass two times lower than that of the control transplants, mainly due to a decrease in small sedges and bryophytes. Tall sedges of the high-productive zone did not respond significantly to transplantation in the low-productive zone. Removal of the surrounding vegetation largely enhanced the growth of small sedges and bryophytes and, to a lesser degree, of tall sedges. Fertilization, on the other hand, resulted in increased growth of tall sedges, grasses and non-graminoid herbs. Species characteristic of low-productive fen communities are competitively excluded from the high-productive zone through light competition. In contrast, the performance of tall sedges in the low-productive zone is lowered by nutrient limitation. In the long run this may lead to a complete disappearance of these species from this zone. We did not find evidence that the physical stress of flooding has a direct effect on the performance and distribution of species. Results from the experiment suggest that productivity gradients and their influence on competition intensity are of primary importance for structuring vegetation patterns in lowland riparian fens.
25488485|Questions: Does natural revegetation from indigenous soil improve the restoration success of roadside areas? What are the effects of topsoil, subsoil and fertilization on natural revegetation? Location: Akershus county, SE Norway (1025' E, 59 44' N). Methods: We used a recently constructed road through a boreal coniferous forest for a three year (2000-2002), fully replicated revegetation experiment (six replications). Treatments were soil type (two levels; one topsoil and one subsoil type) and fertilization (two levels; NPK and unfertilized control). Ordination methods, constrained ordination methods as well as univariate statistical methods, such as Wilcoxon's signed-rank test and correlation analysis, were used to assess the relative importance and significance of treatments on the plant species composition. Results: There was no fertilization effect on species composition. The species composition on both soil types was stabilised by the second year. The species dominating the topsoil were more in accordance with the indigenous vegetation than was the case on the subsoil. The significant difference in species composition among blocks, persisting for the entire study period, indicated that local factors are important determinants of the outcome of revegetation. Conclusion: Unfertilized topsoil provides a revegetation result in better accordance with the indigenous vegetation than does subsoil.
4620505|Question: Is Rhynchostegium megapolitanum an expanding species? Location: Viennese Basin (120-220 m a.s.1.), Austria. Methods: 121 dry grasslands, were investigated for the occurrence of R. megapolitanum. Nineteen environmental variables at 50 randomly selected sites, species composition at sites with and without R. megapolitanum and the spatial patterns of distribution of the species at the landscape scale were analysed. We compared actual distribution data of three rare species (Didymodon acutus, Pleurochaete squarrosa R. megapolitanum) and a common one (Brachythecium rutabulum) with the distribution obtained by vouchers that were collected between 1860 and 1940 in the investigated area. We calculated a GIS based model pattern and compared it with the actual distribution. Results: R. megapolitanum was detected in 28 of these sites, almost 50 % of its populations produced sporophytes. We found significant differences between sites with and without R. megapolitanum with regard to grassland size, the percentage of silt and of sand in the soil. There were fewer occurrences of historic herbarium vouchers of R. megapolitanum than our current field survey discovered. The GIS based analyses of distribution patterns at the landscape scale showed a clustering of sites in which R. megapolitanum was present or absent. Simulations with a spatially realistic expansion model showed high similarities to the actual distribution of the species. Conclusions: All these analyses suggest that R. megapolitanum has been expanding in the investigated area. A significant increase in temperature and nitrogen deposition within the last hundred years might be the underlying cause for the species' spread.
41318180|Questions: What are the alluvial vegetation types of the North Carolina Piedmont? How is species composition related to site conditions? Location: Catawba, Yadkin-PeeDee, Cape Fear, Neuse and Tar-Pamlico River Basins, North Carolina Piedmont region, southeast USA. Methods: We recorded 194 alluvial vegetation plots. Vegetation types were derived using flexible -hierarchical cluster analysis and random forests classifiers to reassign misclassified plots. We used canonical correspondence analysis to show the relationship between species composition and key environmental variables. Results: Twelve forested vegetation types and two herbaceous types were distinguished, nested within a hierarchical classification structure of five higher level groups. The five mega groups describe broad geomorphic-floristic conditions, whereas the narrower vegetation types characterize finer-scale floristic variation. Floristic variation is related to stream order and soil chemistry (pH and Ca: Mg ratio), as well as soil texture variables (percentage sand and percentage clay). We present a summary of floristic composition and structure, environmental setting and geographic distribution for each of the 14 vegetation types. Conclusions: We suggest recognition of 14 alluvial vegetation types in the North Carolina Piedmont. In comparing our vegetation types with the community concepts currently recognized in the US National Vegetation Classification, some of our types fit well within recognized NVC associations, whereas others deviate sharply from established types, suggesting the need for reworking the currently recognized NVC alluvial type concepts.
1478883|Phosphorus availability in low P-soils is primarily controlled by soil processes that are subject to seasonal fluctuation. There is evidence that summer drought causing low fen-water levels induces temporal high P-availability. We investigate here whether and how fen vegetation responds to P-pulses at different times in the season. Plots were fertilized with equal P-doses at three different times in the season. Four conclusions can be drawn from the experiment: 1. The vegetation is able to increase P-uptake independent of the timing of fertilizer application; 2. Early-season fertilization stimulates growth and increases P-concentration in above-ground tissue while late-season fertilization does not stimulate growth but strongly increases above-ground tissue concentration; 3. Timing effects cause differential species responses: the response of Carex demissa, a stress-tolerant species, is truly independent of timing, while Juncus articulatus, a CSR-type species (sensu Grime) profits more from early-season fertilization; 4. Timing effects persist over several years. The differences between the experimental treatment and the events it aimed to simulate are discussed. We expect that higher frequencies of drought events, that may be induced by climate change, will cause a shift from nutrient-stress tolerant towards stress-tolerant-competitor fen species.
4620457|Question: What are the mechanisms by which fire reduces competition for both a short-lived and a long-lived species in old-growth ground cover plant communities of wet pine savannas (originally Pinus palustris, replaced by P. elliottii)? Location: Outer coastal plain of southeastern Mississippi, USA. Methods: I reviewed previous competition experiments and proposed a new hypothesis to explain the relationship between fire, competition, and species co-existence in wet longleaf pine savannas. The first study is about growth and seedling emergence responses of a short-lived carnivorous plant, Drosera capillaris, to reduction in below-ground competition and above-plus below-ground competition. The second study deals with growth and survival responses of a long-lived perennial carnivorous plant, Sarracenia alata, to neighbour removal and prey-exclusion to determine if a reduction in nutrient supply increased the intensity of competition in this nutrient-poor system. Results: Fire increased seedling emergence of the short-lived species by reducing above-ground competition through the destruction of above-ground parts of plants and the combustion of associated litter. Prey exclusion did not increase competitive effects of neighbours on the long-lived species. However, because the experiment was conducted in a year without fire, shade reduced nutrient demand, which may have obviated competition for soil nutrients between Sarracenia alata and its neighbours. Conclusion: Repeated fires likely interact with interspecific differences in nutrient uptake to simultaneously reduce both above-ground competition and competition for nutrients in old-growth ground cover communities in pine savannas. Restoration practitioners should consider the possibility that the composition of the plant community is just as important as fire in ensuring that frequent fires maintain species diversity.
1479031|The predictability of early primary succession in post-mining landscapes of eastern Germany was studied at sites 5-70 yr following dumping. This chronosequence was investigated using indirect ordination methods. The position of the vegetation types in the ordination diagram was found not to infer any temporal sequence. Independent observations show that the change of vegetation type is slow and does not necessarily occur among types adjacent in the ordination diagram. Furthermore, direct ordination revealed that environmental parameters such as pH, the levels of available phosphate and organic carbon as well as the age of the study sites do not significantly account for the variance. Instead, attention needs to be paid to the influence of spatial aspects and also what recultivation measures have been carried out. A detailed account of the vegetation dynamics of individual sample plots showed - depending on the respective vegetation type - divergence, convergence, and fluctuation at the smallest spatial scale. While the species richness of the sample plots remained more or less constant after initial colonization, mean vegetation cover continuously increases with age, although some sites still remain free of vegetation after as long as 70 yr. No general trend in dominant life forms was indicated. A conceptual model of early succession mechanisms is outlined and five basic mechanisms are identified (i.e. site availability, site suitability, availability of diaspores, strategies of colonizing species and biotic interactions). Their respective importance in three different stages of early succession is estimated and compared. The predictability of vegetation dynamics at each stage is rated differently.
1479043|The paper summarizes ideas which were discussed during the 'Spontaneous Succession in Ecosystem Restoration' conference and elaborated through further discussion among the authors. It seeks to promote the integration of scientific knowledge on spontaneous vegetation succession into restoration programs. A scheme illustrating how knowledge of spontaneous succession may be applied to restoration is presented, and perspectives and possible future research on using spontaneous vegetation succession in ecosystem restoration are proposed. It is concluded that when implementing spontaneous succession for ecological restoration the following points must be considered: setting clear aims; evaluation of environmental site conditions; deciding whether spontaneous succession is an appropriate way to achieve the aims; prediction of successional development; monitoring of the results. The need for interdisciplinary approaches and communication between scientists, engineers and decision-makers is emphasized.
4620466| Questions: Are calorimeters and pyrometers accurate and reliable for describing fire parameters in large-scale ecological projects, and can data from them predict data derived from thermocouples? Do mechanical pre-treatments in Florida scrub areas alter fire properties? Location: Lake Wales Ridge, Florida, USA. Methods: We deployed thermocouples attached to digital dataloggers, copper and lacquer paint pyrometers and aluminium can calorimeters filled with water in four areas of undisturbed Florida scrub and sandhill vegetation and in adjoining areas pre-treated with logging, subcanopy felling or mowing. Individual dataloggers were positioned in areas spanning a range of vegetation structure; three calorimeters and three pyrometers were placed with each thermocouple. We also deployed individual calorimeter-pyrometer pairs. Sites were burned, after which we compared methods for characterizing fire, particularly the ability of pyrometers and calorimeters to predict values derived from thermocouples. Results: Pyrometers best predicted peak 1-minute mean temperatures and were least successful at estimating maximums. Calorimeters were associated with the number of minutes maximum temperatures exceeded 60 C, but were damaged at high residence times and inconsistent at low temperatures. Both pyrometers and calorimeters detected site and treatment differences in fire intensities. These analyses and logistic considerations give pyrometers an edge over calorimeters in situations where dataloggers are impractical. Mechanical pre-treatments to fire altered fire parameters. Mowing reduced fire temperatures but had different effects on areas burned; this was related to the length of time elapsed between mowing and burning. Subcanopy felling increased both fire coverage and temperatures. Conclusion: Pyrometers outperformed calorimeters as a cheap method for describing relative temperature regimes that are a function of both temperature and residence time. Pyrometers were able to demonstrate how mechanical treatments applied prior to prescribed burning altered fire parameters. Pyrometers are a useful tool for investigating biological responses to fire at multiple scales and in heterogeneous vegetation. 
1478966|To assess whether winter mowing in wetlands fulfils the aim of preventing succession towards drier communities, 34 permanent quadrats (15 m
25488412|Questions: 1. Is there any post-dispersal positive effect of the exotic shrub Pyracantha angustifolia on the success of Ligustrum lucidum seedlings, as compared to the effect of the native Condalia montana or the open herbaceous patches between shrubs? 2. Is the possible facilitation by Pyracantha and/or Condalia related to differential emergence, growth, or survival of Ligustrum seedlings under their canopies? Location: Crdoba, central Argentina. Methods: We designed three treatments, in which ten mature individuals of Pyracantha, ten of the dominant native shrub Condalia montana, and ten patches without shrub cover were involved. In each treatment we planted seeds and saplings of Ligustrum collected from nearby natural populations. Seedlings emerging from the planted seeds were harvested after one year to measure growth. Survival of the transplanted saplings was recorded every two month during a year. Half of the planted seeds and transplanted saplings were cage-protected from rodents. Results: Ligustrum seedling emergence did not differ among treatments while growth was significantly higher in the absence of shrub cover. Sapling survival was significantly higher under the canopy of Pyracantha, intermediate under Condalia, and lowest in the absence of shrub cover. Caging did not affect growth but enhanced seedling emergence and sapling survival. Conclusion: The differential sapling survival in the shrub canopy treatments is consistent with natural sapling distribution. Pyracantha and, less so, Condalia, has a nurse-plant effect on Ligustrum. This results from contrasting effects of the shrubs on different stages of the life cycle of Ligustrum: no effect on seedling emergence, negative on seedling growth, and positive on sapling survival. This suggests that efforts to control the expansion of Ligustrum over the landscape should tackle Pyracantha as well.
41318186|Questions: Which are the factors that influence forest and shrubland loss and regeneration and their underlying drivers? Location: Central Chile, a world biodiversity hotspot. Methods: Using land-cover data from the years 1975, 1985, 1999 and 2008, we fitted classification trees and multiple logistic regression models to account for the relationship between different trajectories of vegetation change and a range of biophysical and socio-economic factors. Results: The variables that most consistently showed significant effects on vegetation change across all time-intervals were slope and distance to primary roads. We found that forest and shrubland loss on one side and regeneration on the other often displayed opposite patterns in relation to the different explanatory variables. Deforestation was positively related to distance to primary roads and to distance within forest edges and was favoured by a low insolation and a low slope. In turn, forest regeneration was negatively related to the distance to primary roads and positively to the distance to the nearest forest patch, insolation and slope. Shrubland loss was positively influenced by slope and distance to cities and primary roads and negatively influenced by distance to rivers. Conversely, shrubland regeneration was negatively related to slope, distance to cities and distance to primary roads and positively related to distance from existing forest patches and distance to rivers. Conclusions: This article reveals how biophysical and socioeconomic factors influence vegetation cover change and the underlying social, political and economical drivers. This assessment provides a basis for management decisions, considering the crucial role of perennial vegetation cover for sustaining biodiversity and ecosystem services.
1478900|This study focuses on the relationship between vegetation succession and soil seed bank composition on the Schiermonnikoog (The Netherlands) salt marsh over 100 yr. The importance of driftline material in seed dispersal and the relationship with succession is also investigated. The results indicate that the majority of species have a transient or short-term seed persistent bank. Seeds of most species are able to float over the salt marsh and become concentrated in the driftline higher up the marsh. After plants have established a seed bank forms, which disappears when vegetation is replaced by later-successional species. Exceptions are Spergularia maritima, which is still present in the seed bank of late successional stages, and Juncus gerardi and Glaux maritima, which appear in the seed bank of early successional stages, but are absent in the vegetation. Based on the results of this study constraints and possibilities for salt-marsh restoration by de-embankment are discussed.
1478898|The effects of reduction and cessation of sheep grazing on salt-marsh vegetation were studied on a formerly intensively grazed salt marsh in northern Germany. Plant species cover was recorded in 45 permanent plots from 1992 to 2000. In 1995, physical and chemical soil parameters were analysed. Results of Redundancy Analysis (RDA) indicated that salinity and the depth of anoxic conditions below the surface were the most important soil factors related to the spatial vegetation pattern. Furthermore, plant species distribution was influenced by present and past grazing intensity, by soil grain size and nitrogen content. Vegetation changes over 9 yr were analysed by non-linear regression. The cover of Aster tripolium, Atriplex portulacoides, and, to a lesser extent, Artemisia maritima and Elymus athericus increased due to reduced grazing pressure, whereas the cover of Salicornia europaea decreased. After a strong increase in the first years Aster decreased 2 to 6 yr after abandonment. In the mid salt-marsh zone Puccinellia maritima was replaced by Festuca rubra. The cover of Puccinellia, Festuca, Suaeda maritima, Glaux maritima and Salicornia fluctuated strongly, probably due to differences in weather conditions and inundation frequency. Species richness per 4 m
1478929|We evaluated the potential for restoring riparian grass and sedge meadows currently dominated by Artemisia tridentata var. tridentata with an experiment in which we burned sites with low, intermediate, and high water tables, i.e., dry, intermediate, and wet sites. To define the alternative states and thresholds for these ecosystems, we examined burning and water table effects on both abiotic variables and establishment of grasses adapted to relatively high (Poa secunda ssp. juncifolia), intermediate (Leymus triticoides), or low (L. cinereus) water tables. Wet sites had lower soil temperatures and higher soil water contents than dry sites. Burning increased soil temperatures on all sites. Undershrub microsites on control plots had the lowest temperatures, while former undershrub microsites on burn plots had the highest temperatures. Surface soil water was low on burn plots early in the growing season due to desiccation, but higher at deeper depths after active plant growth began. Emergence was generally greater on wet sites, but survival was microsite- and species-specific. Undershrub microsites on control plots facilitated emergence and first-year survival, but seedlings that survived initially harsh conditions on burn plots had similar numbers alive at the end. In general, favorable environments and establishment of species adapted to mesic conditions indicate that wet sites represent an alternative state of the naturally occurring dry meadow ecosystem type, and can be restored to grass and sedge meadows. Harsh environments and lack of establishment of species adapted to mesic conditions indicate that dry sites have crossed a threshold and may represent a new ecosystem type. Understory vegetation and seed banks on dry sites have been depleted, and restoration will require burning and reseeding with species adapted to more xeric conditions.
1478953|In the former brown coal mining area of eastern Germany, now scheduled as a nature conservation area, an analysis of the spatial distribution of vegetation was considered as an important tool in landscape planning. Therefore a comprehensive vegetation survey by means of satellite imagery (Landsat-TM), airborne imagery (CASI), and ground-based methods, notably habitat mapping and vegetation sampling was carried out. With respect to the scales of resolution the classification results of the four methods are, to a certain degree, comparable. Differences in the outcome can be ascribed to the fact that methods of low resolution result in a discrete array of polygons whereas methods of high resolution depict a mosaic structure with an underlying, continuously changing gradient. Provided that the biological meaning of the remote sensing classification is known, a shift from single vegetation patterns to the landscape scale will be possible. Neither satellite nor airborne imagery is restricted to the purpose of mapping but may also serve for vegetation classification itself.
1478984| The soil seed bank of the severely eroded Kondoa Irangi Hills, Tanzania was studied in order to determine the seed density and composition and to establish the relationship between seed bank and standing vegetation. The area had not been grazed for 15 yr prior to the study. A recently grazed area was used for comparison. The seed bank density (at 0-5 cm depth) ranged from 344 to 9158 seeds/ m
4620526| Question: How have long-term herbivory and past land use impacted the population structure of Trillium catesbaei, a long-lived rhizomatous herb? Location: Western Great Smoky Mountains National Park, Tennessee, USA. Methods: We examined T. catesbaei populations at three sites: (1) Cades Cove (CC), an area of intensive historic land use that has been maintained as open fields and woodlots with a history of chronic deer herbivory, (2) Whiteoak Sink (WOS), a reference area with similar land-use history, geology, and soils that has succeeded to closed-canopy forest with relatively low levels of deer herbivory, and (3) Leadbetter Ridge (LBR), an area of primary forest that has never received significant anthropogenic disturbance. Trillium catesbaei is the most common Trillium species at the three study sites, but smaller in stature, shorter lived, and more of a habitat generalist. Results: Chronic herbivory in CC has created a highly-truncated age structure with no plants older than 9 years, while plant ages at the other sites were more evenly distributed. Compared to WOS, plants in CC were younger at a given height and more likely to flower when younger. Across all life stages, populations at CC contained 68  fewer plants than WOS. The age structures of WOS and LBR were similar. Compared to published age estimates for other Trillium species, our results suggest that T. catesbaei is relatively short lived within the genus. Conclusions: Chronic herbivory had pronounced effects on the population structure of a perennial herb. Other long-lived herbaceous species may exhibit similar truncated age structures and flowering by younger and smaller plants. Habitat generalist species within a genus, such as T. catesbaei, that are able to reproduce more quickly may persist longer under chronic herbivory. However, chronic herbivory has likely caused the loss of herbaceous species from CC and may eventually cause the local extirpation of T. catesbaei populations. 
27735050|Question: We hypothesised that, even within the same plant functional group, there are specific distributions in land-cover classes and with land-cover change that are associated with niche breadth rather than reproductive strategy, and that the broader the niche of the species the better they cope with different land-cover classes and changes over time. Location: The Llobregat Delta (Barcelona, Spain). Methods: We analysed the distribution pattern of eight coexisting wetland perennial monocotyledons within human disturbance classes (obtained from the classification of land-cover categories in relation to their level of human disturbance) and changes in such classes from 1956 to 1999. We then compared species regional abundance and distribution patterns with seed dispersal type (wind dispersed versus non-wind dispersed species), vegetative spread (tussock versus caespitose-running species), and niche breadth (the number of phytosociological alliances in which each species is found). Results: Regional abundance of the species was positively related to niche breadth, but was independent of reproductive traits. Similarly, distribution in human disturbance classes and their changes were associated with niche breadth rather than reproductive traits. In general, the more specialist the species, (i) the more they are concentrated in natural habitats, (ii) the less land-cover changes they are able to cope with, and (iii) the more they are restricted to stable change types, particularly to long-standing natural areas. Conclusions: Ecological plasticity rather than dispersal capacity of dominant perennial monocotyledons determines their regional abundance and their ability to cope with recent and future land-cover changes in Mediterranean wetlands. As habitat specialists are less resistant to landscape change than generalists, floristic homogenisation may progress in these habitats with the likely scenario of increasing land-cover turnover.
1478913|Experiments were designed to test the applicability of nitrogen immobilization as a means of accelerating the recovery of an endemic open sandy grassland (Festucetum vaginatae danubiale) on old fields in the Great Hungarian Plain. Effects of various carbon sources (sucrose, starch, cellulose and sawdust) and their combinations in different quantities were studied in laboratory microcosms. Carbon addition decreased nitrogen availability in all cases, the intensity and timing of change being dependent on the type of carbon source applied. The combination of 2 g each of sucrose and polysaccharides (starch, cellulose, sawdust) per kg soil was found to be the most effective, as sucrose decreased available nitrogen content of soil intensively and the polysaccharides maintained the immobilized nitrogen for a longer period. In a follow-up experiment, sucrose and sawdust were selected for field application to test their effectiveness in immobilizing N and accelerating restoration. The field experiment was established to test the importance of abiotic site differences in the immobilization of soil nitrogen. Selected sites were located along an elevation, moisture and productivity gradient. Soil organic matter, microbial biomass-C and decomposition rate varied between sites depending on the elevation gradient. At two sites with lower soil moisture and organic matter levels carbon addition increased microbial activity and nitrogen immobilization significantly.
25488452|Questions: Could the seed bank increase biodiversity during restoration of abandoned, species-poor, formerly cultivated vegetation? Is it possible to identify how climate, soil and former and present management and vegetation affected the seed bank? Location: The study sites were eight abandoned grasslands, four in Orkdal, central Norway and four in Gaular, western Norway. Methods: 144 seed bank samples were collected from three depths. Each sample was sown and placed in a greenhouse. After three months, the trays were dried and stored at 4C in a dry place for two months. This was repeated twice. Results: There was a separation of the two regions along the first DCA axis in both the seed bank and in the vegetation analysis and also a clear separation of the seed bank from the vegetation along the second axis. These results are caused by differences in former management as well as temperature, precipitation and soil type between Gaular and Orkdal. We found more annuals, short-lived species and species demanding light open conditions in the seed bank than in the vegetation probably because these species have the capacity for producing persistent seeds. Most of the species found only in the seed bank were found in very few samples and with few individuals. Conclusion: These results suggest that it may be difficult to increase vegetation biodiversity through restoration of grasslands such as those investigated if the natural soil seed bank is the main seed source.
1479032|In this study, we examined the colonization of unvegetated, dry slopes in the lignite-mining area of Goitsche, Germany. The plots, characterized by different habitat conditions, were studied from 1994-2000. The vegetation development on treated plots was compared to untreated plots showing spontaneous succession. For initial treatments we used fresh plant clippings from a species-rich sandy grassland (Armerion elongatae) mowed at the end of July. Soil seed bank samples, taken at the beginning of the experiments and cultivated for 18 months, confirmed that the vegetation development on the slopes started with primary succession. Because seed rain is considered to be an important factor in primary succession, we also studied the diaspore input during the first year. The hospitable Quaternary substrate of Site I (pH = 4.1-4.7, 92% sand) supports fast vegetation development on treated and untreated plots. On treated plots, we have identified plant assemblages similar to initial stages of the Armerion elongatae community. On control plots, Corynephorion communities have established spontaneously. At Site II (mixed Quaternary and Tertiary substrate, pH = 3.0-3.5, 40% sand) the total cover and number of psammophytic species was low. Treated plots showed development towards ruderal sandy grassland, but the establishment of Calamagrostis epigejos would eventually lead to monodominant stands. Untreated control plots showed basically the same pattern, however the development was slower. At Site III (pH = 1.8-2.8, 34% sand), the hostile Tertiary substrate impeded the succession on both treated and untreated plots because low pH and therefore high amounts of Al
27735077|Question: Is the growth of biodiverse floodplain plant communities along nutrient-rich lowland rivers still limited by nutrients? Location: Floodplains of the river Overijsselse Vecht, the Netherlands. Methods: Soil characteristics and potential nutrient limitation of the vegetation types were studied in two hay meadows, both belonging to the Fritillario-Alopecuretum, in the floodplain of the eutrophic river Overijsselse Vecht (the Netherlands). The meadows had different fertilization histories: one was a species-rich hay meadow managed as a nature reserve, the other a newly created nature reserve that had been used as an agricultural pasture before. Sods collected from both locations were transferred to a glass-house, fertilized weekly with NP, NK, PK, NPK or control solutions and harvested three times a year during two successive growing seasons. Results: Biomass production of sods from both locations of this floodplain still appeared to be limited by N. Interestingly, the sods from the existing nature reserve were also limited by K, but only in the second year. Fertilization caused a shift in the relative abundance of the different plant families. Tissue nutrient concentrations were increased by fertilization with the nutrient in question, but decreased if biomass production was stimulated. Conclusions: Even in eutrophic river areas, the nutrient concentrations of the surface water may still determine the development of potentially biodiverse floodplain vegetation.
41318181|Question: What are the composition, structure and extent of contemporary, common woody vegetation communities in New Zealand? How do the woody plant communities we describe, based on representative sampling, compare to those of previous New Zealand classifications? Methods: We used cluster analysis to classify data from 1177 systematically located vegetation plots, calculated spatial extent and ecological statistics for each alliance defined, and combined forest alliances into groups to assess correspondence with earlier mapped classifications. We used plot-based data on vegetation structure to infer potential community changes. Results: Twenty-four alliances were recognized, each of 19 to 105 plots, with estimated extents of 144 000-794 000 ha. Stand structure data suggest that 15 alliances are largely stable whereas nine may undergo compositional change. Among alliances, the proportion of exotic species ranged from 0 to 50%. Our forest and shrubland classification is another stage in progressively revising such classifications (i.e. forest class maps, vegetative cover map, ECOSAT woody classification and land cover database) produced over the last five decades. Conclusions: Compared to the previous classifications, our new classification incorporates alliances in disturbed landscapes, as well as those that are compositionally dynamic and which are also invaded by exotic species. It also provides greater partitioning within Nothofagus forests, but fails to distinguish some rare forest types, such as those dominated by Agathis australis. Our classification can contribute to a framework for national reporting of ecological indicators and management of woody vegetation.
40928273|Question: Do abiotic constraints maintain monospecific woodlands of Juniperus thurifera? What is the role of biotic (livestock) versus abiotic (climate) drivers in the recruitment and growth of the different tree species? Location: Cabrejas range, Soria, north-central Spain, 1200m altitude. Methods: Stand history was reconstructed using dendro-ecology and spatial pattern analysis, combined with historical data of livestock abundances and climatic records. Results: J. thurifera establishment occurred in two distinct pulses, with a tree component establishing in the late 1800s to early 1900s. Quercus ilex and Pinus sylvestris establishment was evident only from the late 1970s onward. Recruitment events were related to reductions in livestock browsing. J. thurifera spatial structure was clumped and Q. ilex showed a short-scale aggregation to J. thurifera trees and saplings. Radial growth trends of J. thurifera saplings, Q. ilex and P. sylvestris were negatively related to livestock density. Summer drought limited the radial growth of all the study species, and P. sylvestris and Q. ilex grew faster than J. thurifera even after considering an age effect. Conclusions: The differences in radial growth patterns and recruitment pulses between species indicate that livestock browsing and not abiotic factors is the main factor controlling plant succession and structural development. In this process, J. thurifera acts as a nurse plant, facilitating the establishment of other tree species. Under the current low pressure from herbivores, formerly pure J. thurifera woodlands will change towards dense stands of mixed species composition.
1478908|Data from more than 900 vegetation plots surveyed in the evergreen shrublands of southern California were used to develop predictions of the distributions of eight dominant shrub species for a 3880 km
1478949|This paper presents a comparison of two alternative methods to describe and map vegetation: on the basis of plant species and growth forms, respectively. A stratified random sampling was taken from spontaneous vegetation in 1989 on the volcanic island of Pantelleria (near Sicily, Italy). Cartographic and other comparisons of the results from classification and ordination analysis suggest that the major differences were associated with differences in the time scale of the underlying processes. Species results (leading to floristic vegetation units) were representative of longer-term processes, growth-form results (leading to structural vegetation units) with shorter-term processes. Further implications of these results are discussed.
25488476|Questions: How well do GIS-derived categorical variables (e.g., vegetation, soils, geology, elevation, geography, and physiography) separate plots based on community composition? How does the ability to distinguish plots by community composition vary with spatial scale, specifically number of patch types, patch size and spatial correlation? Both these questions bear on the effective use of stratifying variables in landscape ecology. Location: Arctic tundra; Bering Land Bridge National Preserve, northwestern Alaska, USA. Methods: We evaluated the strength of numerous alternative stratifying variables using the multi-response permutation procedure (MRPP). We also created groups based on lichen community composition, using cluster analyses, and evaluated the relationship between these groups and groupings within categorical variables using Mantel tests. Each test represents different measures of community separation, which were then evaluated with respect to each variable's spatial characteristics. Results: We found each categorical variable derived from GIS separated lichen communities to some degree. Separation success ranged from strong (Alaska Subsections) to weak (Watersheds and Reindeer Ownership). Lichen community groups derived from cluster analysis demonstrated statistically significant relationships with 13 of the 17 categorical variables. Partialling out effects of spatial distance had little effect on these relationships. Conclusions: Greater number of patch types and larger average patch sizes contribute to optimal success in separating lichen communities; geographic distance did not appear to significantly alter separation success. Group distinctiveness or strength increased with more patch types or groups. Alternatively, congruence between lichen community types derived from cluster analysis and the 17 categorical variables was inversely related to patch size and spatial correlation.
27735076|Questions: (1) Does soil acidification in calcareous sandy grasslands lead to loss of plant diversity? (2) What is the relationship between the soil content of lime and the plant availability of mineral nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) in sandy grasslands? Location: Sandy glaciofluvial deposits in south-eastern Sweden covered by xeric sand calcareous grasslands (EU habitat directive 6120). Methods: Soil and vegetation were investigated in most of the xeric sand calcareous grasslands in the Scania region (136 sample plots distributed over four or five major areas and about 25 different sites). Environmental variables were recorded at each plot, and soil samples were analysed for exchangeable P and N, as well as limestone content and pH. Data were analysed with regression analysis and canonical correspondence analysis. Results: Plant species richness was highest on weakly acid to slightly alkaline soil; a number of nationally red-listed species showed a similar pattern. Plant species diversity and number of red-listed species increased with slope. Where the topsoil had been acidified, limestone was rarely present above a depth of 30 cm. The presence of limestone restricts the availability of soil P, placing a major constraint on primary productivity in sandy soils. Conclusions: Acidification of sandy grasslands leads to reduced abundance of desirable species, although the overall effect is rather weak between pH 5 and pH 9. Slopes are important for high diversity in sandy grasslands. Calcareous soils cannot be restored through shallow ploughing, but deep perturbation could increase the limestone content of the topsoil and favour of target species.
41318183|Aim: This paper introduces a new method for vegetation-based landscape classification. As a case study, we present the landscape classification of Hungary with a total area of 9.3 million ha. Location: Hungary. Methods: Data from the META (Magyarorszgi lhelyek Trkpi Adatbzisa: GIS Database of the Hungarian Habitats) vegetation survey were used in our analyses. The basal units of the survey were hexagons with an area of 35 ha, in which surveyors estimated the cover of the various types of the (semi)-natural vegetation. The sample unit in our analyses was a rosette consisting of seven hexagons. The distance between sample units was calculated based on the relative cover of (semi-) natural habitats by Rao's beta diversity, a new distance measure that includes the similarities between habitats. A hierarchical classification was then performed using the UPGMA (unweighted pair group method with arithmetic mean) algorithm. Results: The optimal number of groups was 41 on the basis of average silhouette. Landscape types dominated by forests or grasslands were separated at the highest dissimilarity level. At lower levels, the division of groups could be attributed to differences in site conditions (dry, mesic, wet, saline). The most common landscape types (more than 400 occurrences) in Hungary are those dominated by zonal forests, degraded treeless habitats, xeric and mesic saline and alkaline habitats, and reedbeds and wet meadows. The rarest types (less than 50 occurrences) are mosaics of edaphic habitats, and coniferous forests. Conclusions: Landscape classification based on (semi-) natural vegetation may be used for estimating landscape diversity, landscape modeling, selection of study sites, regionalization of local scientific results, and for landscape development planning and nature conservation management. The new distance measure has met our expectations and resulted in a classification with clearly interpretable groups. It is likely that this distance measure may also prove to be appropriate for numerical syntaxonomy, in which the stability of the resulting groups may be increased by taking into consideration the similarities/differences in phytosociological preference of species.
25488417|Question: What is the impact of grazing and/or afforestation on grassland diversity, species composition and cover parameters? Location: Semi-arid Mediterranean grasslands of Jordan. Methods: Vegetation, litter, bare soil and rock cover were compared among four management types - free grazing and protected from grazing with three levels of tree cover. Species composition, plant cover, species richness and evenness were used to evaluate differences in vegetation among management types. Species composition differences among management types were also investigated. Results: Semi-arid Mediterranean grasslands harbour appreciable levels of plant biodiversity. Grazing did not affect plant diversity, indicating the high resilience against and adaptation to grazing; however, grazing affected species composition and cover parameters. Afforestation seems to protect soil through higher litter cover but its impact on plant biodiversity was negative and markedly affected species composition. Conclusions: Neither protection from grazing or massive afforestation alone are sufficient for conserving biodiversity in this system. A management model is suggested where the landscape should be maintained as a mosaic of four management types: complete protection from grazing, grazing rotation, planting sparse trees in eroded areas and revegetating degraded areas using native, herbaceous and grazing tolerant species.
27735069|Question: How does species composition change in traditionally managed meadows after mowing has ceased, and in abandoned meadows after re-introduction of mowing? Are there differences in the dynamics of dry and moderately wet meadows? Location: Zzriv-Pleiv (1911N, 4916E), north-western Slovakia, western Carpathians. Methods: Pairs of experimental plots (mown and unmown) were established to replicate each combination of dry/wet and traditionally managed/abandoned meadows. Changes in species composition were studied over 5 years. The data on changes in species composition was analysed by constrained and unconstrained ordinations, and visualized using Principal Response Curves. Results: Species composition of newly abandoned wet grasslands was changing towards the corresponding long-abandoned plots even in the first year of abandonment. Similarly, newly established restoration mowing in abandoned dry grasslands rapidly shifted the stand species composition towards that of traditionally managed ones. Nevertheless, 4 year after reintroduction of mowing, the species composition of the restored plots was still far from the target composition. The effect of mowing in abandoned wet grasslands and abandonment in dry grasslands was much less pronounced and slower. Conclusions: Moisture regime is a very important factor determining the management needs of various grassland types. Wet grasslands are much more sensitive to abandonment, with a rapid degradation rate and limited possibilities for restoration, which can be extremely slow. Even in the dry grasslands, that quickly responded to restoration mowing, restoration is a long-term process.
4620483|Does succession of rewetted species-poor fen grasslands display similar trends when different water levels, sites and regions are compared? Will restoration targets as peat growth and waterfowl diversity be reached? Location: Valley fen of the river Peene (NE-Germany) and the Hansaig fen (Lake Neusiedler See, NW-Hungary). Analysis of permanent plot data and vegetation maps over a period of up to seven years of rewetting. The general relations between newly adjusted water levels and changes in dominance of helophytic key species during early succession are analysed considering four rewetting intensities (water level classes) and eight vegetation types (Phalaris arundinacea type, Carex type, Glyceria maxima type, Phragmites australis type, Typha type, aquatic vegetation type, open water type and miscellaneous type). The initial period of balancing the site conditions and vegetation is characterised by specific vegetation types and related horizontal vegetation structures. Most vegetation types displayed similar trends within the same water level class when different sites and regions were compared. A significant spread of potentially peat forming vegetation with dominance of Carex spp. or Phragmites as desired goal of restoration was predominantly restricted to long-term shallow inundated sites (water level median in winter: 0-30 cm above surface). Open water patches as bird habitats persisted mainly at permanent inundated sites (water level median in winter > 60 cm above surface). Site hydrology appeared as a main force of secondary succession. Thus the rewetting intensity and restoration targets have to be balanced adequately.
27735068|Questions: What climate variables best explain fire occurrence and area burned in the Great Lakes-St Lawrence forest of Canada? How will climate change influence these climate variables and thereby affect the occurrence of fire and area burned in a deciduous forest landscape in Tmiscamingue, Qubec, Canada? Location: West central Qubec and the Great Lakes-St Lawrence forest of Canada. Methods: We first used an information-theoretic framework to evaluate the relative role of different weather variables in explaining occurrence and area burned of large fires (> 200 ha, 1959-1999) across the Great Lakes-St Lawrence forest region. Second, we examined how these weather variables varied historically in Tmiscamingue and, third, how they may change between the present and 2100 according to different scenarios of climate change based on two Global Circulation Models. Results: Mean monthly temperature maxima during the fire season (Apr-Oct) and weighted sequences of dry spells best explained fire occurrence and area burned. Between 1910 and 2004, mean monthly temperature maxima in Tmiscamingue showed no apparent temporal trend, while dry spell sequences decreased in frequency and length. All future scenarios show an increase in mean monthly temperature maxima, and one model scenario forecasts an increase in dry spell sequences, resulting in a slight increase in forecasted annual area burned. Conclusion: Despite the forecasted increase in fire activity, effects of climate change on fire will not likely affect forest structure and composition as much as natural succession or harvesting and other disturbances, principally because of the large relative difference in area affected by these processes.
4620431| Question: How do meteorological variations at seasonal, interannual scales differentially affect the canopy dynamics of four contrasting landscape units within a region? Location: Flooding Pampa, Buenos Aires, Argentina. 5000 km. Central point: 3515' S, 5745' W. Methods: We used a 19-year series of the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) derived from NOAA-AVHRR PAL (Pathfinder AVHRR Land) images and meteorological data provided by a nearby weather station. The NDVI was used as surrogate of canopy photosynthetic status. The relationship between annually integrated NDVI and meteorological conditions was explored by stepwise multiple regressions for each defined unit. PCA was performed to compare units and growing seasons on a multivariate basis. Results: Mean seasonal NDVI curve was similarly shaped among landscapes. However, the absolute values differed widely. There was high interannual variation so that the mean seasonal pattern was seldom observed in any particular year. Annually integrated NDVI of all landscapes was negatively associated with summer temperature and positively with previous year precipitation. It was also directly related with current year winter precipitation in two landscapes and with summer precipitation in the others. NDVI response to September and March precipitation accounted for some of the differences in interannual variation among landscapes. Conclusions: Our results revealed a strong intra-regional variation of canopy dynamics, closely linked to landscape (vegetation-soil) and water availability (mainly in summer and during the previous year). These links may be used to predict forage production rates for livestock. 
1478957|We compared the demographic characteristics of native central-European and invasive USA-populations of Lythrum salicaria growing in similar habitats. Based on the 'Evolution of increased competitive ability' (EICA) hypothesis, we predicted that shoot density, height, and biomass, fertility, and fecundity would be less in the European populations due to greater loss of plant material caused by exposure to control agents. Shoot density was significantly greater in most USA-populations, but shoot height and biomass were similar in invasive and native populations growing in similar habitats, especially in growing seasons with greater water availability. The number of fertile shoots was greater for invasive populations, except for those growing in sandy, nutrient-poor substrates, while percent fertility did not differ between populations growing under similar field conditions. Fecundity was also similar for populations growing in nutrient-poor and intermediate habitats, but was significantly greater in USA-populations (89 - 103 seeds per fruit), compared to European populations (58 - 64 seeds per fruit), growing in nutrient-rich habitats; seed predators were found in these European populations only. Log-linear analysis of transition frequency matrices showed that the growth of USA-populations is different from European populations, but that habitat effect was strong. Population dynamics were similar for populations growing in nutrient-poor habitats; location was of marginal importance only. USA-populations responded differently from European populations growing in intermediate and nutrient-rich habitats; differences were most pronounced between invasive (center of its North American distribution) and native populations growing in nutrient-rich habitats. The use of insect herbivores as biological control agents in North America will work best against L. salicaria populations growing in nutrient-rich habitats in the center of its invasive distribution, but will be less effective against populations growing in other habitats or portions of its range. Other factors, including nutrient- or water availability, and climate, may be as important as herbivory in affecting invasive populations; these factors interact to control L. salicaria in a more complex manner than thought previously.
4620448|Questions: How does recreational disturbance (human trampling) affect soil characteristics, the performance of the understorey vegetation, and the density and species composition of the soil seed bank in Fagus sylvatica forests? Location: Suburban forests near Basel, northwestern Switzerland. Methods: We compared various soil characteristics and the performance of the understorey vegetation in six beech forest areas frequently disturbed by recreational activities with those in six undisturbed control areas, in spring 2003. In the same forest areas, the soil seed bank was investigated using the seedling emergence method. Samples were obtained from soil cores in January 2003. Results: We found substantial changes in soil compaction, above-ground vegetation and in the soil seed bank due to recreational activities. In frequently visited areas, soil compaction was enhanced which caused a decrease in cover, height and species richness of both herb and shrub layers. Compared with control areas, the number of trampling-tolerant species of the seed bank was significantly higher in disturbed areas, and total species richness tended to be higher in disturbed than in control areas. Furthermore, the similarity in species composition between the above-ground vegetation and seed bank was significant lower in disturbed than in control areas. Conclusions: The intensive use of suburban forests for recreational activities, mainly picnicking, affects the vegetation of natural beech forests. Our study indicates that a restoration of degraded forest areas from the soil seed bank would result in a substantial change of the vegetation composition.
4620460| Question: Does the overstorey of pine savannas influence plant species biodiversity in the ground cover? Location: Camp Whispering Pines (3041 N; 90029' W), eastern Louisiana (USA). Methods: We used ecologically sensitive restoration logging to remove patches of Pinus palustris (longleaf pine) in a second-growth loess plain Pinus palustris savanna managed using frequent lightning season fires. Five years later, we measured numbers of vascular plant species and transmitted light in replicated 100-m plots. Treatments involved three different overstorey conditions: no overstorey for 5 years, no overstorey for several decades, and overstorey pines present for decades. Results: Both recent and long-term openings contained, on average, about 100 vascular plant species per 100 m, 20% more than in similar-sized areas beneath overstorey trees. Responses varied with life form; more herbaceous species occurred in recent and older overstorey openings than beneath overstorey trees. Total numbers of all species and of less abundant forb species were positively and linearly related to light transmitted to ground level. Those species responding to openings in the overstorey and positively associated with increased transmitted light levels were monocarpic and shortlived perennial forb and grass species with a seed bank in the soil. In addition, community structure, as reflected in species composition and abundances, appeared to vary with canopy condition. Conclusions: Restoration involving ecologically sensitive removal of patches of overstorey pines in frequently burned pine savannas should benefit the ground cover and increase plant species biodiversity as a result of increased abundance of seed bank species. 
1478907|The response of Larrea divaricata and L. cuneifolia to cutting stems 0-20 cm above the ground was studied in the arid piedmont area west of Mendoza, Argentina. The species occur at different elevations and in vegetation zones: L. cuneifolia < 1250 m; L. divaricata between 1250 and 2500 m. Four treatments with 10 replicates were analysed in randomly chosen plants: cut at ground level with lopping shears; cut at ground level with a pick; cut at 10 cm with lopping shears; and cut at 20 cm with lopping shears. The initial and final height, volume, and dry matter (above- and below-ground) were determined. The relation between volume and initial and final dry matter and height was analysed through a factorial MANOVA (p < 0,05), and the functional relation between volume, dry matter and height was estimated by adjusting a regression model. In both species, maximum recovery was reached when cut with shears, and predicted recovery (turnover) was 17-18 yr. In the two last treatments height was a useful predictor of dry matter. L. divaricata-dominated plots have a lower biomass, growth rate, and allocation to stems and root than L. cuneifolia-dominated plots. Regrowth following clipping on an area of 3-10 ha, is sufficient to support the annual needs (cooking and heating) of one family.
1478884| Until the 1960s, species-rich vegetation on minerotrophic peaty soils (fen sites) were characteristic of the alluvial plains in Schleswig-Holstein (Northwest Germany). Today, many of these habitats undergo successional changes due to abandonment. Vegetation development after abandonment can be characterized as a sequence of different successional stages and described in terms of a successional model. Successional stage I includes grazed, mown and recently abandoned sites without dominants. Stages II and III are characterized by the dominance of highly competitive herbaceous species while stage IV consists of woody vegetation. Ca. 3000 phytosociological relevs were assigned to the respective successional stages. Mean cover values were calculated for 250 species of the regional fen flora and assigned to successional categories according to their changes in cover in the successional series. According to our results 141 species decrease during succession, while 100 species were restricted to early successional stages and 85 species increased. Abandonment of all fen sites in Schleswig-Holstein will probably lead to the regional loss of 23 species of the fen flora. To identify mechanisms underlying successional change, the successional categories were correlated with life history traits and ecological requirements of the species. Results indicate that both light competition and limitation of sexual reproduction of small-seeded species might play a major role in the decrease and extinction of species during succession. Finally, conservation strategies for endangered species in a cultural landscape are discussed. 
1478954|A map of the potential natural vegetation of Ireland with an outline description of the vegetation units is presented. The vegetation of Ireland has a distinctive and highly oceanic character as a result of its location on the northwestern extremity of the Eurasian landmass and its recent geological and vegetation history. Forests would naturally cover the greater part of the island but the long history of forest decline over the last 6000 yr, due to clearance by man and paludification, has led to the present situation where native forest cover is less than 1% of the land area. Together with intensive land use, drainage, peat cutting and the introduction of alien species, this presents considerable difficulties in the construction of mapping units. The map, which has been compiled as part of the Vegetation Map of Europe at a scale of 1: 2.5 million, contains 20 mapping units. They comprise: nine forests, i.e. montane birch forests (one unit), acidophilous oak forests (two units), forests of oak or oak and ash with hazel on mostly base-rich soils (four units), forests on alluvium and gleyed clays (one unit each); five mire types, i.e. blanket mires (two units), raised bogs (one unit), sedge mires (one unit), degraded raised bogs (one unit); and six minor units viz. heaths (two units), sand dunes (two units), salt marshes (one unit) and polders (one unit). As a result of human activity, the potential natural vegetation, especially the forests, will differ considerably from the former natural climax vegetation.
4620502| Question: Is the diverse mosaic of forest/grassland (Campos) vegetation on the hills in the Porto Alegre region natural or of anthropogenic origin? What are the best approaches to management and conservation of forest/grassland mosaics in southern Brazil? Location: 280 m a.s.l., Rio Grande do Sul State (3004'32"S; 5106'05"W, southern Brazil. Methods: A 50-cm long radiocarbon dated sediment core from a swamp on Morro Santana was analysed for pollen and charcoal, and multivariate data analysis was used to reconstruct past vegetation and fire dynamics. Results: The formation of swamp deposits is related to a change to wetter climatic conditions since 1230 cal yr BP. The diverse forest/grassland mosaic existed already at that time and can be seen as natural in origin as it has been also shown from other studies in southern Brazil. Since 580 cal yr BP, forests expanded continuously. The marked higher occurrence of the pioneer Myrsine during the last 70 years, indicates a change in the disturbance regime. In the past, vegetation has been influenced by mostly anthropogenic fire, set first by Amerindians and later by European settlers. Conclusions: Management for conservation of forest/grassland mosaics should take into account, first, that grasslands are remnants of earlier drier Holocene periods and not a result of deforestation and, second, the history of disturbance by grazing and fire. Suppression of grazing and burning has likely resulted in a trend towards more woody vegetation under modern wet climatic conditions. If management for conservation excludes fire, the present grassland patches will tend to disappear due to forest expansion under the modern humid climate. Maintaining or reintroducing cattle grazing in conservation areas could be an alternative to fire. 
41058022|Objective: To contribute to the integration of key ecological concepts such as dynamic equilibrium, critical threshold, resistance and resilience to the 'State and Transition Model' (STM), in order to apply them in a more feasible way for rangeland management. Methods: Review and discussion of conceptual models and applied literature, including examples of rangeland dynamics. Results and Conclusions: We propose to enhance the STM considering two principal axes: (a) the x axis determined by structural ecosystem changes (vegetation and soil) and (b) the y axis determined by ecosystem functions and/or processes (recruitment, rain use efficiency). These axes define what we will call Structural-Functional State and Transition Model (SFSTM). Both axes of SFSTM make it possible to determine and quantify states and transitions, critical thresholds and to evaluate the resistance and resilience of an ecosystem to a given disturbance. The critical threshold is identified by structural and functional thresholds (x and y axes), thus defining the point where the ecosystem loses its resilience. Furthermore, in the supplementary file we provide examples with field data from Patagonia to illustrate the SFSTM. The proposed SFSTM has large implications for rangeland research and management, facilitating the understanding and integration of key concepts to enhance the STM. The identification of variables to assess structure and processes makes the model more useful.
1478988|In order to stimulate germination from the soil seed bank in a formerly species-rich hay meadow for conservation purposes, eight gaps were made in each of four habitat types: (1) Dry/open, (2) Dry/shaded, (3) Moist/open and (4) Moist/shaded; the meadow was abandoned 12 yr before the experiment started. The mean tree cover of the gaps was reduced from 50% to 22%. Light was estimated as distance to nearest tree towards south and shade as tree cover. Soil moisture content was estimated from topography and measured from soil samples. There were no significant differences in total herb number between strata before the experiment started. The number of the target group herb indicators of old, traditional management, was however higher in dry, open areas than in shaded areas whether moist or dry. After the treatment, 15 herbs appeared anew in the gaps, nine of these were indicators of traditional management. 80% of the indicators present after treatment were either new or had increased in frequency in the gaps. More indicators of traditional management appeared in gaps in the open, on dry soils in slopes than in shaded gaps, on moist soils and flat surface. In order to stimulate germination from the seed bank of as many herb indicators of traditional management as possible in abandoned hay meadows of the region, dry, sloping areas, situated as far as possible from large trees towards south and in the open, should be chosen for making gaps for germination.
25488420|Question: What are the effects of small-scale litter disturbances (simulating large vertebrate scratching and foraging), on Quercus alba, Q. velutina, Fagus grandifolia, and Acer rubrum seedling recruitment? Location: Southeastern Ohio, USA. Methods: Two mixed oak forests containing four experimental management units (burned, thinned, thinned & burned, and unmanipulated control) were utilized in this study. Silvicutural treatments were applied in the spring of 2001. A small scale disturbance experiment was initiated in the spring of 2002 (Trial 1) and was replicated again in the spring of 2003 (Trial 2). Experimental hardware cloth exclosures, each containing a control (ambient litter) and experimentally scratched (litter removed to bare soil) compartment, were erected in each management unit (N = 8 exclosures per unit). Results: Acer rubrum, a species that occupies a wide germination niche, produced the most numerous seedlings. Nut-producing species established more readily in compartments with ambient leaf litter, while A. rubrum was unresponsive to scratching treatment. Units burned (surface leaf litter removed at a broad scale) had the lowest rate of seedling recruitment in Trial 1. Conclusions: These data suggest that an adequate cover of leaf litter is needed to promote optimal recruitment. Control units had the greatest rate of seedling recruitment in Trial 2. The development of a dense understory layer (promoting excessive shading) between Trial 1 and Trial 2 may have affected the recruitment rate in the thinned and thinned & burned units.
40927803|Questions: Are traits related to the performance of plant species in restoration? Are the relationships between traits and performance consistent across the functional groups of annual forbs, perennial forbs and grasses? Do the relationships between traits and performance depend on neighboring functional groups? Location: A former agricultural field, being restored to native upland prairie, in the Willamette Valley of western Oregon, USA. Methods: Twenty-eight native species, representing three functional groups, were sown in seven different combinations. Eleven functional traits were measured from plants in the laboratory and in the field. Correlations between individual traits and performance variables were measured and regression techniques used to determine which sets of traits were most strongly related to performance. Results: Sets of traits explained up to 56% of variation in cover, and up to 48% of variation in establishment frequency. The relationships between traits and performance were influenced by functional group identity; the functional group identity of neighboring species also influenced species' cover and the relationships between traits and cover. Species' establishment rate in monoculture was the trait most strongly correlated to both establishment and cover in mixtures.In multi-trait models, annual forb functional group identity was strongly related to establishment in mixtures, and height, leaf weight ratio at 7 d and seed mass were strongly related to cover. Conclusions: Multiple-trait models should be a useful way of predicting the performance of species prior to sowing inrestoration. The functional group identity of each species and the other species being sown may need to be taken into account when making predictions.
1479067|Extensive areas in the mountain grasslands of central Argentina are heavily invaded by alien species from Europe. A decrease in biodiversity and a loss of palatable species is also observed. The invasibility of the tall-grass mountain grassland community was investigated in an experiment of factorial design. Six alien species which are widely distributed in the region were sown in plots where soil disturbance, above-ground biomass removal by cutting and burning were used as treatments. Alien species did not establish in undisturbed plots. All three types of disturbances increased the number and cover of alien species; the effects of soil disturbance and biomass removal was cumulative. Cirsium vulgare and Oenothera erythrosepala were the most efficient alien colonizers. In conditions where disturbances did not continue the cover of aliens started to decrease in the second year, by the end of the third season, only a few adults were established. Consequently, disturbances are needed to maintain alien populations in tall-grass mountain grasslands. Burning also increased the species richness of native species. We conclude that an efficient way to control the distribution of alien species is to decrease grazing pressure while burning as a traditional management tool may be continued.
41058156|Question: Are long-unburnt patches of eucalypt forest important for maintaining floristic diversity? Location: Eucalyptus forests of southeastern New South Wales, Australia. Methods: Data from 976 sites representing a range of fire history from three major vegetation formations - shrubby dry sclerophyll forest (SF), grassy dry SF and wet SF - were analysed. Generalized linear models were used to examine changes in species richness with increasing time since wildfire and analysis of similarities to examine changes in community composition. Chi-squared tests were conducted to examine the distribution of individual species across four time since fire categories. Results: Plant species relationships to fire varied between the three formations. Shrubby dry SF supported lower plant species richness with increasing time since wildfire and this was associated with shifts in community composition. Grassy dry SF showed significant shifts in community composition and species richness in relation to time, with a peak in plant species richness 20-30 yr post fire (either prescribed fire or wildfire). Wet SF increased in species richness until 10-20 yr post wildfire then displayed a general declining trend. Species richness in each vegetation type was not related to the fire frequencies and fire intervals observed in this study. Conclusions: Long-unburnt (30-50 yr post wildfire) forests appeared to play a minor role in the maintenance of plant species diversity in dry forest systems, although this was more significant in wet forests. Maintenance of a range of fire ages within each vegetation formation will assist in maintaining floristic diversity within regions.
1478886|Wetlands have always been of particular significance for mankind. While originally attractive as hunting grounds, they were later cultivated and modified from sinks into sources. Today, great efforts are being made to restore disturbed or destroyed wetland areas. Different models and goals for wetland restoration exist. From a global point of view, reduction of climatically relevant trace gas emissions is relevant, especially in the case of fens. Regionally and locally, the creation of retention basins for water and compounds or the establishment of characteristic fen species and communities may have high priority. In order to avoid goal conflicts, nature development plans are required which consider not just the wetland to be restored, but the entire catchment area. Such plans should include spatially and temporally differentiated recommendations for implementation of restoration measures and a proper land use system. When it comes to defining concrete aims, the participation of local people should be encouraged. Rewetting and oligotrophication are the most common approaches to boost biodiversity in fen ecosystems in Central and Western Europe. Rewetting includes both quantitative and qualitative aspects, requiring quantitative hydrological models and chemical analyses of the groundwater in the region. In addition, re-introduction of species is often necessary, at least in heavily fragmented cultural landscapes. Transfer of hay from donor areas to severely damaged, seed-depleted peatland to restore fen meadows, was successful. However, despite short-term successes, complete restoration of wetland areas requires a long period of time.
25488440|Question: Spatial prediction of plant populations is essential for conservation management. This is especially true for rare and/or threatened endemic species, for which knowledge of determinants of distribution is necessary to mitigate threats and counteract decline. We therefore ask if the distribution of an endemic species can be accurately predicted by georeferenced environmental variables or, if anthropogenic variables also need to be taken into account. Location: Alps, Hautes-Alpes, France. Methods: Potential distribution area and abundance of Eryngium spinalba were predicted with logistic regression and ordinal logistic regression, respectively, in a 57-km watershed. Results: Aspect, global solar radiation in March, elevation and grazing pressure were the main predictors of the probability of occurrence of Eryngium spinalba. Taking into account the persistence of agro-pastoral activities by diachronic analysis (Napoleonic cadastral map and orthorectified photographs) improved predictions from the model and the level of spatial concordance with independent surveys. Conclusions: Niche modelling improved our understanding of the distribution of this threatened species which, in the context of land abandonment, is diminishing as a result of the decline of its favoured habitats. The key role of pastoral activities and historic continuity for its distribution and persistence was clearly demonstrated.
4620517|Question: Traditional management of grassland verges or ditch banks included mowing as a way to provide additional harvesting of hay. Nowadays, such sites are often left unmanaged, as mowing verges is no longer profitable in modern agricultural systems. Are vulnerable plant species able to withstand competition with the surrounding vegetation and maintain viable populations under these circumstances? How do they respond to reinstatement of traditional mowing regimes? Location: Oedelem, northwestern Belgium. Methods: To investigate the effect of reinstatement of the rare perennial Primula vulgaris, demography and adult plant performance were monitored in a grassland verge between 1999 and 2003 under different mowing regimes. Year transitions between life stages were analysed with matrix population models. To disentangle the contributions of the deviations in different life stage transitions to the variation in overall population growth rate, life table response experiments were used. Results: Both management and year had a strong impact on demographic traits of P. vulgaris. If plots were left unmanaged, lower plant performance and declining population growth rates were observed. While population growth rates differed significantly between mowing regimes, mowing of plots only in July did not differ from mowing in July and October in terms of vegetative and reproductive output of adults. Mowing twice a year appeared to be most efficient in increasing population growth rate both by raising recruitment and growth of individuals into large reproductive adults. Conclusions: Large P. vulgaris populations show a good ability to recover from recent abandonment of traditional management regimes. By mowing twice a year, managers are able to target vital rates that are most influential: growth and flowering of adult individuals.
25488438|Question: How are plant communities of the Flooding Pampa grasslands spatially distributed? How do canopy dynamics of the different communities vary among seasons and years? Location: Buenos Aires province, Argentina. Methods: We characterized the distribution of communities through a supervised classification based on four Landsat 5 TM images. We sampled species composition of 200 sites, with 130 of them corresponding to natural communities. Of the sampling areas 60% were used to classify, and the remaining areas to assess classification accuracy. We characterized the seasonal and interannual variability of canopy dynamics using NDVI (Normalized Difference Vegetation Index) data provided by MODIS /Terra images. Results: Overall accuracy of the classification was satisfactory. The resulting maps showed a landscape formed by a matrix of extended lowlands with small patches of mesophytic and humid mesophytic meadows. The October scene (near the peak of productivity) was particularly important in discriminating among communities. The seasonal pattern of NDVI differed among communities and years. Mesophytic meadows had the highest NDVI mean and the lowest interannual coefficient of variation, halophytic steppes had the lowest mean, and vegetated ponds were the most variable. Conclusions: These grasslands have a fine-grained heterogeneity at the landscape scale. Each plant community has distinct seasonal and interannual canopy dynamics. These two features of grassland structure and functioning represent key information for rangeland management that may be obtained through a combination of minor field sampling and remote sensing.
40927806|Questions: Which factors influence the persistence of vascular grassland plants in long-abandoned (at least 50 yr) arable fields and meadows? What might be the implications of current levels of species richness on abandoned arable fields and meadows for future restoration? Location: Forested highlands of Kilsbergen, south central Sweden. Methods: The abundance of all vascular plant species was investigated in three habitat types: former arable fields, hay meadows and outlands (pastures) at 27 farms, abandoned for either approximately 50 yr or 90 yr. Time since abandonment, tree cover, soil depth, degree of soil podsol development, size of the infield area and two measures of connectivity were used as predictors for species richness and species composition. Results: Former outland had denser tree cover, fewer species and fewer grassland species than former arable fields and hay meadows, irrespective of time since abandonment. Former hay meadows and arable fields with a longer time since abandonment were less rich in species, more wooded and had greater podsolization than meadows and fields abandoned at a later stage. Species richness was higher in hay meadows and arable fields at farms with larger infield area and deeper soils compared with farms with smaller infield area and shallower soils. The greatest richness of species and most open habitat were former arable fields at larger farms abandoned 50 yr before the study. Former arable fields had the highest number of grassland species. Conclusion: After 50 yr of abandonment, former arable fields were the most important remnant habitats for grassland species and may be a more promising target for restoration than formerly managed grasslands.
1479055|The biodiversity of species-rich semi-natural meadows is declining across Europe due to ceased management. In this study we aimed to find out how successfully the local species richness of an overgrown semi-natural mesic meadow could be restored by sheep grazing after a long period of abandonment. The cover of vascular plant species in grazed plots and ungrazed exclosures was studied for five years and the responses of different functional plant groups were followed (herbs vs grasses, tall vs short species, species differing in flowering time, species representing different Grime's CSR strategies and species indicative of rich vs poor soil). Grazing increased species number by nearly 30%. On grazed plots the litter cover practically disappeared, favouring small herbs such as Rhinanthus minor, Ranunculus acris, Trifolium pratense and the grass Agrostis capillaris. Grazing decreased the cover of the late flowering tall herb Epilobium angustifolium but had no effect on the abundance of the early flowering tall herbs Anthriscus sylvestris or Geranium sylvaticum. We suggest that to succeed in restoration it is useful to determine the responses of different functional plant groups to grazing. Grassland managers need this information to optimize the methods and timing of management used in restoration. Additional management practices, such as mowing, may be needed in mesic meadows to decrease the dominance of tall species. The availability of propagules seemed to restrict further increase of species richness in our study area.
1478964|The flora of clear-cuttings with soil scarification in forests was compared < 1-2 yr after cutting with that in mature herb-rich forests in SW Finland. The total and mean numbers of vascular plant species both in the study areas and in the sample plots, were almost double in clear-cut areas compared to mature forests. Clear-cuttings and mature forests were distinctly separated by multivariate analyses (DCA). Several dozen species not found in forests were common in clear-cut areas. Most of them probably belong to the neglected native species pool of early boreal forest succession and are dependent on the long-term persistent seed bank or effective wind dispersal. It is emphasized that in forests many plant species are confined to the very early stages (< 2 yr) after disturbance. The storage effect of the long-term persistent seed bank is crucial for the maintenance of plant diversity in boreal forests. Probably a considerable part of the flora of agricultural areas is composed of species that were originally disturbance dependent forest plants. Scarification is beneficial to disturbance dependent plants and may be useful in restoration of populations of species of early succession.
27735090|Question: Can augmented forest stand complexity increase understory vegetation richness and cover and accelerate the development of late-successional features? Does within-stand understory vegetation variability increase after imposing treatments that increase stand structural complexity of the overstory? What is the relative contribution of individual stand structural components (i.e. forest matrix, gaps, and leave island reserves) to changes in understory vegetation richness? Location: Seven study sites in the Coastal Range and Cascades regions of Oregon, USA. Methods: We examined the effects of thinning six years after harvest on understory plant vascular richness and cover in 40- to 60-year-old forest stands dominated by Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii). At each site, one unthinned control was preserved and three thinning treatments were implemented: low complexity (LC, 300 trees ha1), moderate complexity (MC, 200 trees ha1), and high complexity (HC, variable densities from 100 to 300 trees ha1). Gaps openings and leave island reserves were established in MC and HC. Results: Richness of all herbs, forest herbs, early seral herbs and shrubs, and introduced species increased in all thinning treatments, although early seral herbs and introduced species remained a small component. Only cover of early seral herbs and shrubs increased in all thinning treatments whereas forest shrub cover increased in MC and HC. In the understory, we found 284 vascular plant species. After accounting for site-level differences, the richness of understory communities in thinned stands differed from those in control stands. Within-treatment variability of herb and shrub richness was reduced by thinning. Matrix areas and gap openings in thinned treatments appeared to contribute to the recruitment of early seral herbs and shrubs. Conclusions: Understory vegetation richness increased 6 years after imposing treatments, with increasing stand complexity mainly because of the recruitment of early seral and forest herbs, and both low and tall shrubs. Changes in stand density did not likely lead to competitive species exclusion. The abundance of potentially invasive introduced species was much lower compared to other plant groups. Post-thinning reductions in within-treatment variability was caused by greater abundance of early seral herbs and shrubs in thinned stands compared with the control. Gaps and low-density forest matrix areas created as part of spatially variably thinning had greater overall species richness. Increased overstory variability encouraged development of multiple layers of understory vegetation.
1478956|Succession, changes in the distribution pattern of forest vegetation, and Pinus forest survival following pine wilt disease were clarified based on phytosociological analysis and vegetation maps. Survival of Pinus forests was restricted to the early successional stages, which were located on ridges and the upper part of slopes. Subsequent to pine wilt disease, the succession progressed from early to late substages of Pinus forest, mixed deciduous and evergreen Quercus, to evergreen Quercus forest. Succession occurs in abandoned pine forests which apparently are in a bad state and are vulnerable to attacks by pine wilt disease.
4620522|Question: What are the main reasons for changes in the spatial distribution of vegetation types during the last four decades? Location: Isolated small deciduous forest; surrounded by farmland in the northeast of Munich (Germany). Methods: Based on sequential vegetation mapping from the last four decades the spatial development of the vegetation was analysed. Additionally, environmental parameters (soil parameters, PAR, N-deposition) have been analysed to describe the different vegetation types. Results: By linking the vegetation types to environmental parameters, it was possible to identify N-deposition as the most important factor for the changes. In the 1960s to 1980s the replacement of vegetation types adapted to N-poor conditions by N-rich vegetation was very fast. A vegetation type containing species signifying soil impoverishment vanished totally, another vegetation type indicating nutrient poor conditions decreased dramatically. However, since 1985 up to now the decrease of N-poor vegetation types has slowed, but is still ongoing. As a reason for the decreased rate of replacement, we stressed changes in the vertical structure: From 1961 to 1985 both N-deposition as well as changes in vertical vegetation structure seem to be important. Since 1985 up to now only minor changes in vertical structure could be found; changes are mainly due to N-availability. Conclusion: In this paper, the limitations of different methods to detect vegetation changes are discussed. We focus on the potentials of historical vegetation data and vegetation maps. It is shown that valuable information on N-induced vegetation changes can be retrieved from historical vegetation data.
27735086|Question: How to map continuous fields of forest alpha and beta diversity in remote areas, based on easily accessible spatial data. Location: Kyrgyzstan/Central Asia. Methods: The study relied on a combination of predictive mapping and remote sensing. Punctual measurements of alpha diversity were linked to topography and reflectance using regression models. For beta diversity, ordination techniques were employed to extract major vegetation gradients. Scores on the ordination axes were regressed against topography as well as reflectance and subsequently mapped. Beta diversity was mapped as spatial turnover rate along these axes. Results: The diversity maps quantified species counts and turnover in a spatially contiguous manner while taking into account fuzzy transitions. The variance explained by regression models ranged from 51% to 61% in cross-validation. Many of the observed differences were caused by differences in species shares. The occurrence of walnut, in particular, showed a negative relation to woody species numbers. Conclusion: Mapping biodiversity in remote areas can be based on easily accessible spatial data in combination with a set of calibration field samples. With regard to human influence on walnut dominance, a total removal of human land use would be counterproductive in terms of diversity conservation. The results of this study highlight the need for comprehensive analyses of diversity patterns that include spatially contiguous quantifications of species numbers, shares and turnover rates.
1479084|Habitat fragmentation affects both plants and pollinators. Habitat fragmentation leads to changes in species richness, population number and size, density, and shape, thus to changes in the spatial arrangement of flowers. These changes influence the amount of food for flower-visiting insects and the quantity and quality of pollinations. Seed set in small populations is often reduced and genetic variation is expected but not always found to be low. The majority of studies show that low flower densities have reduced pollination success and higher inbreeding. Density effects are stronger than size effects. Most studies concluded that species richness in flower-visiting insects is directly related to richness in plant species. However, the consequences of low insect species richness for pollination are not always clear, depending on the studied pollinator-plant relationship. The effects of the presence of simultaneously flowering species are highly dependent on the circumstances and may range from competition to facilitation. Other flowering plant species may play a role as stepping stones or corridor in the connection between populations. In the absence of stepping stones even short distances between populations act as strong barriers for gene flow. We illustrate the present review paper with own data collected for three plant species, rare in The Netherlands: Phyteuma spicatum ssp. nigrum (Campanulaceae), Salvia pratensis (Labiatae) and Scabiosa columbaria (Dipsacaceae). The species differ in their breeding systems and in the assemblage of visitor species. Data are shown on the effects of population size on species richness with consequences for seed set. Effects of flower density and isolation on pollen exchange are given. Since plant reproduction depends on the behaviour of individual insects and not on the overall behaviour of the species, the examples all point to individual insects and extrapolate to effects at the species level.
25488482|Questions: How can floristic diversity be evaluated in conservation plans to identify sites of highest interest for biodiversity? What are the mechanisms influencing the distribution of species in human-dominated environments? What are the best criteria to identify sites where active urban management is most likely to enhance floristic diversity? Location: The Hauts-de-Seine district bordering Paris, France. Methods: We described the floristic diversity in one of the most urbanized French districts through the inventory of ca. 1000 sites located in 23 habitats. We built a new index of floristic interest (IFI), integrating information on richness, indigeneity, typicality and rarity of species, to identify sites and habitats of highest interest for conservation. Finally, we explored the relationship between site IFI and land use patterns (LUP). Results: We observed a total of 626 vascular plant species. Habitats with highest IFI were typically situated in semi-natural environments or environments with moderate human impact. We also showed that neighbouring (urban) structures had a significant influence on the floristic interest of sites: for example, the presence of collective dwellings around a site had a strong negative impact on IFI. Conclusions: Our approach can be used to optimize management in urban zones; we illustrate such possibilities by defining a 'Site Potential Value', which was then compared with the observed IFI, to identify areas (e.g. river banks) where better management could improve the district's biodiversity.
1479058| Vegetation and soil seed banks of a threatened Atlantic fen meadow community were studied using recent phytosociological records and seedling emergence from soil samples. Similarly managed but differently degraded stands that suffered different levels of species impoverishment were compared. The actual vegetation was related to a set of phytosociological references representing the subassociations of the community. DCA positions of reference relevs from the different subassociations were overlapping, suggesting that in all references many common species occur. Recent records were positioned in-between the seed bank samples and the references. The soil seed banks of all stands were dominated by ordinary species. Most character species had at most sparse seed banks and no seedlings of locally extinct character species, mentioned in historic floristic records, were detected. In contrast species of pioneer and small-sedge communities as well as those of heathlands were abundant in the seed banks. Based on the vertical distribution of seeds in the soil layers most fen meadow species were classified into transient or short-term persistent seed bank types. We concluded that complete restoration of the Cirsio dissecti-Molinietum without reintroduction is only likely in stands that were degraded only a few years ago. On the other hand, the presence of viable seeds of Nanocyperion and Parvocaricetea species is promising for the restoration of these communities even after decades. Recreation of pioneer habitats by sod cutting will preserve these species. 
4620508|Questions: The formerly overgrazed Inner Mongolia steppe was subject to retrogressive succession. Today, Artemisiafrigida and Potentilla acaulis are two dominant species in different phases of successive degradation. To investigate the impact of grazing intensity on spatial community structure, we investigated the small-scale spatial association between A.frigida and P. acaulis at zero, light, medium and heavy sheep grazing, and proposed factors involved in the spatial associations between these two species along a grazing intensity gradient. Location: The Inner Mongolia Grassland Ecosystem Research Station of the Chinese Academy of Sciences. Methods: Four grazing intensities were selected: zero, light (1.33 sheep/ha), medium (4.0 sheep/ha) and heavy (6.7 sheep/ha). After 13 years of grazing three 2 m x 2 m quadrats with 100 x 100 cells of size 2 cm x 2 cm were randomly selected in each treatment in July and August 2002. The presence of A. frigida and P. acaulis in each cell was recorded and the positions of the individuals were mapped using Cartesian coordinates in each quadrat. The small-scale spatial associations between A. frigida or P. acaulis were quantified with the L
4620433|Question: Do Beer's Law models, multi-layer scattering models, and a semi-empirical model for predicting PAR transmission through understorey vegetation give comparable results? Do different driving variables (LAI, PLAI and percentage cover) give different results? How do the models vary when fit with species-specific, species-average and the 'default' parameters recommended in the literature? Location: Upland boreal forests of western North America. Methods: In calibration and validation plots, PAR transmission was measured, total cover visually estimated, and leaf dispersion, PLAI and cover estimated for each species using a point-frame. Leaf inclination was measured by clinometer. PAR transmission was modelled using empirically-fit Beer's Law models, a semi-empirical model based on hemispherical gap fraction and first-order scattering, and a multi-layer model allowing multiple scattering. All models were modified to use leaf area index (LAI), vertically projected leaf area index (PLAI), or percentage cover data. Results: The empirical Beer's Law models had the least bias and best precision in predicting PAR transmission. The semi-empirical model also had little bias and good precision, since the scattering coefficient compensated for problems in the estimation of gap fraction. The multi-layer model consistently underestimated transmission. There was little benefit in accounting for species separately. LAI and PLAI-based models were the most precise, but percentage cover models also provided reasonable predictions of PAR transmission. Conclusions: PAR transmission through forest understories can be simply modelled with Beer's Law using one empirical coefficient representing the average understorey species. More complex scattering models are less effective, likely because they fail to account for the complexity of the dispersion of this vegetation layer and its effect on radiation scattering.
25488439|Question: Does the seed density of invasive species affect establishment by native species in a bare ground context (following invasive species control efforts), and is it possible to promote transition to a native species dominated state by manipulating sowing density of the native community? Location: Experimental wetland basin in Chanhassen, Minnesota, USA. Methods: A mesocosm experiment investigated the influence of Phalaris arundinacea (invasive species) propagule pressure on establishment of native wet meadow species in the context of a newly restored wetland. Mesocosms were sown with P. arundinacea (0, 10, 50, 100, or 500 seeds/m) and a mix of native species (3000 or 15000 seeds/m). Results: When planted at densities > 100 seeds/m, P. arundinacea increased suppression of native species. Also, high native seed density suppressed P. arundinacea biomass production. This effect was more pronounced when P. arundinacea seed density was high (> 100 seeds/m), but high native seed density (15000 seeds/m) did not suppress recruitment of P. arundinacea from seed. Conclusions: The transition from post-control bare ground (a common result of efforts to control invasive species) to native species establishment depends on both native species and invader seed density. These results suggest that a threshold of P. arundinacea propagule pressure exists, beyond which transition to a native community is less likely without management intervention. P. arundinacea can establish in the presence of a newly developing native plant community, even at very low densities of P. arundinacea seed. Invader control (following initial site clearing efforts) is essential to native species establishment.
1479042|Despite existing management agreements, significant change has occurred on Carnwath Moss and Coladoir Bog, two mire complexes in central and western Scotland. Spontaneous succession has accelerated, resulting in extensive degradation of the mire vegetation on both sites and, in particular, widespread expansion of Calluna vulgaris- and Molinia caerulea-dominated vegetation types. Vegetation surveys across strong gradients of change were conducted with the aim of quantifying the extent of early (desirable) and late (undesirable) successional vegetation on both sites. For each site multivariate analyses of the vegetation data were carried out using TWINSPAN, which clearly differentiated higher quality and degraded surfaces. In management terms percentage Sphagnum cover can act as a useful proxy measure of water level and shrub layer height can also serve as a useful indicator of the degree of degradation. A broad-based, five class condition continuum was developed for the Carnwath Moss site. While such an assessment scheme is a somewhat arbitrary means of allocating mesotope areas to specific condition classes, it is rapid to apply and simple enough to be applied by a range of users. A drawback is that the methodology is data-light in temporal terms and is not a long-term substitute for properly-funded monitoring programmes for important sites. For both mires, recommendations are made for management with the main emphasis being on maintaining water tables at appropriate levels to maximise the floristic diversity of active mires.
27735079|Question: Is the stimulation of germination by thermal shock (resulting from the passage of fire) commonly observed for Mediterranean-climate Fabaceae also apparent for NW European Genisteae (Fabaceae) species? Location: Southern England and NW France. Methods: The germination of Cytisus scopiarius, Genista anglica, Ulex europaeus, Ulex gallii and Ulex minor was examined following exposure to a range of temperatures (50C, 65C, 80C, 95C and 110C) applied to seeds for 5 min. A sixth Mediterranean-origin species (Spartium junceum) was also included since it is a common invasive in NW Europe and North America. Results: All five native NW European species displayed increased germination following thermal shock, even when seeds were heated to 110C. However, there was some variation depending on provenance: in contrast to seeds collected from southern England, germination of French C. scopiarius seeds was unaffected by temperature. Spartium junceum germinated most at 95C, but was the only species to show reduced germination when seeds were heated to 110C. Conclusions: The NW European Genisteae appear to be pre-adapted to the high temperatures associated with fire; a response attributable to their evolutionary origins in the fire-prone ecosystems of the Mediterranean Basin. Consequently, projected increases in fire frequency linked to climate change may stimulate their regeneration in NW European heathlands, potentially altering the species composition of these ecosystems. Additionally, a clearer understanding of the interaction between thermal shock and germination may explain why fire has so frequently been ineffective in controlling invasive Genisteae populations worldwide.
27735061|Question: How rapidly has the sandy beach and maritime forest vegetation on Phuket recovered and regenerated after the impact of the major Indian Ocean tsunami of 2004? What are the characteristics of sandy beach species for regenerating their populations and the invasion patterns of originally non-sandy beach species or other newcomers after the tsunami? Location: Phuket Island, southern Thailand. Methods: Species composition of beaches was studied on the same research plots 6 months before and 9 months after the tsunami. The changes in individual species cover before and after the tsunami were determined by 2 tests. Change in community composition was analysed by detrended correspondence analysis. The relationship between species and environmental factors was analysed by canonical correspondence analysis. Results: The sites disturbed by the tsunami were often invaded by annuals, especially grasses and asteraceous plants, rather than by perennials. In contrast, species with clonal growth by stolons decreased significantly. Factors determining the species habitat differences were soil hardness (penetration resistance of sandy soil), per cent silt content, soil water content and beach management. Habitat differences among originally non-sandy beach herbaceous species that expanded their population or moved to the coast after the disaster were defined by sand accretion or erosion caused by the tsunami. Many sandy beach herbaceous communities changed into Dactyloctenium aegyptium communities because of the tsunami were originally constituted by non-sandy beach D. aegyptium with Cenchrus echinatus. Although the forest floors of most maritime forests were invaded by originally non-sandy beach Tridax procumbens, Eleusine indica or D. aegyptium because of the tsunami, this did not result in a change in the vegetation unit, because species' loss was restricted to the understorey. In time, these forests will recover their previous community composition. Conclusions: Our results suggest that originally non-sandy beach native species invaded the disturbed beaches rapidly after the tsunami but their habitats differ. Sites where sand accumulated on a beach because of the tsunami were invaded by D. aegyptium and E. indica, whereas soil erosion permitted invasion by Digitania adscendens. Tridax procumbens establishes rapidly on wet sites with hard soil, high per cent silt content and low beach management pressure. Sandy beach species with subterranean long rhizomes are strongly tolerant of such disasters. We concluded that the species composition of the beaches disturbed by a temporary large disaster is determined by dormancy and growth forms, with radicoid form being influential.
25488437|Question: How do differing social and economic systems affect the dynamics and trajectory of land cover / land use change on similar, neighbouring ecosystems in a time span when an economic industrialization program was enforced? Location: Tijuana River watershed, located on the border between Baja California, Mexico and California, United States. Methods: We quantified land use changes between 1970 and 1994 in the Tijuana River watershed. Using aerial photographs and geographic information systems, we elaborated land-cover/use maps and calculated transition probability matrices to describe natural land-cover changes at the landscape level on both sides of the border. Results: Land cover / land use transitions are mainly driven by urban development on both sides of the border, but exhibit different patterns in each country. The processes seem to be more complex in the Mexican part of the basin, where itinerant land use may revert induced grasslands and rain-fed agriculture into natural communities, than on the US side, where the transition pathways are few and unidirectional. Conclusions: Despite the need for an integrated planning and management of binational basins and shared water resources, in practice, these goals may be hampered by different economic and social factors triggering land use change within each country.
1479090|An integrated multidisciplinary approach including descriptive and experimental research of environmental and biotic factors was used to evaluate an attempt to restore a species-rich fen meadow, phytosociologically belonging to the Cirsio-Molinietum. Expert judgement and preliminary research indicated that soil acidification, due to drainage in the surrounding area, caused the degeneration of the fen meadow. Flooding the meadow with surface water was applied in order to stop acidification. A small irrigated wetland (helophyte filter) was constructed to reduce nutrient availability in the surface water. Sod cutting was applied in a small area as well. The two measures were evaluated through: (1) measurements of hydrological and soil factors, (2) seed bank analysis, (3) recording species composition in permanent plots, (4) assessing the type and extent of nutrient limitation using a full-factorial fertilization experiment, (5) assessing the effect of liming on vegetation biomass, and (6) recording the growth of three introduced fen meadow species in the liming experiment. The research was carried out in a degraded site with intact vegetation, a degraded site where the top soil was removed by sod cutting and a reference site with intact Cirsio-Molinietum vegetation. Groundwater levels in the degraded and the stripped site differed slightly from those of the reference site but they were within the range of Cirsio-Molinietum requirements. Groundwater quality slightly improved in the stripped site. Top-soil removal considerably reduced the macro-nutrient contents and caused a stronger P-deficiency. No increase in soil pH was observed immediately after top-soil removal. A small increase in soil pH was found after five years in the stripped site, indicating a slight recovery from acidification. Liming after top-soil removal had little effect on the soil pH after six months but stimulated the growth of established species such as Agrostis canina. Few viable seeds of characteristic fen meadow species were present in the seed banks of both degraded and well developed fen meadow sites. The species composition after top soil removal reflected the seed bank of the degraded fen meadow and establishment of characteristic fen meadow species was poor, even after five years. The introduced species (Carex hostiana, C. panicea, Cirsium dissectum) survived during the first year in both the degraded and the stripped site. Liming initially stimulated the growth of two species, but in the second year this effect disappeared. After two years, none of the introduced species survived at the stripped site. The restoration measures failed so far, probably because acidification could not be counteracted satisfactorily. Finally, it was concluded that our multidisciplinary approach enables us to draw proper conclusions and that it is suitable for other restoration attempts as well.
27735060|Questions: Does the soil seed bank resemble the former early successional stages of a dune slack system more than the established later successional vegetation? Does it have the potential to contribute to the conservation of a highly endangered habitat? Location: Dune slacks at Newborough Warren, UK. Methods: The composition of the soil seed bank in two depth layers was determined using the seedling emergence method between March 2004 and April 2005. Long-term monitoring data on the floristic composition of the established vegetation were obtained from the national conservation agency, and additional monitoring was undertaken in 2003. Floristic composition, seed weights, seed longevity of component species and Ellenberg indicator values were used to compare the seed bank and established vegetation. Results: The soil seed bank was diverse and contained typical dune slack species, species of early successional stages and species of conservation interest. A comparison between the composition of the seed bank and historical data on the composition of the established vegetation showed that the seed bank reflects earlier successional stages more closely than the current aboveground vegetation. This study increases the scarce information currently available on the seed bank ecology of several species, including two orchid species. Conclusions: The soil seed bank can be expected to contribute to vegetation change after disturbance. Stimulation of germination from the seed bank through management may contribute to the conservation of both characteristic and threatened species typical of dune slacks.
1479088| A small-scale restoration experiment concerning a species-rich calcareous grassland was conducted over a 7-yr period. 20 yr of abandonment (1971-1990) resulted in both a strong reduction of the number of species and an absolute dominance of the shrub Crataegus monogyna and the grass Brachypodium pinnatum-which contributed 98% of the above-ground herb phytomass. The plot (3 m  6 m) was cleared in September 1990 and thereafter yearly mown in autumn. Small soil seed bank samples were taken immediately after clearing and again in the autumn of 1996. The inner part of the plot showed a reduced soil seed bank compared to the plot underneath the vegetation outside the plot in 1990. Six years later an increased number of seeds in the soil in this inside area could be recorded mainly in the upper soil layer, although the amount was only 40% compared to the outside or control area. Ca. 20% of the species present in the restored vegetation were recorded in seed traps during the main seed dispersal period in 1997. Restoration of high species richness in the plot was a fast process during the first few years: from seven species in 1990 towards 39 three years later. This was significantly faster than the restoration process of the calcareous grassland at the same slope 20 yr earlier. This was probably due to the increased size of the community species pool at the site as a result of appropriate management during the last decades. Relative species number increase was highest at the largest scale during this experiment, viz. at the total plot area. The success of restoration of species-rich, dry grassland vegetation largely depends on the interaction between several conditions, e.g. seed availability, either originating from the seed rain or soil seed bank, favourable germination conditions and a successful development to a mature, seed producing individual. Germination and establishment strongly depend on suitable vegetation structure as a result of sustainable management. 
4620420|Questions: Can seed addition enhance the success of establishing species-rich grassland on former arable land? Are sowing date and cutting regime important in determining success? Location: Aberdeen and Elgin, northeast Scotland, United Kingdom. Methods: A field experiment was conducted at two sites to assess the effect of seed addition, sowing date and cutting regime on the vegetation developing on former arable land, the aim being to compare the success of different treatments at producing a species-rich grassland. Results: Sowing a seed mix resulted in the establishment of vegetation very distinct from the species-poor vegetation dominated by perennial grasses which otherwise developed, though establishment success of the sown grassland species was highly variable between sites. Where establishment of the sown species was poor, sowing date had no significant effect on species composition, whereas the cutting regime was very important. Cutting the vegetation significantly increased both the number and abundance of sown species compared with the uncut control. Conversely, where establishment had been good, the cutting regime in the first year had little effect on species composition. Cutting the vegetation at least twice a year appeared to be the most effective management over the length of the experiment. Conclusions: Sowing a seed mixture significantly reduced the abundance and number of naturally colonising species, effectively controlling problem weed species such as Senecio jacobaea and Cirsium vulgare, highlighting the agronomic value of sowing seed mixtures on fallow farmland. The sowing of a seed mix on former arable land has demonstrated that it is feasible to create vegetation similar in character to that of species-rich grasslands.
27735059|Question: Did the composition of the herb layer of a deciduous forest on loamy soils sensitive to soil acidification change between 1954 and 2000? How are these change related to the abandonment of traditional coppice-with-standards forest management and increased soil acidification? Location: Central Belgium (Europe). Methods: Twenty semi-permanent phytosociological quadrats from an ancient deciduous forest (Meerdaal forest) were carefully selected out of a total of 70 plots dating from 1954 and were revisited in 2000. Species composition and soil pH H2O were recorded using an analogous methodology. The studied period coincides with a period of forest conversion from coppice-with-standards towards a high forest structure and with an increase in acidifying and eutrophying deposition. Results: Between 1954 and 2000, species composition of the herb layer changed significantly. Redundancy analysis pointed to increased shade resulting from shifts in cover and species composition of the shrub and tree layer as the main driving force. Soil acidity increased and the majority of plots entered the aluminium buffer range, which potentially affected herb layer composition. Observations at the species level, especially a strong decrease in cover of the vernal species Anemone nemorosa supported this hypothesis. Conclusions: Our results show significant shifts in the forest herb layer in less than five decades. These shifts were related to an alteration in the traditional forest management regime and increased soil acidity. Whereas the effect of a changed management regime can be mitigated, soil acidification is less reversible. Testing the generality of these patterns on more extensive data sets is certainly needed.
1479085|The concept of species pool is reviewed. It is suggested to maintain the terms regional pool and local pool but replace actual pool by community pool. The regional and local pool are considered as selections from the regional and local flora based on ecological similarity. It is also suggested to include in the community pool a selection of species present only as diaspores in the diaspore bank (including diaspores from the seed rain), the selection being based on the same ecological criteria. Four approaches to determine the species pool are discussed: ecological, functional and phytosociological similarity, and an experimental approach. The phytosociological approach appears to be promising. The species pool is elaborated as a fuzzy set in the sense that each species of a community or a local or regional flora is a member of any community, local or regional species pool with different degrees of membership. This membership is defined as a probability of a species to become part of the community pool of a target community which is a function of the ecological (environmental/functional/phytosociological) similarity of the species with the target community; the shortness of the distance of its nearest populations, the frequency/abundance, the dispersal capacity, the actual presence of dispersal mechanisms, the germinability of newly arrived diaspores, and the longevity of seeds (viability) in the diaspore bank. The information on species pools is needed for designing experiments where the number of species in a community is to be manipulated, for instance in restoration management.
1478923|Vegetation development after conventional bracken control with herbicide in the uplands is often slow and rarely results in the development of the target community. Two experiments were established on contrasting sites to investigate cost-effective methods for the re-establishment of vegetation dominated by Calluna vulgaris (heather), which is the usual target community seen as the desired replacement for Pteridium aquilinum in the uplands by many land managers. At one site, where grazing intensity was low and shelter was sufficient to prevent rapid Pteridium litter loss, the necessary treatments to establish Calluna were to disturb the litter and add a source of Calluna seeds. A difference between continued Pteridium control or a relaxation of control was not observed over the time-scale of the experiment. At the second site, where grazing intensity was high and shelter minimal, vegetation dominated by Rumex acetosella had developed on a thin but dense litter layer. To enhance Calluna regeneration it was necessary to prevent sheep grazing, disturb the remaining litter layer and add a source of Calluna propagules. A nurse crop hindered Calluna establishment due to its vigorous growth. At neither site was an initial application of fertilizer an aid to Calluna establishment. It is possible to devise methods for the re-establishment of Calluna at sites where previous attempts at Pteridium control alone have not had the desired effect on vegetation development. However, the precise choice of methods used is dependent on the grazing management at the site. High levels of livestock grazing prevented Calluna establishment, but some trampling may aid litter breakdown. The ability to adjust stocking rates and access to the site by machinery are critical factors to take into account in producing an effective strategy for long-term Pteridium control and its replacement by target vegetation.
25488469|Question: Are the seed banks of an isolated subtropical oceanic island capable of naturally regenerating vegetation either with species of the historical forest community or with the existing grassland community after severe damage to the vegetation by goats? Location: Nakoudojima Island, Bonin Archipelago (Ogasawara Shoto), Japan. Methods: Soil samples were collected at 0-5 cm and 5-10 cm depths from seven plots in forests, grasslands, artificially matted areas and bare land. Soil seed banks were assessed using the seedling emergence method followed by the hand-sorting of ungerminated seeds. We determined the size and composition of the seed banks in upper soil layers of plots and compared the seed banks to the standing vegetation. Results: A total of 12 220 seedlings belonging to 42 species from 20 families germinated. Total mean seed density (0-5 cm depth) was low in all plots within forest, grassland, and heavily degraded vegetation types (34.7  8.6 to 693.5  123.6, 58.6  7.8 to 107.1  10.0, and 1.1  0.5 to 7.2  2.3 seeds/m, respectively). Forbs and graminoids dominated the seed banks of grassland and forest plots including Cyperus brevifolius, Gnaphalium pensylvanicum, Oxalis corniculata and Solanum nigrum, and these alien species comprised 90% of the density of the seed bank. There was little correlation between seed banks and standing vegetation of the island (Srensen similarity coefficient values 0.26 to 0.45). Conclusions: If natural regeneration occurs from the seed bank of the island, future vegetation will not move toward the original forest community, because the seed bank is dominated by non-native herbaceous grassland species. Though isolated, a few forest remnants with low species richness could be an important source for the natural re-establishment of forest on the island; however, seed availability may be limited by either poor dispersal or pollination so that woody species will probably recover very slowly on this goat-impacted island.
1479013|Stimulation of floating peat by the introduction of poorly humified peat from four cut-over bogs in The Netherlands was studied in a one-year outdoor experiment. The pH of the various peat substrates was increased by adding different amounts of lime: 0-2 to 4-8 g- CaCO
41318172|Question: Can we interpret how climatic variation limits photosynthesis and growth for one widely distributed species, and then relate these responses to model the geographic distributions of other species? Location: The forested region of the Pacific Northwest, United States and Canada. Methods: We first mapped monthly climatic data, averaged for the period 1950 to 1975 at 1 km resolution across the region. The recorded presence and absence of 15 native tree species were next mapped at 1 km resolution from data acquired on 22771 field survey plots. To establish seasonal limits on photosynthesis and water use, a process-based growth model (3-PG, Physiological Processes to Predict Growth) was parameterized for Douglas-fir (Pseudotsucja menziesii), one of the most widely distributed species in the region. Automated decision tree analyses were used to predict the distribution of different species by creating a suite of rules associated with the relative constraints that soil drought, atmospheric humidity deficits, suboptimal and subfreezing temperatures would impose on the growth of Douglas-fir. Results: The 3-PG process-based modeling approach, combined with automated decision tree analyses, predicted presence and absence of 15 conifers on field survey plots with an average accuracy of 82  12%. Predictive models of current distribution for each species differed in the number of, order in, and physiological thresholds selected. A deficit in the soil water balance, followed by departures from optimum temperatures in the summer were the two most important variables selected in predicting species distributions. Conclusions: Although empirical models using different sampling techniques and statistical analyses may be more accurate in predicting current distribution of species, the hybrid approach presented in this paper provides a greater mechanistic understanding of the limits to growth and tree distributions. These attributes of process-based models make them particularly useful in designing mitigating strategies to projected changes in climate.
4620520| Question: This study investigated the establishment of wetland plant assemblages following soil removal and restored hydrology in a former agricultural field. The following questions were posed. Does plant community composition differ as a result of soil removal? Does soil removal reduce the frequency of non-wetland plants? Does soil removal reduce the frequency of non-native invasive plants? Location: The Panzner Wetland Wildlife Reserve (PWWR) in Summit County, northeastern Ohio, USA. Methods: During 2000-2001, restoration was conducted on two adjoining fields (3.9 ha total) by excavating the upper 40-50 cm of soil layer and establishing 12 10 m x 10 m undisturbed control plots. Preliminary data included seed bank composition and soil organic matter, estimated from three different soil depths on the control plots. In spring 2004, a 10 m x 10 m soil-removed plot was established adjacent to each control plot. Plant percent cover of all species was estimated within the center 5 m x 5 m of every plot. Above-ground biomass of all species from three 0.25-m quadrats was collected. Environmental water measurements included water depth, temperature, dissolved oxygen, pH, and conductivity. Results: The top 10 cm of soil contained the most seeds, the highest species diversity, the greatest proportion of annual to perennial plants, and the lowest organic content. Obligate and facultative wetland plants were found in soil-removed plots while facultative upland and upland plants were found in control plots. The only plots with arable weeds were the control plots. However, plant communities on soil-removed plots in the North field, which had a higher elevation (ca. 15-20 cm), had a different species composition than soil-removed plots in the South field. Conclusions: The results of a controlled, replicated large-scale study on the effects of soil removal showed that soil removal altered both the biotic and abiotic environment, but that the proximity to the water table was the primary controlling factor in the assembly of plant communities. 
1479020|Closed canopy vegetation often prevents the colonization of plant species. Therefore the majority of plant species are expected to appear at the initial phase of post-agricultural succession in mesic forest environment with moderate levels of resources. This hypothesis was tested with data from the Buell-Small Successional Study, NJ, USA, one of the longest continuous fine-scale studies of old-field succession. The study started in 1958, including old fields with different agricultural histories, landscape contexts, and times of abandonment. In each year of the study, the cover values of plant species were recorded in 48 permanent plots of 1 m
4620421|Question: How does vegetation and management affect the population stage structure of Serratula tinctoria, a species indicative of highly endangered and species-rich flood-plain meadows? Are different management regimes suitable to support viable populations of S. tinctoria? Location: Flood-plain of the northern Upper Rhine, Germany. Methods: We analysed the population structure of S. tinctoria at 24 meadow sites which differed in vegetation and management. In this comparative study the investigated meadows were either (1) late mown in September; (2) early mown in June or (3) mown in June and then grazed by sheep. Results: The structure of the surrounding vegetation had a clear effect on the population structure of S. tinctoria. The percentage of bare soil, as well as the cover of bryophytes, were positively related, whereas the Ellenberg N-value of the established vegetation was negatively related to the density and proportion of seedlings. Generally, we found only slight differences between the population structure of S. tinctoria in early and late mown meadows. Both management regimes had high densities of seedlings. In contrast, the meadow pastures supported significantly lower densities of seedlings and generative adults but relatively high densities of juveniles and vegetative adults, indicating a greater importance of clonal propagation under grazing pressure. Conclusions: Our results clearly showed that viable populations of S. tinctoria may occur in all of the studied management regimes. Although S. tinctoria was considered to be highly sensitive to early mowing, our findings suggest a facilitation of the species at more nutrient-rich sites by mowing in June, which is also a benefit for the integration of management in farming systems.
27735073|Background: Habitat management for reproductively challenged rare species is a problem when there is insufficient knowledge of their autecology. This study investigated reproductive failure in the rare grass Calamagrostis porteri ssp. insperata (Swallen) C. Greene (Reed bentgrass). Does the management recommendation of high light stimulate clonal growth, flowering, and seed production? Location: Shawnee National Forest, IL, USA, and in a greenhouse and an experimental garden at Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, IL, USA. Methods: Clones obtained from the three known Illinois populations were grown in a glasshouse under experimental light and soil moisture treatments. After 3 years, plants from the high light treatment were planted outside in an experimental garden where the light treatments were maintained for two more years. In the field, vegetative and flowering tiller density, canopy cover, and associated biotic and abiotic variables including abundance of co-occurring plant species were monitored for 5 years. The overhead tree canopy was cleared over a portion of one population. Results: In the glasshouse, plants increased in size under high light and moist soil, and there were size differences among populations. Sixty-six per cent (20 of 30) of the genets flowered when planted outdoors under full sunlight but did not produce seed. In the field, flowering only occurred in Calamagrostis growing in the cleared area, but no seed were produced. The plants in the flowering population were smaller than plants in the other two populations. The herbaceous community associated with Calamagrostis in the open diverged from the communities remaining under the shade. Conclusions: This study highlights the difficulty of managing reproductively challenged rare species. Calamagrostis populations can be managed to enhance clonal growth, but establishment of new populations would require translocation of vegetative material as it is highly unlikely that seed can be obtained.
27735046|Question: Which biogeochemical processes are responsible for the decline of endemic metallophyte vegetation in floodplain grasslands? Location: Floodplain grasslands along the River Geul (the Netherlands) and metalliferous mine spoils near the River Geul (Belgium). Methods: In order to find factors and soil processes that have caused a decline of metallophytes and an increase of pseudo-metallophytes in floodplain grasslands, a soil study was done at locations currently and formerly dominated by metallophytes. In addition, changes in soil chemistry in recent decades in floodplain grasslands were investigated. Finally, a 2-year plant growth experiment was performed in the field, to test the effects of improving soil conditions by topsoil removal. Results: Metallophytes only occur on acidic floodplain soils (pH-H2O 5.0-5.5) with relatively high Zn availability (total Zn >40 mol g1; Zn/Ca>0.8; Zn-H2O> 59 mol kg1) combined with low phosphate availability (Olsen-P  1250 mol kg1). The Olsen-P and total Ca concentrations were relatively high in topsoil (0-20 cm), while total Zn was high throughout the soil profile (0-50 cm). Removal of topsoil led to recovery of P and Zn availability. Under the new soil conditions there was almost no growth and expansion of pseudo-metalliferous grasses in time, whereas metallophytes easily established, maintained and reproduced with significant increases in cover over time. Conclusions: On a global scale, metallophyte vegetation types are increasingly under threat of extinction. Our study shows that factors leading to higher soil alkalinity inhibit Zn availability at the expense of the metallophyte vegetation. Factors leading to a higher Olsen-P concentration stimulate the growth of more competitive pseudo-metallophyte grasses. Both eutrophication and alkalinisation have contributed to the decline of metallophyte vegetation in floodplains of the River Geul. Removal of the alkaline- and phosphate-enriched soil top layer restores the original soil chemistry and enables re-colonisation by the metallophyte vegetation. The results can be applied in conservation and restoration strategies for such sites.
1479039|Vegetation samples from 15 successional seres in various disturbed habitats in the western part of the Czech Republic were analysed to detect possible trends. For particular seres, data on species cover were available from the onset to 10-76 yr of succession. All seres started on bare ground. Species which attained at least 1% cover in any sere in any year were used as input data for Canonical Correspondence Analysis, assessing the effect of time as the environmental variable, for Detrended Correspondence Analysis and TWINSPAN classification. Two distinct groups of seres were distinguished: 'ruderal', occurring in agricultural, industrial or urban landscapes altered by men, usually on fertile sites; and 'non-ruderal', occurring in less altered, mostly forested landscapes, usually on acid, nutrient-poor and wetter soils. The former type of succession starts with ruderal annuals, being followed by ruderal perennials. In the latter case non-ruderal clonal perennials prevail from the onset of succession. The landscape frame is emphasized, beside site environmental conditions, as influencing the type of succession. The character of species attaining dominance in succession, participation of dominant woody plants and the character of late successional stages, i.e. features important from the point of view of potential restoration of human-disturbed habitats, are discussed.
1478992|This paper describes the vegetation change in an 18-year experiment designed to test a range of control of Pteridium aquilinum (Pteridium) and heathland restoration treatments; cutting, asulam application and Calluna vulgaris seeding, in a range of combinations at Cavenham Heath in Breckland, UK between 1978 and 1996. Vegetation change was recorded in two Phases; in Phase I (1978 - 1986) species biomass was sampled and in Phase II (1986 - 1996) cover was measured. Initially, Calluna establishment was good in some treatments, especially where Calluna seed was added and Pteridium was controlled. Other plots developed either a grassheath flora dominated by Agrostis capillaris, Deschampsia flexuosa, Dicranum scoparium, Festuca ovina and Rumex acetosella or were dominated by clonal species such as Calamagrostis epigejos or Carex arenaria. An unconstrained ordination showed significant vegetation change through time and that several treatments influenced the vegetation, especially those involving asulam application. When variation partitioning with constrained ordination was used a different explanation emerged. In Phase I the most important factors were the management treatments applied, elapsed time and spatial factors, with little overlap. In Phase II, elapsed time became irrelevant because the variation time explained overlapped that which could be explained by other variables. The most important of these were management treatments, spatial effects, weather, the amount of bare ground caused by disturbance and Pteridium litter cover (an index of Pteridium recovery). The implications of these results in interpreting vegetation change are discussed.
27735058|Question: What is the influence of management on the functioning of vegetation over time in Mediterranean ecosystems under different climate conditions? Location: Mediterranean shrublands and forests in SE Iberia (Andalusia). Methods: We evaluated the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) for the 1997-2002 time series to determine phenological vegetation patterns under different historical management regimes. Three altitudinal ranges were considered within each area to explore climatemanagement interactions. Each phenological pattern was analysed using time series statistics, together with precipitation (monthly and cumulative) and temperature. Results: NDVI time series were significantly different under different management regimes, particularly in highly transformed areas, which showed the lowest NDVI, weakest annual seasonality and a more immediate phenological response to precipitation. The NDVI relationship with precipitation was strongest in the summer-autumn period, when precipitation is the main plant growth-limiting factor. Conclusions: NDVI time series analyses elucidated complex influences of land use and climate on ecosystem functioning in these Mediterranean ecosystems. We demonstrated that NDVI time series analyses are a useful tool for monitoring programmes because of their sensitivity to changes, ease of use and applicability to large-scale studies.
1479070|We sampled vegetation and soils of, and classified mid-seral, even-aged, fire-origin, upland Picea mariana ecosystems in the Boreal White & Black Spruce and Sub-boreal Spruce zones of British Columbia, Canada. We applied multivariate and tabular methods to analyse and synthesize the data from 121 plots according to the methods of biogeoclimatic ecosystem classification. We delineated seven basic vegetation units and described their vegetation and environmental features. However, the delineated units could not be related to neither of the taxonomies proposed for the North American boreal forest communities. Although species-poor, the understorey vegetation in the sampled ecosystems provided for a sufficient floristic differentiation, which matched well the major edaphic differences between the units. The classification of mid-seral boreal ecosystems may be more useful that based on old-growth stands that are infrequent or lacking in the landscape due to wildfires.
1479022|Throughout the Mediterranean region, vegetation dynamics are affected by human activities which are either 'stresses' or 'disturbances', depending on their frequency, intensity and spatial distribution. To minimize or reduce anthropogenic degradation caused by land use and other disturbances, it is necessary to understand and predict the various responses of plant communities to disturbances. In particular, detailed but integrative approaches are required to assimilate large databases on vegetation and to make them directly useful for managers and restorers. We describe two case studies undertaken to evaluate the effects of logging or overgrazing on plant species diversity in pine forests of southern France and steppe ecosystems of southern Tunisia. Both studies employed the same methodology to identify plant functional traits (morphological, life history and regeneration traits) associated with community response to disturbance. The results of these analyses allowed us to develop state and transition models that could be used to plan and predict ecosystem trajectories, assess ongoing degradation processes and monitor community and ecosystem responses to management and restoration practices. We discuss the relevance and the use of plant functional types (PFTs) as tools for ecosystem management and planning and for monitoring restoration in southern Europe, northern Africa and elsewhere. Using this approach it is possible to improve management strategies for the conservation, restoration and sustainable exploitation of biodiversity and of ecosystems.
4620484|Is raising groundwater tables successful as a wetland restoration strategy? Kennemer dunes, The Netherlands; Moksloot dunes, The Netherlands and Bullock Creek fen, New Zealand. Generalizations were made by analysing soil dynamics and the responsiveness of integrative plant traits on moisture, nutrient regime and seed dispersal in three case studies of rewetted vs. control wetlands with the same actual groundwater levels. Soil conditions included mineral (calcareous and non-calcareous) soils with no initial vegetation, mineral soils with established vegetation and organic soils with vegetation. The responsiveness of traits to raised groundwater tables was related to soil type and vegetation presence and depended on actual groundwater levels. In the moist-wet zone, oligotrophic species, 'drier' species with higher seed longevity occupied gaps created by vegetation dieback on rewetting. The other rewetted zones still reflected trait values of the vegetation prevalent prior to rewetting with fewer adaptations to wet conditions, increased nutrient richness and higher seed longevity. Moreover, 'eutrophic' and 'drier' species increased at rewetted sites, so that these restored sites became dissimilar to control wetlands. The prevalent traits of the restored wetlands do not coincide with traits belonging to generally targeted plant species of wetland restoration. Long-term observations in restored and control wetlands with different groundwater regimes are needed to determine whether target plant species eventually revegetate restored wetlands.
1478878|Early-successional stages of woody vegetation on gravel bars were studied in an island-braided section of the River Tagliamento in northeastern Italy. We mapped landscape-level changes in the study area (125 ha) by GIS-based analysis of aerial photographs for two time periods (1984-1986, 1986-1991); we surveyed island vegetation, and estimated island age by tree ring analysis. The study area experienced considerable changes between 1984 and 1991 due to at least two major floods in 1987 and 1990. The development of woody vegetation on bars follows three distinct phases: (1) gravel bars plus large woody debris (LWD), (2) pioneer islands, and (3) established islands. Established islands have sections dominated by shrubs of Salix elaeagnos, S. purpurea, S. daphnoides and S. triandra, and tree-dominated sections with Populus nigra. Salix alba and Alnus incana. Large woody debris seems to play a key role for plant colonization on gravel bars. The succession from bars to established islands took about 10 - 20 yr, and the probability of an island being washed away decreased with island age. Erosion produced new LWD which again initiated successional processes in the active zone of the river. Most species were already present in the early-successional stages, although the number of species increased with island development. Established islands were characterized by a distinctive species composition, including an assemblage of species less tolerant of inundation. The results are discussed within the framework of island dynamics and its significance for restoration of early-successional habitats in more regulated rivers.
1478983|Atmospheric greenhouse gas concentrations will continue to rise for the foreseeable future, and, due to radiative forcing, surface temperatures will also increase. If soils warm sufficiently, this will result in increased litter decomposition rates, while nitrogen availability will also rise due to increased deposition. A field-based experiment manipulating air temperatures using polythene tents and nitrogen availability by adding 50 kg N ha
1478901| Wooded meadows on the Baltic Island of land result from traditional agricultural management over centuries which has led to a species-rich vegetation with high species diversity. Today, nearly all of these meadows have been abandoned and became rapidly overgrown by deciduous shrub and tree species forming a closed canopy which resulted in a rapid and strong decrease in species numbers of the herb layer. Recent efforts aim to restore overgrown wooded meadows by cutting single shrubs and trees to open the canopy. However, the effects of abandonment as well as of any restoration management in wooded meadows have rarely been documented until now. Mechanisms driving succession after restoration such as the dispersal potential of the respective species over time and space have not been analysed yet. Therefore, a chronosequence was studied which included a traditionally managed wooded meadow, an overgrown meadow which has been abandoned for more than 100 yr and a meadow which was restored 36 yr ago by cutting and is now grazed. We analysed the soil seed bank of the 3 meadows in comparison with the established vegetation and endozoochorous seed dispersal by cattle and sheep. After abandonment 87% of the typical grassland species vanished from the established vegetation and were replaced by species characteristic of woodland and disturbed grassland communities. The mean number of species decreased from 52 species per plot (4 m
41318179|Questions: What is the floristic composition of the plant communities that inhabit the beaches and dunes of the Pacific coast of North America? What are their ecological relationships in the zonal and successional gradients typical of coastal dune systems? Does climate affect the latitudinal distribution of the azonal vegetation? What other environmental factors influence their distribution on the regional or local scale? Location: Pacific coast of North America, from Baja California (2302'N) to Cook Inlet, Alaska (6130'N). Methods: A total of 1730 phytosociological relevs were obtained by sampling 279 coastal localities. In all localities, zonation was interpreted by considering transects from the shoreline inland. Through traditional phytosociological tabular classification and average linkage clustering, relevs were syntaxonomically classified. Syntaxa, supported by fidelity calculations, are described and interpreted according to their phytogeographical distribution, their relationships with macrobioclimate (MB) and bioclimates (BIO), and to the topographic and ecological gradients typical of coastal sandy areas. Results: Our bioclimate analysis served to define four MB and 11 BIO, each characterized by a particular type of potential natural vegetation. By floristically analysing the 522 vascular taxa detected, these were related to 16 phytogeographical elements. Syntaxonomically, the communities observed comprise 74 vegetation types, 70 of which are considered associations characterized by their diagnostic combination of species. These associations were classified into 24 alliances, 16 orders and 12 phytosociological classes. Two new classes, five new orders, 10 new alliances and 34 new associations are presented. Some syntaxa have been revised or validated. Conclusions: The coastal vegetation of the northern Pacific shows a distribution that is mainly linked to the four MB of the latitudinal gradient examined. Higher syntaxa are preferentially linked to a macrobioclimate, although some edaphic factors determine that some occupy two different but geographically close bioclimate zones. Regional factors, such as alkaline sands, induce the appearance of specialized vegetation types rich in endemic plants.
25488409|Question: How may Landolt indicator values be re-calibrated to improve the performance of predictive models? Location: Mires Gross Moos Schwndital (1250 m a.s.l.) in the Prealps, Burgmoos (465 m. a.s.l.) on the Central Plateau and La Burtignire (1000 m a.s.l.) in the Jura, Switzerland. Methods: Habitat distribution models based on high resolution remotely sensed data and vegetation field data are applied to monitor 130 mires. Instead of plant species or communities we used mean indicator values of vegetation records as response variables. To improve the differential power of indicator values for wetland habitat conditions, we calibrated these values using field data. Different methods were tested with our predictive models in three mires to see which calibration method is best in enhancing model performance. To assess the effect of the uneven distribution of vegetation records along environmental gradients, calibrations based on random and evenly distributed samples were compared. As a test of the predictive power of the models we used r between ground truth and model prediction. This approach is illustrated through an application with nutrient indicator values in the mire La Burtignire. Results: Model performances were not the same for the three mires. The predictive power was better for the nutrient values, soil reaction and humus values than for light and moisture values. 2000 records were sufficient as basis for re-calibration. Models based on original Landolt indicator values were overall the weakest compared with re-calibrated values. By comparing the predictive power of Models based on randomly or evenly selected records were about equally predictive. Conclusions: 1. A habitat-specific re-calibration of the Landolt indicator values enhances the predictive mapping of the Swiss mire ecosystems. 2. The re-calibration based on weighted averaging gives a better performance than the one based on Gaussian logistic regression. 3. The uneven distribution of indicator values due to the over-representation of mire habitats does not hamper model performance. 4. 2000 vegetation records are a sufficient basis for an optimal re-calibration of the vegetation types. An illustration of the method is given by using the soil fertility pattern of the mire La Burtignire.
27735075|Questions: What are the species composition and species and stem densities of liana communities in tropical landscapes of different deforestation levels? Which spatial attributes (forest cover, patch area, shape and isolation) have the strongest influence on liana communities in these landscapes? Location: Forty-five rainforest patches in Los Tuxtlas Biosphere Reserve, Mexico. Methods: In three landscapes with different deforestation levels (HDL = 4%; IDL = 11%; and LDL = 24% of remaining forest cover) liana communities (DBH  2.5 cm) were characterized in 15 randomly selected patches per landscape (10 50m2m transects per patch = 0.1 ha), and evaluated the effects of patch area, shape and isolation on liana species and stem density (number of species and stems per 0.1 ha). Results: A total of 64 taxa and 24 families were sampled. Species composition differed highly among landscapes, with HDL being the most dissimilar landscape. The response of lianas to landscape spatial pattern differed significantly among landscapes. Proximity to villages had a strong positive effect on species and stem densities in LDL and IDL. There was a sharp decrease in liana stem density in HDL, with four patches (27%) found to be unoccupied by lianas. Conclusions: Fragmentation may have a positive effect on lianas, partly because of edge effects. This positive effect seems to be limited by the proportion of remaining forest cover in the landscape, as the liana communities had collapsed in the most deforested landscape.
4620507|Question: Can the seed bank play a significant role in the restoration of plant communities of dry acidic dune grassland where fire has destroyed Ulex europaeus scrub? Location: Northern French Atlantic coast. Methods: One year after the fire, the seed bank and vegetation were sampled in 1 m x 1 m plots along three transects from the oldest scrub vegetation towards the grassland. Differences in species richness, seed density and contribution of ecological groups in the seed bank and vegetation along the transects were analysed. Results: Seed density and species richness in the seed bank decreased significantly from the grassland towards the centre of the scrub vegetation; 50% of the seed bank consisted of core species of the target plant community, such as Carex arenaria, Aira praecox, Rumex acetosella and Agrostis capillaris. Seeds of these species were also found in the deeper soil layers beneath the oldest scrub vegetation, indicating that they can be considered to be long-term persistent. Beneath the youngest scrub vegetation, seeds of rare satellite target species also occurred. However, no target species were established on the burned site after one year, resulting in a large discrepancy between seed bank and vegetation. Conclusions: Although the seeds present in the soil indicate that restoration of the acidic grassland based on the seed bank is possible, additional management actions such as mowing and soil disturbance may be necessary to restrict resprouting of Ulex and to stimulate the germination of seeds of target species in the deeper soil layers.
4620504| Questions: How is succession on ex-arable land affected by sowing high and low diversity mixtures of grassland species as compared to natural succession? How long do effects persist? Location: Experimental plots installed in the Czech Republic, The Netherlands, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom. Methods: The experiment was established on ex-arable land, with five blocks, each containing three 10 m  10 m experimental plots: natural colonization, a low-(four species) and high-diversity (15 species) seed mixture. Species composition and biomass was followed for eight years. Results: The sown plants considerably affected the whole successional pathway and the effects persisted during the whole eight year period. Whilst the proportion of sown species (characterized by their cover) increased during the study period, the number of sown species started to decrease from the third season onwards. Sowing caused suppression of natural colonizing species, and the sown plots had more biomass. These effects were on average larger in the high diversity mixtures. However, the low diversity replicate sown with the mixture that produced the largest biomass or largest suppression of natural colonizers fell within the range recorded at the five replicates of the high diversity plots. The natural colonization plots usually had the highest total species richness and lowest productivity at the end of the observation period. Conclusions: The effect of sowing demonstrated dispersal limitation as a factor controlling the rate of early secondary succession. Diversity was important primarily for its 'insurance effect': the high diversity mixtures were always able to compensate for the failure of some species. 
1479014|By the approval of the European Bird Directive (79/409/EEC) in 1979 and the Habitat Directive (92/43/EEC) in 1992, nature protection has become an important part of European law with direct consequences for land use, industrial development and agriculture. If a member state reclaims an area that is protected by these directives, it has to take compensational measures. When such an area includes saline grasslands that require very specific abiotic conditions, a place with similar conditions must be available to re-establish those grasslands at another location in a sustainable way. This will limit the number and extent of possible sites for compensation. In the conflict between economy and ecology in the Schelde polders, Flanders has chosen to expand the port of Antwerp in the polders at the left Schelde bank and destroy a protected saline grassland site. As a consequence, it has to compensate for this loss. Therefore, we made a detailed study of the hydrology, geology and soil conditions of the endangered saline grassland site. The same was done in four possible compensation sites, all situated in nearby polders. We found that the presence of upwelling groundwater flowing through a saline peat layer is necessary for the occurrence of saline grasslands. Only in one of the four possible compensation sites, called Muggenhoek, we found such conditions. So, we indicate this place as a possible site for the re-creation of saline grasslands and give some recommendations for their development.
4620459|Question: What are the effects of fire season and intensity on resprouting of different root-crown bearing shrub species in second-growth Pinus palustris (longleaf pine) savannas? Location: northern Florida and eastern Louisiana, USA. Methods: In Florida, quadrats were burned biennially either during the dormant season or the growing season. In Louisiana, we applied intensity treatments to quadrats by manipulating ground-cover fuels, just prior to biennial growing season fires. Maximum fire temperatures were measured, and stem densities were censused before and after fires in both regions. Results: After dormant season fires in Florida, stem densities were seven times greater than initial levels for Hypericum spp. In contrast, growing season fires reduced densities of H. brachyphyllum by 65%, but did not change densities of H. microsepalum. Only resprouting of H. microsepalum decreased with increased fire intensity. In Louisiana, fire intensity influenced Ilex vomitoria, but not Quercus spp. Following fires, stem densities of I. vomitoria were five times greater in fuel removal than fuel addition areas. Conclusions: Past use of dormant season fires likely contributed to increased abundances of some species of root-crown bearing shrubs observed today in old-growth savannas. Reintroduction of growing season fires will be effective in maintaining or decreasing stem densities, depending on species and fuel type. Genet mortality and stem density reductions appear most likely in areas at localized scales where tree falls and needle coverage create hotspots in Pinus palustris savannas.
1479023|Grassland communities are increasingly recognized as disturbance-dependent ecosystems, yet there are few replicated, multi-site studies documenting vegetation responses to varying frequencies and types of grassland disturbance. Even so, land managers frequently manipulate disturbance regimes in an attempt to favour native grassland plants over exotic species. We conducted a factorial experiment testing three frequencies of clipping combined with litter accumulation, litter removal, and soil disturbance within the highly threatened California coastal prairie plant community. We monitored the response of native/exotic, grass/forb plant guilds once a year for four years. More frequent clipping reduced cover of exotic grasses and favoured exotic forbs, whereas native species were largely unaffected by clipping frequency. Litter accumulation, litter removal, and soil disturbance did not affect vegetation composition. Effects of litter accumulation may take longer than our experiment allowed, and soil disturbance due to our treatments was not sufficiently strong to show consistent effects relative to mammalian soil disturbance. Treatment response of some plant guilds differed among sites, highlighting the importance of replicating experiments at several sites before recommending conservation management practices.
40927811|Question: Does understory vegetation cover and richness decline along a gradient of increasing Juniperus virginiana midstory canopy cover and is that decline best correlated with litter accumulation? Location: Cross Timbers Forest in Payne County, OK, USA. Methods: We measured vegetation in forest gaps as well as forest areas without J. virginiana, at the inner and outer edge of J. virginiana canopies and near J. virginiana trunks (200 plots) and compared vegetation differences among location to light, litter, soil and microclimate variables. Results: Species richness (11 sppm-2 to 6 spp m-2) and summer vegetation cover (53.3% to 12.7%) declined with proximity to trunks. Regression indicated that richness declines (R = 0.08) and cover (R = 0.18) were best correlated with J. virginiana litter accumulation. Partial canonical correspondence analysis (pCCA) revealed two strong canonical axes, one related to litter/light and another to cover of Quercus spp. versus J. virginiana. Tree seedlings and woody vines dominated near J. virginiana. Forbs, graminoids and Quercus spp. seedlings were more common in areas without J. virginiana. Conclusions: Increasing J. virginiana and consequent litter additions alter understory biomass and composition and, through inhibiting Quercus spp. recruitment, may lead to changes in overstory composition. Decreases in herbaceous litter, which historically contributed to fuel accumulation, may have positive feedback effects on midstory encroachment by reducing the potential for prescribed burning.
4620516|Question: Is native species occurrence related to soil nutrients in highly invaded Californian annual grasslands? What is the best method to analyze this relationship, given that native species occur in very low numbers and are absent from many locations? Location: California, USA. Methods: We investigated the effects of soil characteristics and livestock grazing on native plant occurrence at 40 plots from six sites during the period 2003-2005. Low absolute cover (< 5.8%) of native species resulted in strongly skewed, zero-inflated data sets. To overcome problems in the analysis created by non-normality and correlations within plots, we used GLMs and GLMMs, either with a Poisson or a negative binomial distribution, to analyse native species richness and Nassella pulchra cover. Results: N. pulchra cover was strongly associated with low phosphorus in sandy soils, whereas native species richness was highest in soils with low available nitrogen (high C:N). Conclusion: Under current conditions, phosphorus seems to be a critical factor influencing abundance of N. pulchra. Low fertility soils may provide refugia for native species in highly invaded California grasslands as they may be below a threshold required for non-native annuals to completely dominate. By using non-normal distributions in linear models with random components, we report well fitted models with more accurately tested significant covariates.
25488427|Question: The vegetation in a polder after partial tidal restoration does not resemble the targeted salt-marsh vegetation. Is this difference in vegetation due to lack of dispersal or unsuitable abiotic conditions? What could be done for a better restoration of the site? Location: Northwestern France. Methods: Seeds were trapped at the single inlet of the polder with a 200-m mesh net to estimate inputs of seeds from the bay. In parallel, seed dispersal was studied in the polder by placing Astroturf seed traps on the surface of the sediment at three different elevations in three distinct areas. Abiotic conditions such as flooding frequency, water table level and soil salinity were monitored. Results: All but one species from the adjacent salt marshes were trapped at the inlet. Not all of these species were on the seed traps inside the polder. Seed dispersal was not homogeneous in the polder and seed trap content mostly discriminated in function of their elevation. Salinity and water logging at the bottom of the slope were very high compared to tolerance of most halophytes but decreased rapidly higher up the slope. Conclusions: The development of salt marsh target species is highly restricted by limited hydrochory inside the polder but also by unfavourable soil conditions induced by the actual hydrological regime. Halophytes are excluded at the bottom of the slope by abiotic conditions and out-competed by sub-halophytes higher up. In order to restore salt marsh vegetation inside the polder, a larger opening should be induced in order to increase the flooded surface, and diminish water logging and flooding frequencies.
27735074|Questions: Are there any sustainable or vulnerable habitats in which beech (Fagus crenata) forests could survive in Japan under 110 hypothetical climate change scenarios? Location: Six islands of Japan on which beech grows naturally. Methods: An ecological habitat model was used to simulate the potential habitat shifts of beech forests under 110 climate change scenarios. The amount of suitable habitat loss and gain was calculated with three migration options and risk surfaces. Vulnerable and sustainable habitats were identified to evaluate the potential risks and survival of beech forests. Results: The total areas of potential suitable habitats differed considerably depending on the future temperature and precipitation changes. Some areas on the Sea of Japan (SOJ) side showed higher probability of maintaining suitable habitats, whereas there were wider areas in which suitable habitats could not persist under any of the 110 climate change scenarios. Conclusions: The risk surfaces of the suitable habitats showed that decreases in precipitation along with increases in temperature reduced the total areas of suitable habitats. Increases in precipitation with increases in temperature of more than or equal to 2C always reduce the areas of suitable habitats. Under increased precipitation with a temperature increase of <2C, the areas of suitable habitats showed an increase, maintenance of the status quo or a decrease, depending on the size of the increase in precipitation. Beech forests in western Japan are predicted to be vulnerable to climate change, whereas some mountains on the SOJ side are predicted to be possible future refugia.
25488449|Question: What is the most appropriate combination of treatments to reintroduce Nassella pulchra, a perennial bunchgrass, into degraded mediterranean coastal grasslands? Location: Central coast of California, USA. Methods: N. pulchra was sown from seeds and transplanted into a degraded grassland in a multi-factorial experiment testing the effects of (1) two grazing intensities (lightly grazed by native mammal species or ungrazed); (2) topsoil removal and (3) reduction of plant neighbours. The experiment was carried out on two types of surrounding vegetation (exotic annual grasses and exotic forbs). Results: Topsoil removal greatly enhanced establishment from seeds and transplant survival, mainly because it reduced the exotic vegetation and thus reduced competition. While removing neighbours was essential when topsoil was left intact, it had a negative effect on N. pulchra when surrounding species included exotic forbs (Brassica spec. and Asteraceae) at low density (after toposil removal). Moderate grazing by native mammals (deer, rabbits and gophers) did not affect N. pulchra. Conclusion: Our results suggest that seeding after topsoil has been removed is a promising method to reintroduce N. pulchra to highly degraded sites where there is little to no native seed bank.
40928281|Question: Can genetic tools combined with phytogeography help to define local plants and how geographically close the source population should be to the restoration site? Location: Subalpine and alpine French Pyrenees. Methods: The main phytogeographic boundaries in the French Pyrenees described by different authors were studied and this geographic pattern was compared with the results of genetic analysis for the four Pyrenean plants studied (Trifolium alpinum, Festuca eskia, Festuca gautieri and Rumex scutatus), based on random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) marker analysis, unweighted pair-group method with arithmetic averages (UPGMA) analysis and Mantel correlograms comparing geographic and genetic distances. Results: The genetic analysis allowed definition of two main evolutionarily significant units (ESUs) for the plants under study. Although the limit between the two zones was slightly variable according to the species considered, an eastern and a western ESU was consistently observed. This delineation was concordant with the main phytogeographic boundaries of the French Pyrenees. Conclusion: RAPD markers and associated Mantel correlograms can be useful to draw ESUs for individual species when the sampling intensity is relatively dense, and similarities were revealed between species sharing the same distribution range. This delineation allowed integration of infraspecific plant variation in the management of natural resources for re vegetation in the Pyrenees. Nevertheless, caution is needed for the establishment of seed pools in order to maximize genetic diversity in each of the pools during collection and production.
1479081|We propose a new method to obtain information about processes that structure plant communities. We analysed the relationship between the presence and dominance of species across a range of habitats. A simple regression model was used to describe this relationship for each species. Based on the regression parameters, we distinguished globally dominant species, which dominate in the same proportion of plots within a habitat as in which they occur, locally dominant species, which reach dominance only when present in almost every plot of a habitat, and intrinsically subordinate species, which never attain dominance. We tested this method using a large data set of species occurrences across a range of salt marsh habitats. The relationships between presence and dominance could be described well by the regressions, and showed large differences between the species. Global dominants occurred later in the succession and higher on the elevational gradient than intrinsically subordinate species. Local dominants were characteristic of early successional stages. These patterns are discussed in the light of colonisation-competition and tolerance-competition trade-offs.
1478909| This study assesses the utility of modelling approaches to predict vegetation distribution in agricultural landscapes of southwestern Australia. Climate surfaces, hydrologic and erosion process models are used to link vegetation to environmental variables. Generalized additive models (GAM) are derived for presence/absence data of mapped vegetation types. Vegetation distribution shows significant responses to rainfall and subsequent water redistribution due to the relief; however, these variables are insufficient to effectively explain vegetation patterns at the local scale. Accordingly, prediction accuracy remains low (-values below 0.5). The striking unpredictability of the local distribution of the vegetation in the Wheatbelt is discussed with regard to the performance of topographically driven processes in subdued landscapes and with regard to geological, historical and biological factors determining the southwestern Australian plant species distribution. 
27735057|Question: How does semi-natural grassland diversify after 65 years of differential application of Ca, N, P, and K fertilizers? Is fertilizer application adequately reflected by the Ellenberg indicator values (EIVs)? Location: Eifel Mountains, West Germany. Methods: The Rengen Grassland Experiment (RGE) was established in an oligotrophic grassland in 1941. Six fertilizer treatments (Ca, CaN, CaNP, CaNP-KCl, CaNP-K2SO4, and unfertilized control) were applied annually in five complete randomized blocks. Species composition of experimental plots was sampled in 2006 and compared with constancy tables representing grassland types in a phytosociological monograph of a wider area. Each plot was matched to the most similar community type using the Associa method. Mean EIVs were calculated for each treatment. Results: The control plots supported oligotrophic Nardus grassland of the Polygalo-Nardetum association (Violion caninae alliance). Vegetation in the Ca and CaN treatments mostly resembled montane meadow of Geranio-Trisetetum (Polygono-Trisetion). Transitional types between Poo-Trisetetum and Arrhenatheretum (both from the Arrhenatherion alliance) developed in the CaNP treatment. In the CaNP-KCl and CaNP-K2SO4 treatments, vegetation corresponded to the mesotrophic Arrhenatheretum meadow. Major discontinuity in species composition was found between control, Ca, and CaN treatments, and all treatments with P application. EIVs for both nutrients and soil reaction were considerably higher in P treatments than in Ca and CaN treatments. Surprisingly, the control plots had the lowest EIVs for continentality and moisture, although these factors had not been manipulated in the experiment. Conclusions: Long-term fertilizer application can create different plant communities belonging to different phytosociological alliances and classes, even within a distance of a few meters. Due to their correlated nature, EIVs can erroneously indicate changes in factors that actually did not change, but co-varied with factors that did change. In P-limited ecosystems, EIVs for nutrients may indicate availability of P rather than N.
4620418|Question: Which are the success and failure of restoration measures, particularly sod-cutting and hydrological measures, in small wetlands on mineral soils in The Netherlands. Location: Twente, in the eastern part of The Netherlands. Methods: Success or failure of restoration measures has been assessed by comparing experimental plots with that in reference plots for (1) species richness, (2) re-establishment of endangered species and (3) species composition, including life forms and Red List species. In total 119 samples were taken in 42 permanent plots in fen meadows, small-sedge marshes, wet heathlands, and soft-water pools. Topsoil samples were analysed for pH, Ca, Mg, Na, K and Cation Exchange Capacity. Gradient analysis was carried out by means of Canonical Correspondence Analysis. Results: Sod-cutting, in combination with re-wetting measures (infilling of ditches and drains), led to restoration of communities of soft-water pools and small sedge marshes within five years. This rapid recovery is probably related to the presence of persistent seed banks of the component species of these communities. Complete restoration of fen meadows took longer (10-15 yr). Apparently, many species of fen meadows have short-lived seed banks. Sod-cutting of a degraded wet heathland and a soft-water pool was only successful temporarily, probably as a consequence of low water tables. Conclusions: To prevent depletion of (persistent) soil seed banks, sod-cutting in nutrient-poor wetlands is not recommended in areas where the groundwater regime and the base status of the soil can not be restored to levels required by plant communities of wet heathlands.
4620437| Question: How does the relationship between the viable soil seed bank species composition and the above-ground vegetation in northern Arizona Pinus ponderosa forests differ under varying historical land use disturbances (low, intermediate, high)? Is above-ground vegetation correlated to the viable soil seed bank immediately following soil disturbance from restoration thinning treatments? Location: Northern Arizona, USA. Methods: Soil seed bank samples were taken along replicated transects and collected with a 5-cm diameter bulk density hammer. Samples included a 5 -cm diameter O-horizon sample (at varying depths) plus the underlying mineral soil to a depth of 5 c m. The seedling emergent method was used to quantify seed bank species composition and density. The herbaceous and shrub plant community was quantified along the same transects using the point intercept method. Results: Early-successional or ruderal species were common in the soil seed bank at all three disturbance sites. Non-native species, notably Verbascum thapsus, were more numerous (up to 940 seeds/m) under high disturbance with overgrazing and logging, and less common or absent under low disturbance. Most viable seeds were found in the O-horizon and the upper 5 cm of mineral soil; there was little correlation between species in the soil seed bank and the above-ground vegetation. Conclusions: We recommend that restoration plans be geared toward minimizing activities, such as severe soil disturbance, that may promote the spread of non-native invasive species, and that manual seeding be explored as an option to restore plant species diversity and abundance. 
4620515|Question: Are growth form and dispersal-mode replacement during vegetation succession in semi-arid Mediterranean conditions affected by the starting quality of the substrate and by site aspect? Location: Central-western Spain. Methods: We monitored successions on three waste materials left after uranium mining: unbroken waste, broken waste and wastes amended with a sandy material (Arkoses); both north and south aspects were also studied on each substrate. Results: The substrate starting quality had the greatest influence on spontaneous succession, separating the poorer quality substrates (broken and unbroken wastes) from the better ones (Arkoses) and two reference communities (Topsoil and Dehesa). The importance of aspect was confirmed then within each substrate type. Most species with a short life span (mostly annuals and a few biennials), together with some woody species on Arkoses, showed no response to age (years following the deposition of new soil). Others short-lived species declined over time on the poorer wastes but not on the better Arkoses. There was a tendency for life form replacement (from therophytes to hemicryptophytes) during succession only on the poorer-quality substrates. No dispersal-mode replacement sequence was found. Conclusion: Improving the abiotic conditions of the substrate had a great effect on vegetation succession, but this effect was modified by aspect. Aspect took longer to induce differences in floristic composition on the poorer substrates, where succession was slower. Some trends in species responses to successional change were found by considering species traits, particularly life-form.
1479011|The results of previous studies concerning spontaneous vegetation succession in various man-made or disturbed habitats in Central Europe are discussed in relation to restoration ecology. An attempt is made to answer the main questions which are important to restoration programs. These concern the rate and direction of succession; participation of target species and communities, woody species, ruderals and aliens; arresting or diverting succession; changes in species diversity; variability of successional pathways and the role of abiotic environmental conditions. The great potential for using successional theory in restoration programs is emphasized.
1479086|Rare vascular plant species are endangered worldwide. Population losses are most commonly caused by human-related factors. Conservation management seeks to halt this adverse trend and if possible, to enhance long-lasting self-sustainable populations. In general, rare species are poorly recruited from seed banks, or disperse themselves very poorly. It may be a management option to translocate such plants by seeds and/or transplants. This paper asks which problems may be faced. It is argued that translocation is only acceptable if it is based on knowledge of species biology and ecology and the size and structure of its geographic range through time. Such knowledge of rare species is often lacking. The finite management goal can only be achieved if conservationists closely cooperate with both ecologists and geneticists.
4620478| Were continued groundwater discharge and mowing regimes sufficient for vegetation preservation from 1944 to 1993? Which has a stronger effect on vegetation development; groundwater discharge or mowing? What is the role of surface water eutrophication as driver of vegetation change? Het Hol, The Netherlands (ca. 92 ha, 5213' N, 505' E). Hydrology was simulated for the late 1940s, early 1960s and 1987. Vegetation maps (1944, 1960, 1975 and 1993) were compared for biotope cover. Vegetation recordings in 1944 and 1987 were compared. Surface water quality was compared between 1950 and 1987. Which sites were mown was reconstructed from an interview. Effects of periodic mowing and groundwater discharge on vegetation development were tested for correlation. Biotope diversity reduced significantly through decrease of semi-aquatic and tall-herb biotopes, and expansion of forest. The quagfen terrestrialization sere nearly disappeared from 1987 recordings, while the reed sere did well concerning abundance and species richness. Several typical (rich) fen species disappeared from recordings, while new species were mostly field margin species. Periodic mowing and discharge combined are correlated with increasing species numbers. The P-concentration in surface water increased while N-concentration decreased. Preservation of the reed sere was successful, whereas preservation of the quagfen sere was not. Periodic mowing and discharge stimulate species richness, discharge more so than periodic mowing. But slight eutrophication likely induced a shift from P-limitation to N-limitation, which stimulated the reed sere at the expense of the quagfen sere. 
1479072|The objective of this experiment was to study the impact of free-range pigs foraging on mountain pasture vegetation. Pigs (15 week-old, mean weight 50 kg, n = 25) were enclosed from June to mid-September in a 2-ha enclosure in the Jura Mountains (Switzerland) and fed with a mixture of lactoserum and cereals. The enclosure contained four different plant communities. Eutrophic pastures on deep soil were largely overturned, but recolonization was quick and vegetation dominated by the original species. Mesotrophic pastures were less damaged on stony soil but were completely destroyed on deep soil, recovery was slow and was characterized by a shift of plant species in a more eutrophic direction. Four years were not sufficient for complete recovery. Oligotrophic calcareous pastures on shallow stony soil were not damaged. The result of this study was that extensive breeding of pigs in mountain pastures are harmful to plant species in mesotrophic pastures, and should be restricted to less sensitive plant communities, with a rotation of two or three different sites.
4620450|Questions: What is the variability in abundance of lichens on grassland soil between and within fields after prescribed fire? Is post-fire lichen abundance an effect of pre-fire population size? Location: Cedar Creek Natural History Area, Minnesota, USA. Methods: Lichen abundance, estimated as ground cover and dominated by Cladonia spp., was mapped in plots in two fields before prescribed burning on 06.10.2003 and 15.10.2003 for the first time since abandonment in the 1950s. The plots were resurveyed one year post-fire. Results: Post-fire cover of Cladonia spp. varied strongly between the fields, most likely due to different weather conditions between the burn events, which resulted in different fire intensities, one of low and one of high intensity. In the field that experienced the low intensity fire, post-fire cover of Cladonia spp. was still relatively high, and showed a positive relationship with pre-fire cover, while no such relationship was found after the high intensity fire. In that field Cladonia spp. experienced high mortality rates irrespective of pre-fire cover. Conclusions: This study provides an example of how species response to disturbance can be a function of population size, but that this relationship can be non-linear; lichens in grassland can survive a low intensity fire proportionally to pre-fire population size, but experience high mortality rates above a fire intensity threshold. The applications of these results are that fire intensity matters to species response to prescribed fire, and that the persistence of climax lichen communities and biodiversity in the study system needs a broad range of fire intervals.
1478965|Exposed cliffs of the Swiss Jura mountains harbour a highly diverse flora with many rare and endangered plant species. Many cliffs are frequently visited by rock climbers. We examined the impact of rock climbing on vascular plants in the lower part of four cliffs of the Gerstelflue (NW Switzerland) by comparing the vegetation of climbed and unclimbed areas. In climbed areas plant cover and species density were reduced. Similarly, the density of forbs and shrubs decreased, whereas the density of ferns tended to increase. In addition, rock climbing caused a significant shift in plant species composition and altered the proportions of different plant life forms. Rock climbing can be a threat to sensitive plants of the limestone cliff community.
4620432| Questions: How does Calluna vulgaris regenerate after burning wet and dry heaths of different age? Location: Central Norway. Methods: Patches of Calluna dominated old and young wet heath and old dry heath were burned. The mean temperatures reached in the categories of heath were measured. Cover, frequency, height and number of seedlings of Calluna were studied in plots. Results: The mean burning temperatures varied from 680 to 740 C, and were highest in wet heath that had not been burned for at least 50 years. Regeneration of Calluna was evident in the year of burning, but only from seeds. Even heath with a short burning interval lacked vegetative regeneration. Calluna cover increased yearly and exceeded 50 % three years after burning. Regeneration was evident in the year of burning, and was highest in heath with a short burning interval. The height increased regularly at all sites, but was most rapid in dry heath, probably because of better microclimatic conditions. There were more seedlings in the heath with a short burning interval. Conclusions: Calluna only regenerates from seeds after burning in central Norway. The density of Calluna increased rapidly, which is positive for the conservation and management of coastal heaths in central Norway. 
1478997|Above-ground Net Primary Production (ANPP) is the main determinant of forage availability and hence of stocking density. A tool to track the seasonal and interannual changes in ANPP at the paddock level will be very important for livestock management. We studied the relationship between field ANPP data and the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) for rangelands of the Flooding Pampa of Argentina using spectral data provided by sensors on board of two satellites: NOAA/AVHRR and Landsat TM. The relationship between NDVI and ANPP was linear both for data derived from NOAA/AVHRR and Landsat TM. Changes in ANPP accounted for a large proportion of the temporal and spatial variation of NDVI: 71% of NOAA/AVHRR data and 74% of Landsat TM data. By inverting these models, ANPP may be inferred from NDVI data at a seasonal and paddock scale. NOAA/AVHRR data captured better the seasonal variation in ANPP and were less sensitive to local variations than Landsat TM data. In contrast, Landsat TM data were more sensitive to inter-site differences in primary production, except for the winter months. Thus, combining information from these two sources offers a good alternative for monitoring rangeland production at high temporal and spatial resolution.
25488413|Question: What are the age structure and growth trends in a 160-year old not-managed Pinus sylvestris plantation with spontaneous development of Quercus robur and can recruitment of Q. robur be related to the radial growth pattern of the P. sylvestris overstorey? Location: Mattemburgh forest reserve, The Netherlands. Methods: Throughout the forest, we sampled 103 oaks and 102 pines with an increment corer. Tree ring widths were measured and cross-dated to produce mean ring width series. With these data we determined tree ages, investigated growth trends and identified growth releases and suppressions. Results: Q. robur is uneven-aged: some individuals recruited around 1925, but most reached coring height in the 1940s. The latter recruitment period related to a transition from stressed to released growth of the overstorey pines, growth releases of the oldest Q. robur and occurrence of P. sylvestris regeneration. No further recruitment has taken place since 1950. Conclusions: This study demonstrates that an old pine plantation can develop spontaneously into well-structured pine forest with an understorey of oak and pine. However, understorey recruitment in these forest types is not a continuous process and in this case a single allogenic canopy disturbance triggered its establishment.
4620495| Question: How useful are Ellenberg N-values for predicting the herbage yield of Central European grasslands in comparison to approaches based on ordination scores of plant species composition or on soil parameters? Location: Central Germany (1100'-1137' E, 5021'-5034' N, 500-840 m a.s.l.). Methods: Based on data from a field survey in 2001, the following models were constructed for predicting herbage yield in montane Central European grasslands: (1) Linear regression of mean Ellenberg N-, R- and F-values; (2) Linear regression of ordination scores derived from Non-metric Multidimensional Scaling (NMDS) of vegetation data; and (3) Multiple linear regression (MLR) of soil variables. Models were evaluated by cross-validation and validation with additional data collected in 2002. Results: Best predictions were obtained with models based on species composition. Ellenberg N-values and NMDS scores performed equally well and better than models based on Ellenberg R- or F-values. Predictions based on soil variables were least accurate. When tested with data from 2002, models based on Ellenberg N-values or on NMDS scores accurately predicted productivity rank order of sites, but not the actual herbage yield of particular sites. Conclusions: Mean Ellenberg N-values, which are easy to calculate, are as accurate as ordination scores in predicting herbage yield from plant species composition. In contrast, models based on soil variables may be useful for generating hypotheses about the factors limiting herbage yield, but not for prediction. We support the view that Ellenberg N-values should be called productivity values rather than nitrogen values. 
25488487|Objective: The objective of this study was to map vegetation composition across a 24 000 ha watershed. Location: The study was conducted on the western slope of the Sierra Nevada mountain range of California, USA. Methods: Automated image segmentation was used to delineate image objects representing vegetation patches of similar physiognomy and structure. Image objects were classified using a decision tree and data sources extracted from individual species distribution models, Landsat spectral data, and life form cover estimates derived from aerial image-based texture variables. Results: A total of 12 plant communities were mapped with an overall accuracy of 75% and a -value of 0.69. Species distribution model inputs improved map accuracy by approximately 15% over maps derived solely from image data. Automated mapping of existing vegetation distributions, based solely on predictive distribution model results, proved to be more accurate than mapping based on Landsat data, and equivalent in accuracy to mapping based on all image data sources. Conclusions: Results highlight the importance of terrain, edaphic, and bioclimatic variables when mapping vegetation communities in complex terrain. Mapping errors stemmed from the lack of spectral discernability between vegetation classes, and the inability to account for the confounding effects of land use history and disturbance within a static distribution modeling framework.
25488473|Question: Are there effects of long-term deposition of airborne nitrogen and sulphur on the forest floor vegetation from permanent plots collected in 1993 compared to 2005. Location: Northern limestone Alps in Austria. Methods: Single species responses were analysed by correlating trends in cover-abundance values, as derived from marginal models, with Ellenberg indicator values. Changes in the species composition of plots were analysed by correlating changes in mean Ellenberg indicator values with the displacement of plots within a multidimensional scaling ordination. Results: Trends in single species abundance were positively correlated with indicator values of soil pH but were independent of nutrient availability. A general trend towards the homogenisation of vegetation, due to convergent time vectors of the relevs, became obvious. Oligotrophic sites previously situated at the distal ends of ordination axes shifted towards the centre since they were enriched by species preferring mesotrophic conditions. The bulk of plots with intermediate site conditions hardly showed any trends. A concomitant analysis demonstrated that temporal changes in species composition exceed the variation in cover abundance estimates among different field botanists. Conclusions: N deposition can lead to a homogenisation of forest floor vegetation. Larger limestone areas with diverse soil conditions, such as the Northern limestone Alps in Austria, as a whole are thus negatively affected by airborne N deposition. Nevertheless, the vegetation was at least as strongly affected by an increase of basiphilous species as a result of decreasing S deposition.
41318182|Question: What is the syntaxonomical diversity of boreal oligotrophic pine forests in Western Eurasia? Location: Boreal zone of Northern Europe and Western Siberia. Methods: Classification of forest vegetation plots using Ward's clustering and the Braun-Blanquet approach. Results: North European and West Siberian boreal oligotrophic pine forests can be assigned to the Vaccinio-Piceetea Br.-Bl. in Br.-Bl. et al. 1939; Pinetalia sylvestris Oberdorfer 1957; Cladonio stellaris-Pinion sylvestris Kielland-Lund ex Ermakov et Morozova 2011, seven associations (Cladonio arbusculae-Pinetum sylvestris (Kielland-Lund 1967) Ermakov & rozova 2011; Flavocetrario nivalis-Pinetum sylvestris Morozova et al. 2008; Pinetum sibiricae-sylvestris Makhatkov et Ermakov 2010; Hedysaro alpini-Laricetum sibiricae Saburov 1972; Linnaeo borealis-Pinetum sylvestris (Kielland-Lund 1967) Ermakov & rozova 2011; Barbilophozio-Pinetum sylvestris Br.-Bl. et Sissingh in Br.-Bl. et al. 1939; Bazzanio-Pinetum sylvestris Kielland-Lund 1967; Calamagrostio lapponicae-Pinetum sylvestris Br.-Bl. et Sissingh in Br.-Bl. et al. 1939) and six subassociations. Syntaxonomical and geographical boundaries between the alliances Cladonio stellaris-Pinion sylvestris and Dicrano -Pinion (Libbert 1933) Matuszkiewicz 1962 were defined. Conclusion: We propose the concept of alliance Cladonio stellaris-Pinion sylvestris, which includes all associations of oligotrophic pine forests within the boreal zone of Europe and Western Siberia. Analysis of a data set from Northern Europe and North-western Siberia demonstrates a common set of ecological, floristic and phytocoenotic features of all types of oligotrophic pine forests. This supports Oberdorfer's concept of a single Eurasian order Pinetalia sylvestris.
1479053|The effects of warming on a montane meadow was simulated by a translocation experiment. A coherent piece of turf and soil was transferred from 600 m to 170 m a.s.l., corresponding to an increase in temperature of ca. 2.8 K. The vegetation was monitored by recording cover and counting individuals one year before the translocation and continued for the subsequent seven years. For comparison, a control plot that had also been translocated but remained at 600 m was monitored. Four of eight species with a montane distribution in Europe showed a constant degree of cover during the investigation period (Nardus stricta, Poa chaixii, Polygonatum verticillatum, Potentilla erecta). In contrast, another four montane species declined in cover or died out (Arnica montana, Meum athamanticum, Hypericum maculatum, Galium harcynicum). None of these species declined on the control plot. It is argued that the species' responded individualistically to the site factors that had changed with the translocation to low altitude. A direct effect of enhanced temperature was probably the reason for the decline of only one species (Meum athamanticum). Reduced humidity might be the reason for the extinction of two moisture demanding species (Viola palustris, Succisa pratensis). The biomass of the plot increased by increased growth of one of the matrix species (Festuca rubra), probably due to elevated nutrient mineralization. Many low growing species responded indirectly to the reduced light availability, caused by an increased level of competition for light (e.g. Galium harcynicum). Increased slug herbivory at low altitude resulted in the extinction of Arnica montana. At the end of the investigation period, the similarity in species composition to the initial state was only 45%, indicating that the community had changed into a different plant association. The importance of considering biotic interactions when predicting the impacts of climate change is discussed.
25488419|Questions: How is restored inundation affecting the groundwater composition in a floodplain? To what extent has the floodplain plant community composition changed? What are the effects of flooding frequency and intensity and water quality on the floodplain vegetation changes? Location: Demer river, Flanders, Belgium. Methods: 75 10m  10m plots were surveyed in 1997 and in 2003. Vegetation changes were quantified using a Detrended Correspondence Analysis on the combined 1997-2003 dataset. Groundwater quality in the floodplain was analysed on macro-ions. Inundation intensity and frequency were related to vegetation changes. Results: The inundation water was rich in nutrients, although only for NH and ortho-PO, and a significant increase was recorded in the groundwater. Plant species characteristic of very nutrient-rich herb vegetation disappeared or decreased while the cover and species richness of species from wet, moderately productive habitats increased. Very few new species colonized the floodplain. Conclusion: Nutrient-rich flooding water does not necessarily result in increased abundance of species from nutrient-rich habitats, very likely because N becomes less available by denitrification and is transformed into biomass by tall herbs. Either micro-site limitation or dispersal limitation could explain the colonization problems of new species. The data do not allow distinction between these two mechanisms.
1478985|In a small alluvial floodplain depression (21 ha) of the river Dijle, a selection of 56 characteristic, mainly groundwater-depending plant species was mapped using a regular 20 by 20 m square cell mapping grid. In order to understand the spatial distribution of the plant species and their vegetation types, several environmental variables, including groundwater regime, groundwater chemistry, soil texture, soil chemical composition and management type were measured in detail. Using Detrended Correspondence Analysis and Canonical Detrended Correspondence Analysis, the relation between these environmental variables and the plant species and vegetation types, respectively, is described in detail. Management type and groundwater fluctuations are recognized as the two main sets of environmental variables causing the specific spatial distribution of plant species and vegetation types for the mire-ecosystem of the silty alluvial floodplain.
1478999|We tested whether rewetting improved environmental conditions during peatland restoration and promoted colonization and development of mire vegetation. Vegetation change was monitored in a cut-away peatland one year before, and four years after, rewetting. Colonizers before rewetting were perennials, mostly typical of hummocks or bare peat surfaces. The main variation in vegetation was related to variation in the amounts of major nutrients and water table level. The wettest site with the highest nutrient level had the highest total vegetation cover and diversity, as well as some species typical of wet minerotrophic mires. Raising the water table level above, or close to, the soil surface promoted development of wet minerotrophic vegetation. Diversity initially decreased because of the disappearance of hummock vegetation but started to recover in the third year. Eriophorum vaginatum and Carex rostrata were both favoured, and bryophytes typical of wet habitats colonized the site. Moderate rewetting promoted the development of Eriophorum vaginatum seedlings and an increase in the cover of tussocks. Bryophytes typical of disturbed peat surfaces spread. In the control site development continued slowly towards closed hummock vegetation. The study showed that raising the water level to, or above, soil surface promotes conditions wet enough for a rapid succession towards closed mire vegetation.
1478989| In an experiment in a limestone grassland on the Baltic island of land, SE Sweden, nutrient and water supply, light intensity and grazing regime were altered in 10 combinations during four years in 10 plots of 0.25 m
27735091|Questions: What influence do management practices and previous tree and shrub stand structure have on the occurrence and development of natural regeneration of Pinus sylvestris in Mediterranean mountain forests? How are the fine-scale and environmental patterns of resources affected and what impact does this have on the distribution of the regeneration? Location: A Pinus sylvestris Mediterranean mountain forest in central Spain. Methods: Upperstory trees and regeneration (seedlings and saplings) were mapped in four 0.5-ha plots located in two types of stand with different management intensities (even-aged and uneven-aged stands). Environmental variables were recorded at the nodes of a grid within the plots. The relationships between the upperstory and regeneration were evaluated by bivariate point pattern analysis; redundancy analysis ordination and variation partitioning were performed to characterize regeneration niches and the importance of the spatial component. Results: Seedlings and saplings presented a clumped structure under both types of management and their distribution was found to be related to the spatial distribution of favourable microsites. Regeneration was positively related to conditions of partial cover with high soil water content during the summer. More than half of the explained variance was spatially structured in both types of stand. This percentage was particularly high in the even-aged stands where the pattern of regeneration was highly influenced by the gaps created by harvesting. Conclusions: The spatial distribution of the tree and shrub upperstory strongly influences regeneration patterns of P. sylvestris. Current management practices, promoting small gaps, partial canopy cover and moderate shade in even-aged stands, or favouring tree and shrub cover in the case of uneven-aged stands, appears to provide suitable conditions for the natural regeneration of P. sylvestris in a Mediterranean climate.
41318188|Question: Riparian zones provide ecologically rich interfaces between land and flowing water, and are favoured areas for grazing by native ungulates and livestock. Overgrazing can degrade riparian vegetation. Will sensitivity and vulnerability to grazing increase in upper mountain zones because of the harsh physical environment? Location: We compared the impact of cattle grazing along natural elevational corridors provided by two first-order creeks in the Rocky Mountains of Alberta, Canada. Methods: Substrate and vegetation characteristics were assessed in quadrats within transects positioned in ungrazed or lightly grazed, versus moderately to heavily grazed sites extending from the alpine down through the subalpine, montane, parkland and prairie zones. Results: Analyses revealed that 18 of 19 substrate and vegetation characteristics varied along the elevational profile (17 P < 0.05; 1 P < 0.1). Fifteen differed with grazing (12 P < 0.05; 3 P < 0.1), which was associated with coarser substrate with lower pH, reduced diversity and density of shrubs and trees, reduced vegetation cover, increased percent cover and species of weeds and changes in proportions of particular plants such as increasing yarrow (Achillea millefolium) and decreasing mountain valerian (Valeriana sitchensis). Significant grazing  elevation interactions for seven characteristics (5 P < 0.05; 2 P < 0.1 ) indicated greater impacts at higher elevations. Conclusions: This study revealed that the upper elevations were heavily affected, despite their shorter, seasonally restricted grazing history. This indicates that riparian zones in upper mountain environments are particularly vulnerable to livestock grazing.
1478922|The use of digital images in measuring plant species cover and species number in boreal forest vegetation was studied. Plant cover was estimated by manual delineation on photographs and subsequent digitized measurement of the areas. This value was regarded as the reference and compared with cover obtained by visual estimate, point frequency and automatic image analysis methods. The automatic image analysis was based on scanned photographs. Supervised image classification with ERDAS software was then used to distinguish between the covers of different plant species. When comparing the ability of the methods to detect species, the visual estimate method gave values similar to the reference. The study material was collected from three sites along a heavy-metal pollution transect in western Finland. All four methods detected, in a similar manner, differences between the plant species abundances along the transect. Compared with the reference, the digital images underestimated the cover of the lichens Cladina spp. and Cetraria islandica, but gave similar estimates for the dwarf shrubs Empetrum nigrum and Vaccinium vitis-idaea. The point frequency method overestimated the cover of all the species studied. The visual estimates of lichens were close to the reference, while the dwarf shrub covers were overestimated. The number of species detected using supervised image analysis and the point frequency method was lower than that with visual estimation. Visual estimation was faster, and the estimate closer to the reference cover values than the others. Digital images may be useful in detecting changes in some selected species in vegetation with a simple vertical structure but with taller, multilayered vegetation and a higher species number, the reliability of the cover estimates is lower.
1479000|Spatial heterogeneity, an important characteristic in semi-arid grassland vegetation, may be altered through grazing by large herbivores. We used Moran's I, a measure of autocorrelation, to test the effect of livestock grazing on the fine scale spatial heterogeneity of dominant plant species in the shortgrass steppe of northeastern Colorado. Autocorrelation in ungrazed plots was significantly higher than in grazed plots for the cover of the dominant species Bouteloua gracilis, litter cover and density of other bunchgrasses. No species had higher autocorrelation in grazed compared to ungrazed sites. B. gracilis cover was significantly autocorrelated in seven of eight 60-yr ungrazed exclosures, four of six 8-yr exclosures, and only three of eight grazed sites. Autocorrelograms showed that B. gracilis cover in ungrazed sites was frequently and positively spatially correlated at lag distances less than 5 m. B. gracilis cover was rarely autocorrelated at any sampled lag distance in grazed sites. The greater spatial heterogeneity in ungrazed sites appeared linked to patches characterized by uniformly low cover of B. gracilis and high cover of C
41058025|Question: How do local and landscape management contribute to weed diversity in Hungarian winter cereal fields? Location: Central Hungary. Methods: Vascular plants were sampled in 18 winter cereal fields along an intensification gradient according to nitrogen fertilization, in the first cereal rows (edge) and in the interior part of the fields. Weed species were divided into groups according to their residence time in Central Europe (native species, archaeophytes, neophytes) and nitrogen preference (low to medium, LMNP, and high, HNP species). The percentage of semi-natural habitats was calculated in the 500 m radius circle. Effects of fertilizer use, transect position and seminatural habitats were estimated by general linear mixed models. Results: We recorded 149 weed species. Fertilizer had a negative impact on the species richness of archaeophytes and LMNP species, and on the cover of native weeds. There was greater species richness and weed cover at the edge of the fields than in the centre. A higher percentage of seminatural habitats around the arable fields resulted in greater total species richness, especially o archaeophytes and LMNP species. We found an interaction between the percentage of semi-natural habitats and transect position for species richness of archaeophytes and LMNP species. Conclusions: Reduced use of fertilizers and a high percentage of semi-natural habitats would support native and archaeophyte weed diversity even in winter cereal fields, while large amounts of fertilizer may promote invasion of neophytes. However, the beneficial effect of the semi-natural habitats and greater species pool on the arable flora may prevail only in the crop edges.
40927827|Questions: Can prescribed fire restore C perennial grasses in grassland ecosystems that have become dominated by fire-resistant C shrubs (Prosopis glandulosd) and C grasses? Do fires in different seasons alter the direction of change in grass composition? Location: Texas, USA. Methods: We quantified short-and long-term (12 yr post-fire) herbaceous functional group cover and diversity responses to replicated seasonal fire treatments: (1) repeated-winter fires (three in 5yr), (2) repeated-summer fires (two in 3yr), and (3) alternate-season fires (two winter and one summer in 4yr), compared with a no-fire control. Results: Summer fires were more intense than winter fires, but all fire treatments temporarily decreased Prosopis and C annual grass cover. The alternateseason fire treatment caused a long-term increase in C mid-grass cover and functional group diversity. The repeated-summer fire treatment increased C 4 short-grass cover but also caused a long-term increase in bare ground. The repeated winter fire treatment had no long-term effects on perennial grass cover. Mesquite post-fire regrowth had increasingly negative impacts on herbaceous cover in all fire treatments. Conclusions: Summer fire was necessary to shift herbaceous composition toward C mid-grasses. However, the repeated-summer fire treatment may have been too extreme and caused post-fire herbaceous composition to "over-shift" toward less productive C short-grasses rather than C mid-grasses. This study provides some of the first long-term data showing a possible benefit of mixing seasonal fires (i.e., the alternate-season fire treatment) in a prescribed burning management plan to restore C mid-grass cover and enhance overall herbaceous diversity.
41058033|Question: The vegetation of high mountain regions in Himalaya remains poorly assessed despite the expected vulnerability of these ecosystems to global change drivers. What are the main vegetation types in East Ladakh and which environmental factors influence the species composition and growth forms distribution? Location: The south-westernmost extension of the Tibetan Plateau, an arid mountainous area, in East Ladakh, Jammu & Kashmir State, India. Methods: Species composition was recorded for 369 plots (each 100 m). Plots, sampled from 4180 m a.s.l. (bottom of the Indus Valley) up to 6060 m a.s.l. (close to the snowline), covered a wide range of environmental conditions. Results: TWINSPAN clusters discriminated eight ecologically interpretable vegetation types, corresponding to the main habitats in the area: animal resting places, salt marshes, semi-deserts and steppes, shrublands, alpine screes and boulder fields, alpine grasslands, water bodies and subnival zone. The most important environmental factors influencing the species composition were altitude, soil moisture and salinity. Screes and alpine grasslands were found to be the most species-rich. The species were ranged into 20 growth forms with regard to life-form and clonality, with growth forms showing different changes in proportion among vegetation types and along the different environmental gradients. Conclusion: The study summarizes the main vegetation types of East Ladakh in terms of species and growth form compositions. The results can have a heuristic value for designing future monitoring schemes and assess the effects of global change in these diverse, but poorly studied, regions.
1479082| Floristic data collected from permanent plots during 14 consecutive years are used to model the frequency of the 62 most abundant species in relation to post-ploughing succession, topography and rainfall in annual Mediterranean grasslands located in a Quercus rotundifolia dehesa. The interannual dynamics of species richness are also analysed. From 1980 to 1993, presence/absence data of grassland species were noted in five 20 cm  20 cm permanent quadrats placed at random in 1980 in 14 permanent plots on a southfacing slope along the topographic gradient. Weekly autumn rainfall data over the 14 years were analysed using a profile attributes index and Hybrid Multidimensional Scaling to arrange the years according to their autumn rainfall pattern. Generalized Linear Models were used to fit the species richness and species frequency according to topographic position, age since the last ploughing episode, total rainfall in the growing season and autumn rainfall pattern using a forward stepwise procedure. The richness model includes all of these variables, and reveals a relatively high goodness-of-fit (71%). The fact that the meteorological factors play a key role in modelling richness forces us to include them if we wish to use richness as an indicator of the degree of disturbance in these highly fluctuating annual pastures. Models of species dynamics show that although roughly 33% of the species have a successional behaviour, the majority are more dependent on temporal heterogeneity associated with rainfall or spatial heterogeneity linked to the topographic gradient. 
1478925|Satellite imagery provides a unique tool for monitoring seasonal dynamics of the Earth's vegetation on a global scale. The combination of the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) data derived from the Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) with a daily repeat cycle and 1 km spatial resolution makes weather satellites operated by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration very well suited for deriving broad-scale phenological metrics from satellite images. In this paper, similarities and differences between remotely sensed phenological studies and traditional symphenological studies conducted by ground-based observations are summarized. Finally, major shortcomings in deriving phenological metrics from NDVI time series are discussed.
4620485|Do regional species pools, landscape isolation or on-site constraints cause plants from different guilds to vary in their ability to colonize restored wetlands? Iowa, Minnesota, and South Dakota, USA. Floristic surveys of 41 restored wetlands were made three and 12 years after reflooding to determine changes in local species pools for eight plant guilds. The effect of landscape isolation on colonization efficiency was evaluated for each guild by plotting local species pools against distance to nearby natural wetlands, and the relative importance of dispersal vs. on-site constraints in limiting colonization was explored by comparing the local species pools of restored and natural wetlands within the region. Of the 517 wetland plant taxa occurring in the region, 50% have established within 12 years. The proportion of the regional species pool represented in local species pools differed among guilds, with sedge-meadow perennials, emergent perennials and floating/submersed aquatics least represented (33-36%) and annual guilds most represented (74-94%). Colonization-to-extinction ratios suggest that floating/submersed aquatics have already reached a species equilibrium while sedge-meadow and emergent perennials are still accumulating species. Increasing distance to nearest wetlands decreased the proportion of the regional species pool present in local pools for all guilds except native annuals and woody plants. The maximum proportion predicted, assuming no distance constraint, was comparable to the lowest-diversity natural wetlands for most perennial guilds, and also lower than what was achieved in a planted, weeded restoration. Abiotic constraints seem to limit the colonization of floating/submersed aquatics into natural or restored wetlands, whereas all other guilds are potentially constrained by dispersal or biotic factors (i.e. competition from invasive species). Using species pools to evaluate restoration progress revealed that immigration potential varies considerably among guilds, that local species richness does not necessarily correspond to immigration limitations, and that some guilds (e.g. sedge-meadow perennials) will likely benefit more than others from being planted at restoration sites.
40927805|Question: How does the floristic diversity of Afromontane rainforests change along an altitudinal gradient? What are the implications for conservation planning in these strongly fragmented forest areas that form part of the Eastern Afromontane Biodiversity Hotspot? Location: Bonga, southwestern Ethiopia. Methods: Based on evidence from other montane forests, we hypothesized that altitude has an effect on the floristic diversity of Afromontane rainforests in southwestern Ethiopia. To test this hypothesis, detailed vegetation surveys were carried out in 62 study plots located in four relatively undisturbed forest fragments situated at altitudes between 1600 m and 2300 m. Floristic diversity was evaluated using a combination of multivariate statistical analyses and diversity indices. Results: Ordination and indicator species analyses showed gradual variations in floristic diversity along the altitudinal gradient with a pronounced shift in species composition at ca. 1830 m. Upper montane forest (> 1830 m) is characterized by high fern diversity and indicator species that are Afromontane endemics. Lower montane forest (< 1830 m) exhibits a greater diversity of tree species and a higher abundance of the flagship species Coffea arabica. Conclusions: Our results provide crucial ecological background information concerning the montane rainforests of Ethiopia, which have been poorly studied until now. We conclude that both forest types identified during this study need to be considered for conservation because of their particular species compositions. Owing to the high degree of forest fragmentation, conservation concepts should consider a multi-site approach with at least two protected areas at different altitudinal levels.
4620417|Question: Does the development of Brachystegia-Julbernardia (miombo) woodland after felling, and under a variable fire regime, occur via a seral stage of fire-tolerant species? Location: Four sites in central Zambia, Africa. Methods: Trees in replicate plots were clear-cut and stumps and resprouts enumerated. Species recruited into the tree layer (> 2.0 m tall) were monitored for 11 years (1991 - 2001) and fire occurrence and herbaceous biomass assessed annually to determine fuel loads. Results: Fire frequency was variable at the study sites and fuel loads were generally too low to suppress woodland regeneration after felling. However, at one site a change from low to high fire frequency arrested woodland development and triggered a regression towards a 'fire-trap' vegetation type in which a few fire-tolerant species survived. There was no evidence to support the hypothesis that miombo woodland regeneration is facilitated by a sere of fire-tolerant species. All regrowth after felling was from resprouting plants present before felling. Trees with a previous history of felling sprouted more vigorously than trees that had not been felled before. Species richness in the tree layer increased with time since felling because resprout species had different height growth rates. Conclusion: The resilience of miombo trees after clear-felling is largely due to their capacity to regenerate vegetatively from resprouts and stumps after release from frequent fires. Coppicing is therefore recommended as a suitable management technique for miombo woodland in central southern Africa.
1478921|The purpose of this study is to evaluate and to quantify the influence of management on the epiphytic species composition in Danish Fagus sylvatica forests. Trunks were chosen at random within selected blocks in both managed and unmanaged Fagus stands. 117 trunks in 43 sample plots in three forests were investigated. Cover was estimated for 72 lichens, 29 bryophytes and two fungi on vertical trunks 0.3-2 m above ground. 18 explanatory variables were recorded and arranged in three groups: eight management-related variables, six microclimatic- and soil variables, and four geographical- and geological variables. Canonical Correspondence Analysis was used to test and to quantify the explaining power of the three groups of variables applying the variation partitioning approach. Detrended Correspondence Analysis was used to evaluate whether important gradients were ignored. It was concluded that the traditional 'shelterwood uniform system' used in Fagus forests has a marked influence on the epiphytic species composition. Thus, management-related variables explained more than one third of the total variation explained, which equals 10.9% of the total variation. Microclimatic and soil variables explained 9.0%, and geographical and geological variables explained 6.0%. The following three recommendations are suggested to reduce the significant influence of management on the epiphytic species composition. First, it should be attempted to ensure a continuous occurrence of some big trees per ha to be left for natural death and decomposition. Second, regular thinning is necessary, especially in the first part of rotation. Third, a multilayered forest, where wind and desiccation effects are minimized, is recommended.
1479033|This paper deals with vegetation establishment on waste dumps in the montane and submontane belts of the eastern Pyrenees, where submediterranean Quercus humilis forests, Pinus sylvestris forests and mesoxerophilous pastures make up most of the landscape; these are considered as target communities for reclamation. The waste consists of marl and lime regolith, very poor in nutrients and structure (Poch et al. 1989). The dumps were terraced in 1985-1986; some were left for spontaneous re-colonization and others were reclaimed in various ways. In 1992 we took 36 vegetation samples on the dumps, based on the point quadrat procedure, to evaluate the colonization status and the differences between reclamation techniques. The samples were analysed on the basis of their species composition (ecological groups and multivariate analysis) and structural aspects (coverage, diversity, etc.). Reclamation treatment results varied widely, most of the dumps showing a low degree of naturalness. Colonizing vegetation ranged from a mixture of opportunist and stress-resistant taxa, forming poorly covered surfaces on the dumps where colonization has been poor, to dense grasslands dominated by one (or a few) introduced competitive grass species, where reclamation procedures had been intensive. Sowing treatments, where pasture species were sown onto dumps, produced intermediate results, as resulting vegetation cover was similar to control plots and naturalness was low, but in a few cases they yielded more interesting swards, fairly dense and diverse, and including high numbers of spontaneous species. Choice of sown species and proximity to undisturbed vegetation accelerate succession.
27735041|Introduction: This paper surveys a framework for vegetation dynamics to provide conceptual background for a series of papers addressing the role of vegetation dynamics in restoration. Richness of the foundation: Classical succession theory provides key ingredients for contemporary process studies of vegetation dynamics. The contemporary framework incorporates processes identified by Gleason and other critics of Clements' theory. Multiple causality: The Clementsian causes, when expanded to include interaction and to clarify net effects, accommodate those now recognized in vegetation dynamics. A mature successional framework: A hierarchical framework has emerged to evaluate the causes of vegetation dynamics. The framework identifies the general causes as site availability, species availability, and species performance. Differentials as drivers: Differentials in any of the three general causes can drive change in plant communities. Each general cause consists of specific mechanisms. A model template: To predict vegetation dynamics trajectories, models are required. A model template is presented to operationalize the hierarchical framework. Outcomes are contingent on species pools and environmental contexts and may be progressive or retrogressive. Relationships of frameworks: Other contemporary frameworks in biology relate to vegetation dynamics. Application to restoration: The vegetation dynamics framework is relevant to restoration through linkages with landscape ecology, disturbance ecology, competition, invasion ecology, and community assembly. The differentials of site availability, species availability, and species performance suggest the processes and strategies available for restoration. Conclusions: A synthetic framework of vegetation brings together the mechanisms required for successful restoration.
4620487|How does seed dispersal reduce fen isolation and contribute to biodiversity? European and North American fens. This paper reviews the literature on seed dispersal to fens. Landscape fragmentation may reduce dispersal opportunities thereby isolating fens and reducing genetic exchange. Species in fragmented wetlands may have lower reproductive success, which can lead to biodiversity loss. While fens may have always been relatively isolated from each other, they have become increasingly fragmented in modern times within agricultural and urban landscapes in both Europe and North America. Dispersal by water, animals and wind has been hampered by changes related to development in landscapes surrounding fens. Because the seeds of certain species are long-lived in the seed bank, frequent episodes of dispersal are not always necessary to maintain the biodiversity of fens. However, of particular concern to restoration is that some dominant species, such as the tussock sedge Carex stricta, may not disperse readily between fens. Knowledge of seed dispersal can be used to maintain and restore the biodiversity of fens in fragmented landscapes. Given that development has fragmented land-scapes and that this situation is not likely to change, the dispersal of seeds might be enhanced by moving hay or cattle from fens to damaged sites, or by reestablishing lost hydrological connections.
41318165|Question: How are dynamics of early-seral post-fire vascular plant and bryoid (terrestrial mosses, lichens, and fungi) vegetation impacted by reforestation activities, particularly manual vegetation removal and planting density? Does the relationship between vegetation dynamics and vegetation removal differ between harsh (west-facing) and moderate (east-facing) aspects? Location: Five high-severity burn plantation forests of Pseudotsuga menziesii in southwestern Oregon, USA. Methods: Plantations severely burned in a recent wildfire were planted with conifer seedlings as a four-species mixture or a monoculture, at two different densities, with and without manual vegetation removal. A subset of plots was also planted on a contrasting aspect within each plantation. The contrasting aspects differed in potential solar insolation and were indicative of moderate (eastern exposure) and harsh (western exposure) site conditions. Covers of shrub, herbaceous and bryoid vegetation layers were measured during reforestation activities 2-4 yr after the fire. Dynamics of structural layer cover and community composition were compared among treatments with analysis of variance and multivariate analyses (non-metric multidimensional scaling and blocked multi-response permutation procedure). Results: Structural layer cover and community composition differed between areas that received reforestation treatments and untreated areas. However, variability within treatments in a plantation was greater than variability within treatments across plantations. Effects of vegetation removal on composition and structure were more evident than effects of planting or altering planting density. Vegetation removal decreased cover of tall and low shrub and the bryoid layer, and increased herbaceous layer cover. Bryoid community and low shrub structural layer responses were more pronounced on moderate aspects than on harsh aspects. Vegetation removal shifted vascular plant community composition towards exotic and annual species. Conclusions: These reforestation treatments may be implemented without substantially altering early-seral vegetation community composition dynamics, especially in areas with harsh site conditions. Site asasuld follow reforestation activities.
1479018|The diaspore bank (seeds of higher plants and spores of ferns and bryophytes) was assessed between 3 and 5 yr after experiments to control Pteridium aquilinum (bracken) and restore appropriate vegetation were initiated at two contrasting locations in the UK. We tested the response of the diaspore bank using univariate and multivariate analysis of variance. The two approaches were complementary and together improved the interpretation of these results. There were considerable differences in the diaspore banks of the two sites and among the experimental locations within sites. Within each experiment there were differences in species composition, with species that were (1) common to both diaspore bank and vegetation, (2) restricted to the diaspore bank and (3) restricted to the vegetation. There is a possibility of increasing the biodiversity of the developing vegetation if some of the species present in the diaspore bank can be germinated. This was especially true for ferns where four species were found in the spore bank which were not present in the vegetation. There were few significant effects of management treatment on the diaspore bank as the experiments had been in progress for only 3 to 5 yr, but a few species had different densities in the different treatments (Betula pubescens, Juncus effusus and some bryophytes). The greatest correlation between vegetation and diaspore bank was found at the top hierarchical level (entire dataset) and this progressively reduced with scale. We interpret this as a landscape/species pool effect: as the scale of the study reduces the correlation between diaspore bank and vegetation also reduces, at least over the time scale of our study. The relevance of these results for restoration ecology is discussed briefly.
4620443|Question: Coastal dune systems are characterized by a natural mosaic that promotes species diversity. This heterogeneity often represents a severe problem for traditional mapping or ground survey techniques. The work presented here proposes to apply a very detailed CORINE land cover map as baseline information for plant community sampling and analysis in a coastal dune landscape. Location: Molise coast, Central Italy. Method: We analysed through an error matrix the coherence between land cover classes and vegetation types identified through a field survey. The CORINE land cover map (scale 1 :5000) of the Molise coast was used with the CORINE legend expanded to a fourth level of detail for natural and semi-natural areas. Vegetation data were collected following a random stratified sampling design using the CORINE land cover classes as strata. An error matrix was used to compare, on a category-by-category basis, the relationship between vegetation types (obtained by cluster analyses of sampling plots) and land cover classes of the same area. Results: The coincidence between both classification approaches is quite good. Only one land cover class shows a very weak agreement with its corresponding vegetation type; this result was interpreted as being related to human disturbance. Conclusions: Since it is based on a standard land cover classification, the proposal has a potential for application to most European coastal systems. This method could represent a first step in the environmental planning of coastal systems.
1479004|We analysed vegetation dynamics in Tierra del Fuego steppes using Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) data provided by advanced very high-resolution radiometer (AVHRR) on board the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) polar satellite. Our objective, at a regional scale, was to analyse the spatial variability of NDVI dynamics in relation to parent material and geographic location, representing the fertility and climate gradients respectively; at a local scale, it was to analyse the inter-annual variability associated with climate and its relation with sheep production indices. The general pattern of NDVI dynamics was analysed with Principal Component Analysis. We found that the geographic location was more important than landscape type in explaining NDVI dynamics despite the fact that the variation in landscape type reflects a fertility gradient strongly associated with floristic composition and secondary productivity. Discriminant Analysis was performed to identify the variables that better distinguish geographic units. The Northern region (with the lowest precipitation and the highest temperatures) had lower NDVI values over the year. In the Central region, NDVI reached the highest value of the season, surpassing both other regions. The Southern region (the coldest and moistest) had its growth pattern displaced towards the summer. For the Central region we analysed 10 years of monthly NDVI data with PCA. We found that precipitation from August to December and winter temperature are the most important determinants of overall NDVI values. Lamb production was correlated with spring and early summer NDVI values. Sheep mortality is affected by low NDVI values in late summer and high annual amplitude. Satellite information allowed us to characterize the vegetation dynamics of three ecological areas across the Fuegian steppe.
4620501| Question: To establish a habitat classification based on functional group co-occurrence that may help the drawing up of conservation plans. Location: Riverine forest fragments in the Grand-duch de Luxembourg, Europe. Methods: Forest fragments were surveyed for their abundance of vascular plants. These were clustered into emergent groups according to 14 life-traits related to plant dispersal, establishment and persistence. Forest fragments were classified according to similar distribution of the identified emergent groups. Environmental factors were related to the emergent group richness in each forest type using generalized linear models. Results: Contrary to former species centred classifications, only two groups of forests, each with clearly different emergent group composition and conservation requirements, were detected: (1) swamp forests characterized by anemogamous perennials, annuals and hydrochorous perennials and (2) moist forests characterized by barochorous perennials, small geophytes and zoochorous phanerophytes. From a conservation point of view, priority should be given to large swamp forest with intact flooding regimes. This is in accordance with the high wind and water dispersal capacities of their typical emergent groups. For the moist forests, conservation priorities should be high forest connectivity and historical continuity since dispersal and establishment of their characteristic emergent groups are highly limited. Conclusions: The described methodology, situated at an intermediate integration level between the individual species and whole community descriptors, takes advantage of both conservation plans built for single species and the synthetic power of broad ecological measures. 
41318185|Question: How do standard multivariate classification algorithms perform for Mongolian dryland vegetation characterized by low diversity and very long floristic gradients? Location: Southern Mongolian Gobi. Methods: We compared several widely used classification methods based on 1231 relevs obtained with a similar sampling method. We applied agglomerative cluster algorithms (flexible beta/FLEX, average linkage/UPGMA, weighted linkage/WPGMA, complete linkage, Ward's clustering) and a divisive classification technique (TWINSPAN); data were reduced to presence/absence. We compared results against a published phytosociological classification (PHYTO), against environmental background data, and with respect to the presence of significant indicator species. Results: Complete linkage was inferior to other methods. TWINSPAN, UPGMA, flexible beta and WPGMA gave partly similar clusters, with FLEX and WARD showing the highest pair-wise similarity. Classifications of all methods except CL partly agreed with PHYTO classification. Clusters of all methods had significant indicator species, but Ward's method had the highest number of indicator species, followed by the PHYTO classification and FLEX, TWINSPAN, UPGMA and WPGMA. The latter four methods all yielded clusters that differed in terms of precipitation, but TWINSPAN, FLEX and Ward's method performed best under this criterion. PHYTO and CL ranked last in partitioning the precipitation gradient. Comparisons with ordinations indicated that classification algorithms capture the main floristic gradient but were less successful than the phytosociological approach to elucidate the finer structures. Conclusion: Performance of classification methods differed depending on the applied validation approach and we thus caution against uncritically adopting a single evaluation/validation criterion. Most numerical approaches can aid sorting of large data sets, while details of manual syntaxonomic classifications are not easily reproduced. Choice of the most appropriate classification and validation method thus clearly depends on the overall aim of a given study.
27735043|Objective: To highlight the need and the potential for an integrated understanding of three key soil-based drivers of plant community structure and dynamics  soil fertility, soil heterogeneity, and microbes. Location: European and North American grasslands. Methods: Review and discussion of conceptual models and empirical literature, including examples of observational and manipulative studies from both natural and restored grassland communities. Results and Conclusions: In general, the results of empirical studies on soil fertility, soil heterogeneity, and soil microbes in grassland communities do not support expectations of common conceptual models. Ecological theory assumes a unimodal relationship between soil fertility and plant community diversity, yet empirical relationships from grassland communities are variable, the mechanisms underlying these variable patterns are not yet well understood, and there is mixed success at manipulating soil fertility to facilitate restorations. While theory predicts that increased soil heterogeneity will lead to increased plant community diversity, results of experimental manipulations of soil heterogeneity often show the opposite. Of two major conceptual models proposed for how microbes structure plant communities, there is little support for the hypothesis of microbially mediated niche partitioning. Plant-microbe feedbacks do have significant empirical support to date and there is increasing application of positive feedback dynamics in restoration, yet field tests of feedback dynamics remain limited. We suggest that an understanding of interactions between these soil drivers may help to resolve discrepancies between conceptual models and empirical results, improving our understanding of grasslands and our ability to restore them.
1478939|The cause of tree disease in any location is difficult to diagnose because of the multiplicity of potential causes. Spatial analysis provides useful evidence on the significance, scale and shape of patterns for disease diagnosis. This study explores the causes of dieback through spatial analysis of tree health at Coranderrk Reserve, an example of an important conservation reserve on the urban fringe of Melbourne, Victoria. Ca. 200 trees were sampled at two sites and measured for position, diameter and height in each of two different community types. An index of tree health was developed, and each tree was assigned a value of health. Dead trees were categorized based on state of decay. Correlograms using Moran's I found significant spatial structure at both study sites. The study employed a method of analysis that compares the spatial patterns in dead and living trees. When all dead trees were eliminated from the analysis, significant spatial pattern was found only at one site. The spatial structures obtained were compared with those expected from the different possible causes of tree dieback. Some potential explanations were eliminated. The results illustrate how spatial analysis may make useful contributions to disease diagnosis if employed systematically together with other modes of investigation.
1478952| A phenological map has been prepared for the Podyj/Thayatal National Park, located on the border between the Czech Republic and Austria. The area is characterized by V-shaped river valleys deeply incised into a gently undulating landscape. Five stages of phenological development were defined, based upon phenological spectra of plant communities in late April; 96 sites, more or less regularly spaced over the area, were assigned to one of these stages using field observations of these spectra. Potential direct solar irradiation was calculated from a digital elevation model for a 25 m  25 m grid extending over the study area. A method was developed for interpolation of phenological observations by weighted regression of phenology on the irradiation model. This interpolation enables the prediction of the local stage of phenological development across the study area without levelling out phenological patterns dependent upon small-scale topographic variation. Spring phenological events appear to be more advanced in the valleys (except for steep north-facing slopes) than in the adjacent landscape. Possible climatic processes underlying this pattern are discussed with emphasis on temperature inversions in the river valleys. Cold-air-drainage inversions reported from the valleys are probably too infrequent and of too short duration to delay plant phenology. The combined effects of advanced phenology and the increased risk of spring frost injury due to these inversions in the valleys may be an explanation for local distributional patterns of flora and vegetation. 
25488406|Question: What is the spatial relationship between remaining trees and the establishment and development of recruited saplings? Location: The Pinus sylvestris forest Pinar de Valsan, in the Sistema mountain range (central Spain). Methods: Three 0.5 ha plots have been analysed. The saplings were located in a 2 m  2 m grid, characterizing their spatial pattern through a nested ANOVA. The spatial pattern of stems was analysed using the L(d) function. To analyse the spatial relationship between stems belonging to different cohorts, the intertype
25488480|Questions: What are the current dynamics, as observed by synoptic sensors, of surface vegetation in Spanish protected areas? Are these areas and their vegetation types uniformly affected by the increase in vegetation greenness detected throughout Europe? Location: Iberian National Parks of Spain. Methods: We used the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) from global inventory modeling and mapping studies (GIMMS) advanced very high resolution radiometer (AVHRR) dataset to monitor surface vegetation. NDVI is a surrogate for the photosynthetically active radiation absorbed by vegetation (fAPAR). This functional attribute has a short-time response to disturbances, is connected to ecosystem services and can be monitored through remote sensing. First, we provide a baseline description of the NDVI dynamics in the parks and analysed its temporal trends (1981-2003). Then, we evaluated the relationships of the seasonal dynamics and interannual trends with the climate conditions, vegetation types and conservation histories of the parks. Results: The parks showed two patterns of NDVI dynamics corresponding to Mediterranean and Eurosiberian regions. Most parks showed areas with positive NDVI trends that tended to have higher proportions of Mediterranean coniferous and mixed forests, oro-Mediterranean scrublands, heathlands, maquis and garrigues. Negative trends were scarce and associated with marshes and Alpine coniferous forests. The lack of a common response in all parks was related to their different environmental conditions, management, and conservation histories. Conclusions: National parks are changing in the short term but not uniformly. This study represents a basis for the incorporation of functional attributes of ecosystems in the management and monitoring of protected areas in the face of global change.
40927810|Question: Are changes in plant species composition, functional group composition and rates of species turnover consistent among early successional wetlands, and what is the role of landscape context in determining the rate of succession? Location: Twenty-four restored wetlands in Illinois, USA. Methods: We use 4 years of vegetation sampling data from each site to describe successional trends and rates of species turnover in wetlands. We quantify: (1) the rate at which composition changes from earlysuccessional to late-successional species and functional groups, as indicated by site movement in ordination space over time, and (2) the rate of change in the colonization and local extinction of individual species. We correlate the pace of succession to site area, isolation and surrounding land cover. Results: Some commonalities in successional trends were evident among sites. Annual species were replaced by clonal perennials, and colonization rates declined over time. However, differences among sites outweighed site age in determining species composition, and the pace of succession was influenced by a site's landscape setting. Rates of species turnover were higher in smaller wetlands. In addition, wetlands in agricultural landscapes underwent succession more rapidly, as indicated by a rapid increase in dominance by late-successional plants. Conclusions: Although the outcome of plant community succession in restored wetlands was somewhat predictable, species composition and the pace of succession varied among sites. The ability of restoration practitioners to accelerate succession through active manipulation may be contingent upon landscape context.
4620411| Question: Has the vegetation of Sphagnum bogs been affected by more than 200 years of human activities? Location: Bas-Saint-Laurent region, southeastern Qubec, Canada. Methods: Data (species assemblages, abiotic and spatio-historical variables) were collected in 16 bogs ranging from 2 to 189 ha, and incorporated in a geographical information system. Major gradients in vegetation composition were identified using DCA. CCA was used to relate vegetation gradients to abiotic and spatio-historical variables. Results: A clear segregation of species assemblages was observed, from open and undisturbed bogs to forested and highly disturbed sites. Among abiotic factors, tree basal area, water table level and peat thickness had a significant influence on plant species composition. Among spatio-historical factors, disturbance level, area loss and fire were the most influential factors. Variance partitioning between these groups of factors suggests that spatio-historical factors had a major influence on peatlands, representing 22% of the variation observed in the plant species assemblages while abiotic factors represent only 17% of the variation. Conclusions: The results highlight the influence of agricultural and other anthropogenic activities on plant assemblages and suggest that even wetlands apparently resistant to disturbances, such as peatlands, can be severely affected by anthropogenic factors. Plant species assemblages of ombrotrophic peatlands of the Bas-Saint-Laurent region were, and still are, largely influenced by human activities. 
27735056|Questions: (1) Are some species used for ski trail restoration too dominant to allow native species to re-establish? (2) What plant traits can be used to predict which species are good competitors? We tested the hypothesis that limited native species establishment on ski trails is caused by (1) the dominance of Phleum pratense cv. climax (PPC) and (2) the asymmetry of competitive interactions. Location: Sub-alpine area in the northern French Alps. Methods: PPC was cultivated outdoors over 2 years with 15 alpine species in a systematic design with high- and low-nutrient soil conditions. For each species relative survival, competitive performance and relationships with plant traits were measured. Results: PPC exerted strong dominance on most of its neighbouring species. Survival performance of Anthyllis vulneraria, Luzula sudetica and Lotus alpinus were dramatically reduced. Results of above-ground competition showed that species were trapped in asymmetric competition. Festuca rubra, Trifolium repens, Alchemilla xanthochlora, Trifolium pratense and Plantago alpina best counteracted PPC. Below-ground competition was more symmetric, particularly at the high nutrient level. Plant traits such as biomass, canopy size and specific leaf area were positively correlated with competitive performance of the species. Conclusion: The study has implications for the management of restored ski trails since PPC may hinder the establishment of native sub-alpine species. Consequently, recommendations should focus on (1) maintaining a low proportion or decreasing the proportion of PPC seeds in the revegetation mix and (2) reducing soil fertilization. Plant traits and competition experiments can help to predict changes in restored grasslands.
4620518|Question: How can the U.S. National Vegetation Classification (USNVC) serve as an effective tool for classifying and mapping vegetation, and inform assessments and monitoring? Location: Voyageurs National Park, northern Minnesota, U.S.A and environs. The park contains 54 243 ha of terrestrial habitat in the sub-boreal region of North America. Methods: We classified and mapped the natural vegetation using the USNVC, with 'alliance' and 'association' as base units. We compiled 259 classification plots and 1251 accuracy assessment test plots. Both plot and type ordinations were used to analyse vegetation and environmental patterns. Color infrared aerial photography (1:15840 scale) was used for mapping. Polygons were manually drawn, then transferred into digital form. Classification and mapping products are stored in publicly available databases. Past fire and logging events were used to assess distribution of forest types. Results and Discussion: Ordination and cluster analyses confirmed 49 associations and 42 alliances, with three associations ranked as globally vulnerable to extirpation. Ordination provided a useful summary of vegetation and ecological gradients. Overall map accuracy was 82.4%. Pinus banksiana-Picea mariana forests were less frequent in areas unburned since the 1930s. Conclusion: The USNVC provides a consistent ecological tool for summarizing and mapping vegetation. The products provide a baseline for assessing forests and wetlands, including fire management. The standardized classification and map units provide local to continental perspectives on park resources through linkages to state, provincial, and national classifications in the U.S. and Canada, and to NatureServe's Ecological Systems classification.
25488486|Question: Do anthropogenic activities facilitate the distribution of exotic plants along steep altitudinal gradients? Location: Sani Pass road, Grassland biome, South Africa. Methods: On both sides of this road, presence and abundance of exotic plants was recorded in four 25-m long road-verge plots and in parallel 25 m  2 m adjacent land plots, nested at five altitudinal levels: 1500, 1800, 2100, 2400 and 2700 m a.s.l. Exotic community structure was analyzed using Canonical Correspondence Analysis while a two-level nested Generalized Linear Model was fitted for richness and cover of exotics. We tested the upper altitudinal limits for all exotics along this road for spatial clustering around four potential propagule sources using a t-test. Results: Community structure, richness and abundance of exotics were negatively correlated with altitude. Greatest invasion by exotics was recorded for adjacent land at the 1500 m level. Of the 45 exotics, 16 were found at higher altitudes than expected and observations were spatially clustered around potential propagule sources. Conclusions: Spatial clustering of upper altitudinal limits around human inhabited areas suggests that exotics originate from these areas, while exceeding expected altitudinal limits suggests that distribution ranges of exotics are presently underestimated. Exotics are generally characterised by a high propagule pressure and/or persistent seedbanks, thus future tarring of the Sani Pass may result in an increase of exotic species richness and abundance. This would initially result from construction-related soil disturbance and subsequently from increased traffic, water run-off, and altered fire frequency. We suggest examples of management actions to prevent this.
4620500|Questions: 1. What is the scale and extent of spatial variability in factors affecting Betula invasion of heaths? 2. How much effect does each factor have on within-patch patterns of invasion? 3. How can this understanding aid in managing Betula invasions? Location: Lowland heath of southern England. Methods: Determinants of Betula (both B. pubescens and B. pendula) invasion: biomass density, necromass density, mean vegetation height, P-availability, soil water content and total Betula seed bank density, were measured at two sites on a 5-ha sampling grid. Spatial pattern was assessed using geostatistics. Contributions of each determinant to within-site heterogeneity in predicted Betula seedling densities were estimated by varying variables over their full and interquartile ranges in a statistical model derived from experimental data. Results: Salient spatial trends were revealed: strong autocorrelation over distances of < 50 m for soil factors and more extensive autocorrelation (0 to >150 m) in vegetation variables and Betula seed bank densities. The latter resulted in single across-site gradients, the former small, distinct patches. All patterns were overlain with variance that was present at distances of < 17.6 m. Variables displaying spatial pattern also accounted for within-site heterogeneity in predicted Betula seedling densities but their relative contribution to this varied between sites. Conclusions: Identifiable spatial autocorrelation in factors controlling patch-scale invasion patterns allows managers to target invasion prone patches, potentially reducing management intensities. Furthermore, management effort may be optimised by spatially de-coupling Betula seed from safe-sites. This plan may adaptable to the management of other weeds and openland ecosystems.
40927796|Questions: What influence does mechanical mastication and other fuel treatments have on: (1) canopy and forest floor response variables that influence understory plant development; (2) initial understory vegetation cover, diversity, and composition; and (3) shrub and non-native species density in a secondgrowth ponderosa pine forest. Location: Challenge Experimental Forest, northern Sierra Nevada, California, USA. Methods: We compared the effects of mastication only, mastication with supplemental treatments (tilling and prescribed fire), hand removal, and a control on initial understory vegetation response using a randomized complete block experimental design. Each block (n = 4) contained all five treatments and understory vegetation was surveyed within 0.04-ha plots for each treatment. Results: While mastication alone and hand removal dramatically reduced the midstory vegetation, these treatments had little effect on understory richness compared with control. Prescribed fire after mastication increased native species richness by 150% (+ 6.0 species m ) compared with control. However, this also increased non-native species richness (+ 0.8 species m ) and shrub seedling density (+ 24.7 stems m).Mastication followed by tilling resulted in increased non-native forb density (+ 0.7 stems m). Conclusions: Mechanical mastication and hand removal treatments aided in reducing midstory fuels but did not increase understory plant diversity. The subsequent treatment of prescribed burning not only further reduced fire hazard, but also exposed mineral soil, which likely promoted native plant diversity. Some potential drawbacks to this treatment include an increase of non-native species andstimulation of shrub seed germination, which could alter ecosystem functions and compromise fire hazard reduction in the long-term.
27735045|Questions: How can studies of primary plant succession increase the effectiveness of restoration activities? Can restoration methods be improved to contribute to our understanding of succession? Results: Successional studies benefit restoration in six areas: site amelioration, development of community structure, nutrient dynamics, species life history traits, species interactions, and modeling of transitions and trajectories. Primary succession provides valuable lessons for understanding temporal dynamics through direct, long-term observations on severely disturbed habitats. These lessons assist restoration efforts on infertile or even toxic substrates. Restoration that uses scientific protocols (e.g., control treatments and peer-reviewed publications) can offer insights into successional processes. Conclusions: A century of studying successional dynamics has provided modern restoration activities with many useful lessons that are not being fully utilized.
25488489|Question: Which restoration measures (reintroduction techniques, reintroduction timing and fertilization) best enable the establishment of fen species on North American cut-away peatlands? Location: Rivire-du-Loup peatland, southern Qubec, Canada. Methods: In total, eight treatments which tested a combination of two reintroduction techniques, two reintroduction timings and the use of phosphorus fertilization were tested in a field experiment within a completely randomized block design. Results: Sphagnum transfer, a reintroduction technique commonly used for bog restoration in North America, was effective for establishing Sphagnum and Carex species. The hay transfer method, commonly used for fen restoration in Europe, was much less successful, probably due to questionable viability of reintroduced seeds. The treatments which included light phosphorus fertilization, had a higher Carex cover after three growing seasons. The timing of the reintroductions had no impact on the success of vegetation establishment. However, vegetation reintroduction should be carried out in the spring while the ground is still frozen to minimize other ecological impacts. Conclusions: The success of the diaspore reintroduction technique on small-scale units indicates that a large-scale restoration of fens using this technique is feasible.
1479063|Effective management of rangelands requires the development of landscape-scale models for predicting spatial and temporal variability of forage. In the Magellanic tussock steppes, as in other cold-temperate regions, grazing capacity is dependent on the winter season. To develop a management tool for the region, we analysed links between winter forage availability, weather, stocking rate and vegetation structure. We studied four paddocks over five years with a range of stocking rates from 0 to 1.53 sheep. ha
1479052| We studied the restoration success of flood plain meadows in the northern Upper Rhine valley, where between 1988 and 1992, 35 ha of arable land was converted into grassland and subsequently managed for nature conservation. Remnant populations of typical alluvial meadow species were found in old meadows and along drainage ditches that dissect the whole area. We analysed the site conditions and phytosociological relevs in old and new meadows. Small differences in site parameters between old and new meadows contrasted with a clear floristic differentiation between the two meadow types. The vegetation of old meadows was much more differentiated along prevailing environmental gradients than the vegetation of new meadows. Despite the favourable site conditions for the re-establishment of species-rich meadows on the former arable land, restoration success was limited to the vicinity of remnant stands. In contrast to old meadows, indicator species of new grassland were still typical species of regularly disturbed ruderal and arable habitats, often capable of building up a persistent seed bank. The precise mapping of 23 target species revealed that even wind dispersal predominantly leads to re-establishment in the close circumference of parent plants. We found no indication that regular flooding, hay-making and autumnal grazing had an impact on recolonization of newly created grassland. Even under favourable conditions for the re-establishment of target species, restoration success in alluvial meadows proved to be strongly dispersal limited. We discuss the implications of our findings for future restoration management in grasslands. 
25488484|Questions: Is the introduced timber species Fraxinus uhdei invasive in Hawai'i? Has logging disturbance facilitated the spread of Fraxinus and other alien species? Location: Windward Mauna Kea, island of Hawai'i. Methods: We surveyed 29 plots which were established before selective logging of the native tree Acacia koa in 1971 to determine if Fraxinus spread beyond the borders of an existing plantation and if other alien species increased. We created gaps in the canopy of the Fraxinus plantation and measured seed rain and regeneration, and we sampled foliar and soil nutrients inside and around the plantation. Results: Basal area of Fraxinus increased from 0.7 mha in 1971 to 10.8 mha in 2000. Fraxinus was not found in plots that were located more than 500 m from those where it occurred in 1971 except along a road. Basal area of Acacia koa decreased after logging but subsequently recovered. Occurrence of the alien vine Passiflora tarminiana and alien grass Ehrharta stipoides decreased. Seedling regeneration of Fraxinus was prolific in gaps but did not occur under the canopy. Basal area of Fraxinus did not correlate with soil nutrient concentrations. Conclusions: Fraxinus was able to regenerate following logging more rapidly than native tree species. Basal area growth of Fraxinus was great enough to offset a decline in native trees and cause an increase in forest productivity. If the Fraxinus plantation is harvested, managers should plan ways of favoring regeneration of the native Acacia which is more valuable both for timber and for conservation.
27735071|Question: Herb-rich patches are biodiversity hotspots for vascular plants in boreal forests. We ask: Do species occurrences on herb-rich patches show a non-random, nested structure?; Does patch size relate to richness of edaphically demanding and red-listed species?; Does a set of small patches support more edaphically demanding and red-listed species than a few large patches of the equal area? Location: Eastern Finland (6304N, 2952E), boreal vegetation zone. Data: Vegetation mapping of 90 herb-rich sites, varying from 0.05 to 6.93 ha in size and belonging to six different, predetermined forest site types. Results: Using the RANDNEST procedure, only one site type showed a significantly nested pattern, and patch area was not related to "nestedness" in any of the site types. The number of edaphically demanding and red-listed plant species was positively correlated with a patch size in three forest site types. In all site types, a set of small patches had more edaphically demanding and red-listed species than did a few large patches of the equal total area. Conclusions: For conservation, it is essential to protect representative sets of different herb-rich forest site types because flora varies between the site types. Within herb-rich forest site types, several small areas may support representative species composition. However, successful conservation requires thorough species inventories, because of the high level of heterogeneity between the herb-rich patches.
41318169|Question: What are the hydrological requirements for the successful reforestation of riparian Salix communities? Do differences in site conditions between various life stages of woody vegetation types need to be considered? Do interactions between hydrological factors influence distribution patterns? Location: Mid-reaches of the Elbe River, Germany. Methods: Young and old life stages of two different riparian Salix communities were surveyed in 1067 plots of 400 m to determine hydrological growth conditions using habitat distribution models. Models were extrapolated in a Geographic Information System to quantify the extent of potential stands available for reforestation measures. Results: Average water level and water level fluctuations were related to different vegetation types as well as to the age classes of the vegetation types.Differences in hydrological niches of young and old vegetation of the two vegetation types (tree community versus shrub community) could be identified. Moreover, the shrub vegetation was influenced by the interaction of average water level and fluctuations. Comparison of the distribution of current vegetation and suitable habitat revealed that considerable areas of the floodplain were suitable for the reforestation of Salix woodland communities. Conclusions: Hydrological variables explain the distribution patterns of riparian Salix communities in the active floodplain when different life stages, vegetation types and interaction of variables are included in the analyses. This information can be used to recommend suitable sites for Salix plantings in riparian landscapes.
1478968|In fragmented woodlands in agricultural regions of Australia, roadside environments (road verges) provide important refuges for threatened native fauna and isolated populations of plant species. However, as roads are transport corridors for humans and their vehicles, species survival is affected through destruction, fragmentation and modification of remaining habitat by human activity. Few studies have recognised the effects of anthropogenic disturbances, in the form of historical roadworks activities, on adjacent roadside plant populations. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of soil disturbance from roadworks on the spatial patterns and structural dynamics of roadside Acacia populations in an agricultural area in southeastern Australia. Stem size and disturbance data were collected from 135 roadside populations of three species of Acacia shrubs in the Lockhart Shire area. Spatial pattern analysis using the Network K-function and Discriminant Function analyses showed that road verge width, road category, disturbance intensity and distance to nearest town were highly significant variables in relation to disturbance from roadworks and shrub structural dynamics. Colonising populations were more abundant along gravel roads where soil disturbance intensity was high, whereas stable populations were more abundant where soil disturbance intensity was low. Senescent populations were more abundant in narrow, little used road verge corridors 4-6 km from nearby towns. These results suggest that anthropogenic disturbance regimes may be critical to shrub recruitment and persistence in roadside environments, which has important consequences for conservation of threatened native flora and fauna in agricultural landscapes.
25488492|Questions: Can we use local native plants for roadside revegetation? What cultural methods help enhance the process? Location: Trans Canada Highway, Terra Nova National Park, Newfoundland. Objectives: To (1) test stratification requirements for seed germination, (2) determine if germination, survival and growth of seedlings and stem cuttings of selected plants can be increased by mulching treatments and (3) identify native plants and cultural treatments useful for revegetation. Methods: We tested seed germination of Kalmia angustifolia, Iris versicolor, Juncus effusus, Eriophorum vaginatum, Clintonia borealis and Cornus canadensis in a greenhouse experiment. We conducted field experiments of roadside revegetation using seeds of K. angustifolia, I. versicolor, J. effusus and E. vaginatum, as well as seedlings of I. versicolor and rooted stem cuttings of Emptrum nigrum and Juniperus communis after hay-mat mulch and organic matter mulch application. Results: Stratified seeds of K. angustifolia, I. versicolor, J. effusus and E. vaginatum germinated successfully in the greenhouse, whereas C. borealis and C. canadensis seeds did not. Along roadsides, only I. versicolor seeds germinated. Iris versicolor cover increased significantly in organic matter mulch compared to hay-mat mulch and control. Transplanted I. versicolor seedlings had high survival in all treatments but growth was reduced in organic matter mulch. Survival and growth of stem cuttings of E. nigrum and J. communis were significantly increased on hay-mat mulch. Application: Rooted stem cuttings of E. nigrum and J. communis planted on hay-mat mulch can be used as a practical method of roadside revegetation. These shrubs have low structure, are evergreen, and exhibit stress-tolerance properties, which make them ideal species for roadside revegetation. They are also non-palatable to wildlife. Roadside ditches can be revegetated by seeds or seedlings of I. versicolor. Robust roots and rhizomes of this plant may provide soil stability and dark green leaves and attractive flowers create aesthetically pleasing vegetation cover.
4620415| Question: What is the population viability of a critically endangered seashore grass, Arctophila fulva var. pendulina. Location: Liminka Bay, W Finland, 2521'70 N, 6451'90 E. Methods: We constructed a matrix population model based on colonization and disappearance events and patch size changes of A.fulva. Patches were divided into hydric and nonhydric zones according to proximity to the seashore and intensity of disturbance. Perturbation analyses were carried out in order to identify transitions critical for population growth. Seed bank and seed germination studies provided background information for the model design. Results: A. fulva patches observed in the more disturbed hydric zone (closest to the sea) increased in number, as did the total number of patches. However, the number of patches in the less disturbed non-hydric zone decreased. Conclusions: Short-term dynamics of the A.fulva population at Liminka Bay seem to be determined by environmental fluctuations, which cause annual variation in transition rates between patch size classes. The long-term dynamics are probably governed by initiation of primary succession by isostatic land uplift. Increased disturbance at the water's edge may promote persistence of A. fulva through reduced interspecific competition. Our results suggest that shoreline disturbance of the hydric zone is sufficient for maintaining a viable population. Competitive exclusion of A.fulva in the non-hydric zone may be delayed by management practices, such as mowing. 
25488422|The concept of critical load (CL) was defined to express the tolerance of natural and semi-natural habitats for anthropogenic air pollution. Correct evaluation of the exceedance of critical loads is fundamental for the long-term protection of ecosystems by limiting emissions of potential acidifying and eutrophying pollutants. For forest ecosystems, the exceedance of critical loads is often calculated using deposition data measured in the forest interior. However, several studies report forest edges acting as 'hotspots' of acidifying and nitrogen deposition, showing up to fourfold increases in atmospheric deposition compared to the forest interior. This paper estimates the relevance of considering the higher deposition load in forest edges for calculating exceedance of critical loads for nitrogen and potential acidifying deposition. If measures to control and reduce atmospheric deposition are based on mean deposition fluxes within forest stands, deposition reductions will not be enough for preventing adverse effects. In fact, emission reductions should be adjusted to deposition values at the forest edge, since these zones are most threatened. We thus conclude that there is an urgent need to reconsider the calculation of exceedance of critical loads, taking into account edge enhancement of deposition. This is an issue of high relevance, particularly in highly fragmented regions, such as Flanders (Belgium).
1479046|Semi-natural grasslands have become scarce throughout Europe. Preservation of their plant species requires either the maintenance of the existing grasslands or the creation of new ones. To study the establishment and regeneration ability of plant species typical of dry grasslands we laid out an experiment on a former arable field in central Finland. We compared the success of 13 grassland species both in a theoretical situation with minimal competition and in competition with weeds. More than half of the species used were regionally rare. As a group, grassland plants reached the highest cover in the experimental plots in which outside competition was minimised by weeding. However, the total cover achieved by their sward remained as low as 60% in the third growing season. The ability of grassland plants to regenerate and disperse on a small scale was therefore considered to be moderately poor. The short-living species that were rare in the region where the study took place also had the greatest difficulties in establishment and survival in the experimental field. The preservation of rare species - i.e. those species in the most urgent need of protection - therefore appears to be difficult to achieve by habitat creation. Efforts should primarily be directed towards the maintenance of those habitats into which they have spread and become established naturally.
1479015| This paper describes the effects of re-establishing seasonal cattle grazing by 0.7 animal. ha
25488448|Question: How does the dominance of Calamagrostis epigejos influence species turnover of a grassland? Location: Loess grassland at the foothills of Bkk Mountains, Hungary (4754' N, 2035' E). Methods: Presence/absence of vascular plants and different performance attributes of C. epigejos were recorded in a plot-subplot system between 2002 and 2005. Appearance and disappearance rates of grassland species were calculated for pairs of consecutive years. 1. Mean appearance and disappearance rates were compared in grassland plots dominated by C. epigejos and in plots free from this species, based on Monte Carlo randomization. 2. Mean appearance rates were assessed for categories of C. epigejos performance and their confidence intervals were calculated via Monte Carlo randomization. For two performance variables (percentage cover and shoot number) analyses were performed at two spatial scales. Results: 1. C. epigejos-dominated plots differed from unaffected ones by significantly lower appearance rates. 2. Change in appearance rates was best explained by differences in percentage cover of C. epigejos. Coarse-scale C. epigejos performance had a closer correspondence with appearance rate change than fine-scale performance. Low level C. epigejos performance enhanced appearance rate compared to intact stands, while high level performance decreased it, regardless of the choice of performance measure. Conclusions: C. epigejos lowers species number by hindering reappearance of species of the original grassland. This is best explained by the increased shading effect at the coarse scale. The marked non-linear initial enhancement in appearance rate, however, can also be taken as an early sign of future species loss.
4620503|Question: Understanding functional change in vegetation and how it might impact on vegetation change and ecosystem function entails measuring plant traits and attributes in situ. However, it is not realistically possible to sample every species for every trait, hence we need to address the consequences of not sampling all species. Location: Nine arable and grassland sites from the machair of the Western Isles, UK and twenty grassland and woodland sites from Nynis Nature Reserve, southern Sweden. Methods: The effects of progressively reducing the proportion of species used to estimate the weighted mean of a range of continuous and qualitative traits were assessed. Results: Relative abundance and species traits were related, and hence there is a cost in accuracy in reducing the number of species sampled in estimating the weighted mean for the vegetation. This cost was higher for qualitative traits than quantitative ones. Conclusion: The analysis suggested that for the quantitative traits a minimum of those species that make up at least 80% of the vegetation should be sampled if traits do not vary greatly between species. If this variability is high and the trait is likely to be correlated to abundance then greater effort in sampling species for traits is required. Qualitative information on the rarer species should still be entered into the analysis if it can be accessed in any way, even if quantitative information for that species is unavailable.
1479001|A lack of regeneration of shade-intolerant canopy species has been reported in several subtropical South African forests. The subtropical forest of Hluhluwe-Umfolozi Park, KwaZulu-Natal, was examined in order to determine the extent of regeneration, the forest grain, dynamics and conservation value. Field sampling took the form of recording DBH for all woody species in 29 0.04-ha circular plots, walking 5-m wide transects in mature and marginal forest to record size classes of important species and analysis of 20 gaps. A community analysis was performed using the multivariate program TWINSPAN. Size-class distributions indicate a lack of regeneration and suggest a prevalence of shade-intolerant species in the canopy. The composition of the canopy and subcanopy are distinct from one another and the forest is coarse-grained. Conservation of the present species composition could be aided by encouraging patch-scale disturbance. It is hypothesized that swidden agriculture may have favoured the formation of the present forest canopy structure.
1479021|We tested simulated effects of herb competition on the performance of planted seedlings of Quercus faginea ssp. faginea in Mediterranean abandoned cropland. We produced three types of environment with respect to herb competition: absence of competition (AC), below-ground competition (BGC), and total competition (TC). We assessed the performance of Q. faginea seedlings in each treatment in five ways: (1) seedling mortality, (2) leaf length and total plant leaf area, (3) water potential, (4) total biomass and biomass allocation, and (5) non-structural carbohydrate storage in different plant organs. We also measured (6) soil moisture at different depths and (7) biomass production of herbs. The TC treatment reduced water availability more than the BGC treatment, in agreement with the most pronounced water stress in seedlings under TC conditions. BGC and TC treatments showed a high and similar seedling mortality, which was one order of magnitude higher than that in the AC treatment. Competition treatments affected glucose concentration in both shoots and roots, and followed the rank TC > BGC > AC. Q. faginea seedlings might compensate a lower water availability through glucose accumulation in leaves to reduce the osmotic potential. There was a maximum starch concentration in the BGC treatment that hints that a moderate resource limitation would limit tissue growth but not carbon assimilation. We conclude that the negative effects of herbs on Q. faginea seedlings are mostly a result of competition for water, and that this competition is noticeable since the earliest stages of the establishment. Complete weed removal is a technique that would strongly improve seedling survivorship.
4620462|Question: Can the geographic patterning of endemic plant species inform reserve selection in a region of high endemism? Location: The southeastern Coastal Plain of North America, focusing primarily on the imperiled Pinus palustris (longleaf pine) ecosystem. Methods: We documented the high level of plant endemism in the region, and characterized the endemic taxa into distributional subregions. Results: A total of 1630 plant taxa are endemic to the Coastal Plain, a large proportion of which are endemic to phytogeographical subregions within the Coastal Plain, with particularly large numbers of narrow endemics occurring in the East Gulf Coastal Plain and Florida Peninsula. Conclusions: This pattern of local endemism presents challenges in conserving the full biota of the region: a reserve system focusing on few and large conservation areas has theoretical benefits for long-term management and viability, but will fail to capture many local endemics. We propose that the dispersed distribution of endemic species will require a mixture of large core reserves and smaller satellite reserves.
40927823|Question: Can species compositional dissimilarity analyses be used to assess and improve the representation of biodiversity patterns in a priori ecological classifications? Location: The case study examined the northernhalf of the South-east Queensland Bioregion, eastern Australia. Methods: Site-based floristic presence-absence data were used to construct species dissimilarity matrices (Kulczynski metric) for three levels of Queensland's bioregional hierarchy -subregions (1:500000 scale), land zones (1:250000 scale) and regional ecosystems (1:100000 scale). Within-and between-class dissimilarities were compiled for each level to elucidate species compositional patterns. Randomized subsampling was used to determine the minimum site sampling intensity for each hierarchy level, and the effects of lumping and splitting illustrated for several classes. Results: Consistent dissimilarity estimates were obtained with five or more sites per regional ecosystem, 10 or more sites per land zone, and more than 15 sites per subregion. On average, subregions represented 4% dissimilarity in floristic composition, land zones approximately 10%, and regional ecosystems over 19%. Splitting classes with a low dissimilarity increased dissimilarity levels closer to average, while merging ecologically similar classes with high dissimilarities reduced dissimilarity levels closer to average levels. Conclusions: This approach demonstrates a robust and repeatable means of analysing species compositional dissimilarity, determining site sampling requirements for classifications and guiding decisions about 'lumping' or 'splitting' of classes. This will allow more informed decisions on selecting and improving classifications and map scales in an ecologically and statistically robust manner.
4620471| Question: Does understorey richness, cover and biomass change during succession in abandoned Castor canadensis impoundments of riparian Nothofagus forests? Location: Magellanic Nothofagus forests at Tierra del Fuego National Park (545032.4" S, 683211.5" W), Argentina. Methods: Five meadows of different time since abandonment (1,5,6, 9 and 20 years ago) and two controls (pure N. pumilio and mixed N. pumilio - N. betuloides forests) were sampled. Understorey variables (species richness, cover and biomass) in beaver meadows were measured at eight plots, as well as sapling and seedlings age and height. In control treatments, ten plots on each forest type characterized forest structure. Results: Beavers alter vegetation dynamics, modifying biomass and composition of the original forest communities. Richness, cover and biomass were significantly modified when compared to the original understorey. Ferns are the most affected group, while grasses became more abundant. Many species established in the impacted sectors, which did not grow in primary forests. Trees did not regenerate in impacted areas for long periods, and many understorey original species are missing. Nothofagus forests are not adapted to support a long-term beaver impact. Conclusions: Beavers modify the original ecosystem from closed forest to a grass- and sedge-dominated meadow, due to the lack of adaptive regeneration strategies in the Nothofagus forests. The maintenance of the present level of the beaver population is not sustainable over time, due to utilized and impacted tree biomass which could not be replaced by the natural dynamics of the forest ecosystem. 
1478993|A floristic and environmental survey was carried out on 22 uninhabited islands (0.1-8.4 ha) in Lake Burollos, Egypt. A total of 58 vascular plant species was recorded. The number of habitats on each island was counted. There was a positive correlation between island area and number of habitat types. Island area was significantly positively correlated with various measures of floristic diversity, including the total number of species present, and the numbers of annual, herbaceous, and shrublet species. Perennial and shrub species numbers did not differ significantly with island area. In addition to island area, elevation and soil salinity, as well as distance to the Mediterranean Sea, all contributed significantly to variation in species composition in the terrestrial habitats. Water salinity and transparency accounted for 69% of the variation in aquatic species numbers. There was a weak effect of isolation on similarity of species composition on islands. Eight vegetation types, represented by 13 indicator species identified after TWINSPAN analysis, were distinguished by soil characteristics. Species richness was inversely correlated with clay, organic carbon and total nitrogen in the soil, but positively correlated with calcium carbonate content. From a management perspective, long-term monitoring of threatened habitats in the lake is urgently required as a starting point to preserve biodiversity. Finally, we conclude that the present study supports the hypothesis indicating that larger areas feature higher species richness due to increased numbers of habitats.
4620461|Question: How do studies of the distribution of genetic diversity of species with different life forms contribute to the development of conservation strategies? Location: Old-growth forests of the southeastern United States. Methods: Reviews of the plant allozyme literature are used to identify differences in genetic diversity and structure among species with different life forms, distributions and breeding systems. The general results are illustrated by case studies of four plant species characteristic of two widespread old-growth forest communities of the southeastern United States: the Pinus palustris-Aristida stricta (Longleaf pine-wiregrass) savanna of the Coastal Plain and the Quercus-Carya-Pinus (Oak-hickory-pine) forest of the Piedmont. Genetic variation patterns of single-gene and quantitative traits are also reviewed. Results: Dominant forest trees, represented by Pinus palustris (longleaf pine) and Quercus rubra (Northern red oak), maintain most of their genetic diversity within their populations whereas a higher proportion of the genetic diversity of herbaceous understorey species such as Sarracenia leucophylla and Trillium reliquum is distributed among their populations. The herbaceous species also tend to have more population-to-population variation in genetic diversity. Higher genetic differentiation among populations is seen for quantitative traits than for allozyme traits, indicating that interpopulation variation in quantitative traits is influenced by natural selection. Conclusion: Developing effective conservation strategies for one or a few species may not prove adequate for species with other combinations of traits. Given suitable empirical studies, it should be possible to design efficient conservation programs that maintain natural levels of genetic diversity within species of conservation interest.
1478876| Ca. 360 relevs of pleustonic vegetation were recorded in South America between 1983 and 1996. 245 relevs, containing three or more pleustonic species, were classified according to the methods of Braun-Blanquet. Within the class Lemnetea (minoris) the following two orders with alliances (All.) and associations (Ass.) can be distinguished: 1. Lemnetalia gibbae All. Azollo filiculoides-Lemnion gibbae Ass. Lemno minutae-Lemnetum gibbae Azollo filiculoides-Wolffielletum oblongae 2. Lemnetalia aequinoctialis All. Salvinio minimae-Lemnion minutae Ass. Lemno minutae-Wolffielletum lingulatae All. Salvinio minimae-Lemnion aequinoctialis Ass. Lemno aequinoctialis-Wolffielletum lingulatae Lemno aequinoctialis-Wolffielletum welwitschii All. Wolffio columbianae-Lemnion obscurae Ass. Wolffio globosae-Lemnetum obscurae The occurrence of the four alliances is mostly dependent on climate and geographical situation. The usefulness of creating pleustonic unities is discussed. 
1479003|Changes in vascular species composition and abundance were examined in coastal vegetation at Hobart, Tasmania, Australia over a period of 13 yr, during which suburbanization extended to cover a large proportion of its hinterland. There were significant increases in the richness and cover of exotic vascular plant species, most of which derived from the Mediterranean basin or southern Africa. While most of the introduced species were confined to vegetation with a high exotic component, and close to domestic gardens, some, including the South African coastal shrub, Chrysanthemoides monilifera, expanded in otherwise native vegetation relatively remote from gardens. The impact of proximity to gardens on the relative abundance of exotics and natives in coastal vegetation in 1997 best correlated with the pattern of distance from gardens in 1966, suggesting that there is, at least, a 30-yr lag period in transformation from largely native to substantially exotic vegetation. This lag period provides an opportunity to reduce exotic invasion problems before they become severe.
25488432|Question: What are the consequences of grazing abandonment on the Stipa lessingiana dominated steppe-like grasslands? What is the relative importance of management and environmental factors in causing variation in species composition and abundance in the continuously grazed and abandoned grassland stands? Location: Transylvanian Lowland, Romania. Methods: Repeated vegetation mapping of a grassland stand, where grazing was abandoned 35 years ago; re-sampling six grassland stands surveyed 29-57 years ago. For revealing long-term changes in species composition and rank abundance PCoA ordination was applied. The relative importance of management and environmental factors in structuring vegetation were explored by CCA ordination. Diversity, evenness and the relative number and abundance of red-listed species were compared between managed and abandoned stands. Results: Our results pointed out that grasslands which were formerly grazed and dominated by S. lessingiana, in the long-term absence of grazing, have been transformed into a S. pulcherrima dominated type. Management, probably by creating bare surfaces and preventing litter accumulation, had the strongest effect on the species composition and abundance in the grasslands. Abandoned grassland stands had lower diversity and evenness compared to continuously grazed stands. While at the same time, the relative number of threatened, rare species did not differ between managed and abandoned sites. Conclusion: Maintaining extensively grazed, as well as unmanaged, Stipa dominated grasslands would be important in order to create various habitat conditions for plant species, especially threatened and rare species, and promote diversity on the landscape scale.
40927813|Question: Does experimental warming, designed to simulate future warming of the Arctic, change the biomass allocation and mycorrhizal infection of tundra plants? Location: High Arctic tundra near Barrow, Alaska, USA(7118'N 15440' W). Methods: Above and below ground plant biomass of all species was harvested following 3-4 yr of 1-2C of experimental warming. Biomass allocation and arbuscular mycorrhizal infection were also examined in the two dominant species, Salix rotundifolia and Carex aquatilis. Results: Above-ground biomass of graminoids increased in response to warming but there was no difference in total plant biomass or the ratio of above-ground to below-ground biomass for the community as a whole. Carex aquatilis increased above-ground biomass and proportionally allocated more biomass above ground in response to warming.Salix rotundifolia increased the amount of above-and below-ground biomass allocated per leaf in response to warming. Mycorrhizal infection rates showed no direct response to warming, but total abundance was estimated to have likely increased in response to warming owing to increased root biomass of S. rotundifolia. Conclusions: The community as a whole was resistant to short-term warming and showed no significant changes in above-or below-ground biomass despite significant increases in above-ground biomass of graminoids. However, the patterns of biomass allocation for C. aquatilis and S. rotundifolia did change with warming. This suggests that long-term warming may result in changes in the above-ground to below-ground biomass ratio of the community.
25488428|Question: What is the influence of hydrological regime, soils and management on the plant community composition and species richness of Skealoghan turlough (groundwater dependent calcareous wetland). Location: Skealoghan turlough, County Mayo, Ireland. Methods: Percentage cover of vascular plants and bryophytes were recorded, and data on hydrological regimes, soils and management were collected. Data were analysed using multivariate statistical techniques. Results: A total of 69 species of vascular plants and mosses were recorded. Cluster analysis grouped the samples into two separate communities, the Cirsio-Molinietum and the Ranunculo-Potentilletum anserinae plant communities. The plant community composition and species richness followed a main gradient down into the turlough basin, but also varied with microtopography, resulting in a mosaic of vegetation types. Conclusions: The biodiversity and conservation value of the site is linked to the heterogeneity in its physical environment in which hydrology, soils and grazing management all play critical roles.
1478889|Conservation management has significant gaps between (1) collection and storage of biological data, (2) data analysis, and (3) application of results. In order to improve management decision-making, it is necessary to bridge these gaps. One of the most promising approaches uses computer-based decision support systems (DSS): interactive models of the system in question-for example, a nature reserve. One kind of DSS is scenario modeling: spatially-based models which (1) use expert opinion and data on vegetation, geology, hydrology, and management, (2) to project changes in landscape through time, (3) on the basis of changes in driving environmental factors. Scenario models are essentially graphic hypotheses, predicting changes in landscape with a specified change in driving factors, which can then be verified or falsified by monitoring. This paper presents an application of this approach to an Israeli nature reserve, the En Afeq Reserve in western Galilee. Our project tests the possibility of improving Israeli conservation management by using methods now standard for nature reserves in the Netherlands.
4620488|What is the relative ability of four species of Sphagnum (S. fuscum, S. rubellum, S. magellanicum and S. angustifolium) to establish on bare peat substratum in the field when re-introduced as single or multi-species re-introductions and in relation to interannual variations in climate? Continental southeastern Canada. Diaspores (fragments) of four Sphagnum species alone or in combination were re-introduced onto residual peat surfaces and were monitored to follow the development of the moss carpet over four growing seasons. In order to compare results under a variety of climatic conditions, this whole experimental setting was repeated four times (trials), with a four-year follow-up for each trial. The establishment rate of the moss carpet varied among years, in response to climatic variations between growing seasons. The relative success of different moss species and combinations of species, however, did not vary within or between trials. Thus, the species and combinations of species resulting in the highest short-term or long-term establishment rates remained the same for all trials, independent of the climatic conditions at the time of re-introduction. Our results showed no link between the number of species in the diaspore mixture and successful establishment of the moss carpet. Yet successful regeneration was clearly influenced by the identity of species chosen for re-introduction. S. fuscum, alone or in combination, was the species found to lead to the most extensive development of the moss carpet under the current test conditions.
40927791|Question: Does vegetation buffer or amplify rainfall perturbations, and is it possible to forecast rainfall using mesoscale climatic signals? Location: Central California (USA). Methods: The risk of dry or wet rainfall events was evaluated using conditional probabilities of rainfall depending on El Nio Southern Oscillation (ENSO) events. The propagation of rainfall perturbations on vegetation was calculated using cross-correlations between monthly seasonally adjusted (SA) normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) from the Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR), and SA antecedent rainfall at different time-scales. Results: In this region, El Nio events are associated with higher than normal winter precipitation (probability of 73%). Opposite but more predictable effects are found for La Nia events (89% probability of dry events). Chaparral and evergreen forests showed the longest persistence of rainfall effects (0-8 months). Grasslands and wetlandsshowed low persistence (0-2 months), with wetlands dominated by non-stationary patterns. Within the region, the NDVI spatial patterns associated with higher (lower) rainfall are homogeneous (heterogeneous), with the exception of evergreen forests. Conclusions: Knowledge of the time-scale of lagged effects of the non-seasonal component of rainfall on vegetation greenness, and the risk of winter rainfall anomalies lays the foundation for developing a forecasting model for vegetation greenness. Our results also suggest greater competitive advantage for perennial vegetation in response to potential rainfall increases in the region associated with climate change predictions, provided that the soil allows storing extra rainfall.
40927795|Question: Are contemporary herb and tree patterns explained by historic land use practices? If so, are observed vegetation patterns associated with lifehistory characteristics, soil properties, or other environmental variables? Location: Southeastern Ohio, USA. Methods: Using archival records, currently forested sites were identified with distinct land use histories: cultivated, pasture (but not plowed), and reference sites which appear to have never been cleared. Trees were recorded by size and species on twenty 20 m X 20 m plots; percent cover was estimated for each herb species in nested 10mx 10m plots. Environmental characteristics were noted, and soil samples analysed for nutrient availability and organic matter. Nonmetric multidimensional scaling ordination was performed separately on both tree and herb datasets to graphically characterize community composition among plots. Life-history traits were investigated to explain observed compositional differences. Results: Vegetation patterns were explained by current environmental gradients, especially by land-use history. Cultivated and pasture sites had similar tree composition, distinct from reference sites. Herb composition of pasture and reference sites was similar and distinct from cultivated sites, suggesting the ' tenacity' of some forest herbs on formerly cleared sites. Tilling removes rhizomatous species, and disfavors species with unassisted dispersal.These life-history traits were underrepresented on cultivated sites, although ant-dispersed species were not. Conclusions: Historic land-use practices accounted for as much variation in species composition as environmental gradients. Furthermore, trees and herbs responded differently to past land-use practices.Life-history traits of individual species interact with the nature of disturbance to influence community composition.
25488464|Questions: 1. Are there differences among species in their preference for coniferous vs. deciduous forest? 2. Are tree and shrub species better colonizers of recent forest stands than herbaceous species? 3. Do colonization patterns of plant species groups depend on tree species composition? Location: Three deciduous and one coniferous recent forest areas in Brandenburg, NE Germany. Methods: In 34 and 21 transects in coniferous and deciduous stands, respectively, we studied the occurrence and percentage cover of vascular plants in a total of 150 plots in ancient stands, 315 in recent stands and 55 at the ecotone. Habitat preference, diaspore weight, generative dispersal potential and clonal extension were used to explain mechanisms of local migration. Regression analysis was conducted to test whether migration distance was related to species' life-history traits. Results: 25 species were significantly associated with ancient stands and ten species were significantly more frequent in recent stands. Tree and shrub species were good colonizers of recent coniferous and deciduous stands. In the coniferous stands, all herbaceous species showed a strong dispersal limitation during colonization, whereas in the deciduous stands generalist species may have survived in the grasslands which were present prior to afforestation. Conclusions: The fast colonization of recent stands by trees and shrubs can be explained by their effective dispersal via wind and animals. This, and the comparably efficient migration of herbaceous forest specialists into recent coniferous stands, implies that the conversion of coniferous into deciduous stands adjacent to ancient deciduous forests is promising even without planting of trees.
4620475|Various floodplain communities may differ in their relative abilities to influence water quality through nutrient retention and denitrification. Our main questions were: (1) what is the importance of sediment deposition and denitrification for plant productivity and nutrient retention in floodplains; (2) will rehabilitation of natural floodplain communities (semi-natural grassland, reedbed, woodland, pond) from agricultural grassland affect nutrient retention? Floodplains of two Rhine distributaries (rivers IJssel and Waal), The Netherlands. Net sedimentation was measured using mats, denitrification in soil cores by acetylene inhibition and biomass production by clipping above-ground vegetation in winter and summer. Sediment deposition was a major source of N and P in all floodplain communities. Highest deposition rates were found where water velocity was reduced by vegetation structure (reedbeds) or by a drop in surface elevation (pond). Sediment deposition was not higher in woodlands than in grassland types. Denitrification rates were low in winter but significantly higher in summer. Highest denitrification rates were found in an agricultural grassland (winter and summer) and in the ponds (summer). Plant productivity and nutrient uptake were high in reedbeds, intermediate in agricultural grasslands, ponds and semi-natural grasslands and very low in woodlands (only understorey). All wetlands were N-limited, which could be explained by low N:P ratios in sediment. Conclusions: Considering Rhine water quality: only substantial P-retention is expected because, relative to the annual nutrient loads in the river, the floodplains are important sinks for P, but much less for N. Rehabilitation of agricultural grasslands into ponds or reedbeds will probably be more beneficial for downstream water quality (lower P-concentrations) than into woodlands or semi-natural grasslands.
40928276|Questions: What factors limit vegetation restoration of secondary bare saline-alkaline patches (BSAP) in the Songnen grassland of northeast China? Is there any adaptive approach to promote revegetation in the shortest time possible and at a low cost? Location: Northeast China. Methods: Considering the climate, soil saline-alkalization and available seed sources, a new approach was adopted to restore vegetation in BSAP, which were formed by the degradation of typical Leymus chinensis grasslands owing to long-term overgrazing.The experimental treatments included no treatment (CK), fencing (F), fencing+inserting cornstalks (FS), fencing+inserting cornstalks+ sowing L. chinensis (FSL) and fencing+inserting cornstalks+sowing Puccinellia chinampoensis (FSP). The assumptions behind inserting cornstalks were not only that they would create safe sites for initial revegetation but also that they would enhance seed input by trapping and containing the seeds from seed movement on the BSAP surface. Results: Seed bank shortage was an important factor limiting initial revegetation in BSAP; seed movement on the BSAP surface could provide the necessary seed source if it were contained by effective measures. Vegetation at the sites FS, FSL and FSP was restored well in terms of the above-ground biomass and coverage. Inserted cornstalks acted as safe sites that enhanced the plant survival rate in BSAP; they also enhanced the ability to contain seed movement, thus providing a seed source for initial revegetation. Along with initial revegetation, tussocks around cornstalks can provide better safe sites, which in turn can accelerate subsequent vegetation restoration in BSAP. Conclusions: The approach entails the strategic use of diverse seed sources and the construction of safe sites with agricultural byproducts (cornstalks); therefore, it is a low-cost method and can be used on a widespread scale. The results provide vigorous support in favor of vegetation restoration in BSAP and severely degraded grasslands in the region. In practice, this approach can be used in degraded ecosystems with compacted soil surfaces (including arid and salt-affected soils) to promote revegetation in various regions.
41058027|Question: How do descriptors of forest vegetation (species richness and composition) respond to edge influence and do these response patterns fit to the two-zone pattern theoretically predicted and empirically observed? Location: District of Aurignac, southwestern France. Methods: We surveyed all understory forest vegetation along 28 transects pertaining to seven contrasted boundary types. Boundary types were a combination of adjacent land cover, orientation and topography classes. Response patterns to edge influence of two vegetation descriptors, species richness and composition (summarized by an ordination), were analysed using the two-phase linear regression method . Data for each transect were divided into all possible pairs of adjacent groups of successive plots, and a linear regression was computed on both groups of plots. Regression parameters were interpreted by comparison with the two-zone theoretical pattern and related to boundary types. Results: We have shown for nearly half of the transects that vegetation responses deviate from the two-zone pattern. There was no significant relationship between regression coefficients for richness and boundary characteristics whereas regression coefficients for composition were partly related to adjacent land cover. Conclusions: Our results demonstrate a high variability of forest vegetation response patterns to edge that contrasts with the theoretical pattern usually reported in the literature. Forest history and edge dynamics are invoked to explain the observed vegetation patterns. We have shown the need for a review of factors affecting the edge influence for better management and conservation of forest plant species.
4620410|Question: Is demographic performance of Primula vulgaris correlated with habitat characteristics of the small landscape elements in which it occurs? Can we use this species as an indicator for species-rich semi-natural habitats? Location: Flanders, Belgium. Methods: To capture differences in demographic traits and habitat characteristics, both within and between populations, a two-level survey was carried out. Population size and structure of 89 P. vulgaris populations in different types of small landscape elements was recorded in 1999. At plot level, densities of different life stages were determined and these were related to edaphic conditions and vegetation structure and composition. Results: Three different population types were distinguished: (1) dynamic populations, characterized by seedling and juvenile proportions, (2) normal populations with relatively more adults, but with considerable numbers of seedlings and juveniles and (3) senescent populations, mainly consisting of adults. Senescent populations were significantly smaller than populations with a dynamic demographic structure. At plot level, comparison of demographic characteristics between different management regimes revealed that recruitment rates and total plant density of P. vulgaris were highest in plots that received a regime that included mowing and clearing of ditch banks whereas densities were lower along forest edges. For these plots, it was shown that nutrient levels were higher. Densities of adults as well as juvenile and seedling densities were negatively correlated with vegetation height. Conclusions: Local disturbance and heterogeneity may mask the relationship between unfavourable conditions and demographic characteristics at population level, but it is clear that in small populations recruitment needs to be lifted to guarantee its persistence. Performance of P. vulgaris in small landscape elements can be a first indication of plant species diversity in small landscape elements.
41318170|Question: Which environmental variables best explain patterns in the vegetation of biancane badlands? What is the role of spatial scales in structuring the vegetation of biancane badlands within the agricultural matrix? Location: Five biancane badlands in Central Italy (Tuscany). Methods: An object-oriented approach on high-resolution multispectral images was used to classify physiognomic vegetation types in five biancane badlands. Within each badland, data on vascular plant species abundance were collected using a stratified random design. Variation partitioning based on partial redundancy analysis was used to evaluate the contribution of three sets of environmental predictors, recorded at the spatial scales of plot, patch and biancane badland in explaining patterns in plant community composition. Results: Environmental variables included in the final model -electrical conductivity and carbon/nitrogen ratio (plot scale), shape index (patch scale) and area (biancane badland scale) -accounted for 15.5% of the total variation in plant community composition. Soil characteristics measured at the plot level explained the majority of variation. In the smallest badlands, Bromus erectus perennial grasslands were absent, while annual grasslands, linked with harsh soil conditions (i.e. high soil salinity), were not affected by either the surface area of biancane badlands or by the soil nitrogen availability. Conclusions: The identification of the major predictors of patterns in remnant vegetation requires conducting investigations at multiple spatial scale. Management strategies should operate at different spatial scale, preventing any further reduction in the size of existing badlands and relying on habitat-instead of area-focused conservation practices.
25488411|Question: Can we improve the knowledge of urban vegetation using data from ongoing floristic and management projects with a data mining approach? We have two questions: 1. How strong is the relationship between land cover pattern and the species composition of vegetation? 2. What is the relationship between land cover pattern and species richness? Location: Trieste, northeastern Italy. Methods: Using land cover maps and GIS we characterized the cells of a floristic project grid by percentage cover of land cover types. We applied Canonical Correlation Analysis to test the correlation between floristic composition of the cells and land cover. We classified the cells by clustering methods, based on land cover description. With these clusters, we analysed the variation of species composition of urban vegetation along a gradient of urban density. We used Jaccard's similarity index to compare floristic composition of the clusters with the floristic composition of the homogeneous cells with respect to the land cover types. To answer question 2, we calculated land cover heterogeneity with the Shannon index and correlated the number of species in clusters with land cover heterogeneity and urban density. Results: Each land cover type contributes to species richness and species composition of the clusters. Species richness decreases significantly and linearly as urban density increases and land cover heterogeneity decreases in the clusters. Conclusions: A data mining approach can combine different existing projects to improve knowledge of the urban vegetation system. The methods we have applied offer tools to answer the specific questions mentioned above.
1478882|Common reed (Phragmites australis Trin.) has spread in fen meadows on the Swiss Plateau during the last decades. An increased dominance of this tall grass may reduce the plant species richness and displace rare or endangered species because of the additional shade. To investigate whether this has actually happened and whether shading by Phragmites was likely to be responsible for the reduction, the plant species composition was surveyed in 241 plots (4 m
1479037|Development of semi-natural vegetation has recently been a primary concern of restoration efforts. A primary management question is whether active intervention is required or spontaneous secondary succession could suffice. We studied 54 old-fields in central Hungary, which differed in time since abandonment but which had similar environmental conditions and management histories. The sites were grouped into four age groups according to the time elapsed since cultivation abandonment: 1-5, 6-10, 11-23 and 24-33 yr. In each old-field we recorded the species and estimated their abundances. We grouped species in two ways: according to life form (annuals, biennials, perennials, woody plants) and according to coenological behaviour (weeds, sand and steppe generalists, specialists). We analysed the changes in species number and abundance in these categories as a function of site age. Contrary to other successional studies, the total number of species did not change significantly among the four age groups. A significant change was detected between the first two age groups as to life-form composition. Species number and abundance of annuals decreased, while the perennials and woody plants increased. As to coenological behaviour, species number changed only in the first two age groups, while abundance changed in the first three. Weeds quickly disappeared and specialists established and spread, while the species number and abundance of generalists did not change significantly. We concluded that the basic shifts in species composition are almost completed within 10 yr. Most of the late successional species colonized and weeds disappeared. We conclude that there was no need for active intervention in this system: the spontaneous secondary succession leads to semi-natural vegetation.
27735089|Question: What is the relative importance of local site effects and selected important environmental variables in determining plant species composition? How do species respond to these environmental variables? Location: Ten mesotrophic grassland sites of high conservation value in southern England. Methods: Species cover was assessed in between 10 and 25 randomly selected 1-m2 quadrats at each site. At each quadrat degree of waterlogging (W), soil Olsen extractable phosphorus (P) and soil pH were measured. Variation partitioning was used to separate site and soil effects, and HOF (Huisman, Olff & Fresco) modelling was used to produce response curves for the major species on soil gradients, based on coenoclines derived from partial canonical correspondence analysis (pCCA). Results: Variation partitioning identified Site as the most important environmental variable (34.6%). Only 18.7% was accounted for by the three soil variables together; W (degree of waterlogging), P and pH accounted for 11.1%, 5.7% and 4.3%, respectively in raw form with 2.4% shared. However, when Site and the other soil variables were removed the variation explained reduced to 2.3% for W, 1.1% for P and 1.0% for pH. The species responses to each of these soil environmental factors could be separated into four types on each gradient. Most species were abundant at low W, low soil P and intermediate pH. Conclusions: Site-based factors were more important than the three soil variables, which were assumed to be directly or indirectly associated with productivity. This implies that each site has unique properties that are more important than the soil variables. The three soil factors were, however, significant and the groups of the most common species, based on significant response curves, can be used as a first approximation of indicators of environmental conditions in British mesotrophic grasslands for conservation. However, W accounted for most variation, and the current reliance on soil available P and soil pH for assessing conservation/restoration potential should be viewed with caution.
41318174|Studies of frequent burning in eucalypt ecosystems show that accumulation of N in the absence of fire drives changes in their composition, structure and function.
25488458|Question: What are the long-term implications of former fertilisation for the ecological restoration of calcareous grasslands? Location: Gerendal, Limburg, The Netherlands. Methods: In 1970, ten permanent plots were established in just abandoned agricultural calcareous grassland under a regime of annual mowing in August. From 1971 to 1979, two different fertiliser treatments were applied twice a year to a subset of the plots (artificial fertiliser with different proportions of nitrogen and phosphorus). The vegetation of the plots was recorded yearly and vegetation biomass samples were taken for peak standing crop and total amounts of nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium. Species composition and floristic diversity were analysed over the research period (1970-2006) and between the treatments, including the use of multivariate techniques (Detrended Correspondence Analysis). Results: In terms of species number, there is a clear optimum 10 to 20 years after fertilisation has been terminated. Afterwards, there is a slow decrease; no new species appear and species of more nutrient-rich conditions gradually disappear. For the fertilised plots that received a relatively high proportion of N, effects are found only in the first years, whereas, for the plots that received a relatively high proportion of P, long-term after-effects are found in species composition, peak standing crop, total amounts of phosphorus in biomass, and in soil phosphorus data. Conclusions: The effect of artificial fertiliser with a large amount of nitrogen disappears in less than ten years when mown in August, including removal of the hay. This is a promising result for restoration of N-enriched calcareous grasslands, as the applied dose of nitrogen in this experiment largely exceeds the extra input of nitrogen via atmospheric deposition. Application of fertiliser with a large amount of phosphorus, however, has effects even more than 25 years after the last addition. There are no prospects that this effect will become reduced in the near future under the current mowing management.
41058160|Question: Does management intensity affect the association between nonnative and native species and between non-native species and soil nutrients in wetlands? Location: MacArthur Agro-Ecology Research Center, Florida, USA. Methods: We evaluated native and non-native plant richness and relative frequency in 15 1 -m plots in 40 wetlands across two types of pastures, highly managed (fertilized, ditched, planted, heavily grazed by cattle) and semi-natural (unfertilized, lightly seasonally grazed). Plant biomass was collected in five 0.25-m plots per wetland and sorted to species. Soil cores were collected to analyse soil total nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P). An information-theoretic approach was used to compare mixed effects models considering the association of non-native richness, relative frequency, and biomass with native richness, relative frequency, biomass, C grass relative frequency (a dominant native group), N, P and wetland-type. Results: Non-native richness was negatively correlated with native richness in semi-natural wetlands, but there was no evidence of an association between these variables in highly managed wetlands. Non-native richness increased with increasing soil  in semi-natural wetlands, but not in the highly managed wetlands. Soil N was positively related to non-native frequency in semi-natural wetlands but negatively related in highly managed wetlands. Non-native frequency and biomass were negatively related to relative frequency of C grasses in both management types. Conclusions: Our results indicate that management intensity influences relationships between native and non-native richness. Management intensity interacts with abiotic or biotic factors, such as soil nutrients and composition, in predicting where non-native species will most likely need control.
1479012|In previous studies, limited dispersal was revealed to be the main obstacle to restoration of species-rich flood-meadows along the northern Upper Rhine in Germany. To overcome dispersal limitation we transferred freshly mown plant material from species-rich sources to a restoration site on a former arable field. Before plant material application, topsoil was removed to accelerate nutrient impoverishment and create favourable conditions for seedling recruitment. Topsoil removal led to a drastic reduction in organic matter and essential mineral nutrients to the level of target communities (P) or even below (N, K). At a removal depth of 30 cm content of the soil seed bank that comprised exclusively of annual arable weeds, ruderals and some common grassland species, declined by 60 - 80%, while at a removal depth of 50 cm the seed bank was almost completely eliminated. With few exceptions, all species recorded in source plant material were found established at the restoration site. However, the overall correlation between seed content in plant material and establishment success was not very high. Vegetation development at the restoration site was characterized by a rapid decline in arable weeds and ruderals, while resident grassland species and species transferred with plant material increased rapidly from the third year onwards. After four years as many as 102 species were established that could be exclusively attributed to plant material transfer, among them many rare and highly endangered plants. Establishment of species from plant material was most successful in regularly flooded plots, due to the suppression of competitors as well as the creation of favourable moisture conditions for seedling emergence. Diaspore transfer with plant material proved to be an extremely successful method in restoring species-rich grassland. However, high quality of plant material and suitable site conditions with low competition in early stages of succession seem to be essential prerequisites.
25488444|Question: What is the effect of fuel management practices in the recovery capacity of seeder-dominated shrublands? Location: Ulex parviflorus shrubland localities in Mediterranean regions of eastern Spain. Methods: We applied prescribed burning and brush-chipping as fuel management techniques in three young and three mature shrublands, and evaluated the effects in the following four years. Results: Canopy opening by the treatments allowed increasing species richness through the four years of secondary succession. The treatments produced a change in community structure and dominant species, from the woody seeder Ulex parviflorus to the resprouter grass Brachypodium retusum. Vegetation response was conditioned by both shrubland developmental stage and treatment applied. Burning resulted in more severe modification of the ecosystem, increasing bare soil cover. Four years after fuel management in different aged Mediterranean gorse shrublands, vegetation response followed a similar pattern with the exception of the young, brush-chipped shrublands. The treatments applied for controlling Ulex parviflorus were seen to be very effective, with the exception of brush-chipping in young shrublands. Conclusions: Selective brush-chipping in middle-aged or mature gorse shrublands would combine a drastic reduction in fire hazard with ecosystem conservation and regeneration.
1478916|Since the construction in 1979 of a dam in the Logone floodplain in the Sahelo-Sudanian zone of Cameroon, annual inundations have decreased, reducing perennial vegetation as important grazing source for nomadic herds and wildlife during the dry season. Presently, possibilities exist to release excess water for floodplain rehabilitation. In 1994 a pilot release was executed, reflooding 200 km
1479074|Attempts to restore species-rich flood-plain meadows from abandoned arable fields in the valley of the river Meuse, NE France, were studied. The study area was sown with a commercial seed mixture, composed of Phleum pratense, Festuca pratensis, Lolium perenne and Trifolium repens. The above-ground vegetation in the study area 1, 2 and 3 yr after restoration was compared to (1) the vegetation present during the previous 5-yr fallow stage and (2) target flood-plain meadows. Before restoration, the above-ground fallow vegetation was dominated by ruderal and annual species, while only very few meadow species were present. Sowing led to tall, dense vegetation, mainly dominated by the sown species. Ruderal and annual species had decreased 3 yr after restoration, but target species were still poorly represented. Species richness was significantly lower in the sown site than in the seminatural target meadows and the vegetation had a different composition. Analysis of the soil seed bank of the restored meadow showed that only a few meadow species were present and that it was dominated by a few ruderal species. Three years after sowing, the vegetation of our experimental site is moving slowly towards the target communities but impoverished seed sources seem to limit the success of this restoration operation and will lead to under-saturated communities.
1478924|Minsmere is a large nature reserve in East Anglia UK, owned and managed by the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB). Two blocks of land, which were farmed commercially until 1990, have been bought in an attempt to link existing patches of heathland and acid grassland, thus creating a larger area for conservation. This paper discusses methods for the creation of acid grasslands. Previous studies of the arable soils in these fields identified three constraints - a depauperate seed bank, a high pH and vigorous growth of ruderal species after the fields were abandoned. Accordingly, experiments were set up to test the effects of (1) adding seed of species typical of acid grasslands and (2) adding amendments (elemental sulphur, litter of Pteridium aquilinum and pine chippings) to acidify the soil. The results confirmed that ruderal growth was high on unamended plots, but this could be reduced by addition of acidic amendments. Where the cover of ruderals was reduced, the cover of the sown species increased. The sown species colonized adjacent unsown subplots naturally and this was most pronounced where the acidity had been reduced by treatment. The most effective treatment was 2 t S/ha, which gave the optimal reduction in soil pH, controlled ruderal growth and provided a reasonable cover of the sown species. The addition of Pteridium litter or pine chippings gave good establishment of sown species, but control of the ruderals was less effective.
40927808|Question: Which mechanisms promote the maintenance of the protected pioneer grass Corynephorus canescens in a mosaic landscape? Which are the interactive effects of small-scale disturbances, successional stage and year-to-year variation on early establishment probabilities of C.canescens? Location: Brandenburg, NE Germany. Methods: We measured emergence and survival rates over 3 yr in a sowing-experiment conducted in three successional stages (C. canescens-dominated site, ruderal forb site and pioneer forest) under two different regimes of mechanical ground disturbance (disturbed versus undisturbed control). Results: Overall, disturbance led to higher emergence in a humid year and to lower emergence in a very dry year. Apparently, when soil moisture was sufficient, the main factor limiting C. canescens' establishment was competition, while in the dry year, water became the limiting factor. Survival rates were not affected by disturbance. In humid years, C. canescens emerged in higher numbers in open successional stages while in the dry year, emergence rates were higher in late stages, suggesting an important role of late successional stages for the persistence of C.canescens. Conclusions: Our results suggest that small-scale disturbances can promote germination of C. canescens. However, disturbances should be carefully planned. The optimal strategy for promoting C.canescens is to apply disturbances just before seed dispersal and not during dry years. At the landscape scale, a mosaic of different vegetation types is beneficial for the protected pioneer grass as facilitation by late-successional species may be an important mechanism for the persistence of C. canescens, especially in dry years.
25488468|Question: The practice of extracting logging residues after clear-cutting for bioenergy purposes is spreading. Logging residues constitute a shelter in clear-cut areas and therefore concerns have been expressed that their removal could make the ground and its vegetation more exposed to extreme microclimatic conditions. We asked whether logging residues and forest edges can protect ground-dwelling forest bryophytes from fatal microclimate events following clear-cutting. Location: Boreal forests of central Sweden. Methods: Using transplants of eight forest floor bryophyte species we experimentally analysed the sheltering effect (less solar radiation and less wind) of logging residues and forest edges in seven clear-cut areas. Transplants were placed in two contrasting positions in each area; near a north-facing forest edge and in the centre of the clear-cut area. In each position, half of the transplants were covered by a layer of spruce branches and the other half was left uncovered. We estimated proportion of apparently living shoots (apparent vitality) and measured radial growth of transplants during one growing season. Results: Position in the clear-cut area, but not cover of spruce branches, clearly influenced radial growth. Vitality scores were higher among transplants covered with branches and the lowest apparent vitality was observed in uncovered transplants in the middle of clear-cut areas. The change in area of apparently living shoots during the course of the experiment (growth minus mortality) was unaffected by branch cover close to the edge but positively affected in the centre of the clear-cut area. In general, the effect of branch cover on bryophytes was higher in the centre of clear-cut areas. Here, climatic measurements showed that branch cover buffers during periods of extreme microclimates. Conclusions: Extraction of logging residues after clear-felling may reduce the survival of some ground-dwelling forest organisms. The additional sheltering provided by branches was unimportant close to forest edges. We suggest smaller clear-cut areas, green-tree retention and other ways to make logged areas shadier and less windy to mitigate the reduced shelter caused by harvest of logging residues.
4620499|Question: Can fire be used to maintain Yellow pine (Pinus subgenus Diploxylon) stands disturbed by periodic outbreaks of southern pine beetle? Location: Southern Appalachian Mountains, USA. Methods: We used LANDIS to model vegetation disturbance and succession on four grids representative of xeric landscapes in the southern Appalachians. Forest dynamics of each landscape were simulated under three disturbance scenarios: southern pine beetle, fire, and southern pine beetle and fire, as well as a no disturbance scenario. We compared trends in the abundance of pine and hardwood functional types as well as individual species. Results: Yellow pine abundance and open woodland conditions were best maintained by a combination of fire and southern pine beetle disturbance on both low elevation sites as well as mid-elevation ridges & peaks. On mid-elevation SE-W facing slopes, pine woodlands were best maintained by fire alone. Conclusions: Our simulations suggest that fire can help maintain open pine woodlands in stands affected by southern pine beetle outbreaks.
1478914|Eleven years of abandonment of a species-rich fenmeadow under undisturbed environmental conditions resulted in transformation into areas with tall herb-, sedge- and rushdominated communities and areas with Alnus thicket. Species cover was measured in permanent plots in both community types and succession was monitored during 14 yr of restoration following reintroduction of management. The annual increase in accumulated species number followed a log-log-time linear regression during 10 yr of grazing management. The expected number of years taken before this annual rate was equal to annual extinction, i.e. a stable situation according to species density, was up to six. The response of 64 species to management was evaluated through paired statistical tests of changes in cover and frequency over time. In total, 55 species could each be allocated to one unique response model (monotone or non-monotone, concave models) independently of the importance value used (cover or frequency) and type of management (grazing following felling or mowing and mowing without grazing). Species which increased in response to grazing had the most persistent seed banks and CR-strategies, while species decreasing in response to grazing had less persistent seed banks and CS-strategies. Some of the species which increased due to grazing followed a model with a local maximum in cover and frequency. The results are discussed in relation to management of species with high cover value during restoration succession.
4620496|Question: Arctophila fulva var. pendulina, Primula nutans var. jokelae and Puccinellia phryganodes are threatened early successional species growing in the seashore meadows of the northern Baltic Sea. Patches formed by these species are destined to be replaced by other species during primary succession and in order to persist in the area they have to continuously colonize new areas. We studied whether the displacement of the species could be slowed down and their sexual and/or vegetative reproduction enhanced by management targeted to surrounding vegetation. Location: Bothnian Bay, Baltic Sea, W Finland. Methods: Vegetation surrounding patches of all study species was mown in four successional growing seasons. Moreover, the impact of additional soil turning on creating new favourable growing sites was tested for A. fulva. Results: Deterioration of suitable habitats of A. fulva and P. nutans was markedly slowed down by management and the vegetative and/or sexual reproduction of these species was enhanced. In the case of P. phryganodes, however, no positive response to management was obtained. Conclusions: In order to improve the long-term persistence of these three species successional vegetation changes should be slowed down and their dispersal and colonization success improved by continuous management of the populations. We further suggest that the colonization of new areas should be aided by transplantations to the non-vegetated islets, which have recently risen from the sea and cannot be reached by means of dispersal.
1479075| In this paper, we present a short overview of neutral landscape models traditionally adopted in the landscape ecological literature to differentiate landscape patterns that are the result of simple random processes from patterns that are generated from more complex ecological processes. Then, we present another family of models based on Txen's definition of potential natural vegetation that play an important role, especially in Europe, for landscape planning and management. While neutral landscape models by their very nature do not take into account vegetation dynamics, nor abiotic constraints to vegetation distribution, the concept of potential natural vegetation includes the effects of vegetation dynamics in a spatially explicit manner. Therefore, we believe that distribution maps of potential natural vegetation may represent an ecological meaningful alternative to neutral landscape models for evaluating the effects of landscape structure on ecological processes. 
40928280|Question: Can long-term grazing management maintain and restore species-rich sand dune plant communities within a sand dune site of high conservation interest? Location: Newborough Warren, North Wales, UK. Methods: Vegetation changes that occurred between 1987 and 2003, subsequent to grazing by domestic livestock being introduced to the site after decades with little or no stock grazing, were analysed using data collected from permanent monitoring quadrats over a 16-year period. Results: At the plant community level, grazing brought about a shift from a tall-grass dominated, species-poor community to a more species-rich community in the dry dunes, but did not change community type in dune slacks. However, at the species level, grazing enhanced the abundance of some desired perennial, annual and biennial species, graminoids and bryophytes in both habitat types. The increased frequency of positive indicator species for habitat condition suggests that grazing was beneficial for species of conservation interest. Ellenberg nitrogen (TV) values decreased after grazing in dry habitats but showed no long-term change independent of grazing, suggesting no increase in site fertility over the study period. Surprisingly, light (L) values also decreased in the dry dunes after grazing. Conclusions: Long-term grazing management can play an important role for the conservation of dune communities and associated species. Because of its positive effects on species diversity, plant communities and habitat condition in sand dunes, livestock grazing is recommended for conservation management.
1479017|Small-scale landscape elements, such as ditch banks, play an important role in preserving plant species richness in agricultural landscapes. In this study, we investigate whether the seed bank might be useful for restoring the above-ground plant species richness. We studied the vegetation and seed bank composition at six species-rich and six species-poor ditch banks, where agri-environment schemes are running to maintain and enhance ditch bank plant diversity. We show that the number of species in the seed bank was low, regardless of the number of species in the established vegetation. Moreover, the seed bank was always dissimilar to the established vegetation. Target species for nature conservation were occasionally present in the seed bank at both species-poor and species-rich sites, but rarely so if the species was absent from the established vegetation. We conclude that the potential use of the seed bank for restoration of ditch banks is minimal. At present, plant species richness seems to be largely controlled by germination opportunities; high biomass and competition appear to hamper germination at species-poor sites. We recommend continued nutrient reduction at such sites. Soil disturbance measures and deliberate sowing should also be considered.
1478932|Spatial patterns and temporal dynamics of light distribution were investigated using lacunarity analysis, a multi-scale measure of spatial heterogeneity, in three mesic grasslands with different disturbance regimes. Frequency distributions of relative light intensity (RLI) were similar for the two non-disturbed grasslands, despite different composition (forbs vs. caespitose grass) resulting from different historical disturbance regimes prior to 1985, and different from the annually disturbed grassland. Spatial heterogeneity of light distribution was greater at all scales in the native, annually disturbed grassland than in the two non-disturbed grasslands. The disturbance regime affected temporal dynamics of the spatial patterns of light distribution in each grassland. The annually disturbed grassland exhibited a dramatic decrease in lacunarity (heterogeneity) from early to late April, likely the result of considerable growth of a cool-season grass. A general decrease in lacunarity occurred in the native, non-disturbed grassland, although the magnitude was much less than in the annually disturbed grassland. The reverted, non-disturbed grassland did not exhibit an appreciable change in lacunarity until later in the growing season, and then only at smaller scales. Combining the frequency distribution of RLI and the lacunarity curves provided an effective approach to assess relationships between the dynamics of spatial pattern of light distribution and ecological processes as influenced by different disturbance regimes. Integrating lacunarity analysis with more traditional measurements of grassland ecosystems (plant spatial distribution and arrangement and plant species composition and architecture) may be an effective way to assess functional consequences of structural changes in grassland ecosystems.
27735064|Questions: Do differences in previous land use cause long-lasting changes in soil chemistry? Is vegetation composition affected by the previous land use after 50 years of secondary succession? Is the effect of previous land use caused by preexisting differences in environmental conditions or mediated through changes in soil chemistry? How important is the effect of previous land use in relation to other factors? Location: Doupovsk Mountains, Czech Republic. Methods: A stratified random sampling design was used to collect 91 vegetation relevs with accompanying soil samples. The effects of previous land use (arable field, meadow, pasture) on soil pH, organic carbon (C), total nitrogen (N), C:N ratio and available phosphorus were tested by an analysis of covariance. A canonical correspondence analysis and variation partitioning procedure were used to reveal relationships among previous land use, environmental factors and species composition. Results: Organic C, total N and C:N ratio were significantly influenced by previous land use, while available phosphorus and soil pH were not. Previous land use explained a significant part of the variation in species composition and its effects only partly overlapped with the effects of soil chemistry and terrain attributes. However, the species composition of post-agricultural forests was mostly determined by environmental factors not modified by previous land use. Conclusions: Forest communities that originate on abandoned agricultural land are primarily determined by natural environmental conditions. Nevertheless, the type of previous land use also modifies the species assemblages of these forests and needs to be considered as an important determinant of their composition.
4620442|Questions: What is the effect of the 19th century (pre-industrialization) landscape pattern on the recovery of climax forests in cool-temperate mountain areas dominated by Fagus crenata (Japanese beech)? Location: Secondary forests on Mt. Daisen, western Japan. Methods: Vegetation patterns before and after industrialization were obtained from maps drawn in 1898 and 1979. Tree measurements were made in 12 plots in 1997. Correlation between current Fagus crenata dominance and forest edge in the 19th century was analysed using an S-shaped regression curve. Fagus juvenile density was counted in the plots, and distances from each plot to the five nearest mother trees were measured to determine the dispersal kernel. Results: Secondary grassland covered a substantial area in 1898, whereas forest covered most of the area in 1997. Fagus was dominant in places in the interior forest 100 years ago, and mature Fagus trees were absent in secondary forests that had been grasslands in 1898. The expected number of juveniles decreased to one individual per 100 m2 at 43.5 m from the mother tree. Conclusions: The pre-industrialization landscape greatly affected recovery of Fagus forest. Forests found on the 1898 vegetation map might have acted as refugia for Fagus. The limited dispersal ability of Fagus suggests that it would take many generations (several hundred years) for Fagus forests to recover at the centre of what had been grasslands in the 19th century.
1478938|The effect of time on natural regeneration of two salt marshes was studied in relation to plant and edaphic factors. The study was carried out in two naturally restoring salt marshes, differing in restoration time, in Txingudi (Bay of Biscay). After 20 yr, the younger salt marsh had the same plant species richness and high species similarity as a 35 yr old salt marsh (17 and 16, respectively, similarity index = 0.9), but both sites had lower species richness and similarity than a nearby natural salt marsh (36 plant species and similarity indices of 0.45 with the 35 yr old marsh and 0.46 with the 20 yr old marsh). Plant species present in the two recovering salt marshes followed a similar distribution pattern in relation to organic matter, conductivity and moisture content although this zonation differed from the natural salt marsh. The range of edaphic factors measured was also similar, but differed from those in the natural salt marsh. The process of plant species recolonization and spatial distribution might be delayed by a low probability of species arrival and by the time need for the restoration of hydrologic and edaphic factors. This study supports the necessity of long-term monitoring in measuring coastal salt marsh restoration.
4620414| Question: Which restoration measures (introduction of donor diaspore material, application of straw mulch, alteration of residual peat depths) contribute to the establishment of a fen plant community on minerotrophic surfaces after peat mining? Location: Rivire-du-Loup peatland, southern Qubec, Canada at 100 m a.s.l. Methods: The effectiveness of introducing fen plants with the application of donor diaspore material was tested. The donor diaspore material, containing seeds, rhizomes, moss fragments, and other plant propagules, was collected from two different types of natural fens. We tested whether the application of straw mulch would increase fen species cover and biodiversity compared to control plots without straw mulch. Terrace levels of different peat depths (15 cm, 40 cm, and 56 cm) were created to test the effects of different environmental site conditions on the success of re-vegetation. Results: Applying donor seed bank from natural fens was found to significantly increase fen plant cover and richness after the two growing seasons. Straw mulch proved to significantly increase fen plant richness. The intermediate terrace level (40 cm) had the highest fen plant establishment. Compared to reference sites, the low terrace level (15 cm) was richer in base cations, whereas the high terrace level (56 cm) was much drier. Conclusions: The application of donor diaspore material was demonstrated as an effective technique for establishing vascular fen plants. Further rewetting measures are considered necessary at the restoration site to create a fen ecosystem rather than simply restoring some fen species. 
4620409|Hypothesis: For any one time and place a 'functional signature' can be derived for a sample of herbaceous vegetation in a way that concisely represents the balance between the different clusters of functional attributes that are present among component species. Methods: We developed a spreadsheet-based tool for calculating functional signatures within the context of the C-S-R system of plant functional types. We used the tool to calculate and compare signatures for specimen British vegetation samples which differed in management regime and location in time. Conclusion: The integrative power of the 'C-S-R signature' is useful in comparative studies involving widely differing samples. Movements in the signature can be used to indicate degree of resistance, resilience, eutrophication and dereliction. Systems of plant functional types other than C-S-R might also be approached in this way. Availability: The tool can be downloaded free of charge from the first author's web pages or from the journal's electronic archive.
4620445| Question: Is the vegetation of meadow and mountain steppes distinct from the ground vegetation of light taiga forests in the transitional zone between these biomes? Location: Western Khentey Mountains, northern Mongolia. Methods: Vegetation was recorded from 100-m plots from all dominant types of light taiga forest and dry grassland. Distinctness of ground vegetation was studied with Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA). Results: Ground vegetation in the light taiga was significantly different from the herbal vegetation of meadow and mountain steppes. Clear separation was only absent for the Carex amgunensis meadow steppes that occur in a narrow strip along the forest edge and are partly shaded by trees. Forest and steppe communities followed a moisture gradient according to the DCA ordination with light taiga forests at the moistest sites and steppe communities at the driest sites. Ulmus pumila open woodlands diverged from this pattern, because of their close spatial and phytosociological relationship to mountain steppes. Conclusions: The present results do not support the assumption that grasslands in Mongolia's transitional zone between forest and steppe would generally resemble the ground vegetation of light taiga forests. This contradicts a published hypothesis stating that the vegetation of meadow and mountain steppes would not clearly differ from ground vegetation of light taiga forests in the forest-steppe transitional zone of Mongolia. 
25488453|Question: Interacting disturbance effects from Dendroctonus frontalis outbreaks and wildfire are thought to maintain Pinus spp. composition in the southeastern U.S. Our objective was to assess forest composition, structure, and succession following the interaction of two frequently occurring disturbance events in southern Pinus spp. forests: cut-and-leave suppression, a commonly used means for managing D. frontalis outbreaks, and wildfire. Location: Western Gulf Coastal Plain, Louisiana, USA. Method: Pinus taeda stands with cut-and-leave suppression and subsequent wildfire were compared to stands undisturbed by D. frontalis but with the same wildfire events twenty years after Pinus spp. mortality. The woody plant community was assessed in three different size classes and used to predict future forest types with the Forest Vegetation Simulator (50 years). Results: P. taeda is the most abundant (> 50%) species of saw- and poletimber-sizes following cut-and-leave suppression with wildfire and in stands only with fire. Using canonical correspondence analysis, vegetation assemblages were primarily explained by slope position and elevation (7.6% variation explained). Fire intensity and stand age also accounted for variance in the ordination (4.4% and 3.1%, respectively). Dominant and co-dominant P. taeda forest types were predicted by the model to be the most abundant forest types in each disturbance regime. In addition, new regeneration represents high hazard for future mortality from D. frontalis. Conclusion: Our study demonstrates that cut-and-leave suppression with additional wildfire disturbance maintains P. taeda composition, and does not alter forest composition differently from stands receiving only wildfire. As a result, predicted Pinus spp. basal area under both disturbances is great enough to facilitate future bark beetle disturbance.
27735088|Questions: Is post-fire persistence of resprouting species lower in restored sites, and is survival related to lignotuber size? Location: Southwestern Australia, Eneabba, 300 km north of Perth. Methods: Post-fire persistence of 10 lignotuberous shrub species was compared between three sites restored 824 years ago after mineral-sand mining and three surrounding natural shrubland sites (824 years since previous fire). Results: Overall persistence of species was 1193% in restored sites (means 52%) and 79100% in natural sites (mean 96%). Persistence increased with time since rehabilitation for five species with <25% of individuals in three species surviving in the youngest stand. For equivalent crown size, average lignotuber circumferences were 50% smaller at restored sites and this probably accounted for their higher post-fire mortality. Apart from differences in the age of plants, restored sites had lower soil penetrability than natural sites, which may have restricted rootstock development. A tradeoff favoring a higher crown volume to lignotuber size ratio was apparent in nine of the ten species with greater crown volumes (by 37%) and smaller lignotubers (by 36%) in restored sites. Two resprouting species for which crown seed store was quantified had much higher fecundity in restored sites. Conclusions: Fires reduced resprouter persistence in restored sites owing to poor development/insufficient size of lignotubers. Further management after fires is required, including application of resprouter seeds/seedlings on restored topsoil, transplanting adult resprouters (where viable) from natural areas ahead of the mining front. Low intensity/patchy fires are recommended on long unburnt sites. Resprouter survival would have likely been much greater in the first place if a deeper sandy soil profile was rehabilitated, thereby providing a more suitable medium for lignotuber development.
41058165|Questions: How well can we predict tree growth potential (site index) of five, locally dominant tree species in reference to estimates made with a detailed vegetation classification? Location: The forested region of the Pacific Northwest, USA and Canada. Methods: We employed a physiologically based process model (3-PG, Physiological Processes to Predict Growth) to generate estimates of site index under averaged climatic conditions (1971-2000) generated from hundreds of weather stations and extrapolated, with adjustments for topography, across the region at 1-km resolution. The model was parameterized from published information, but we had to assume fixed values of soil water storage capacity at 200 mm and soil fertility at 70% of maximum across the region. Field estimates of site index for the five dominant species were derived from published correlations with detailed mapping of vegetation provided by The British Columbia Ministry of Forests and Range. Results: The site indices projected with the 3-PG model for the five species combined, when compared with those produced by the Ministry of Forests and Range, produced an r averaging ~0.5 with a standard error of 2.8 m at 50yr, equivalent to 10% of the mean. Some of the variation may be attributed to inadequate information on soil properties. Importantly, the relationship between the two estimates was not significantly different from a 1:1 line, with an intercept of zero. Conclusions: The 3-PG modelling approach offers a means of predicting spatial variation in site indices across the Pacific Northwest and provides a basis for predicting future site indices under a changing climate.
27735087|Question. Can strategic burning, targeting differing ecological characteristics of native and exotic species, facilitate restoration of native understorey in weed-invaded temperate grassy eucalypt woodlands? Location. Gippsland Plains, eastern Victoria, Australia. Methods. In a replicated, 5-year experimental trial, the effects of repeated spring or autumn burning were evaluated for native and exotic plants in a representative, degraded Eucalyptus tereticornis grassy woodland. Treatments aimed to reduce seed banks and modify establishment conditions of exotic annual grasses, and to exhaust vegetative reserves of exotic perennial grasses. Treatments were applied to three grassland patch types, dominated by the native grass Austrodanthonia caespitosa, ubiquitous exotic annuals, or the common exotic perennial grass Paspalum dilatatum. Results. The dominant native grass Austrodanthonia caespitosa and native forbs were resilient to repeated fires, and target exotic annuals and perennials were suppressed differentially by autumn and spring fires. Exotic annuals were also suppressed by drought, reducing the overall treatment effects but indicating important opportunities for restoration. The initially sparse exotic geophyte Romulea rosea increased in cover with fire and the impact of this species on native forbs requires further investigation. There was minimal increase in diversity of subsidiary natives with fire, probably owing to lack of propagules. Conclusions. While fire is often considered to increase ecosystem invasibility, our study showed that strategic use of fire, informed by the relative responses of available native and exotic taxa, is potentially an effective step towards restoration of weed-invaded temperate eucalypt woodlands.
25488415|Questions: Is it possible to render the species pool concept operational for cultural landscape management and restoration? Location: Hordaland and Sogn & Fjordane counties, western Norway. Methods: An initial regional species list, based on information on the distribution of species and habitats in the Norwegian flora, was filtered using information on target communities and species lists from 95 sites in the region. Owing to the importance of both mowing and grazing Ellenberg indicator values were not used in the identification process. Results: The final regional species pool consisted of 227 species, of which 194 were extracted from the flora, while 33 agricultural landscape species were added from the actual pool or from a list of species in additional hay meadows. Some of the 33 species were regular inhabitants of hay meadows, others were rare in the region. The regional species pool list includes information on each species on demands when hydrology, nutrients and base saturation in the soil is concerned, and whether or not they are characteristic for either of the boreal or boreo-nemoral vegetation zones. Conclusions: Specialist knowledge was an advantage when adding cultural landscape species other than meadow species of the flora; 77 species were documented only by the flora, interesting from the point of view of restoration as this part of the pool would not have been found by just adding species lists. The diversity of the now isolated hay meadow sites in the region may be kept up by replacing the lost natural invasion by an artificial one, using local seed mixtures and transplants.
1478937|We compared the plant species composition, productivity and canopy structure of seven mown sites to a chronosequence of 20 abandoned clacareous fens in northeastern Switzerland. Cessation of mowing led to an 18% decline in overall plant species richness and the diversity of most functional groups. Abandonment did not lead to marked increases of above-ground productivity, but rather selectively favoured certain functional groups. On abandoned fens biomass of grasses increased nearly threefold, at the expense of biomass of Cyperaceae and Juncaceae, which declined by 30% compared to mown fens, while forb biomass remained unaffected. Litter mass increased more than 15-fold in fallows, while canopy height increased by 50%. The foliage in abandoned fens was oriented more horizontally and had a lower overall cover. However, these successional changes were never dependent upon the age of the fallow. Furthermore, nearly all traits differed significantly on regional and local spatial scales, suggesting that floristic and (meso-)climatic differences obscure or override successional trajectories in these speciesrich wetlands.
25488491|Question: Can the pattern and pace of spontaneous Fagus forest expansion from 1975 to 2003 be accurately detected with mid-resolution satellite imagery? Can the historical Fagus expansion be modelled on the basis of environmental predictors? If so, where are the highest probabilities for future Fagus expansion? What are the implications for park management? Location: Majella National Park, Italy, > 1000 m a.s.l.; municipalities of S. Eufemia and Pacentro. Methods: Fagus cover change was detected by overlaying three classified sequential satellite images. Historical Fagus expansion was related to environmental variables using ordinary logistic and autologistic regression models. Fagus expansion probabilities were generated with the best predictive model. Results: From 1975 to 2003 Fagus advanced into abandoned farmland and subalpine pastures from the contiguous, mid-altitudinal Fagus forest and from Fagus outliers, at a rate of 1.2% per year. Substantial spatial and temporal variations in expansion rates were detected. The ordinary and autologistic models based on the single predictor Distance-from-Fagus-1975 forecasted the Fagus expansion well (AUC 0.81 resp. 0.88). Multiple logistic models, including the topo-climatic and substrate predictors, improved prediction insignificantly. The strong predictive power of proximity to historical Fagus presence is explained by the dispersal biology of Fagus combined with the shading impact of the Fagus canopy at the forest fringe. Conclusion: Decade-long Fagus expansion patterns might be reliably forecasted by proximity to historical Fagus distribution. Consequences for park management options are outlined.
1478980|Bogs, economically valuable wetlands, are subjected to exploitation in southern Canada. We addressed plant conservation within bogs mined for peat, in which small undisturbed remnants are left, mostly at the margins of the mined areas. The main goal of the study was to test whether these remnants act as refuges for plants which could recolonize areas that are planned for restoration after mining is completed. Mosses, lichens and vascular plants were sampled in remnants of 24 mined bogs in southeastern Canada during the summer of 1997. The vegetation was also sampled at the margins and centres of 24 nearby natural bogs in plots similar in size to these remnants. Using similarity analysis and ordination techniques, we found that plant species assemblages in remnants of mined bogs differ from those near the margins of natural bogs, and that certain species are associated with the centre of natural bogs, due to the presence of pools. We also showed that water conditions of remnants are affected by drainage due to peat mining. Sphagnum moss showed itself to be a key indicator of mining effects on vegetation. Implications for peat resource management and bog conservation are discussed.
1478920|The effects of grazing by cattle and horses on vegetation development were studied in the well-drained border zone of the Oostvaardersplassen nature reserve, a managed eutrophic wetland in the young Zuidelijk Flevoland polder in The Netherlands. At the start of the study period, 12 yr after the area was enclosed by dykes, the vegetation was dominated by Phragmites australis and tall herbs, particularly Cirsium arvense. Over the next 8 yr, different plant communities developed under different grazing regimes. In all communities, C. arvense was gradually replaced by Urtica dioica, and stands dominated by these two species expanded at the expense of P. australis. The shrub Sambucus nigra invaded the stands of C. arvense and U. dioica. Grazing affected the rate of these developments and the degree to which the grass Poa trivialis became dominant. When cattle were enclosed at a relatively high stocking rate in an area of Phragmites australis and tall herbaceous vegetation during summer, P. trivialis became dominant within 4 yr. The introduction of herbivores led to a faster spread of S. nigra, which contains cyanogenic glycosides which only ruminants can detoxify. Horses, as hind-gut fermenters, did not feed on S. nigra. Grazing pressure and herbivore species, therefore, are two important variables that can be used to manage the development of Phragmites- and shrub vegetation: the greater the grazing pressure by cattle or horses the greater the area dominanted by grasses, and a relatively high grazing pressure by cattle will retard S. nigra expansion.
1478947|The concept of mapping potential replacement vegetation (PRV) is proposed as a parallel to potential natural vegetation (PNV). Potential replacement vegetation (PRV) is an abstract and hypothetical vegetation which is in balance with climatic and soil factors currently affecting a given habitat, with environmental factors influencing the habitat from outside such as air pollution, and with an abstract anthropogenic influence (management) of given type, frequency and intensity. For every habitat, there is a series of possible PRV-types corresponding to the different anthropogenic influences, e.g. grazing, mowing, trampling or growing cereals. The PRV-concept is especially useful in large-scale mapping (scales > 1: 25 000) of small areas where replacement vegetation is the focus of attention for managers and land-use planners, for example in nature reserves where the aim is conservation of replacement vegetation managed in a traditional way, or in restoration ecology where the concept may be used for defining restoration goals and evaluating the success of restoration efforts. At smaller scales, PRV-mapping may be useful for revealing the biogeographical patterns of larger areas which may be different from the corresponding PNV patterns, because replacement vegetation and natural vegetation may respond to environmental gradients at different scales. An example of medium-scale PRV-mapping through the coincidence of diagnostic species of vegetation types, based on species distribution grid data, is presented. In cultural landscapes, the advantage of using the PRV-concept instead of PNV is its direct relationship to the replacement vegetation. In the habitat mapping with respect to the replacement vegetation, the PRV concept yields more valuable results than the mapping of actual vegetation, as the latter is strongly affected by spatially variable anthropogenic influences which may be largely independent from climatic and soil factors.
4620458| Question: How diverse are Louisiana pine savanna plant communities and how is diversity affected by time since bumrn and removal of a competitively dominant species? Location: Lake Ramsay, southeastern Louisiana, USA. Methods: Species-area curves were constructed from nine nested quadrats in open savanna differing in time since bumrn (6, 18 and 30 months). Species frequency was determined for 100 1-m quadrats. The dominant grass, Andropogon virginicus, was removed with herbicide from moist and dry sites to test for possible effects of competition. Results: Slopes of log-log species-area relationships were steep (0.195 to 0.379). Time since burn did not affect the richness of herbaceous plants, only woody species. More than half of all species recorded (43/79, 54 %) were infrequent (in < 10 % of quadrats). After two years, there were no differences in species richness and composition for plots with and without A. virginicus. Conclusions: The high species diversity is typical of other savannas across the coastal plain. The large number of infrequent species indicates that the core-satellite pattern of species occurrence found in temperate grasslands does not apply to southern pine savannas. The absence of effects due to removal of a dominant may be due to insufficient observation time, or low competition. Most species have traits, such as diminutive life forms, that suggest they are weak competitors for light in the presence of robust matrix grasses and in the absence of fire. Many species in Pinus palustris savannas are likely either fugitive or peripheral species. 
4620444|Question: Do soil treatments and addition of seed facilitate rapid vegetation restoration on forest paths excluded from trampling? Location: Six mesophilic mixed deciduous Querco-Fagetea forests in Flanders, northern Belgium. Methods: Enclosures on paths were excluded from trampling by fencing. In a full factorial design, plots were subjected to seeding, soil scarification, addition of organic material and inoculum. The following two years, seedling establishment and growth were sampled during spring and summer. Soil treatments and seeding effect was tested and seedling occurrence was analysed in relation to species' origin. Results: Spontaneous revegetation was significant in all plots since fencing. Throughout the observation period seedling cover and height continued to increase. Seeding had an overall effect on seedling density, cover and height. Some soil treatment interactions significantly enhance revegetation, although each individual soil treatment had no significant effect. Regardless of the seeded individuals, invading species mostly originated from the surrounding area and the seed bank. Conclusion: The preliminary results of this experiment imply that seeding is the only treatment which has a positive effect on revegetation success in all circumstances, provided that the exclusion from trampling is effective.
1478941|Vegetation maps serve as the basis for spatial analysis of forest ecosystems and provide initial information for simulations of forest landscape change. Because of the limitations of current remote sensing technology, it is not possible to directly measure forest understory attributes across large spatial extents. Instead we used a predictive vegetation mapping approach to model Tsuga heterophylla and Picea sitchensis seedling patterns in a 3900-ha landscape in the Oregon Coast Range, USA, as a function of Landsat TM imagery, aerial photographs, digital elevation models, and stream maps. Because the models explained only moderate amounts of variability (R
1479083|Local presence of plant species is determined by population colonizations and extinctions. All traits that influence the capacity of individuals to colonize patches and survive within patches, are therefore important for community diversity. Spatial models can explain the coexistence of species provided that the inferior competitor has a greater spatial mobility and thereby can avoid competition. We searched the literature for empirical evidence for such trade-offs and included all available information on correlations between traits associated with the capacity to colonize and traits promoting the ability to survive. A lower reproductive effort of a species is associated with a longer life span and a higher competitive ability. Morphological adaptations for dispersal are less common in species which better tolerate stress, that are better competitors or possess seed dormancy. Such patterns suggest that species that are good survivors may have a limited ability to colonize new patches and vice versa. A negative correlation between dispersability and longevity has important effects on the regional dynamics of single species as well as on the coexistence of species. From a conservation perspective differences in the colonization capacity among species imply that restoration of plant biodiversity must not only focus on conditions within patches, but also consider the spatial arrangement of patches in order to enable plants to bridge gaps in time and space.
40927802|Question: Is there any effect of cutting frequency and liming on P and availability in the soil, biomass production and plant species composition after cessation of fertilizer application? Location: Eifel Mountains, SW Germany. Methods: The long-term Grassland Extensification and Nutrient Depletion Experiment was established on a fertilized and mown pasture (Lolio-Cynosuretum) in 1993. Treatments were: (1) two cuts per year without liming, (2) two cuts with liming, (3) four cuts without liming, (4) four cuts with liming and (5) continued intensive mowing as the control. Results: From 1993 to 2006, the plant available P concentration in the soil decreased substantially, whereas concentration decreased only slightly. Biomass production decreased from 7 to 5t DM ha -1. These trends were affected by cessation of NPK fertilizer application but not by cutting frequency or liming. In 2007, substantial differences in species composition between the control and the two-cut and fourcut treatments were recorded, whereas liming had no effect. Higher species richness was recorded in cut treatments compared to the control, but no effects of cutting frequency or liming were observed. Ellenberg indicator values indicated that soil nutrients influenced changes in species composition only marginally. Conclusions: The decrease in productivity and available soil P and in favor of species richness was not achieved to any greater extent by four cuts than by two cuts, or by lime application. Although species richness slightly increased, we conclude that the restoration of low productive grasslands cannot be achieved by cutting management.
1478891|Effective rewetting is the most important prerequisite for the short-term regeneration of cut-over bog sites, and numerous investigations have been carried out on this aspect of mire restoration in the last two decades. Despite rewetting, the spontaneous recovery of large post-harvested fields can be delayed because of (1) the absence of viable diaspores, (2) the lack of nutrients necessary for seedling establishment, (3) inhospitable microclimatic conditions. Several experiments were carried out in a cut-over bog in southern Germany to develop methods how to accelerate and/or how to direct the establishment of plants and their succession. Results show that (1) depending on the peat quality, simple ditch blocking and terracing do not always guarantee the retention of rain water on the restoration site; (2) accelerated vegetation establishment can be effected by planting (introduced species) or by sowing; (3) covering the seeds with fibre mats or mulch increases seed germination but not the establishment of seedlings; (4) rapid revegetation of bare peat can be achieved using the mulch of diaspore-rich hay; (5) initial fertilization with phosphorus ensures effective seedling establishment; (6) Sphagnum re-introduction is only efficient after vascular pioneer species have been established on the site.
1478995|Land evaluations are not always conducted with adequate understanding of the relevant geologic and climatic contexts and their appropriate scales. This understanding is essential for developing representative sampling, monitoring, and conservation designs, and for pooling results of landscape analysis. To provide context for several regions of the interior northwestern United States, we conducted an ecoregion classification of the interior Columbia River Basin and vicinity ('the Basin'). We grouped land units that are influenced by the same higher order geology and landform features, and share similar areal composition of potential vegetation and climate attributes. We used the TWINSPAN procedure to group 7496 watersheds of the Basin into 53 ecological subregions. We evaluated the contribution of attributes to group separation by discriminant analysis, and evaluated subregion robustness to prediction by cross-validation. Classification accuracy ranged from 80-97% across the subregions. All watersheds were classified to a subregion, and there were strong resemblances between members of adjacent subregions. Subregions with strong resemblances shared a similar composition of attributes, but differed in relative abundance and attribute combinations. We evaluated the geologic and climatic context of each subregion considering four levels in a nested land unit hierarchy. Most subregions nested at one of at least four scales, but some overlapped. Our results suggest that observation levels for a given ecological phenomenon need not be nested within their appropriate context levels, and across broad geographic areas context of the same phenomenon occurs at different scales.
1479091|In order to stress successes in restoration and conservation of species, regionally, nationally or globally, a new instrument has been developed, the 'Blue Lists', 'registers of those Red List species that show a durable overall stabilization or increase of abundance in the region (nation, world) considered'. 'Blue Data Books' include additional information on the ecology, conservation, and promotion of the species. For describing the overall change of abundance of every individual species six categories are defined. Furthermore, the effects of nature conservation techniques (NCT) on a species are evaluated using six additional categories. In a test area of 3 431 km
4620476|Why do similar fen meadow communities occur in different landscapes? How does the hydrological system sustain base-rich fen mires and fen meadows? Interdunal wetlands and heathland pools in The Netherlands, percolation mires in Germany, Poland, and Siberia, and calcareous spring fens in the High Tatra, Slovakia. This review presents an overview of the hydrological conditions of fen mires and fen meadows that are highly valued in nature conservation due to their high biodiversity and the occurrence of many Red List species. Fen types covered in this review include: (1) small hydrological systems in young calcareous dune areas, and (2) small hydrological systems in decalcified old cover sand areas in The Netherlands; (3) large hydrological systems in river valleys in Central-Europe and western-Siberia, and (4) large hydrological systems of small calcareous spring fens with active precipitation of travertine in mountain areas of Slovakia. Different landscape types can sustain similar nutrient poor and base-rich habitats required by endangered fen meadow species. The hydrological systems of these landscapes are very different in size, but their groundwater flow pattern is remarkably similar. Paleo-ecological research showed that travertine forming fen vegetation types persisted in German lowland percolation mires from 6000 to 3000 BP. Similar vegetation types can still be found in small mountain mires in the Slovak Republic. Small pools in such mires form a cascade of surface water bodies that stimulate travertine formation in various ways. Travertine deposition prevents acidification of the mire and sustains populations of basiphilous species that elsewhere in Europe are highly endangered. Very different hydrological landscape settings can maintain a regular flow of groundwater through the top soil generating similar base-rich site conditions. This is why some fen species occur in very different landscape types, ranging from mineral interdunal wetlands to mountain mires.
1478962|Plant traits which may give an indication of a plant's strategy for nutrient acquisition and regeneration are known for numerous grassland species. This study aimed to establish whether there is any relationship between two plant traits: specific leaf area (SLA) and number of reproductive tillers, and sward structural characteristics which influence herbage intake by grazers (bulk density and digestibility, leaf:stem ratio). Comparison is made for nutrient-rich (Dactylis glomerata) and nutrient-poor (Festuca rubra) grass species. We hypothesized that these traits are responsive to environmental gradients and also act on the processes of the ecosystem. Both grasses were compared with two P-fertilizer rates in two localities (200 and 1300 m a.s.l.) which differed in their temperature:radiation ratios. For the vegetative phase SLA was well correlated with sward characteristics: D. glomerata, which has the higher SLA, has the lower bulk density and higher digestibility. The values of SLA and vegetation bulk density varied according to growing conditions (P-rate and temperature:radiation ratio), but the ranking of the species remained the same because the phenotypic plasticity that exists for plant traits was also observed for sward structure and composition. That suggested the possibility of grouping natural grassland species for their relevant characteristics for grazers according to SLA values. Over the reproductive phase, the proportion of stems was well correlated to the percentage of reproductive tillers. However, the percentage of reproductive tillers was a very plastic trait for both species, depending on the growing conditions, and resulting in a density-dependent effect, particularly for F. rubra. The species studied were too plastic and too similar in their regenerative strategy so that there is no unique relationship between percentage of reproductive tillers and stem proportion, regardless of the species and the growing conditions. The number of reproductive tillers is not a suitable plant trait which could be used to rank species for leaf and stem proportions in the sward.
1478881|Vegetation was sampled at 170 plots in five mires in the Italian Alps to characterize the distribution of plant species along the main environmental gradients. Water-table depth, water pH, electrical conductivity, Ca-, Mg-, K- and Na-concentrations in soil pore water, shade intensity, and distance from the mire margin were determined at each plot. At mire margins the water table was deeper than in the mire expanse, and K-, Ca- and Mg-concentrations, and conductivity were higher. The first and by far most important axis of a DCCA-ordination was interpreted as a gradient of water-table depth, in relation to the distance from the mire margin, whereas the second axis was mainly associated with water pH.
27735047|Questions: What is the impact on non-target species of restoration methods to establish Calluna vulgaris on grass-dominated moorlands? Location: A Nardus stricta-dominated moorland in Wales and a Molinia caerulea-dominated moorland in Northern England, UK. Methods: Two replicated experiments were established on grass-dominated moorlands. The treatments comprised disturbance (rotavation and trampling by animals), addition of Calluna seed, and three different grazing regimes, together with a no grazing control. Results: The creation of bare ground and addition of seed increased the establishment of the desired dominant shrub, Calluna vulgaris. In the Nardus sward, rotavation and trampling were equally successful in establishing Calluna, but rotavation was more successful in the Molinia sward. Rotavation inhibited the growth of competitive grass species better than trampling. However, the disturbance techniques were detrimental to other components of the plant community, causing a decline in the cover of desirable species such as Vaccinium myrtillus and other dwarf shrub species and a small increase in the occurrence of undesirable species such as Juncus effusus. Grazing also controlled competitive grass species: Festuca ovina decreased in cover at a grazing intensity of 1.5 ewes/ha; Molinia caerulea and Agrostis spp. declined when cattle were included in the grazing regime, but increased in cover when ungrazed or when grazed at 1.5 ewes/ha. Conclusions: When restoration concentrates on the establishment of one or a few species, it is important to monitor how the techniques used affect the rest of the plant community  particularly with regard to losses of desirable species or increases in undesirable species.
1478880|The relationships between several diversity indices and tree cover in subalpine wooded pastures with Larix decidua were analysed at two spatial scales: phytocoenoses (1- m
1478958|Weed community responses were examined in a corn-soybean intercrop in southwestern Michigan, USA, with and without nitrogen fertilization. Weed suppression was observed when intercropping was additive, but the depression in above-ground weed biomass was not due to a synergistic effect of crop diversity, but rather to the effects of crop density and identity. Intercropping did not have a greater suppressive effect than monocrops on weed biomass in a replacement intercrop when crop densities were similar to those in monocultures. Similarly, intercropping per se did not alter the diversity, species richness or composition of the weed community. The presence and density of corn was more important in affecting the weed community than was the density of soybeans or than intercropping itself. Fertilization and the interaction between fertilization and crop type had few effects on the weed community.
40927818|Question: Which biological traits (persistence, regeneration, dispersion traits and resource requirements) may explain the distribution of woodland flora along an urban-rural gradient? Location: The study was carried out in three medium-sized conurbations of north-western France: Angers, Nantes and Rennes. Methods: We sampled the vegetation of 36 small woodlands of about 1.5 ha composed of nonplanted vegetation along an urban-rural gradient. We characterized the position of woodlands along the urban-rural gradient by examining adjacent land cover. By using an ordination analysis (RLQ), we analysed which traits out of -23 tested were related to the contrasted distribution of species along the urban-rural gradient. Results: Species that are more likely to be found in urban woodlands than rural woodlands have different persistence traits (higher specific leaf area , more often rosette or semi-rosette form, less underground vegetative multiplication), resource requirements (affinity for base-rich and fertile soils) and regeneration traits (short life-span). Dispersion traits were not related to the distribution of species along the urban-rural gradient. Conclusions: Our approach identifies traits that can help to determine the vulnerability of forest species as a result of the environmental changes that follow urbanization. Limiting the influence of the urban environment on habitat quality (particularly disturbance and soil enrichment) is likely to be of major importance in maintaining the plant biodiversity in woodlands.
4620489|How successful is restoration that is focused on a single dominant plant at enabling the reassembly of the whole vegetation assemblage and what factors affect the relative success of such restoration? Moorlands in England and Scotland, UK. Vegetation composition was sampled in grassdominated (degraded), restored and long established Calluna vulgaris-dominated (target) areas within eight moorland restoration sites. Additional soil and biogeographic data were collected. Data were analysed by Canonical Correspondence Analysis, which allowed the impact of moorland management to be examined. All sites showed good restoration success when the dominant managed species (Calluna vulgaris,Molinia caerulea and Nardus stricta) were considered. Restoration success of the remainder of the plant assemblage, disregarding these dominant species, was lower with restored samples at some sites differing little from their respective degraded samples. Moors restored solely by grazing exclusion were more similar to their respective targets than were those restored by more intensive mechanical means. The most important factors in explaining vegetation assemblages were management status (i.e. whether samples represented degraded, restored or target parts of the moor) and latitude. The project demonstrates that, where possible, restoration should be attempted by grazing exclusion alone. Furthermore the importance of applying local restoration targets and of monitoring the whole plant assemblages when assessing the success of moorland restoration is highlighted.
40927809|Question: How do traditional management practices of field margins maintain the biodiversity of native grassland species? Location: Semi-natural grassland on the field margins of traditional and consolidated agricultural fields on Awaji Island, central Japan. Methods: The distance to the nearest traditional field margin to the study sites was determined because the traditional field was considered as a seed source of native vegetation to the semi-natural grasslands under study. We selected field margins in consolidated fields of different ages and distances from seed sources.Indicator species for both field types were sought.Regression analysis and detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) were used to determine the effect of spatial and temporal distances on the species composition of native vegetation. Results: Species richness differed significantly between the margin of traditional and consolidated fields. We identified significant indicator species of traditional fields, but not of consolidated fields. In consolidated fields, species richness increased significantly with age and decreased significantly with increasing distance to the source. At younger sites, species richness decreased faster with distance to the source because of strong negative correlation, but not at older sites. DCA ordination plots similarly indicated that similarities of vegetation composition in consolidated and traditional fields decreased with distance, and the effect of distance decreased with age. Conclusions: The species composition of the grassland margins of consolidated field was more similar to the margins of traditional fields if the consolidated fields were older, and/or closer to traditional fields. This pattern suggests that dispersal may play a role in the establishment of species on field margins.
27735062|Question: Multi-temporal analysis of remotely sensed imagery has proven to be a powerful tool for assessment and monitoring of landscape diversity. Here the feasibility of assessing land-use diversity and land-use change was tested at multiple scales and over time by means of statistical linear estimators based on a probabilistic sampling design. Location: The study area (the district of Asciano, Tuscany, Italy) is characterized by erosional forms typical of Pliocene claystone (i.e. calanchi and biancane) that have been subject to the phenomenon of biancane reworking over the past 50 years, mainly owing to the expansion of intensive agriculture. Methods: Cells at two different scales (50 m50 m and 10 m10 m) were classified by two operators according to a multilevel legend, using 1954 and 2000 aerial photographs. Inter-operator agreement and accuracy were tested by Cohen's K coefficient. Total land cover estimation for each class was carried out using a multistage estimator, while the variance was estimated by means of the Wolter estimator. Field-based information on plant species composition was recorded in order to test for a relationship between land use and plant community composition by ANOVA and indicator species analysis. Results: Agreement between photointerpreters and accuracy were significantly higher than those expected by chance, proving that the approach proposed is reproducible, as long as proper quality assurance methods are used. Our data show that, at the two scales considered (50 m50 m and 10 m10 m), crops have increased against woodlands and semi-natural areas, the latter showing the highest and significantly different mean species richness. Meanwhile, an increase in the coverage of trees and shrubs was found within the semi-natural areas, probably as a result of secondary succession occurring on typical landscape elements such as biancane. Conclusions: Inferential statistics made it possible to acquire quantitative information on the abundance of land cover classes, allowing formal multi-temporal and multi-scale analysis. Sampling design-based statistical linear estimators were found to be a powerful tool for assessing landscape trends considering both time expenditure and other costs. They make it possible to maintain the same scale of analysis over time series data and to detect both coarse- and fine-grained changes in spatial patterns.
4620468| Question: Is seedling recruitment of a fleshy-fruited tree in degraded Afromontane savanna dependent on shelter from pioneer shrubs, and is shelter availability related to shrub traits? Location: Degraded montane savanna in northern Ethiopia (1336' N, 3921' E). Method: Nurse plants of Olea europaea ssp. cuspidata seedlings were recorded using T-square plotless sampling and clustered according to shrub traits, using Ward's method after Principal Components Analysis. Facilitation was further examined through experimental planting and Kaplan-Meier survival analysis. Results: Both in grazed and protected areas, Olea recruits were found exclusively under shrubs, primarily under Euclea racemosa although Acacia etbaica was more abundant. Olea recruitment is distributed randomly at landscape scale, but depends on shelter at patch scale. Shelter ability is related to shrub shape and species identity. Dense multi-stemmed shrubs with a wide base and crown on a mulch-rich mound are key recruitment foci. Euclea shrubs have these favoured traits and probably act as preferential perching sites for avian seed dispersers. Soil and organic matter accumulation under Euclea shrubs may also create favourable conditions for Olea germination and survival. Experimentally planted seedlings had a better chance for survival under Euclea. Conclusions: Olea regeneration is probably subject to both passive (disperser-mediated) and active facilitation. Small changes of shrub traits can alter the suitability of a patch for Olea recruitment. Protection of shrubs can increase facilitation for seedlings, while pruning may reduce competition for saplings and thus enhance forest succession. Planting of raised Olea seedlings under Euclea shrubs in years with a good rainy season may further assist forest restoration. 
25488455|Questions: How do changes in forest management, i.e. in disturbance type and frequency, influence species diversity, abundance and composition of the seed bank? How does the relationship between seed bank and vegetation change? What are the implications for seed bank dynamics? Location: An ancient Quercus petraea - Carpinus betulus forest in conversion from coppice-with-standards to regular Quercus high forest near Montargis, France. Methods: Seed bank and vegetation were sampled in six replicated stand types, forming a chronosequence along the conversion pathway. The stand types represented mid-successional stages of stands in transition from coppice-with-standards (to high forest (16 plots) and early- and mid-successional high forest stands (32 plots). Results: Seed bank density and species richness decreased with time since last disturbance. Adjusting for seed density effects obscured species richness differences between stand types, but species of later seres were nested subsets of earlier seres, implying concomitant shifts in species richness and composition with time since disturbance. Later seres were characterized by species with low seed weight and high seed longevity. Seed banks of early seres were more similar to vegetation than to later seres. Conclusions: Abandonment of the coppice-with-standards regime altered the seed bank characteristics, as well as its relationship with vegetation. Longer management cycles under high forest yield impoverished seed banks. For their persistence, seed bank species will increasingly rely on management of permanently open areas in the forest landscape. Thus, revegetation at the beginning of new high-forest cycles may increasingly depend on inflow from seed sources.
1478979|Communities formed by the potentially invasive European Ammophila arenaria (marram grass) are compared with those dominated by indigenous dune plant species in coastal dune systems. Sampling of communities was carried out along the Cape coast for species richness, species diversity, importance values and species associations. The influence of soil and other environmental factors on vegetation were also compared. While species richness values in A. arenaria communities appear similar to those of indigenous dune plant communities, diversity indices are significantly lower. However, on the basis of importance values of individual species, A. arenaria does not show extreme dominance to the exclusion of other species, as it does on the North American Pacific coast, where it has also been introduced. Because of its growth in dense tufts, A. arenaria is accompanied mostly by small chamaephytes and therophytes, while indigenous stands support more phanerophytes. Moreover, A. arenaria forms weaker species associations than dominant indigenous dune plant species. The alien status of A. arenaria in South Africa is confirmed by applying classification and ordination analyses which failed to differentiate A. arenaria communities according to their geographical origin as achieved with indigenous communities. This may be attributed to the lack of vigorous indigenous plants in A. arenaria communities, which accounts for the low variety in species composition of A. arenaria communities along the coastline. With regard to environmental factors, A. arenaria communities were observed to be less sensitive to extrinsic factors, such as climate, than indigenous dune plant communities. Results confirm that A. arenaria is an alien plant species in South Africa, but do not imply its invasiveness in the present or near future.
1478994|In the past 20 years, several metrics have been developed to quantify various aspects of landscape structure and diversity in space and time, and most have been tested on grid-based thematic maps. Once landscape patterns have been quantified, their effects on ecological functions can be explained if the expected pattern in the absence of specific processes is known. This type of expected pattern has been termed a neutral landscape model. In the landscape-ecological literature, researchers traditionally adopt random and fractal computer-generated neutral landscape models to verify the expected relationship between a given ecological process and landscape spatial heterogeneity. Conversely, little attention has been devoted to distribution patterns of potential natural vegetation (PNV) as an ecological baseline for the evaluation of pattern-process interactions at the landscape scale. As an application for demonstration, we propose a neutral model based on PNV as a possible reference for a quantitative comparison with actual vegetation (ACV) distribution. Within this context, we introduce an evenness-like index termed 'actual-to-potential entropy ratio' (H
4620447| Question: What is the importance of the seed bank in the maintenance of the restoration potential of a 60-year-old abandoned calcareous grassland overgrown by Pinus trees? Location: 'Les Paires', province of Luxembourg, Belgium. Methods: The seed bank and the above-ground vegetation were surveyed in three adjacent stands, previously forming a unique calcareous grassland: a 60-year-old Pinus forest, a four-year-old clear-cutting and a typical calcareous grassland. Floristic diversity was compared among stands and between vegetation and seed bank. Results: The species richness of the vegetation and the seed bank was significantly lower in the Pinus forest. More floristic similarities were found between the clear-cutting and the calcareous grassland. Seed bank was essentially transient, dominated by annual species. Its correspondence with the above-ground vegetation was weak. Conclusion: Very few calcareous grassland species have persisted in the Pinus stand. Four years after clear-cutting, the stand was nearing restoration towards a calcareous grassland. Seed longevity in the soil was not the most explicative factor. Dispersal of propagules from adjacent sources was also important. 
1478981|The decision was taken by an opencast coal mining company to translocate on-site blanket bog vegetation, on completion of mining, at a site in Co. Durham, UK, both to preserve it and to use it to enhance recolonization. The vegetation of the treatments was monitored for seven years after site completion and this paper reports on the progress of the translocated material and its effect on recolonization. Translocation of large turves of blanket bog into carefully prepared receptor cells preserved most of the vegetation intact, but resulted in severe decline in the frequency of Sphagnum, while the design of the receptor site as strips of translocated vegetation enclosing strips of spread, stored peat accelerated recolonization of the intervening bare peat by Calluna vulgaris, but not of other target species. This attempt to translocate blanket bog vegetation and at the same time use it to accelerate recolonization was only partly successful. It was concluded that the ecological requirements of species known to be significant for ecosystem function, such as Sphagnum, must be fulfilled if translocation of blanket bog is to be attempted in future.
4620469|Questions: Does the litter layer of Pteridium aquilinum (bracken) act as a barrier to certain species in the seed bank? Does bracken control/restoration treatment affect seed transfer through the litter layer? Location: Five experiments at three sites across the UK covering two major vegetation types; acid-grassland and heathland. Methods: At each experiment a range of bracken control and vegetation restoration treatments were applied for about ten years. The seed bank was sampled in both the bracken litter and the soil. The cover (%) of each species in the vegetation and the bracken litter abundance (cover and depth) was also estimated. Results: The bracken litter layer acts as an inert barrier as it contained a large proportion of seeds available in the litter-soil profile (38% - 67% of the total). Bracken litter depth and cover also influenced significantly the seed bank composition in both the bracken litter and the soil. These effects were sitespecific, and species-specific. The application of treatments changed significantly the balance between seed inputs and outputs in the bracken litter layer for some species. This was either a positive or negative response relative to the untreated control plots. Conclusion: For heathland and acid-grassland restoration, the bracken litter layer may be an important seed source, but it must be disturbed particularly before seed addition.
1478955|Using old military and cadastral maps and modern vegetation maps, the changes in land use over the past 230 yr were followed. The following maps were used: the military map from the second half of the 18th century, the cadastral map of the 'Economic cadastral survey for regulation of land taxes' from the first half of the 19th century, and a field map made in the 1980s. A vegetation map of the area was made on the basis of satellite images. We used basic classification techniques combined with extensive field inspections and aerial photographs. The output of this procedure was verified in the field. Additionally, a comparison of statistical data about land use categories is presented. It was established that the last remaining areas of inundated riverine forest disappeared 200 yr ago, and since then only minor changes in land use have occurred.
4620427| Question: Do low or high intensity fires affect micro-organism activity in the upper soil layer of Mediterranean maquis? Location: 600 m from the sea in the Nature Reserve of Castel Volturno (Campania, southern Italy, 4057' N; 1355' E). Methods: Soil respiration was measured in situ on intact soil; enzyme activity (cellulase, xylanase, invertase, trehalase and protease) and ATP content were measured on soil samples collected under three species of maquis vegetation: Phillyrea angustifolia L., Myrtus communis L. and Cistus incanus L. Results: Soil microbial respiration showed no significant differences in CO flux in treated and untreated plots, but the ATP content in the soil under C. incanus and M. communis was lower in the treated plots for most of the study period. In the soil under Ph. angustifolia, ATP content was low only for one week after fire. The reduction was more marked in the samples from 'high fire intensity' than from 'low fire intensity' plots. Soil respiration and ATP content exhibited seasonal variations linked to soil water content. Among the enzyme activity measured in the soil under the three plant covers, only inver- tase declined in burned plots throughout the study period, particularly in the 'high fire intensity' plots. Activity of the enzymes cellulase, xylanase, trehalase and protease had a dif- ferent sensitivity depending on the respective shrub cover. Conclusions: Impact of fire on soil microbial activity is largely dependent on vegetation mosaic and species identity. 
41318178|Question: How do interactions between the physical environment and biotic properties of vegetation influence the formation of small patterned-ground features along the Arctic bioclimate gradient? Location: At 68 to 78 N: six locations along the Dalton Highway in arctic Alaska and three in Canada (Banks Island, Prince Patrick Island and Ellef Ringnes Island). Methods: We analysed floristic and structural vegetation, biomass and abiotic data (soil chemical and physical parameters, the n-factor [a soil thermal index) and spectral information [NDVI, LAI]) on 147 microhabitat relevs of zonal-patterned-ground features. Using mapping, table analysis (JUICE) and ordination techniques (NMDS). Results: Table analysis using JUICE and the phi-coefficient to identify diagnostic species revealed clear groups of diagnostic plant taxa in four of the five zonal vegetation complexes. Plant communities and zonal complexes were generally well separated in the NMDS ordination. The Alaska and Canada communities were spatially separated in the ordination because of different glacial histories and location in separate floristic provinces, but there was no single controlling environmental gradient. Vegetation structure, particularly that of bryophytes and total biomass, strongly affected thermal properties of the soils. Patterned-ground complexes with the largest thermal differential between the patterned-ground features and the surrounding vegetation exhibited the clearest patterned-ground morphologies. Conclusions: Characterizing the composition and structure of small-scale plant communities growing on distinctive microhabitats within patternedground complexes was necessary to understand the biological and physical controls of vegetation on patterned-ground morphology. Coarser-scale vegetation units, referred to here as 'zonal patterned-ground vegetation complexes' (groups of patterned-ground plant communities within zonal landscapes), were useful for landscape and regional-level comparisons and for extrapolation of information collected at plot scales to larger regions. Vegetation maps of the representative landscapes in each subzone were needed for extrapolation. Different growth characteristics of plants growing in northern and southern parts of the gradient have an important effect in stabilizing highly frost-active soils. A conceptual diagram summarizes the interactions between vegetation and patterned-ground morphology along the Arctic climate gradient.
4620512|Questions: Has the species-rich vegetation of upland hay meadows been maintained under low intensity management imposed by an agri-environment scheme? Is the target plant community re-establishing where it has been modified previously by intensive agricultural practices? What combinations of management practices and soil properties are associated with changes towards or away from the target community? Location: The Pennines, northern England, UK. Methods: A survey of 116 hay meadows in 1987 was repeated in 2002 by recording plant species in permanent quadrats. Changes in community variables (species richness, Ellenberg values, upland hay meadow community coefficients) were analysed in species-rich, modified species-rich and degraded grassland types. Redundancy Analysis and Generalised Linear Models were used to show the relationship between management practices and soil properties and change in species composition and community variables. Results: Few sites contained the species-rich grassland type, and here forb richness declined. In the modified species-rich type, total and grass species richness increased but Ellenberg N-values also increased. Total and grass species richness increased in the degraded type and the community coefficient increased. Management was weakly related to change in species composition but showed clear relationships with the community variables. Re-establishment of the target species-rich community was more likely with late cutting, in the absence of cattle or prolonged spring grazing, and at lower soil nutrient status. Conclusion: The species-rich community was not maintained but some reversion occurred in degraded grassland. Inorganic fertiliser application and intensive spring grazing should be avoided and cutting delayed until late July.
1479035|Succession is relevant to restoration because managers have to prevent, enhance or replace natural vegetation dynamics. Features of a permanent plot study of post-agricultural succession in central New Jersey, USA, illustrate important implications of vegetation dynamics for restoration. In the past, such implications had to be drawn from chronosequences and coarse resolution studies, neither of which exposes the local contingencies relevant to site specific restoration. However, the fine scale and continuous nature of the current study reveal that succession is highly contingent on historical and local spatial heterogeneity. For example, the absence of one generally expected dominant stage, the demise of shrubs without replacement by later successional tree species, and the long and multimodal persistence of individual species suggest that neither the relay floristic or initial floristic models of succession is adequate to guide restoration. At the local scale, volleys of species appear through the succession, and reflect spatial contingencies such as neighboring vegetation and edge relationships, and patchy behavior of different functional groups. The role of introduced species and of plant consumers are additional sources of local contingency. These local and time-specific behaviors in the vegetation are the patterns that restorationists must understand either to choose appropriate reference states, to prevent unexpected local dynamics, or to design interventions that are appropriate to the specific site of interests.
41058161|Question: Does the neophyte moss Campyiopus introflexus invade more often in drift sand pioneer vegetations under high nitrogen (N) deposition? Location: Fourteen inland dune reserves in The Netherlands over a gradient of atmospheric N deposition. Methods: A transect study, dispersal experiment and culture experiment were carried out. In the transect study, the establishment of C. introflexus and lichens was measured in pure mats of Polytrichum piliferum, an early succession stage. The overall presence of C. introflexus in the area was also estimated. In the dispersal experiment, fragments of C. introflexus and lichen species were sown in P. piliferum mats at two sites with high and low N deposition. In the culture experiment C. introflexus fragments were grown on soil with different carbon (C) content and N dose. Results: The Campylopus:lichen ratio was positively correlated (r = 0.61) with the atmospheric ammonia concentration. Campyiopus began to dominate at an ammonia air concentration of 7 g m, correlated with the overall presence of the species in the sites investigated. Survival of sown Campyiopus fragments was significantly higher and the endangered lichen Cladonia strepsilis significantly lower in the site with a high ammonia concentration. Survival of Cladonia coccifera and Cladonia portentosa was high at both sites. Experimental growing of C. introflexus showed significant responses to both C content and N, although C content showed the strongest effect. Conclusions: Growth of C. introflexus is affected by soil C content and N deposition. Inland dune reserves under high N deposition risk loss of lichendominated vegetations because of moss encroachment.
4620525|Questions: The objectives of this study were to assess the effect of Pteridium aquilinum (bracken) control treatments, at the national scale, and the impact of restoration practices, at the local scale, on P. aquilinum performance. Hypotheses: 1. Geographical location (locally between and within sites) affects the control of P. aquilinum through time. 2. Are the P. aquilinum control treatments successful at all sites, and if so which ones? 3. The treatments applied at the individual site level to restore vegetation influences the performance of P. aquilinum through time. Location: Four geographically distinct acid grassland and heathland sites infested with P. aquilinum across Great Britain. Methods: Six main-plot, bracken control treatments were applied to all sites with site-specific vegetation restoration treatments. Response variables (P. aquilinum cover, frond length and density) were monitored twice yearly, in June and August between 1993 and 2003. Results: Between- and within-site spatial variation was found, although impact is perhaps less than suggested from shorterterm data. Despite local variation all sites responded similarly to bracken control treatments; asulam treatment resulted in a rapid reduction in frond performance followed by a continued recovery taking approximately ten years to return to untreated values. Cutting treatments tended to have a slower impact at the start but an increasing one over time, especially cutting twice per year. Restoration treatments had a limited impact; the only significant effect in August was grass seeding on frond length at Sourhope. In June only, the plots where sheep were fenced out showed a significant reduction in P. aquilinum cover at Peak. Conclusions: Long-term control of Pteridium aquilinum at all sites and on all measures was best achieved using a continuous cutting treatment, preferably twice per year.
40928277|Questions: Do the vegetation-specific patterns in the forelands of river oases of the Taklamakan Desert provide clues to the degree to which a vegetation type depends on unsaturated soil moisture, brought about by extensive floodings, or phreatic water? Location: Foreland of the Qira oasis on the southern rim of the Taklamakan Desert, Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, China. Methods: A vegetation map was prepared using a SPOT satellite image and ground truthing. Measurements of soil water contents were obtained from a flooding experiment and transformed into water potentials. Sum excedance values were calculated as the percentage of days on which different thresholds of soil water potentials were transgressed. Groundwater depth was mapped by drilling 30 groundwater holes and extrapolating the distances to the whole study area. Results: The vegetation was characterized by only six dominant or codominant species: Alhagi sparsifolia, Karelinia caspia, Populus euphratica, Tamarix ramosissima, Calligonum caput-medusae and Phragmites australis. The vegetation patterns encountered lacked any linear features typical of phreatophytes, thus not allowing direct conclusions on the type of the sustaining water sources. Soil water potentials never transgressed a threshold of pF 5 (- 10MPa) in horizons above the capillary fringe during periods without inundation, thus representing water not accessible for plants. Depth to the groundwater ranged between 2.3 and 17.5m among plots and varied between 1.7 and 8.0m within a plot owing to dune relief. The seven main vegetation types showed distinct niches of groundwater depths, corresponding to the observed concentric arrangement of vegetation types around the oasis. Conclusions: Inundation by flooding and unsaturated soil moisture are irrelevant for the foreland vegetation water supply. Although distances to the groundwater table can reach about 20m, which is exceptionally large for phreatophytes, groundwater is the only water source for all vegetation types in the oasis foreland. In consequence, successful maintenance of oasis foreland vegetation will crucially depend on providing non-declining ground water tables.
25488446|Question: Will the predicted climate changes affect species distribution in the Iberian Peninsula? Location: Iberian Peninsula (Spain and Portugal). Methods: We modelled current and future tree distributions as a function of climate, using a computational framework that made use of one machine learning technique, the random forest (RF) algorithm. This algorithm provided good predictions of the current distribution of each species, as shown by the area under the corresponding receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curves. Species turnover, richness and the change in distributions over time to 2080 under four Intergovernmental panel on climate change (IPCC) scenarios were calculated using the species map outputs. Results and Conclusions: The results show a notable reduction in the potential distribution of the studied species under all the IPCC scenarios, particularly so for mountain conifer species such as Pinus sylvestris, P. uncinata and Abies alba. Temperate species, especially Fagus sylvatica and Quercus petraea, were also predicted to suffer a reduction in their range; also sub-mediterranean species, especially Q. pyrenaica, were predicted to undergo notable decline. In contrast, typically Mediterranean species appeared to be generally more capable of migration, and are therefore likely to be less affected.
41058154|Question: High atmospheric nitrogen (N) deposition has been shown to affect productivity and species composition of terrestrial ecosystems. This study focused on the differential effects of the two inorganic N forms in atmospheric deposition (i. e. ammonium and nitrate). Methods and location: Nutrient addition experiments were carried out during 4 years in a mesotrophic fen in a low-deposition area in Ireland. In a factorial design, plots were fertilized with ammonium and/or nitrate, in two doses comparable with 35 and 70 kg N ha y and compared with an unfertilized control. Results: Vascular plant biomass as well as bryophyte biomass were not affected by N dose but showed significantly different responses to the N form. In the ammonium-fertilized plots, vascular plant biomass was higher and moss biomass was lower than the control, while nitrate additions had no effect. Vascular plant species density was high (16 species per 0.49 m ) and was not affected by any of the treatments; bryophyte species density was also high (seven species per 0.04 m ) but showed a significant decrease upon ammonium fertilization. Conclusion: The vulnerability of the mesotrophic vegetation to enhanced atmospheric N deposition depends strongly on the N form. If N would be mainly deposited as NO x , no detrimental effects on the vegetation will occur. If, however, the deposition is mainly in the form of NH y , the bryophyte vegetation will be seriously damaged, while the vascular plant vegetation will show an increased biomass production with possible shifts in dominance from Carex and herb species to grasses and shrubs.
1479045|Control of invasive plants is a key element of conservation and restoration efforts. We report results from a five-year field experiment in western Oregon, USA that evaluates the effects of different mowing regimes on the non-native and invasive perennial grass Arrhenatherum elatius, the native perennial prairie grasses Danthonia californica and Festuca roemeri, and groups of other native and non-native grasses and forbs. Eight treatments were designed to test hypotheses about the role of mowing height and time of application on the plant community. Differences among treatments emerged only after two or three years of treatment. This delay in response reinforces the need for long-term studies. Annual mowing was most effective at reducing Arrhenatherum cover and flowering when applied in late spring or early summer, the time of Arrhenatherum flowering and expected maximum above-ground allocation. Double mowing and mowing at 15 cm were more effective in reducing Arrhenatherum cover than were single mowing and mowing at 50 cm. All treatments increased the cover and flowering of Danthonia. Statistical model analysis showed that increases in cover and flowering of the native grass Danthonia were caused by its release from suppression by Arrhenatherum. Four years of the most effective treatment, mowing at 15 cm in late spring, converted an Arrhenatherum-dominated site to a prairie dominated by native grasses. This is one of the few documented cases of pest plant control causing an increase in native plant abundance. These results show that mowing, properly applied, can be an effective tool for restoring degraded, Arrhenatherum-dominated prairies.
1478972| In recent decades, cattle ranchers of the Pantanal of Mato Grosso, Brazil, have pointed to the accelerated spread of several herbaceous and woody plant species that invade natural and artificial pastures (campos). It has been speculated that overgrazing by an increasing number of cattle, lack of grazing in abandoned areas, or large-scale changes in environmental conditions may be the reason for this invasion. This study focuses on ecological and ecophysiological aspects of Vochysia divergens (cambar), a flood-tolerant tree that began spreading in the Pantanal during the last 30 years and is considered a very aggressive invasive plant. The study shows that the spread of cambar can be related to natural multi-years wet periods. During multi-years dry periods the species is reduced by the increasing impact of fires in the Pantanal. This points to the great importance of multi-years climatic events on the vegetation cover of the Pantanal and indicates a very dynamic development in plant communities. 
1479051|We studied the effects of abandonment on two common fen plant species. In mown and a chronosequence of abandoned fen meadows spanning 35 yr, we measured fitness traits of the sedge Carex davalliana and the forb Succisa pratensis. Cessation of mowing had little effect on fitness traits and seed production of C. davalliana, but seedling density decreased more than threefold. Population density of S. pratensis decreased with increasing community biomass, but was not affected by the cessation of mowing. However, flowering frequency increased threefold and seed production was 20% higher in fallow meadows. Consequently, seedling density of S. pratensis increased nearly threefold after abandonment. However, these changes were not dependent on the age of the fallow. In a common garden and germination experiment, we found no differences in either species between plants from fallows and mown fen meadows, except for the height of the flowering stalk of S. pratensis. The combined results from the common garden experiment and the field studies indicate that changes in fitness traits observed in fallows were mostly phenotypic and likely to be reversible. If other species react in similar ways, there is a high potential for re-establishing traditional fen meadow communities from fallows by mowing.
25488474|Question: Does aspect affect hydroseeding success and the development of vegetation during early vegetation establishment on the steep slopes of coal wastes during the reclamation process? Location: Open-pit coal mine near Villanueva de la Pea, northern Spain. Methods: In the first year after hydroseeding, we monitored the dynamics of hydroseeded species in three permanent plots of 20 m on north- and south-facing slopes every two months. Soil properties and weather conditions were also monitored. Results: Aspect was related to total plant cover during early revegetation, and south-facing slopes had the lowest cover. Aspect also influenced the early dynamics of hydroseeded grasses and legumes establishing on these slopes. Grass cover was greater on the north slope throughout the study, but differences in plant cover between north and south slopes appeared later for the legumes. Aspect also affected the relative contribution of both of grasses and legumes to the total plant cover, with grasses dominant on both northern and southern slopes, except during the summer on the southern slope. The species with the greatest difference in cover between the north- and south-facing slopes were Festuca spp., Lolium perenne and Trifolium repens. Conclusion: In coal mine reclamation areas of Mediterranean climates, differences in the development of hydroseeded species depended on the slope of the coal mine reclamation areas, and this information is of importance to managers in selecting species for use in reclamation.
25488454|Question: Can landscape quality be evaluated and compared with a single numerical value using vegetation maps? Location: Northern Apennines (Italy), ca. 44 N, 10-11 E. Methods: Seven phytosociological vegetation maps (1: 25 000), which correspond to man's different impact on mountain landscapes, were considered. Syntaxa were classified into five degrees of naturalness: urbanized, agricultural, semi-natural, sub-natural, and natural. Vegetation maps showing naturalness were derived in a vectorial GIS. The degrees of naturalness were ordered according to increasing naturalness. If
1478877|Within the glacier forefield Morteratsch (1900 - 2100 m a.s.l.) near Pontresina, Ober Engadin, Switzerland), the dominant plant species and communities of areas, deglaciated between 1857 and 1997, have been investigated. This study takes three species groups into consideration: (1) pioneer species; (2) subalpine forest and dwarf-shrub/heath species; and (3) grassland species. On the basis of species cover-abundance values and age data on the deglaciated areas, time-related dynamics of selected plant species and the establishment of the Epilobietum fleischeri, Oxyrietum digynae and Larici-Pinetum cembrae were estimated. First, invaders of the Epilobietum fleischeri appeared after ca. 7 yr (obtaining higher cover-abundance values after ca. 27 yr). This community persists on the whole glacier forefield. The first plants of the Oxyrietum digynae appear after ca. 12 yr (though earlier on some sites); this community disappears after ca. 27 yr. The establishment of the Larici-Pinetum cembrae took place after ca. 77 yr, while the climax stage was reached after ca. 97 yr since deglaciation.
41058159|Question: Can wild ungulates efficiently maintain and restore open habitats? Location: Brandenburg, NE Germany. Methods: The effect of wild ungulate grazing and browsing was studied in three successional stages: (1) Corynephorus canescens-dominated grassland; (2) ruderal tall forb vegetation dominated by Tanacetum vulgre; and (3) Pinus sylvestris -pioneer forest. The study was conducted over 3yr. In each successional stage, six paired 4m -monitoring plots of permanently grazed versus ungrazed plots were arranged in three random blocks. Removal of grazing was introduced de novo for the study. In each plot, percentage cover of each plant and lichen species and total cover of woody plants was recorded. Results: Wild ungulates considerably affected successional pathways and species composition in open habitats but this influence became evident in alteration of abundances of only a few species. Grazing effects differed considerably between successional stages: species richness was higher in grazed versus ungrazed ruderal and pioneer forest plots, but not in the Corynephorus sites. Herbivory affected woody plant cover only in the Pioneer forest sites. Although the study period was too short to observe drastic changes in species richness and woody plant cover, notable changes in species composition were still detected in all successional stages. Conclusion: Wild ungulate browsing is a useful tool to inhibit encroachment of woody vegetation and to conserve a species-rich, open landscape.
4620519| Question: How are plant species and functional group composition, and potential sward height affected by implementation of different grazing regimes on previously abandoned seminatural grassland? Location: The Jizersk mountains, northern Czech Republic. Methods: We established a randomized block experiment with the following treatments: unmanaged control (U), intensive (IG) and extensive (EG) continuous grazing, first cut followed by intensive (ICG) and first cut followed by extensive (ECG) continuous grazing for the rest of the growing season. The percentage cover of all vascular plant species was recorded in 40 permanent plots. Results: Total plant species richness increased in all managed treatments, whereas species number was reduced in U at the end of the experiment. Tall forbs (Aegopodium podagraria, Galium album, Anthriscus sylvestris, Cirsium arvense) as well as tall grasses (Elytrigia repens and Alopecurus pratensis) were more abundant in U. Species associated with both grazing treatments (IG, EG) were Dactylis glomerata, Festuca rubra agg. and Phleumpratense. Agrostis capillaris, Taraxacum spp., Trifolium repens, Ranunculus repens and Cirsium vulgare were promoted by ECG and ICG. Abundance of tall grasses and tall forbs reflected the intensity of management in the order U>EG, ECG>IG, ICG. Prostrate forbs, on the other hand, increased their cover with increasing intensity: ICG>IG>ECG>EG. Conclusions: Plant species composition of semi-natural grasslands is affected by the defoliation regime. Continuous grazing on abandoned grassland alters the sward structure towards a permanent pasture with short, light-sensitive grasses and prostrate forbs. To maintain or enhance plant species richness in semi-natural grasslands, understanding the effects of different grazing regimes on plant species composition is necessary. 
27735083|Questions: (1) Does a fertilized grassland recover in terms of species composition and species richness after stopping the treatment? (2) Which species contributed most to the changes? (3) Is it realistic to rely upon spontaneous recovery in this and similar cases? Location: A large grassland, located in the western part of the Czech Republic in central Europe, latitude 49 59, longitude 12 45, altitude 750 m a.s.l. Methods: Experimental plots of 2.5 m6.0 m were established in the central part of the grassland in 1968 using a randomized block design with the following variants: unfertilized controls, 80, 160, 240 and 320 kg ha1 of nitrogen, in four or eight (320 kg) replicates. The fertilization regime was stopped in 1989. Phytosociological relevs of 2 m4 m in size were made in 1990, 1994, 1996, 1997, 1999, 2003 and 2006. The data were processed by multivariate ordination methods (DCA, CCA). Differences in the number of species per plot were tested by repeated measures ANOVA and Tukey's HSD test. Results: All plots, including controls, exhibited a distinct trajectory through time, reflecting the rates of fertilizer used and generally changing in the same direction. Both time and nutrients significantly influenced the vegetation pattern. Treatments differed significantly in species richness, especially at the beginning of the observation. Differences in later years were less pronounced, thus a convergence between the treatments was evident. Conclusions: During the 16 years after fertilization ceased, the number of species substantially increased not only in the fertilized plots but also in the controls. Species typical of semi-natural grasslands predominantly contributed to the increase. Spontaneous recovery after cessation of fertilizing was relatively efficient, but the fertilized plots were small in size and thus rather easily colonized from outside. For interpretation and extrapolation of results from small experimental plots, it is necessary to consider changes in the broader surroundings.
25488421|Question: Which one of the two mainly used mowing regimes along road verges, mowing once or twice a year is a better option regarding flowering and seed-producing success of grassland species and plant species in general? Location: Southeast Finland. Methods: Plant species composition, flowering and seed production success were studied in road verges (1) mown once in August and (2) mown at the end of June and August. Flowering shoots were counted and phenological phases were estimated four times during a growing season. Results: The numbers of flowering or seed-producing species and shoots indicated that mowing once a year corresponding to the timing of traditional management was markedly better than mowing twice a year. The difference between the management groups was greatest at the end of July when the number of flowering species was 43% and the number of flowering and seed-producing shoots 76% less after the first mowing than in the still unmown sites. The species avoided early cutting either through the timing of flowering or due to their growth form. Early season mowing had no effect on the occurrence and seed-producing success of grassland species and the first flowering species. Seed production of grasses succeeded poorly in the verges mown twice. Conclusion: Mowing once in August resulted in higher seed production in general, but mowing twice a season might be a better way to manage young verges on nutrient-rich soils. The useful qualities of the management options should be considered locally when planning road verge management.
40927816|Question: Can vegetation changes that occur following cessation of cultivation for cereal crop production in semi-arid native grasslands be described using a conceptual model that explains plant community dynamics following disturbance? Location: Eighteen native grasslands with varying time-since-last cultivation across northern Victoria, Australia. Methods: We examined recovery of native grasslands after cessation of cultivation along a space fortime chronosequence. By documenting floristic composition and soil properties of grasslands with known cultivation histories, we established a conceptual model of the vegetation states that occur following cessation of cultivation and inferred transition pathways for community recovery. Results: Succession from an exotic-dominated grassland to native grassland followed a linear trajectory. These changes represent an increase in richness and cover of native forbs, a decrease in cover of exotic annual species and little change in native perennial graminoids and exotic perennial forbs. Using a state-and-transition model, two distinct vegetation states were evident: (1) an unstable, recently cultivated state, dominated by exotic annuals, and (2) a more diverse, stable state. The last-mentioned state can be divided into two further states based on species composition: (1) a never-cultivated state dominated by native perennial shrubs and grasses, and (2) a long-uncultivated state dominated by a small number of native perennial and native and exotic annual species that is best described as a subset of the never-cultivated state. Transitions between these states are hypothesized to be dependent upon landscape context, seed availability and soil recovery. Conclusions: Legacies of past land use on soils and vegetation of semi-arid grasslands are not as persistent as in other Australian communities. Recovery appears to follow a linear, directional model of postdisturbance regeneration which may be advanced by overcoming dispersal barriers hypothesised to restrict recovery.
1479010|Germination experiments were conducted in a heathland after turf cutting and in a climate chamber to investigate the effects of turf cutting depth, aluminium toxicity and aluminium detoxification by humic acids and base cations on the germination and establishment of Arnica montana. Turfs were cut at three different depths, creating a gradient from organic to mineral soils. Germination and establishment of A. montana were negatively correlated with turf cutting depth. The removal of organic matter resulted in a major decrease in organic fraction of the soil and its nutrients. It also resulted in a considerable decrease in moisture content and humic acids. Additional liming after turf cutting increased germination and establishment in all plots and at all depths. Germination experiments under controlled conditions in a climate chamber revealed a significantly higher germination at low aluminium/calcium (Al:Ca) ratios. High Al:Ca ratios resulted in poor germination, suggesting Al toxicity. Addition of humic acids increased germination, even at high Al:Ca ratios, suggesting immobilization of Al by humic acids. It is concluded that turf cutting can have a marked effect on the success of heathland restoration. It results in the intended removal of the eutrophic layer but also in the unintentional removal of much of the buffering mechanisms and/or Al immobilizing compounds. Additional buffering and/or less deep turf cutting may be necessary to allow germination and establishment of rare herbaceous species such as A. montana.
40927797|Question:Can we reliably estimate grazing intensity, indicators of grazing intensity (i. e. field-layer height and shrub-cover), and vascular plant species richness in semi-natural grasslands from high spatial resolution satellite data? Location: The Baltic Island of land (Sweden). Methods: Fieldwork included the on-site description of grazed and ungrazed areas and shrub-cover within 107 semi-natural grassland sites. Field-layer height and vascular plant species richness (total within-site and mean small-scale species richness) were recorded within the sites. Digital classification of QuickBird data was performed to identify grazed and ungrazed areas and shrub-cover. Vegetation indices were generated to analyze the performance of satellite data for estimating field-layer height, and the spectral heterogeneity was used to characterize the within-site environmental heterogeneity. Results: The proportion of digitally classified grazed area explained 45% of the variation in field-layer height and 43% of the variation in shrub-cover.Field-layer height was significantly related to vegetation indices. A linear model with three explanatory variables (spectral richness red , spectral richness NIR , and shrub-cover) explained 47% of the variation in total within-site species richness. Conclusions: High spatial resolution imagery may assist in the monitoring of the processes that follow the cessation of grazing, on the scale of individual grassland sites. Measures of spectral heterogeneity acquired by high spatial resolution imagery can be used in the assessment of total within-site vascular plant species richness in semi-natural grassland vegetation.
40927821|Questions: How important is the choice of flow routing algorithm with respect to application of topographic wetness index (TWI) in vegetation ecology? Which flow routing algorithms are preferable for application in vegetation ecology? Location: Forests in three different regions of the Czech Republic. Methods: We used vegetation data from 521 georeferenced plots, recently sampled in a wide range of forest communities. From a digital elevation model, we calculated 11 variations of TWI for each plot with 11 different flow routing algorithms. We evaluated the performance of differently calculated TWI by (1) Spearman rank correlation with average Ellenberg indicator values for soil moisture, (2) Mantel correlation coefficient between dissimilarities of species composition and dissimilarities of TWI and (3) the amount of variation in species composition explained by canonical correspondence analysis. Results: The choice of flow routing algorithm had a considerable effect on the performance of TWI. Correlation with Ellenberg indicator values for soil moisture, Mantel correlation coefficient and explained variation doubled when the appropriate algorithm was used. In all regions, multiple flow routing algorithms performed best, while single flow routing algorithms performed worst. Conclusions: We recommend the multiple flow routing algorithms of Quinn et al. and Freeman for application in vegetation ecology.
41318187|Questions: Can we use plant traits to make predictions about ecosystem functioning of different species mixtures, identify inherent trade-offs of particular species, and design custom communities for desired ecosystem functions? Can we develop a methodology to address plant trait-functioning relationships in species-level units, which are missing from measures of community functional diversity but needed for management? Location: Grazing lands northeastern USA. Method: We measured 53 physiological, morphological and growth traits for 19 plant species from glasshouse and field experiments. We developed a twostep method to link species to ecosystem processes related to management goals of improving desirable forage production in grazing lands in northeastern USA. Results: Species were distributed continuously, rather than clustering into discrete functional types. Grasses, legumes and forbs overlapped considerably in trait values with these common classifications failing to adequately distinguish functional differences. Factor analyses were used to assess variation in species traits, and to rate species for six plant processes through which species contribute to the production of desirable forage. Species performed well in some processes and poorly in others, illustrating complex trade-offs. Conclusions: This methodology provides a foundation for developing tools to guide construction of communities for applied settings, and for assembling hypotheses about plant functioning in mixtures.
25488471|Question: How distinct is the flora of field boundaries? How does the structure of field boundaries determine the composition of vegetation? Location: Estonia, six 4 km  4 km agricultural areas. Methods: We studied the vegetation of fields and field boundaries using 2 m  2 m sample plots. We estimated the frequency of species in both habitat types, applied an MRPP test to analyse the vegetation composition of field boundaries with various combinations of landscape features (ditches, roads, tree and bush layers) illustrating this by DCA ordination, and used indicator species analysis to determine the characteristic species of each boundary type. Results: Ca. 45% of the flora of field boundaries comprised species found on agricultural land. Most typical species in fields - agrotolerants - were also the most common in field boundaries. The vegetation of road verges and grassy boundaries consisted mainly of disturbance-tolerant species. Woody boundaries were characterised by shade-tolerant and nitrophilous species. Ditch banks included species typical of moist habitats and semi-natural grasslands. Few threatened or protected species were observed. Conclusions: The vegetation composition of field boundaries varied due to the complex effects of landscape structure around and in these boundaries. Plant species in agricultural landscapes can be classified into two broad emergent groups on the basis of their different responses to agricultural disturbances - agrotolerant species and nature-value species. Agrotolerant species are promoted by agriculture, nature-value species include rare weeds and habitat specialists. We suggest that high-nature-value species should prevail in monitoring the effects of land-use intensification on biodiversity rather than total species richness.
1478934|This paper presents a new and simple technique to derive quantitative estimates of green or dry biomass using colour information from digital pictures. This pixel-counting technique is based on the association of particular plant material with a representative region on a two-dimensional colour space, and applies to cases of non-overlapping canopies. The efficacy of the method is demonstrated using sets of samples obtained from both field and laboratory studies. It is shown that application of the proposed approach results in a highly linear relationship between pixel count and foliar area for both green and non-green material [r = 0.99 (p < 0.001)]. Analysis of images from a short-grass steppe shows a high correlation between pixel count and measured values of green biomass [r = 0.95 (p < 0.001)]. The method outlined here allows for a substantial improvement in the speed of sample evaluation to estimate biomass both in the field and in the laboratory. It also provides a non-destructive alternative to monitor plant cover and biomass in open canopies.
40928274|Question: Does flooding of rice fields after cultivation contribute to wetland plant conservation in southern Brazil? Location: Rice fields in the coastal plain of southern Brazil. Methods: Six rice fields with different management practices were randomly selected (three dry rice fields and three flooded rice fields). Six collections were carried out over the rice cultivation cycle. Richness and biomass were measured using the quadrat method. Results: A total of 88 macrophyte species was recorded. There was no statistical interaction between management practices and rice cultivation phases for macrophyte richness and biomass. Macrophyte species richness and biomass changed over time, but were similar between flooded and dry rice fields. The first three axes generated by detrended correspondence analysis explained 29% of the variation in species composition and the multivariate analysis of variance showed that there was a statistical interaction between management practices and agricultural periods. Conclusions: Rice fields may help to conserve an important fraction of the aquatic macrophyte diversity of wetlands of southern Brazil by providing the setting up of a greater number of species within the agricultural landscape. However, rice fields must not be viewed as surrogate systems for natural wetlands.The difference in species composition between flooded and dry rice fields is interesting in terms of biodiversity conservation. If rice producers could keep part of their agricultural land flooded during the fallow phase, this management practice could be an important strategy for the conservation of biodiversity in areas where natural wetlands have been converted to rice fields.
25488431|Question: Do specific environmental conditions affect the performance and growth dynamics of one of the most invasive taxa (Carpobrotus aff. acinaciformis) on Mediterranean islands? Location: Four populations located on Mallorca, Spain. Methods: We monitored growth rates of main and lateral shoots of this stoloniferous plant for over two years (2002-2003), comparing two habitats (rocky coast vs. coastal dune) and two different light conditions (sun vs. shade). In one population of each habitat type, we estimated electron transport rate and the level of plant stress (maximal photochemical efficiency Fv/Fm) by means of chlorophyll fluorescence. Results: Main shoots of Carpobrotus grew at similar rates at all sites, regardless habitat type. However, growth rate of lateral shoots was greater in shaded plants than in those exposed to sunlight. Its high phenotypic plasticity, expressed in different allocation patterns in sun and shade individuals, and its clonal growth which promotes the continuous search of available resources, contributed to a good growth and photochemical efficiency of Carpobrotus in the relatively moderate shade of the understories of Mediterranean shrublands and woodlands. Each main shoot of a Carpobrotus clone (which can have several dozens main shoots) grows ca. 40 cm per year, which explains its vigorous habitat colonization capacity. Conclusion: The highly plastic morphological response to different light regimes of this taxon contributes to a rapid colonization of heterogeneous coastal Mediterranean environments spreading well beyond the open sand dune systems where it has been often reported.
1478887|In principle, the restoration of damaged raised bogs has rather few requirements: (1) a sufficient supply, and retention, of precipitation water of appropriate quality; and (2) the availability of a suitable range of recolonist species. However, to meet these requirements it may be necessary to engineer the topography of the peatland and drainage systems and to adopt a policy of species introduction. This paper provides a critical summary review of: (1) existing knowledge about the environmental conditions necessary for the effective regeneration of damaged ombrogenous peatlands; (2) approaches adopted for generating conditions appropriate for the re-establishment of plant species typical of raised bogs; (3) possible external constraints (especially atmospheric contaminants) upon the feasibility of restoration; and (4) the prospects and possibilities for effective species recolonization. Particular attention is given to the identification of uncertainties and critical gaps in existing knowledge about raised bog restoration and of some of the natural processes that help regulate the development of raised bogs.
25488408|Question: What relationship exists between productivity, plant species richness and livestock diet? Are the results dependent on scale? Location: A sheep-grazed Koelerio-Corynephoretea sandy habitat of the northern upper Rhine (Germany) as a low productivity model system. Methods: The investigation was carried out for three years at a fine scale (2 m) and for two years at a broad scale (79 m). Productivity was measured by means of weighed above-ground phytomass for fine scale and colour-infrared (CIR) aerial photographs of the same system for fine and broad scales. For both scales, total numbers of vascular plant species and numbers of endangered vascular plant species were extracted from current vegetation relevs. Additionally, we obtained data on livestock diet (grazed phytomass, crude protein content). Results: Statistical analyses show an influence of the year on all variables; relationships between variables are not significant in every year. Species richness and number of endangered species are negatively related to productivity at fine scale while crude protein content and grazed phytomass are positively related to productivity. At the broad scale the diversity-productivity relationship shows a 'hump' with highest species numbers in middle pioneer stages; numbers of endangered species are highest in all pioneer stages. Conclusions: We found a strong impact of scale and year on the diversity-productivity relationship. It is inappropriate to analyse only small plots (2 m), and it is necessary to study different years. This vegetation complex is dependent on grazing impact; thus there is an inversely proportional relationship between nature conservation value (high diversity) and livestock nutrition.
4620477|In fen meadows with Junco-Molinion plant communities, falling groundwater levels may not lead to a boosted above-ground biomass production if limitation of nutrients persists. Instead, depending on drainage intensity and micro-topography, acidification may trigger a shift into drier and more nutrient-poor plant communities. Nature reserve, central Netherlands, 5 m a.s.l. Long-term study (1988-1997) in a fen meadow along a gradient in drainage intensity at different scales. Above-ground biomass increased only slightly over ten years, despite a lower summer groundwater table. The accountable factors were probably a limited availability of nutrients (K in the higher well-drained plots, P in the intermediate plots and N in the lower hardly drained plots), plus removal of hay. Junco-Molinion species increased in dry sites and Parvocaricetea species increased in wet sites, presumably primarily because of soil acidification occurring when rainwater becomes more influential than base-rich groundwater. The extent of the shift in species composition depends primarily on the drainage intensity and secondarily on microtopography. Local hydrological measures have largely failed to restore wetter and more basic-rich conditions. Acidification and nutrient removal, leaching and immobilization resulted in the succession towards Junco-Molinion at the cost of Calthion palustris elements. Lower in the gradient this change was reduced by the presence of buffered groundwater in slightly drained sites. To conserve the typical plant communities of the Junco-Molinion to Calthion gradient in the long term, further acidification must be prevented, for example by inundation with base-rich surface water.
1478905|The upper courses of brook valley systems harbour Nardo-Galion saxatilis communities characteristic of oligotrophic soils under low-intensity farming. Most of these communities have disappeared under intensified farming i.e. application of fertilizers. We studied the possibilities of restoration i.e. re-establishment of the former plant community by adopting various cutting regimes after the cessation of fertilization in 1972. The various cutting regimes revealed different effects after 25 yr Regimes with cutting every second year with or without removal of the swath, and complete abandonment deviated from the other regimes that included annual haymaking with different frequency and timing. The latter group of cutting regimes came closer to the community of an adjacent field where fertilization stopped in 1967. This field in turn harboured several Nardo-Galion species after 25 yr of annual cutting, and showed more resemblance with a local reference community (at a distance of 500 m) that had not been fertilized since the 1940s. The local reference still does not match poorly developed Nardo-Galion saxatilis communities found in the region of ca. 50 km around the study area, and is far from well developed Nardo-Galion communities in the same region. The study site still harbours several species characteristic of eutrophic soil and few species characteristic of oligotrophic soil after 25 yr of annual cutting and removal of the swath. The soil seed bank harbours only few target species. Although species characteristic of oligotrophic soil are present in an adjacent field and Nardo-Galion saxatilis species occur at 500 m. they have not (yet) established in the target area.
40927817|Question: Does transplantation of small blocks of turfs contribute to restoration of species-rich meadows on fallow land? What is the role of vegetative spread and seedling establishment of meadow plants in the neighbourhood of the transplanted turfs? Location: Bl Karpaty Mountains, SE Czech Republic. Methods: Twenty-five meadow blocks, 0.4 m x 0.4 m in size, were transplanted to fallow land (unfertile and dry) and species composition was monitored in the source area, in the transferred turfs and in their neighbourhood for 3 yr. Multivariate analyses were used to assess successional trends. Results: The transferred meadow blocks served as a source of diaspores for the seed-limited fallow land. Out of 80 transplanted species 17 species spread to adjacent plots within 3 yr. The frequency of plants expanding from the transferred turfs, either vegetatively or by seeds, was relatively low and from 2002 to 2004 a total of 22 species declined in the transferred turfs before expanding to the neighbourhood. Successional trends in species composition of the plots adjacent to the transferred blocks were strongly significant compared with the vegetation of the source area despite the short-term data used for the evaluation. The role of the seed bank in restoration was negligible. Conclusions: In infertile and dry environments, transplanted turfs may significantly speed up restoration, especially if natural sources of target plant seeds are not available in the neighbourhood. However, the restoration process is long-term and not all transferred plants can be expected to establish in the fallow land.
25488451|Questions: What are the relative roles of abiotic and grazing management factors on plant community distribution in landscapes? How are livestock type and stocking rate related to changes in vegetation structure and composition? Location: Sub-alpine grasslands in the central and eastern Pyrenees. Methods: Multivariate analysis and variance partitioning methods were used to evaluate the relative roles of environmental factors in structuring vegetation composition and diversity patterns in three surveys on differently managed grasslands. Results: Vegetation composition within a region was affected by environmental factors hierarchically, changing first according to abiotic factors and then to grazing management. At landscape scales, abiotic factors explained two-fold more variation in vegetation composition than grazing factors. Within landscape units, cattle grazing increased vegetation heterogeneity at landscape and patch scales, while sheep grazing favoured the presence of a specific set of species with high conservation value. Species composition was highly responsive to management variables compared to diversity components. Conclusions: The combination of sheep and cattle grazing at various stocking rates is an effective tool to preserve the diversity of plant species and communities within a region with a long tradition of livestock management, through the scaling up of effects by local processes occurring in patches at smaller scales.
1478892| The population dynamics and reproductive strategies of two rare wet heathland species, Gentiana pneumonanthe and Rhynchospora, were studied in experimental permanent plots in a wet heathland near Bremen, NW Germany, to assess how effective sod cutting and mowing are in promoting these species. In one experiment, small plots (0.25 m
25488466|Questions: How does urbanisation influence soil mineral nitrogen stocks (nitrate and ammonium stocks) and what are the consequences of these modifications on the functional diversity of the herbaceous vegetation (vascular plants) and the seed bank? Location: Nine study sites were located on an urbanisation gradient in the city of Rennes, France. Methods: Three urbanisation levels were defined: urban areas (high grey/green ratio,), suburban (medium grey/green ratio) and periurban (low grey/green ratio). For each urbanisation level, nitrates and ammonium stocks were quantified; the herbaceous vegetation was surveyed as well as the soil seed bank (using the seedling emergence method). Results: Nitrate concentration increased with urbanisation (the nitrate level in urban plots was twice the concentration in periurban ones) whereas the ammonium level was higher in periurban areas than in urban areas. In urban plots, the vegetation and the seed bank were more nitrophilous, whereas the nitrogen requirement was lower for periurban species. The relationship between the seed bank and the above-ground vegetation was not significant. Conclusions: The higher nitrate concentration in the urban area appeared to be related to higher concentrations of atmospheric pollutants found in this area and lower ammonium levels may be related to the higher temperature in urban areas (leading to higher nitrification rates). The shift in the composition of the seed bank and vegetation appeared to be a consequence of higher nitrate stocks. The dissimilarity between the seed bank and vegetation may be caused by enhanced emergence of nitrophilous species in urban areas.
1478899| Vegetation succession in three back-barrier salt marshes in the Wadden Sea was studied using a data set comprising 25 years of vegetation development recorded at permanent quadrats. The effect of livestock grazing on succession was assessed by comparing quadrats where grazing was experimentally prevented or imposed. We studied changes at the species level as well as at the level of the plant community. Special attention is given to effects on plant species richness and community characteristics that are relevant for lagomorphs (hares and rabbits) and geese. Inundation frequency and grazing were most important in explaining the variation in species abundance data. The three marshes studied overlap in the occurrence of different plant communities and the observed patterns were consistent between them. Clear differences in frequency and abundance of plant species were observed related to grazing. Most plant species had a greater incidence in grazed treatments. Species richness increased with elevation, and was 1.5 to 2  higher in the grazed salt marsh. Grazing negatively influenced Atriplex portulacoides and Elymus athericus, whereas Puccinellia maritima and Festuca rubra showed a positive response. The communities dominated by Elymus athericus, Artemisia maritima and Atriplex portulacoides were restricted to the ungrazed marsh. Communities dominated by Puccinellia maritima, Juncus gerardi and Festuca rubra predominantly occurred at grazed sites. As small vertebrate herbivores prefer these plants and communities for foraging, livestock grazing thus facilitates for them. 
41058164|Question: Which is the best model to predict the habitat distribution of Buxus balerica Lam. in southern Spain? Location: Mlaga and Granada, Spain, across an area of 38 180 km. Methods: Prediction models based on 17 environmental variables were tested. Six methods were compared: multivariate adaptive regression spline (MARS), maximum entropy approach to modelling species' distributions (Maxent), two generic algorithms based on environmental metrics dissimilarity (BIOCLIM and DOMAIN), Genetic Algorithm for Rule-set Prediction (GARP), and supervised learning methods based on generalized linear classifiers (support vector machines, SVMs). To test the predictive power of the models we used the Kappa index. Results: Maxent most accurately predicted the habitat distribution of B. balerica, followed by MARS models. The other models tested yielded lower accuracy values. A comparison of the predictive power of the models revealed that climate variables made the highest contributions among the environmental variables studied. The variables that made the lowest contributions were the insolation models. To examine the sensitivity of the models to a reduction in the number of variables, a test showed that accuracy of over 0.90 was maintained by applying just three climatic variables (spring rainfall, mean temperature of the warmest month, and mean temperature of the coldest month). Maps derived from the algorithms of all models tested coincided well with the known distribution of the species. Conclusions: Model habitat prediction is a preliminary step towards highlighting areas of high habitat suitability of B. balerica. These data support the results of previous research, which show that MaxEnt is the best technique for modelling species distributions with small sample sizes.
4620479|Why is bryophyte succession in eutrophicated fens faster than in natural fens? Mineral-rich fens in The Netherlands and NW Europe. Literature review on the ecology of four bryophyte species in various successional types as observed in Dutch fens. Bryophyte succession in eutrophicated fens from the brown moss Calliergonella cuspidata to Sphagnum squarrosum is much faster than in natural fens with species shifts from Scorpidium scorpioides to Sphagnum subnitens. Under P-poor conditions, the brown moss stage is stabilized as long as mineral-rich water is supplied. This is because S. scorpioides is tolerant of rainwater, is a strong competitor and can counteract acidification to some extent while S. subnitens is intolerant to groundwater and has low growth rates and low acidification capacity. In contrast, the Sphagnum stage is stable after rapid succession from rich-fen mosses under P-rich conditions. Calliergonella cuspidata has suboptimal growth in rainwater, possibly due to ammonium toxicity, while the high growth rates of S. squarrosum in nutrient-rich and highly acidic groundwater allow early establishment and rapid expansion. If measures to improve fen base status occur in environments of increased nutrient (P) availability, the management may not lead to the desired restoration of brown moss stages, but instead to rapid acidification by S. squarrosum.
41058157|Questions: What is the relative influence of size, connectivity and disturbance history on plant species richness and assemblages of fragmented grasslands? What is the contribution of small fragments to the conservation of native species pool of the region? Location: Tandilia's Range, Southern Pampa, Argentina. Methods: Cover of plants was registered within 24 fragments of tall-tussock grassland remnants within an agricultural landscape using modified Whittaker nested sampling. We analysed the influence of site variables related to disturbance history (canopy height, litter thickness) and fragment variables (size, connectivity) on species richness (asymptotic species richness, slope of the species-area curve) as well as on species assemblages by multiple regressions analysis and canonical correspondence analyses, respectively. Cumulative area was used for analysing whether small fragments or large fragments are more important to species diversity in the landscape. Results: Asymptotic species richness was significantly influenced by site variables, in particular by Paspalum quadrifarium's canopy height, but not by fragment variables. Species assemblages were also affected by site variables (12.2% of total variation), but no additional portion of the species assemblage variability was significantly explained by fragment size and connectivity. Sampling of several small fragments rendered more exotic and native species than sampling of few large fragments of the same total area. Conclusions: Our results agree with previous studies reporting low sensitivity of species diversity to size and isolation of grassland fragments in fragmented landscapes and high sensitivity of species diversity to local variables. The higher capture of regional native species pool by small grassland fragments than by few larger ones of equivalent accumulated area highlights the value of small fragments for conservation.
40927792|Questions: What is the potential of sheep to serve as seed dispersers via ingestion and defecation in calcareous grasslands? Is the presence of viable seeds from dung correlated with specific seed traits? Location: Calcareous grasslands, South Limburg, the Netherlands/Belgium. Methods: Dung samples (n = 24) from sheep were collected between September 2006 and November 2007 from five sites with Mesobromion plant communities, and communities of Nardo-Galion saxatilis. Germinability and identity of seeds in the dung samples were ascertained from germination of seedlings under glasshouse conditions. Seed traits of species with viable seeds in dung were compared with those present in the local species pool. Results: Seventy-two plant species from 23 plant families had viable seeds in sheep dung. The plant families encountered most frequently were Gramineae and Compositae. The most abundant and frequently recorded plant species in dung samples was Urtica dioica, accounting for > 80% of the total number of seeds. Mean seed density in sheep dung was 0.8. Sseeds g dry matter. Seeds with low seed mass and a high seed longevity index were overrepresented in dung. Viable seeds > 2.5mg were infrequent in the dung samples. Conclusions: We conclude that sheep are potentially important dispersers of plant species in Dutch calcareous grasslands. Although smaller seeds were relatively abundant in sheep dung, it cannot be excluded that this was mainly caused by differences in seed abundance.
41058158|Questions: Does vegetation structure display any stability over the grazing season and in two successive years, and is there any correlation between the stability of these spatial patterns and local sward composition? Location: An upland grassland in the French Massif Central. Method: The mosaic of short and tall vegetation stands considered as grazed and ungrazed patches respectively is modeled as the realization of a Boolean process. This method does not require any arbitrarily set sward-height thresholds to discriminate between grazed and ungrazed areas, or the use of additional variables such as defoliation indexes. The model was validated by comparing empirical and simulated sward-height distributions and semivariograms. Results: The model discriminated between grazed and ungrazed patches at both a fine (1 m) and a larger (500 m) scale. Selective grazing on legumes and forbs and avoidance of reproductive grass could partly explain the stability of fine-scale grazing patterns in lightly grazed plots. In these plots, the model revealed an inter-annual stability of large-scale grazing patterns at the time peak biomass occurred. At the end of the grazing season, lightly grazed plots showed fluctuating patch boundaries while heavily grazed plots showed a certain degree of patch stability. Conclusion: The model presented here reveals that selective grazing at the bite scale could lead to the creation of relatively stable patches within the pasture. Locally maintaining short cover heights would result in divergent within-plot vegetation dynamics, and thus favor the functional diversity of vegetation.
1478906| Within the framework of the Dutch 'Network Ecological Monitoring', a large set of new permanent plots has been established to monitor selected plant communities throughout The Netherlands for studying the effects of environmental changes on species composition of semi-natural communities. This national programme will also make use of pre-existing permanent plots. These plots reflect the long and comprehensive history of research using permanent plots in The Netherlands, where the first permanent plots were established in the early 1930s. To enhance the usefulness of pre-existing permanent plots, a comprehensive permanent plot database was compiled. This database was derived from the Dutch National Vegetation Database, that was established for the recent vegetation classification of The Netherlands. This was supplemented with information from various organizations and a number of individual researchers. Currently, the permanent plot database contains ca. 6000 permanent plots. More than 2500 of these plots have been sampled at least 5, and ca. 1500 plots at least 10. Most of the plots are from grasslands, followed by forests and dune systems. This database not only provides insight into vegetation succession, fluctuations within plant communities over time, and the effects of changes of the environment on the vegetation but, indirectly, it also offers the possibility of studying the long-term behaviour of individual plant species (e.g. establishment, competition, longevity). For the Network Ecological Monitoring a selection of these (historical) plots will be added to the new network of permanent plots in The Netherlands, thus supplying information of past vegetation conditions. 
4620408|Question: Can recent satellite imagery of coarse spatial resolution support forest cover assessment and mapping at the regional level? Location: Continental southeast Asia. Methods: Forest cover mapping was based on digital classification of SPOT4-VEGETATION satellite images of 1 km spatial resolution from the dry seasons 1998/1999 and 1999/2000. Following a geographical stratification, the spectral clusters were visually assigned to land cover classes. The forest classes were validated by an independent set of maps, derived from interpretation of satellite imagery of high spatial resolution (Landsat TM, 30 m). Forest area estimates from the regional forest cover map were compared to the forest figures of the FAO database. Results: The regional forest cover map displays 12 forest and land cover classes. The mapping of the region's deciduous and fragmented forest cover remained challenging. A high correlation was found between forest area estimates obtained from this map and from the Landsat TM derived maps. The regional and sub-regional forest area estimates were close to those reported by FAO. Conclusion: SPOT4-VEGETATION satellite imagery can be used for mapping consistently and uniformly the extent and distribution of the broad forest cover types at the regional scale. The new map can be considered as an update and improvement on existing regional forest cover maps.
40928278|Question: How does above-ground net primary production (ANPP) differ (estimated from remotely sensed data) among vegetation units in sub-humid temperate grasslands? Location: Centre-north Uruguay. Methods: A vegetation map of the study area was generated from LANDSAT imagery and the landscape configuration described. The functional heterogeneity of mapping units was analysed in terms of the fraction of photosynthetically active radiation absorbed by green vegetation (fPAR), calculated from the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) images provided by the moderate resolution imaging spectroradiometer (MODIS) sensor. Finally, the ANPP of each grassland class was estimated using NDVI and climatic data. Results: Supervised classification presented a good overall accuracy and moderate to good average accuracy for grassland classes. Meso-xerophytic grasslands occupied 45% of the area, Meso-hydrophytic grasslands 43% and Lithophytic steppes 6%. The landscape was shaped by a matrix of large, unfragmented patches of Meso-xerophytic and Meso-hydrophytic grasslands. The region presented the lowest anthropic fragmentation degree reported for the Rio de la Plata grasslands. All grassland units showed bimodal annual fPAR seasonality, with spring and autumn peaks. Meso-hydrophytic grasslands showed a radiation interception 10% higher than the other units. On an annual basis, Meso-hydrophytic grasslands produced 3800kg dry matter (DM) ha yr and Meso-xerophytic grasslands and Lithophytic steppes around 3400 kg  DM  ha yr. Mesoxerophytic grasslands had the largest spatial variation during most of the year. The ANPP temporal variation was higher than the fPAR variability. Conclusions: Our results provide valuable information for grazing management (identifying spatial and temporal variations of ANPP) and grassland conservation (identifying the spatial distribution of vegetation units).
1479002|This paper deals with the development of a hierarchical land classification for describing and mapping landscapes at different scales. After a brief overview of the theoretical background, an integrative framework is proposed which incorporates different hierarchical levels from plant sociology as diagnostic attributes. The feasibility of this proposal has been tested in different sample landscapes in central Italy. This system has a potential for applications to Italian landscapes from national to local scales, because it is based on solid theory and on information which is generally available in Italy.
1478987|Cytisus multiflorus is a leguminous matorral shrub native to the NW Iberian Peninsula, where it is one of the most important species in the extension of matorral at the expense of set-aside agricultural land. Dehesas have traditionally been used for extensive livestock raising and matorral was periodically burnt, cut or pulled out. The two latter practices are now out of use. However, burning is more frequent than in the past. The effects of fire, cutting, and pulling out of C. multiflorus on its regeneration was studied in order to ascertain whether the presently increasing distribution of the species relates to fire-stimulated regeneration or to the reduction of other traditional practices. Three years after treatment two sets of parameters were determined: 1. Plant origin: seedlings and different ramet types (ramets = resprout clumps), density, weight, and biomass as well as the percentage of resprouting. 2. Seed persistence at various soil depths. The possible mechanisms of breaking dormancy and plant emergence in different years after fire were studied in other experiments. The results suggest that the regeneration mechanism in C. multiflorus is stimulated by fire, but it is not an exclusive relationship. Stimulation occurs also after other disturbances leading to the total elimination of aerial biomass. The present expansion of the species does not appear to result from the abandonment of some traditional practices, such as cutting or pulling out, but from frequent fires (resulting in aerial-biomass elimination).
40927804|Question: Is there a light level at which alien grass biomass is reduced while still supporting growth and survival of native woody species, allowing for native species regeneration in abandoned pastures? Location: Island of Hawaii, USA. Methods: In a two-part study we examined the effect of light availability on common native woody and alien grass species found in secondary forests in Hawaii. A field survey was conducted to examine the relationship between light availability and canopy type (open pasture, planted canopy and secondary forest) on understory grass biomass and litter accumulation. We then experimentally manipulated light levels to determine the effect of light availability on growth and survival of six native woody species and three alien grasses. Low-light (5%), medium-light (10%) and high-light (20-30%) treatments were created using shade structures erected beneath the existing secondary koa canopy. Results: In the field survey, alien grass biomass was greatest under the open pasture and lowest in the secondary forest. There was a positive correlation between understory light availability and alien grass biomass. In the experimental study, large reductions in relative growth rates were documented for all of the grass species and four of the six woody species under the lowest light level. Although growth at 5% light is substantially reduced, survival is still high (84-100%), indicating that these species may persist under closed canopy. Conclusion: Low-light conditions result in the greatest reduction in alien grass biomass while creating an environment in which native woody species can grow and survive.
1478969|This paper describes the use of supervised methods for the classification of vegetation. The difference between supervised classification and clustering is outlined, with reference to their current use in vegetation science. In the paper we describe the classification of Danish grasslands according to the Habitats Directive of the European Union, and demonstrate how a supervised classification can be used to achieve a standardized and statistical interpretation within a local flora. We thereby offer a statistical solution to the legal problem of protection of certain selected habitat types. The Habitats Directive protects three types of Danish grassland habitats, whereas two remaining types fall outside protection. A classification model is developed, using available Danish grassland data, for the discrimination of these five types based on their species composition. This new Habitats Directive classification is compared to a previously published unsupervised classification of Danish grassland vegetation. An indicator species analysis is used to find significant indicator species for the three protected habitat types in Denmark, and these are compared to the characteristic species mentioned in the interpretation manual of the Habitats Directive. Eventually, we discuss the pros and cons of supervised and unsupervised classification and conclude that supervised methods deserve more attention in vegetation science.
1479092|In this study we present a new method for predicting the occurrences of species using data from deciduous forests in South Sweden. Complete species lists of vascular plants were compiled from 101 stands and from representative sample plots inside the stands. Soil samples from each stand were collected for determination of pH and nitrogen mineralization. Presence-absence data for species were fitted to the values of four environmental variables - soil moisture, soil reaction (pH), soil nitrogen and light - by means of Linear (Multiple) Logistic Regression (LLR), and Gaussian (Multiple) Logistic Regression (GLR). First, these values were estimated by calculating the weighted averages of Ellenberg indicator values. Second, the estimates for reaction and nitrogen were substituted by the real measurements of pH and mineralized NH
1479073|Piper aduncum is a neotropical invasive species which has spread throughout Papua New Guinea over the past three decades. It has become a most successful alien woody plant in New Guinea, occurring from sea level up to 2000 m a.s.l. The species prefers initial stages of forest succession and is particularly common in recently abandoned gardens representative of a system of swidden agriculture. It often attains high cover, suppresses other pioneer species and becomes the absolute dominant species in these habitats. The species is now also spreading into naturally disturbed habitats far from direct human influence, such as natural tree-fall gaps, land-slides and frequently flooded stream banks. It has, however, never been found in a closed primary forest. The species germinates from faeces of mammal and bird species, and we conclude that dispersal through endozoochory contributes to this species' extraordinary success in Papua New Guinea. A similar invasion behaviour has been documented over a large geographic area, from Malaysia to Fiji. Piper aduncum has attributes which are common amongst successful invasive species: (1) a large native geographic range; (2) aggressively colonizing disturbed habitats in its native area; (3) relatively small seeds; (4) a short juvenile period; (5) a large seed production every year.
4620463|Question: Do case studies from silvicultural and restoration studies and applied conservation management in second-growth Pinus palustris stands provide unique insights for conservation models? Methods: A review of management paradigms that conserve the high biological diversity and rare species, drawn from characteristics in both second-growth and old-growth stands, is presented for fire-maintained Pinus palustris (longleaf pine) forests. Results: A common assumption that old-growth stands provide the primary information for the development of conservation management strategies de-emphasizes lessons learned from second-growth and restoration studies. Primary conservation management goals for the Pinus palustris ecosystem include the perpetual regeneration of the fire-maintained forest and conservation of the characteristically high biological diversity and rare species. Several attributes, such as a sustained population of Picoides borealis (red-cockaded woodpecker), Aristida stricta (wiregrass)-dominated ground cover, and undisturbed upland-wetland ecotones, can predict a diverse and ecologically functional ecosystem. Such indicators are linked to critical structural and functional features of the system and reflect previous land management histories that suggest sustainable approaches. Conclusions: A traditional definition of 'old-growth' relying on overstorey may be limited in describing important features of healthy, diverse Pinus palustris ecosystems. Some characteristics are significantly more important for maintenance of diversity than age of the trees and these features may be present in old or second-growth forests. We advocate that the management history, structural characteristics and landscape context of stands that harbour desirable conservation attributes (red-cockaded woodpeckers, wiregrass, gopher tortoises and undisturbed upland-wetland ecotones) can be used as indicators to identify important conservation and forest management principles.
1479066| A local seed mixture from plants growing in a species-rich, traditionally managed hay meadow site at Varaldsy, Hardanger, western Norway, where many endangered hay meadow species of the region are growing, was sown in a newly harrowed experimental field 1 km from the source meadow in order to increase the habitat area for the endangered species. Of 25 endangered species recorded in the source meadow, only one (Holcus lanatus) was present in the target meadow. After sowing, 16 of the endangered species in addition to Holcus lanatus were recorded in the new site. Six species were only present in sown plots and seven others were more frequent there, while three species might have arrived by chance or originated from the seed bank. Replacing the traditional management regime, including one late cut and grazing in spring and in autumn, with three cutting times and the creation of gaps in the sward, resulted in a higher number of endangered species in plots which were only cut, possibly because the grazing was too intensive in the small enclosures. 
1478950|A technique for fine-scale vegetation mapping with the aid of low-altitude aerial photography was developed. The procedure is as follows: 1. The site is divided into a lattice pattern - in case the site is too large to fit into a single photograph with satisfactory resolution. The coordinates of every lattice point are surveyed to be used as control points for geometric correction. A photograph of each block of the lattice is taken using a remote-controlled camera system lifted by a captive helium balloon. 2. The vegetation is classified on the basis of a phytosociological survey. 3. The shapes and locations of vegetation patches appearing in the photographs are entered into a computer, using a digitizer. A geometric correction is carried out through coordinate transformation referring to the coordinates of the control points and subsequently a draft vegetation map is produced. Finally, discrepancies are corrected and the map is coloured to produce the final version of the vegetation map. This technique was applied to vegetation mapping at a bar, 500 m wide and 2 km long, in the river Yoshino in Shikoku, Japan. A fine-scale vegetation map was obtained and used to analyse the influence of plants on geomorphic processes and community-specific hydrogeomorphic conditions on the bar.
40927794|Question: What are the responses of epiphytic lichens to the intensity of management along a large environmental gradient in Mediterranean Quercus forests? Location: Central Spain. Methods: This study was carried out on 4590 trees located in 306 forest stands dominated by Quercus faginea or Quercus ilex ssp. ballota. The effect of forest management and other predictor variables on several species diversity indicators were studied.Variables modelled were total species richness, cyanolichen richness and community composition. A large number of predictor variables were included: forest fragmentation (patch size, stand variability), climate and topographic (altitude, slope, sun radiation, annual rainfall and mean annual temperature) and intensity of management. General linear models and constrained ordination techniques were used to model community traits and species composition, respectively. Results: Total richness and especially cyanolichens richness were significantly and negatively affected by the intensity of management. Lichen composition was influenced by management intensity, climatic and topographic variables and stand variability. Conclusions: In Mediterranean forests, human activities related to forestry, agricultural and livestock use cause impoverishment of lichen communities, including the local disappearance of the most demanding species. The conservation of unmanaged forests with a dense canopy is crucial for lichen diversity.
25488407|Questions: What is the best grassland management regime for the threatened plant species Gladiolus imbricatus; is the stage structure of local populations a feasible indicator of the effect of changed management. Location: Coastal meadow system in southwestern Estonia. Methods: The effect of five management regimes was studied in a long-term (three-year) field experiment: (1) mowing in late July, (2) grazing by cattle, (3) grazing by sheep, (4) sheep grazing during the first year and mowing during subsequent years, (5) no management (control). Results: The population density increased significantly in response to the mowing treatment and to the mowing after sheep grazing treatment. The proportion of grazed plant individuals was higher in the sheep-grazed than in the cattle-grazed treatment. Generative and vegetative adult individuals of G. imbricatus were significantly more damaged by cattle herbivory than juveniles. All management regimes shifted the population structure towards a dynamic state where juvenile stages dominate, while the not managed control retained a regressive population structure. Conclusions: Population stage structure was a useful indicator of different management conditions, even in the case where population density did not differ. As indicated by population stage structure, the best management regime for G. imbricatus was either mowing in late July only, or alternation of grazing and mowing in different years.
4620456|The well-documented decline of the Pinus palustris ecosystem has resulted from several anthropogenic influences, such as forest clearing (e.g. pine plantation forestry, agriculture) and urban development, both of which are closely related to increases in human populations. Other impacts have arisen from alterations in disturbance regimes responsible for maintaining the structure and function of these ecosystems. Restoration and management of degraded pine savanna ecosystems is critical. Identification of ecological processes that determine the structure and function of the intact system are important because successful restoration efforts should be based on sound scientific understanding. In this paper, we introduce this special issue on the ecology, conservation, and restoration of the Pinus palustris ecosystem. Some global climate change scenarios have suggested that future changes may occur that alter frequency and severity of disturbances such as fires and hurricanes. Such changes may have large effects on pine stands, and ultimately entire Pinus palustris savanna ecosystems, thus presenting further challenges to their sustainable management.
41058030|Questions: What are the interactive effects of flooding and cattle trampling upon the structural attributes and the floristic composition of a plant community? Do the effects on the plant community persist over an extended recovery period? Location: Flooding Pampa grasslands, Argentina (3630' S, 5830'W). Methods: We assessed the effects of 40-d of flooding, trampling and the combination thereof on plant cover and biomass, vertical distribution of foliage and floristic composition in lowland grassland mesocosms. We considered a 120-d recovery period to evaluate the persistence of flooding and trampling effects on the plant community. Results: Flooding, with or without trampling, increased cover and biomass of the graminoid species, especially marsh grasses, which developed a taller canopy, whereas most of the forb species were negatively affected. This was enhanced by trampling, as the aerial biomass of the dominant legume Lotus tenuis decreased by 90%, while three major forb species disappeared. Trampling under flooding conditions did not reduce the total above-ground biomass production, as the growth enhancement of graminoids was enough to compensate for the breakdown of the forbs. Below-ground biomass was lower when both perturbations occurred simultaneously. After 120-d of recovery, graminoids continued to be dominant while the remaining forbs (including L. tenuis) recovered only partially. Below-ground biomass recovered fully at the end of the growing season. Conclusions: The combination of flooding and trampling shifts the community co-dominance of graminoids and forbs towards a persistent dominance of graminoid species. When both perturbations are combined, the above-ground production of the grassland is unaffected and root biomass is rapidly recovered. However, the loss of the legume L. tenuis deserves attention because this is the unique nitrogen-fixing species of the ecosystem, which improves the forage quality for livestock production.
4620470|Question: How to improve reforestation success of Quercus pyrenaica. Location: 1800 m a.s.l., southern Spain. Methods: One-year-old Quercus pyrenaica seedlings were planted using two treatments: (1) bare soil, using a 30-cm diameter augur bit (conventional technique) and (2) under the canopy of a pioneer shrub, Salvia lavandulifolia, using a 12-cm diameter augur bit. Survival and growth were monitored for six years. Our hypothesis is that the use of shrubs as nurse plants is an alternative technique of reforestation with higher success than traditional techniques, in which pre-existing vegetation is usually considered a source of competition. The rationale for the study was that for environments with a dry season, pre-existing vegetation buffers summer drought stress, ameliorates the water status of seedlings and thus usually increases seedling recruitment. Results: Quercus survival was 6.3 x higher when planted under individuals of the pioneer shrub as compared to open areas. Quercus seedlings under shrubs also had shoots 1.8 x longer, while the number of shoots per plant did not differ among treatments. The first summer was the period with the highest mortality (49.1% of seedlings). Summer drought was the main cause of mortality. Conclusions: The use of shrubs as nurse plants for Q.pyrenaica reforestation is a viable technique to increase establishment success. The technique could be similarly useful in other environments with a dry period and for other Quercus species. In addition, this technique offers the advantage of following natural succession, thus minimizing the impact in the community.
1479009| A spatio-temporal variation of vegetation during spontaneous succession was studied in 56 basalt quarries spread over 1800 km
1478986|Temporal variations in the spatial distribution of fine-root mass and nutrient concentrations were studied in recently harvested and mature bamboo savanna sites in the dry tropical Vindhyan region in India. The soil block method and root-free-soil cages were used to investigate fine-root dynamics. The mean annual fine-root biomass was 596 and 690 g/ m
25488435|Question: How do habitat edges and trampling affect mesic (Myrtillus type) understorey vegetation in fragmented urban forests, and what are the relative strengths and spatial extent of these effects? Location: The city of Helsinki, southern Finland. Methods: Vegetation sample plots were placed at different distances from the forest edge. At each distance we selected plots on, next to and away from paths of different levels of wear, and the covers and frequencies of plant species were sampled. We used generalized linear mixed models and ordination techniques to test our hypotheses. Results: The effect of the edge penetrated up to 50 m into the forest interior. Only light effects of trampling were found in seemingly untrampled areas, in addition to the direct effects of trampling on the paths. Both trampling and edge effects changed the forest understorey species composition. Trampling changed plant species composition locally on paths, and provided opportunities for new species to establish in previously unbroken forest vegetation. Urban forest edges were characterised by species better adapted to sunny, warm and dry conditions. These species, such as grasses, replaced more sensitive forest species, such as dwarf shrubs and mosses. We observed a large number of light demanding deciduous trees at the edges, which may be one of the factors increasing soil fertility and consequently promoting the high abundance of fast growing species, such as grasses and herbs related to more fertile site types. Conclusions: We recommend that urban forest fragments left within urban development should be at least 2-3 ha in size and that the shape of the patch and the number of potential recreational users should be taken into account when preserving true forest understorey vegetation from the effects of edges and trampling.
25488410|Question: Is the successional transition from pine to hardwood, which has been inferred from chronosequence plots in previous studies, validated through a time line of satelite imagery? Location: Durham, North Carolina, USA. Methods: We examined successional trends in a time-series of winter-summer pairs of Thematic Mapper imagery from 1986 to 2000. We calculated the normalized difference of vegetation index (NDVI) for winter and summer, as well as the difference between summer and winter NDVI (i.e., summer increment NDVI). A set of approximately 50 forest stands of known age and phenology were used to interpret patterns in winter and summer increment NDVI over successional time, and a continuum was found to exist between pine-dominance and hardwood-dominance. We fitted a series of linear regressions that modeled the change in winter and summer increment NDVI as a function of initial winter and summer increment NDVI, and additional explanatory variables. Results: All regressions were highly significant (P < 0.0001, R = ca. 0.3). Predicted dynamics are in accord with successional theory, with pixels moving from evergreen dominance to deciduous dominance along a line of fairly constant summer NDVI. A large disturbance event that occurred over the course of this study, Hurricane Fran, appeared to slow rates of succession in the short term (1-3 years), but increase the rate of conversion to hardwoods over longer time spans. Conclusions: We conclude that temporal sequences of remote sensing images provide an excellent opportunity for broad-scale monitoring of successional processes, and that continuous metrics of that change are essential to accurate monitoring.
27735085|Questions: How does disturbance and successional age influence richness, size and composition of the soil seed bank? What is the potential contribution of the soil seed bank to the plant community composition on sites differing in their successional age or disturbance intensity? Location: Experimental Botanical Garden of Gttingen University, central Germany. Methods: Above-ground vegetation and soil seed bank were studied on formerly arable fields in a 36-year-old permanent plot study with five disturbance intensities, ranging from yearly ploughing via mowing to long-term uninterrupted succession. We compared species compositions, seed densities and functional features of the seed bank and above-ground vegetation by using several methods in parallel. Results: The seed bank was mainly composed of early successional species typical of strongly disturbed habitats. The difference between seed bank composition and above-ground vegetation decreased with increasing disturbance intensity. The species of greatest quantitative importance in the seed bank was the non-native forb Solidago canadensis. Conclusions: The ability of a plant community to regenerate from the soil seed bank dramatically decreases with increasing time since abandonment (successional age) and with decreasing disturbance intensity. The present study underlines that plant species typical of grasslands and woodlands are limited by dispersal capacity, owing to low capacity for accumulation of seeds in the soil and the fact that most species do not build up persistent seed banks. Rare and target species were almost absent from the seed bank and will, after local elimination, depend on reintroduction for continuation of their presence.
4620497| Question: Is the expansion of Hippopha rhamnoides in coastal dunes associated with a decline in plant species richness, and is this decline best described by a hump-backed relationship between species number and shrub cover? Location: Grey and yellow dunes on the East Frisian islands Spiekeroog and Norderney. Methods: Total plant species richness as well as the number of herbaceous and cryptogam species were determined in 2001 using plots of 16 m size. We compared shrubland plots with varying cover of Hippopha with neighbouring dune grassland plots without shrubs as reference sites. Soil samples were collected to determine the values of some important edaphic variables (pH, organic matter, nitrogen). Results: The shrubland plots with Hippopha had or tended to have lower soil pH and C/N ratios and higher contents of organic matter and nitrogen than the grassland plots. Total species richness was marginally significantly related to the cover of Hippopha in a hump-backed manner on both islands. The pattern was more pronounced for mosses and lichens than for herbaceous species. For all species groups on Spiekeroog and for the herbaceous species on Norderney, the hump-backed relationship was much improved when using the difference in species number between shrubland and grassland plot as a dependent variable. Relationships could be improved by including the soil parameters as co-variables. Species richness was highest at moderate levels of shrub expansion, while it was much reduced in very dense shrubland. The decrease in species number is caused by the decline in grassland species typical of the open dunes, including some rare taxa. Conclusions: The expansion of Hippopha rhamnoides is a serious threat to the plant species richness of open coastal dunes, and needs to be counteracted by management measures. 
1478946|Reconstruction mapping of the natural (primary) vegetation of intensively cultivated land is based on: (1) classification of actually existing remains of natural or near-natural plant communities as mapping units; (2) delimitation of their habitat types; (3) detection of correlations between vegetation units and habitat types. Natural plant communities thus serve as indicators of abiotic habitat conditions. Reconstruction mapping is based on the extrapolation of the potential distribution of individual vegetation units to sites of similar habitat types where the natural vegetation does not exist any more. The same procedure is used for mapping the potential natural vegetation. Both types of natural vegetation maps are identical on sites where the abiotic natural habitat conditions (relief, geological substratum, climate, water regime, soils) remain practically unchanged. On sites where the natural habitat conditions have been considerably changed by man, e.g. in areas with superficial coal mining (complete destruction of the landscape, removal of soil cover, creation of large slag heaps) or in towns, no natural (primary) vegetation exists. This causes difficulties in the hypothetical concept of the potential natural vegetation and its definition. In contrast, in such sites reconstruction vegetation mapping uses the extrapolation of mapping units of the primary vegetation to the original natural habitat conditions.
27735054|Questions: What are the short-term effects of restoration treatments, including fire and/or partial cutting with dead wood creation, on seedling density and distribution among microsites, and do they differ between upland and paludified biotopes? Location: Mature managed Picea abies-dominated stands in southern Finland. Methods: The restoration treatments consisted of four levels of cutting, with and without fire: uncut, low-CWD (partial cutting leaving 50 m3 ha1 of standing retention trees and 5 m3 ha1 of down retention trees, DRT), intermediate-CWD (as previous but with 30 m3 ha1 of DRT), and high-CWD (as previous but with 60 m3 ha1 of DRT). Results: The cutting treatment alone did not affect seedling density. Fire had an immediate effect, both by itself in upland biotopes (decreasing effect on P. abies density) and in combination with cutting in paludified biotopes (increasing effect on Betula spp. density). The density of other deciduous species (Sorbus aucuparia, Populus tremula, and Salix spp.) was not affected. Before treatments, seedlings grew predominantly on level ground and mounds. After treatments, more Betula, but fewer P. abies and other deciduous species, grew on these microsites. More Betula and other deciduous species grew next to CWD and under a fallen crown; more P. abies grew under a fallen crown in unburned stands. Conclusion: The post-treatment tree seedling density and distribution among microsites can be affected by restoration treatments. However, knowledge of local site characteristics and their interaction with different restoration treatments is needed to achieve the goals set for restoration at the stand and landscape levels.
1478951| Grid maps are used as a basic vegetation data base in Japan; they are simplified from vector-based vegetation maps. We estimated the frequency error or lack of information corresponding to reduced resolution and examined the reliable limits of this data base. We produced 10 grid maps on five different scales from 50 m to 1000 m using two different methods using both the whole cell (W-method) and only the central circle (C-method) from a vegetation map at scale 1: 25 000. We found that patches larger than the area of a cell on a vector-based map could be kept almost certainly on any map, but many patches of less than the cell size were lost. The number of missing patches with the C-method is fewer at every scale than those with the W-method. Though the value of Morisita's C  (p) index showed that the similarity with the original map was high - from the 50-m to the 200-m resolution - it was increasingly lower on the 400-m and 1000-m grid maps. The values of the Shannon index on the original map, 50-m and 100-m grid maps were not different, but they decreased from the 200-m to 1000-m grid maps. Because the vegetation data base of the Japanese Environment Agency used a 1000-m C-method grid map, we found that much information on patches less than 100 ha had disappeared. Information about dominant vegetation or large patches is almost accurate in this data base. 
1479026|The role of sheep grazing on vegetation change in upland mires removed from livestock farming and surrounded by conifer plantation was investigated with a grazing trial at Butterburn Flow in northern England. Paired grazed and ungrazed plots from central and peripheral locations were compared over 14 yr. Vegetation data from 34 mires in Kielder Forest provided an ordination framework within which vegetation trends were investigated. A gradient from dry moorland/hummock to wet mire/hollow vegetation dominated this framework and may reflect hydrological variability and structural vegetation differences between the mires. Some species were significantly affected by change in grazing intensity and there were differences between the edge and the centre of the mire. Overall vegetation change depended upon the grazing management and the position of the plots such that the removal of sheep grazing decreased the cover of species typical of wet ombrotrophic conditions, but only at the periphery of the mire. The vegetation in one plot became very similar to that of mires elsewhere in Kielder Forest where sheep were removed several decades ago. Cessation of grazing on upland mires is likely to lead to slow structural and species change in vegetation at the mire edge with a long-term loss of ombrotrophic species. The nature conservation significance of these changes will depend upon whether or not management objectives target natural conditions or wish to maximize ombrotrophic vegetation. The context of external factors such as climate and pollution may, however, be more important in determining site condition on the wettest mires.
40928272|Questions: Does the invasive alien Hedychium gardnerianum (1) replace native understory species, (2) suppress natural regeneration of native plant species, (3) increase the invasiveness of other non-native plants and (4) are native forests are able to recover after removal of H. gardnerianum. Location: A mature rainforest in Hawai'i Volcanoes National Park on the island of Hawai'i (about 1200m a.s.l.; precipitation approximately 2770 mm yr).Study sites included natural plots without effects of alien plants, ginger plots with a H. gardnerianum-dominated herb layer and cleared plots treated with herbicide to remove alien plants. Methods: Counting mature trees, saplings and seedlings of native and alien plant species. Using nonparametric H-tests to compare impact of H. gardnerianum on the structure of different sites. Results: Results confirmed the hypothesis that H. gardnerianum has negative effects on natural forest dynamics. Lower numbers of native tree seedlings and saplings were found on ginger-dominated plots. Furthermore, H. gardnerianum did not show negative effects on the invasive alien tree species Psidium cattleianum. Conclusions: This study reveals that where dominance of H. gardnerianum persists, regeneration of the forest by native species will be inhibited. Furthermore, these areas might experience invasion by P. cattleianum, resulting in displacement of native canopy species in the future, leading to a change in forest structure and loss of other species dependent on natural rainforest, such as endemic birds. However, if H. gardnerianum is removed the native Hawaiian forest is likely to regenerate and regain its natural structure.
4620430| What is the contribution of the seed bank to restoration of species-rich vegetation in oligotrophic wet dune slacks? Does the restoration management affect the seed bank? Calcareous coastal dune slacks at the west coast of The Netherlands. Species composition of the seed bank and the above-ground vegetation was sampled in dune slacks that had a variable extent of groundwater level rise in combination with either topsoil removal or mowing. The seed bank had a high potential for restoration of species-rich vegetation: 60 species were found in the seed bank of which 14 were characteristic of oligotrophic, wet dune vegetation. While topsoil removal almost completely removed the seed bank, groundwater level rise did not permanently submerge the seed bank of species of oligotrophic, wet conditions. Changes in abundance in the established vegetation were unrelated to species abundance in the seed bank. Of all new species establishments in the vegetation relevs, 76% occurred where the species was not found in the seed bank. The chance that presence of a species in the seed bank led to establishment the following year was only 11%. The seed bank was not the dominant source for newly establishing species following the large disturbance that was induced by restoration management. Changes in species abundance after the restoration impact were not related to species abundance in the seed bank, but to ongoing succession and current year dispersal. To attain a high number of new establishments, restoration projects should preferably be planned in the proximity of refuge populations, rather than relying on the seed bank alone. 
1479005|It is remarkable that after many thousands of years of pastoralism in arid and semi-arid savannas, there is still no clear answer to the basic question: Does livestock grazing have more than a marginal effect on the dynamics of arid and semi-arid land vegetation? A small study of semi-arid savanna vegetation along a spatial gradient in grazing pressure, repeated three times over 19 years is used as a basis for discussing the behaviour of dry land vegetation under heavy grazing. Three basic theories are compared: (1) the theory that heavy grazing causes desertification; (2) the theory that heavy grazing causes no directed change in the vegetation of arid and semi-arid rangelands; and (3) the theory that heavy grazing leads to a switch between alternative states of vegetation. On the basis of the current data the first two theories are rejected, but the conclusion is that there is much evidence for a more complex behaviour of dry rangelands under grazing than what is accommodated in any of the three theories. Probably, site-specific properties including interactive and indirect effects of herbivory in the system are important for vegetation development under grazing in arid and semi-arid rangelands.
4620436| Question: We characterized the spatial variability and temporal dynamics of the photosynthetic active radiation absorbed (APAR) by the canopy, a descriptor of ecosystem functioning. Location: Cabo de Gata - Njar Natural Park (CGNNP) (SE Spain). Methods: Ecosystem functioning was characterized for 5 landscape classes using the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) derived from NOAA/AVHRR LAC (1x1 km) images. We also used a 19-year time series of NDVI PAL data (8km x 8km) to analyze the relationship APAR-precipitation inside and outside the park. Results: The vegetation of the CGNNP absorbed less than 20% of the incoming radiation. Plains intercepted 37% and hills 14% less photosynthetic active radiation than mountains, the most productive landscape of the park. CGNNP showed a well-defined growing season with a unique peak of APAR. Plains and piedmont, covered by annual vegetation displayed an earlier development of the leaf area index than the shrublands and grasslands typical of the other landscapes. APAR had a significant relationship with the sum of the precipitation of the current and two previous growing seasons, except for the Plains. Conclusions: The APAR of the areas more modified by humans (outside the park) showed a lower sensitivity to changes in precipitation than those under protection. The differences were higher if the accumulated precipitation of the previous three growing seasons was considered. The description of such differences in the response of absorbed PAR to water availability are proposed as the base of a monitoring system for semi-arid and arid areas. 
1478903|Due to economic pressures and policy changes Lolium perenne-Trifolium repens sown swards in upland UK sheep systems are likely to become less intensively managed. We present results from the first 5 yr of a long-term experiment studying vegetation change under more extensive grazing management at three sites. One treatment was representative of current, intensive management and 5 were unfertilized with different intensities of seasonal grazing. The species composition of unfertilized, ungrazed swards changed dramatically within 2 yr and the sown species had virtually disappeared by year 5. Ranunculus repens, Poa trivialis, Agrostis gigantea, Juncus spp. and Carex spp. became dominant at the wettest site. Grasses were dominant at the other sites. In contrast, the sown species were retained in the unfertilized, grazed treatments; there were small shifts in abundance of the species present initially and few additions or losses of species. Some colonizing species were present in the seed bank whereas others with a transient seed bank appeared to have invaded from neighbouring vegetation. Implications of these results for compensation schemes to reduce animal output and increase biodiversity are discussed.
40927812|Question: Is it possible to translate vegetation maps into reliable thematic maps of site conditions? Method: This paper presents a new method, called Iteratio, by which a coherent spatial overview of specific environmental conditions can be obtained from a comprehensive vegetation survey of a specific area. Iteratio is a database application which calculates environmental indicator values for vegetation samples (relevs) on the basis of known indicator values of a limited number of plant species. The outcome is then linked to a digitalized vegetation map (map of plant communities) which results in a spatial overview of site conditions. Iteratio requires the indicator values of a minimum of 10-20% of the species occurring. The species are given a relative weight according to their amplitudes: species with a narrow range are weighted stronger, species with a broad range are weighted weaker. Conclusion: The method presented here enables a coherent assessment of site conditions on the basis of a vegetation survey and the indicator values of a limited number of plant species.
4620416|Question: Do large herbivores contribute to the dispersal of plant seeds between isolated habitats by epizoochory? Location: Nature reserves in Flanders, Belgium. Methods: Epizoochory was studied by brushing plant seeds from the fur of 201 domesticated large herbivores (Galloway cattle, donkeys and horses), grazing in 27 Flemish nature reserves. Several herbivores were examined after transport between different nature reserves as part of the seasonal grazing system in Flanders, allowing detection of seed dispersal both within and between reserves. The seedling emergence method was used to identify the dispersed plant species. Results: In total, 6385 epizoochorous seeds from 75 species germinated, yet the real seed quantity was underestimated by the seedling emergence method. A wide variety of seed morphology, seed weights and plant heights was represented among the dispersed species, many of which had a transient seed bank. There was a gradual turnover in epizoochorous species composition in the course of the vegetation season, and seed dispersal occurred both within and between different nature reserves. Conclusions: Domesticated large herbivores, as models for wild mammals in the present and the past, are important dispersers of many plant species. Through seasonal grazing, the herbivores function as 'mobile link organisms', connecting isolated nature reserves through seed dispersal, possibly influencing vegetation development and long-term survival of plant populations. As such, large herbivores are important instruments in ecological restoration, especially in fragmented ecosystems.
40928275|Question: What was the role of fire in montane pineoak (Pinus-Quercus) stands under changing human land uses on a temperate forest landscape in eastern North America? Location: Mill Mountain in the central Appalachian Mountains, Virginia, US. Methods: A dendroecological reconstruction of fire history was generated for four stands dominated by xerophytic pine and oak species. The fire chronology began under presettlement conditions following aboriginal depopulation. Subsequent land uses included European settlement, iron mining, logging, and US Forest Service acquisition and fire protection. Results: Fires occurred approximately every 5 years until 1930 without any evidence of a temporal trend in fire frequency. Burning ceased after 1930. Areawide fires affecting multiple pine stands were common, occurring at intervals of approximately 16 years. Most living pines became established during the late 1800s and early 1900s. Dead pines indicated that an older cohort established ca. 1730.Most hardwoods were established between the 1920s and 1940s. Conclusions: Except for fire protection, changes in land use had no discernible influence on fire frequency.Lightning ignitions and/or large fire extent may have been important for maintaining frequent burning in the 1700s, while fuel recovery may have constrained fire frequency during later periods. The disturbance regime appears to be characterized by frequent surface fires and occasional severe fires, insect outbreaks or other disturbances followed by pine recruitment episodes. Industrial disturbances appear to have had little influence on the pine stands. The greatest impact of industrial society is fire exclusion, which permitted hardwood establishment.
1478931|A 44-yr record of herbaceous vegetation change was analysed for three contrasting grazing regimes within a semi-arid savanna to evaluate the relative contribution of confined livestock grazing and climatic variability as agents of vegetation change. Grazing intensity had a significant, directional effect on the relative composition of short- and mid-grass response groups: their composition was significantly correlated with time since the grazing regimes were established. Interannual precipitation was not significantly correlated with response group composition. However, interannual precipitation was significantly correlated with total plant basal area while time since imposition of grazing regimes was not, but both interannual precipitation and time since the grazing regimes were established were significantly correlated with total plant density. Vegetation change was reversible even though the herbaceous community had been maintained in an altered state for ca. 60 yr by intensive livestock grazing. However, ca. 25 yr were required for the mid-grass response group to recover following the elimination of grazing and recovery occurred intermittently. The increase in mid-grass composition was associated with a significant decrease in total plant density and an increase in mean individual plant basal area. Therefore, we failed to reject the hypotheses based on the proportional change in relative response group composition with grazing intensity and the distinct effects of grazing and climatic variability on response group composition, total basal area and plant density. Long-term vegetation change indicates that grazing intensity established the long-term directional change in response group composition, but that episodic climate events defined the short-term rate and trajectory of this change and determines the upper limit on total basal area. The occurrence of both directional and non-directional vegetation responses were largely a function of (1) the unique responses of the various community attributes monitored and (2) the distinct temporal responses of these community attributes to grazing and climatic variation. This interpretation supports previous conclusions that individual ecosystems may exist in equilibrial and non-equilibrial states at various temporal and spatial scales.
4620490|Can the biodiversity of fens in Europe and North America be maintained through the use of grazing (especially cattle grazing), fire, and/or cutting? European and North American fens. This paper is a review of the literature on the effects of grazing, fire and cutting on fens, to explore the relationship between management and biodiversity in fens. A reduction of cattle grazing, mowing and burning in fens has led to a reduction in biodiversity in fens. The vegetation of abandoned fens shifts to trees and shrubs after 10-15 years, which shade the smaller and rarer species of these wetlands. While careful use of fire is used to manage fens in North America, it is not widely used in European fens, perhaps because the peat of drained fens may catch fire. Cattle grazing cannot be considered a natural disturbance in North America, since cattle did not evolve on that continent. In Europe, cattle do not generally graze in unaltered fens, but they do use slightly drained fen meadows. Three approaches have been used to control the dominance of tall woody and herbaceous species in abandoned fens, including the re-introduction of cattle, mowing, and burning. Overgrazing results in a permanent reduction in biodiversity, therefore cattle re-introduction must be approached cautiously. In Europe, but not in North America, mowing has been an important management tool, and mowing has been successful in maintaining species richness, particularly in fens that have been mowed annually for centuries. Fire has been the most common and successful management tool in North America although it is not effective in removing shrubs that have become large. Because the problems and solutions are similar, the literature of both European and North American fen management can be analyzed to better assess the management of fens on both continents. Many management questions require further study and these are listed in the paper.
25488418|Question: Is Opuntia stricta more frequent, and its patches larger, under trees suitable for baboon roosting? If so, does it mean that baboons are major dispersal agents and that plants established under these trees are important foci of Opuntia stricta spread? Location: Skukuza, Kruger National Park, South Africa. Method: We surveyed an area invaded by Opuntia stricta in the Skukuza region of KNP. The survey included plots under potential baboon roosting trees, plots under trees unlikely to support baboons, and paired randomly located open sites. Results: The null hypothesis - tree-Opuntia spatial independence - can be rejected for Acacia nilotica, but not for Spirostachys africana. Opuntia plants are positively associated with Acacia trees suitable for baboon roosting. However, there is no significant difference between frequency of Opuntia under Acacia trees suitable and unsuitable for baboon roosting. It appears that all Acacia trees can serve as nurse trees for Opuntia. Compared to plots under Acacia trees, frequencies of old and robust Opuntia plants are significantly higher in open areas and under dead trees. Conclusions: While baboons may be responsible for long distance Opuntia dispersal (over km), their role is not detectable at a local scale. On the other hand, elephants seem to contribute substantially to the local vegetative propagation of this species. Opuntia establishment and growth are more influenced by micro-habitat than previously thought.
4620449| Question: Can prescribed winter burning compensate atmospheric nutrient loads for dry heathlands? What effects does prescribed burning have on nutrient balances, particularly as regards the limiting nutrients N and P? Location: Lueneburg Heath, NW Germany. Methods: In two burning experiments (in 10/15 year old Calluna-stands) nutrient balances (for N, Ca, K, Mg, P) were calculated by analysing nutrient inputs (atmospheric deposition, ash deposition), nutrient stores (above-ground biomass, organic horizon) and nutrient outputs (biomass combustion, leaching). Results: Atmospheric nutrient deposition amounted to 22.8 kg.ha.a for N and < 0.5 kg.ha.a for P. Nutrient stores in the above-ground biomass were 95/197 kg.ha for N and 5/13 kg.ha for P (first/second experiment, respectively). From these stores 90/53% (for N) and 25/14% (for P) were removed by burning. Effects of leaching on nutrient balances were low. In the first two years after burning, leaching rates of N increased by about 4/6 kg.ha, whereas leaching rates of P did not change significantly. Input/output-ratios showed that prescribed burning leads to positive nutrient balances for N, Ca and Mg in the long term. For example, the amounts of N removed by prescribed burning are equivalent to ca. five years of atmospheric inputs. Applied in ten-year cycles, this measure alone cannot prevent N accumulation in the long term. Conclusion: Regarding 10/15 year old Calluna-heaths, we assume that prescribed burning cannot compensate for atmospheric N inputs, thus making long-term changes in the nutritional state inevitable. Therefore, prescribed burning should be applied in combination with high-intensity management measures. 
1478917|Recently established forests are commonly characterized by an impoverished understorey. Restoration is mostly based on spontaneous secondary succession, but little is known about the time period needed to achieve a community species pool with species composition equal to that of ancient forests. Vegetation in transects of 197 plots in 13 recent forest stands contiguous to the Meerdaalwoud ancient forest complex was surveyed. The recent forest stands ranged in age from 36 to 132 yr. The community species pool was described with an ecological, functional and phytosociological approach and based on groups derived from a CCA. Differences in community species pool between age classes of recent forest stands were analysed. During establishment of a new forest competitive species, forest edge species and species with high Ellenberg values for light and nitrogen and a more persistent seed bank will dominate the understorey. After 90 yr of succession the cover by these species decreases and reaches equal values to ancient forest after ca. 105 yr. A large number of forest species will be able to colonize the forest in less than 90 yr. Some typical forest species, however, have very low colonization rates and still have low cover in recent forest more than 105 yr old, so that complete restoration of the understorey requires a time period of over a century. Anthropogenic introduction of forest plant species may reduce the time required for ancient forest vegetation equality.
25488481|Question: Which factors determine diversity of native and alien vascular plant species in semi-natural dry grasslands? Location: Northern limestone Alps to the southern rim of the Bohemian massif in northern Austria. Methods: In 70 randomly chosen dry grassland patches (0.008 ha - 7 ha) we sampled a complete inventory of vascular plant species at each site. We analysed the correlation between species diversity of natives, archaeophytes (pre-1500 aliens) and neophytes (post-1500 aliens). We used GLM to study the relationship of species number (natives, neophytes, archaeophytes) to five explanatory variables (altitude, within habitat diversity, habitat diversity of adjacent areas, within land-use diversity and land-use in adjacent areas). Orthogonal components of these variables were derived with a PCA and used in the models. We also tested the influence of minimum residence time (MRT) and the covariables origin, mode of introduction and life form on the number of grassland sites with neophytes with analogous GLMs. Results: Native species diversity species was positively correlated with the species diversity of new, but not old invaders. GLM explains 70% of the variance in the number of native species. Patch size explained the largest part of the variation in the number of native species. PCA axes 1 and 3 were significantly related to the number of native species. Axis 1 was related to on-site habitat and land-use diversity. The GLM of the archaeophyte diversity explains 18% of the variance. Altitude and presence of fields and grassland in the neighbourhood mainly explained archaeophyte species diversity. The GLM of neophyte diversity explains 12% of the variance. The number of neophytes was positively related to that of archaeophytes. Only PCA axis 3, which is mainly influenced by adjacent land-use types, showed a relationship with neophytes. MRT, mode of introduction and region of origin (but not life form) were significantly related to the number of grassland sites invaded by neophytes, explaining 35% of the variance. Conclusion: Most factors governing native species diversity are not significantly related to alien species diversity. Additional determinants of the local scale diversity of alien species exist such as region of origin and historical factors (MRT, mode of introduction).
1478888|The possible use of fire for the management of the Ankarafantsika Reserve in the northwest of Madagascar and of its surrounding area is studied. Within this savanna landscape large parts of the remaining dry forests still exist with a unique biotic diversity, both in terms of total number of species and endemism. Unfortunately, mainly man-induced uncontrolled fires threaten these forests. Actual and former fire regimes of the local communities are analysed. The use of fire is an integrated part of land use and is also governed by socio-cultural traditions. The impact of fire on the dynamics of dry forests and grass savannas is studied considering the specifics of different fire regimes. We propose that a deliberate and controlled use of fire respecting the vegetation stage and the defined objectives could be an appropriate management tool. The strategy of a fire management is elaborated considering both the conservation of biodiversity and improvement of the livelihood of the local population depending upon the Reserve's resources. Obviously, a sustainable management of the natural resources requires a substantial participation of the community.
40927826|Question: To what extent can aerial photography be used for taxonomic identification of Amazonian tree crowns? Objective: To investigate whether a combination of dichotomous keys and a web-based interface is a suitable approach to identify tree crowns. Location: The fieldwork was conducted at Tiputini Biodiversity Station located in the Amazon, eastern Ecuador. Methods: High-resolution imagery was taken from an airplane flying at a low altitude (600 m) above the ground. Imagery of the observable upper layer of the tree crowns was used for the analysis. Dichotomous identification keys for different types of crowns were produced and tested. The identification keys were designed to be web-based interactive, using Google Earth as the main online platform. The taxa analysed were Iriartea, Astrocaryum, Inga, Parkia, Cecropia, Pourouma, Guarea, Otoba, Lauraceae and Pouteria. Results: This paper demonstrates that a combination of photo-imagery, dichotomous keys and a web-based interface can be useful for the taxonomic identification of Amazonian trees based on their crown characteristics. The keys tested with an overall identification accuracy of over 50% for five of the ten taxa with three of them showing accuracy greater than 70% (Iriartea, Astrocaryum and Cecropia). Conclusions: The application of dichotomous keys and a web-based interface provides a new methodological approach for taxonomic identification of various Amazonian tree crowns. Overall, the study showed that crowns with a medium-rough texture are less reliably identified than crowns with smoother or well-defined surfaces.
25488475|Questions: Does the increased atmospheric deposition of nitrogen, which can have major effects on the established vegetation of nutrient-poor habitats, also impact germination from the soil seed bank? Location: Coastal dune slacks at Newborough Warren, Wales, UK. Methods: The effects of nitrogen addition (15 kg.ha.a) on seed germination from the soil seed bank were investigated using the seedling emergence method between September 2004 and February 2005. Results: More seedlings emerged from fertilised samples than unfertilised controls. Most species showed enhanced germination after fertilisation with nitrogen, with seedling numbers statistically significantly greater in nitrogen addition samples in a quarter of species abundant enough for analysis. Species that responded positively to fertilisation were species with low Ellenberg indicator values indicative of infertile sites. Conclusions: Most species showed increased germination after fertilisation with nitrogen, including early successional species normally growing in nutrient-poor conditions. This suggests that the increased atmospheric deposition of nitrogen probably not only impacts on established vegetation, but also has the potential to alter seed bank dynamics.
4620429|Which factors affect the spatial variation of maquis and phryganic vegetation and how can the role of human activities be estimated through degradation models. Island of Sifnos, Cyclades, Greece. Data on woody vegetation, environmental conditions and intensity of human activity were collected by field survey. The vegetation data were analysed using TWINSPAN. Models based on the combination of Canonical Variate Analysis and logistic regressions were used in order to examine and describe the different pathways of maquis degradation. The spatial variation of maquis and phryganic vegetation was related to both environmental and disturbance factors. The replacement of maquis by phryganic vegetation can follow two different pathways which reflect differences on the environmental conditions. However, the pathways them-selves are determined by the combinations and levels of disturbance only. Degradation models can provide essential information on the effects of human activities on the vegetation. Maquis vegetation is relatively tolerant of disturbance, however, if disturbance exceeds certain critical thresholds, maquis is replaced by phryganic vegetation. The presence of phryganic vegetation is not always the result of maquis degradation.
1479041| Sheep grazing was investigated as an alternative to traditional management of meadows in the Krkonoe Mts. Until the second World War these meadows were mown in mid-summer and grazed by cattle for the rest of the season. Subsequent abandonment of the meadows has resulted in decreasing species richness. Degradation phases of the former communities have been replacing the original species-rich vegetation. Significant changes were apparent six years after the introduction of sheep grazing. In grazed plots the proportion of dominant herbs (Polygonum bistorta and Hypericum maculatum) decreased and grasses (Deschampsia cespitosa, Festuca rubra, Agrostis capillaris, Anthoxanthum alpinum) increased. The increase in grasses was positively correlated with an increase in several herbs. The proportion of some herbs increased despite being selectively grazed (Adenostyles alliariae, Melandrium rubrum, Veratrum lobelianum). Any losses caused by grazing of mature plants were probably compensated by successful seedling establishment. Cessation of grazing resulted in significant changes in vegetation within three years. The cover of nitrophilous tall herbs and grasses (e.g. Rumex alpestris, Holcus mollis, Deschampsia cespitosa, Geranium sylvaticum) increased in the abandoned plots. In the plots grazed for nine years cover of species-rich mountain meadow species increased (e.g. fine-leaved grasses, Campanula bohemica, Potentilla aurea, Viola lutea, Silene vulgaris). The main conservation risk is the expansion of a competitive species with low palatability, Deschampsia cespitosa. This species can be suppressed by a combination of grazing and mowing. In order for grazing to be effective, the number of sheep should be proportional to meadow production. This may be difficult to maintain as production is variable and is impossible to predict at the beginning of a growing season. A large part of the biomass may thus remain intact in some years. Negative effects of grazing may be, at least partly, eliminated by a combination of cutting and grazing. 
4620506| Question: What is the impact of the presence of Rhinanthus minor on forb abundance in newly established swards? Location: Wetherby, West Yorkshire, UK (5355' N, 122' W). Method: A standard meadow mix containing six forbs and six grasses was sown on an ex-arable field and immediately over-sown using a randomised plot design with three densities of Rhinanthus minor (0, 600, and 1000 seeds per m). Above-ground biomass was analysed over a period of three years, while detailed assessments of sward composition were performed during the first two years. Results: Values of grass biomass were reduced in the presence of Rhinanthus, especially at the higher sowing density. The ratio of grass:forb biomass was also lower in association with Rhinanthus, but only at the higher sowing density. The presence of Rhinanthus had no effect on species number or diversity, which decreased between years regardless of treatment. Conclusions: Although not tested in a multi-site experiment, the benefit of introducing Rhinanthus into newly established swards to promote forb abundance was determined. The efficacy of Rhinanthus presence is likely to depend on whether species not susceptible to the effects of parasitism are present. 
27735049|Questions: Have the natural plant communities of two mined bogs experienced changes in composition and richness over a three-decade period, and are these changes associated with anthropogenic disturbances? Location: Bas-Saint-Laurent region, southeastern Qubec, Canada. Methods: We monitored three decades of floristic changes in two disturbed bogs by revisiting 57 plots in 1998, which were previously sampled in 1965 and 1966. Changes in species richness and composition were evaluated using Wilcoxon signed rank tests, principal component analysis and partial redundancy analyses (pRDA). We also used pRDA and an indicator species analysis to determine which species had undergone the greatest changes over time. Variation partitioning was used to evaluate the relative influence of human disturbance in compositional change. Results: The main changes in the vegetation of the two bogs were 1) a decrease of overall species diversity, 2) an increase in the percent cover of trees and of species tolerant of shade or drought, and 3) a decrease in the cover of heliophilous species. Picea mariana, Sphagnum fuscum and Pleurozium schreberi increased in percent cover while Chamaedaphne calyculata and Sphagnum rubellum decreased in percent cover. Variation partitioning suggested that human activities had a significant impact on vegetation composition. Conclusion: The results indicated that substantial changes occurred in the vegetation of the natural fragments of these severely disturbed bogs. Although human activities were partially responsible for the changes, our study suggested that the drying of the peat surface due to drought during the 1960s and 1980s may have contributed to the vegetation changes.
41058031|Question: How resilient is the seed bank of an invaded dune system? Is that resilience dependent on duration of invasion? How does the accumulated litter layer contribute to the soil seed bank? Location: Coastal sand dunes invaded by Acacia longifolia, Portugal. Methods: Seedling emergence was used to quantify and compare soil seed banks in long-invaded, recently invaded and non-invaded areas. Changes in seed banks were also compared with areas where A. longifolia and the litter layer were removed. Results: Species richness, seedling density and diversity were higher in noninvaded and recently-invaded areas than in long-invaded areas. Although there was an apparent similarity between non-invaded and recently-invaded areas, analyses of species traits revealed differences. Non-invaded areas had a wider array of traits. Exotic/invasive species dominated invaded seed banks while native species dominated non-invaded seed banks. Life forms, growth forms, longevity and dispersal mode showed differences between areas, with cleared plots of long-invaded areas being apparently the most similar to noninvaded plots. Acacia longifolia seeds were most abundant in long-invaded areas, particularly where the litter layer remained. Removal of A. longifolia plus the litter had little effect on the seed bank composition of recently-invaded areas but resulted in noticeable changes in seed banks of long-invaded areas. Conclusions: Long-invaded areas are less resilient and show a higher reinvasion potential, despite severe alteration of the seed banks of both areas. Seed bank studies can be a useful tool to guide management, but can give misleading results when invasion periods are protracted.
27735042|Question: What is the best way to model savanna dynamics? Specifically, under what conditions is a traditional succession model, i.e., a model of ordered, uni-directional change in the plant community, better than a state-and-transition model? Location: Central Texas savannas. Methods: We describe three examples of successional processes in central Texas savannas: (a) woody plant encroachment, (b) invasion by a non-native grass, and (c) establishment of different grass species in highly disturbed sites. Results and Conclusions: Savanna dynamics are now commonly conceptualized with state-and-transition models. However, in some situations a traditional succession model may be more appropriate or more useful. Succession models may better fit current ecological reality, as found in central Texas. Succession models emphasize transient dynamics rather than an (often unknown) endpoint, and direct us towards relevant literature from non-savanna ecosystems. Succession models may be particularly useful for land management and restoration, and where woody plant encroachment and/or invasions by non-native species control vegetation dynamics.
40927820|Questions: How are the early survival and growth of seedlings of Everglades tree species planted in an experimental setting on artificial tree islands affected by hydrology and substrate type? What are the implications of these responses for broader tree island restoration efforts? Location: Loxahatchee Impoundment Landscape Assessment (LILA), Boynton Beach, Florida, USA. Methods: An experiment was designed to test hydrological and substrate effects on seedling growth and survivorship. Two islands  a peat and a limestonecore island representing two major types found in the Everglades  were constructed in four macrocosms. A mixture of eight tree species was planted on each island in March of 2006 and 2007. Survival and height growth of seedlings planted in 2006 were assessed periodically during the next two and a half years. Results: Survival and growth improved with increasing elevation on both tree island substrate types. Seedlings' survival and growth responses along a moisture gradient matched species distributions along natural hydrological gradients in the Everglades. The effect of substrate on seedling performance showed higher survival of most species on the limestone tree islands, and faster growth on their peat-based counterparts. Conclusions: The present results could have profound implications for restoration of forests on existing landforms and artificial creation of tree islands. Knowledge of species tolerance to flooding and responses to different edaphic conditions present in wetlands is important in selecting suitable species to plant on restored tree islands
1479047| This paper reports on vegetation dynamics on terrestrial, temperate grassland sites at the upper range of the productivity scale, i.e. on abandoned sewage fields (fields once used for waste water disposal) at Berlin-Blankenfelde, Germany. I studied regeneration and the influence of different management practices (removal of top soil and mowing in late summer). Changes in species composition and cover were followed on permanent plots of 2m  2m size through five years of vegetation development. At the outset of the experiment the abandoned fields were dominated by dense Urtica dioica/Elymus repens stands. Species richness was 7 species/4 m
40927799|Questions: How does draining affect the composition of vegetation? Are certain functional groups favoured? Can soil parameters explain these differences? Location: Central Faroe Islands, treeless islands in the northern boreal vegetation zone. Since 1987, an area of 21km at 100200 m a. s. l. was drained in order to provide water for hydro-electric production. Method: Vegetation and soil of a drained area and a control, undrained neighbouring area of approximately the same size were sampled in 2007. Six sites were sampled in each area. The vegetation was classified with cluster analysis. Results: Four plant communities were defined in the area: Calluna vulgarisEmpetrum nigrum-Vaccinium myrtillus heath, Scirpus cespitosusEriophorum angustifolium blanket mire, Carex bigelowii-Racomitrium lanuginosum moss-heath, Narthecium ossifragum-Carex panacea mire. Heath was more extensively distributed within, and was the dominant community of the drained area, whereas mossheath was more extensive in the undrained area.Blanket mire and mire had approximately the same distribution in both areas. For the blanket mire, species composition indicated drier conditions in the drained than in the undrained area. The drained area had higher frequencies of woody species and lichens, grasses had finer roots and available soil phosphate was considerably higher, whereas the undrained area had higher frequencies of grasses and sedges. Conclusion: The dominant plant communities were different in the two areas, which indicated that the blanket mire was drying in the drained area. Higher concentration of soil phosphate in the drained area also indicated increased decomposition of organic soils owing to desiccation.
41058028|Question: Does clear-felling influence forest herb colonization into postagricultural forest? Location: A stand of poplar cultivars with a dense understorey of Acer pseudoplatanus in Muizen forest (northern Belgium), planted in 1952 on farmland adjacent to ancient forest and clear-felled in 1997. Methods: Shade-tolerant forest herbs were surveyed in 112 grid-based sample plots: just before clear-felling, and 5 and 10yr afterwards. Shade-tolerant herbs were subdivided into ancient forest species (AFS) and other shade-tolerant species (OSS). Effects of clear-felling on species number per plot, total cover per plot and colonization rate of species groups were compared using nonparametrical tests. Species number per plot was modelled by means of generalized linear mixed models (GLMMs), with inventory time, distance to the nearest parcel edge, and cover of light-loving species (LS) as explanatory variables. The C-S-R signature (competitive, stress-tolerant and ruderal strategies, respectively) shift of sample plots was calculated on the selected shadetolerant species. Results: Frequency of most species increased during the 10-yr period. Number of OSS increased more and faster than that of AFS. OSS increased to the level of the adjacent forest, but was lower where LS cover remained high. There was a positive correlation between the change of the colonization rate and the competitive plant strategy. Conclusions: We assume that clear-felling stimulated generative reproduction of shade-tolerant herbs, whereas quickly emerging woody species controlled competitive exclusion by LS. Succession of dark and light phases, such as provided by an understorey managed as a coppice, could promote colonization of shade-tolerant herbs into post-agricultural forest.
4620494| Question: Will a non-indigenous, invasive, understorey shrub, such as Lonicera maackii (Amur honeysuckle) have an impact on the productivity of overstorey trees in hardwood forests? Location: Trees from 12 invaded and four non-invaded sites were sampled in hardwood forests of southwestern Ohio, US. Methods: Changes in radial and basal area tree growth in the ten years prior to L. maackii invasion vs. ten years after invasion were examined using dendrochronological techniques. Intervention analysis was used to detect growth changes 25 years prior to and 25 years following invasion, and estimates of load impacts for L. maackii population and biomass were also calculated. Results: We found that the rate of radial and basal area growth of overstorey trees was reduced significantly in eleven out of twelve invaded sites. Non-invaded sites did not exhibit this consistent pattern of reduced growth. For invaded vs. non-invaded sites, the mean basal area growth was reduced by 15.8%, and the overall rate of basal area growth was reduced by 53.1%. Intervention analysis revealed that the first significant growth reductions were 6.25  1.24 (mean  SE) years after invasion with the greatest frequency of negative growth changes occurring 20 years after invasion. In invaded stands, 41% of trees experienced negative growth changes. In terms of invasive load estimates per 1000 L. maackii individuals, radial tree growth was reduced by 0.56 mm.a, and basal area growth was reduced by 0.74 cm.a. Given these findings, significant economic losses could occur in hardwood forests of Ohio. Conclusions: To our knowledge, this is the first study using dendrochronological techniques to investigate the impact of a non-indigenous, understorey plant on overstorey tree growth. Active management will likely be needed to maintain forest productivity in L. maackii impacted landscapes. 
25488450|Question: Do anthropogenic disturbances interact with local environmental factors to increase the abundance and frequency of invasive species, which in turn exerts a negative effect on native biodiversity? Location: Mature Quercus-Carya and Quercus-Carya-Pinus (oak-hickory-pine) forests in north Mississippi, USA. Methods: We used partial correlation and factor analysis to investigate relationships between native ground cover plant species richness and composition, percent cover of Lonicera japonica, and local and landscape-level environmental variables and disturbance patterns in mature upland forests. We directly measured vegetation and environmental variables within 34 sampling subplots and quantified the amount of tree cover surrounding our plots using digital color aerial photography. Results: Simple bivariate correlations revealed that high species richness and a high proportion of herbs were associated with low Lonicera japonica cover, moist and sandy uncompacted soils, low disturbance in the surrounding landscape, and periodic prescribed burning. Partial correlations and factor analysis showed that once we accounted for the environmental factors, L. japonica cover was the least important predictor of composition and among the least important predictors of species richness. Hence, much of the negative correlation between native species diversity and this invasive species was explained by soil texture and local and landscape-level land-use practices. Conclusions: We conclude that negative correlations between the abundance of invasive species and native plant diversity can occur in landscapes with a gradient of human disturbance, regardless of whether there is any negative effect of invasive species on native species.
40927798|Question: Our knowledge of secondary old-field succession in Mediterranean environments is extremely poor and is non-existent for restrictive soil conditions. How these ecosystems, such as those on semi-arid gypsum outcrops, recover seems a priority for managing change and for ensuring conservation of specialized and endangered biota. We tested whether reinstallation of gypsum vegetation after cropland abandonment requires: (1) soil physical restructuring and (2) chemical readjustment to enable growth and survival of specialized gypsophilous vegetation, and more specifically how time from abandonment drives such environmental change. Location: We sampled a complete set of old fields on gypsum soils (160 yr since abandonment) in Villarrubia de Santiago (Toledo, Spain). Methods: Generalized linear models and model comparisons were used to analyse the effect of several environmental parameters on species abundance and richness. Ordination methods (canonical correspondence analyses and partial canonical correspondence analyses) were undertaken to evaluate compositional variation among the sampled fields. Results: Secondary old-field succession on semi-arid Mediterranean gypsum soils was controlled by a complex set of factors acting relatively independently.Surprisingly, time since abandonment explains only a small proportion of compositional variation (3%). Conversely, soil chemical features independently from time since abandonment are important for explaining differences found in oldfield composition. Conclusions: Secondary succession on specialized Mediterranean soils does not follow the widely described "amelioration" process in which soil features and composition are closely related over time.Restrictive soil conditions control both structure and functioning of mature communities and also secondary succession.
41318184|Aim: To present a first description of plant communities of the Tibetan alpine steppes based on floristically complete vegetation records as a baseline reference for future ecological and palaeoecological studies. These constitute the world's largest alpine biome, but their vegetation is virtually unknown. Due to their vast extent, they are relevant for functioning of large-scale climatic systems. In turn, arid and alpine biomes are suspected to be highly sensitive to ongoing climate change, underwent climate-driven changes during the Last Glacial Maximum and have been subject to overgrazing and desertification. Location: Northwestern Tibetan highlands (China: Xizang, Qinghai), 4200 to 5400 m a.s.L., total area ca. 800 000 km. Methods: Two hundred and fifty-three vegetation records with absolute percentage cover were classified based on expert knowledge and analysed by DCA; composition of plant functional types related to grazing resilience was also assessed. Results: Ten communities of alpine steppe were distinguished. A set of 11 alpine steppe species is distributed throughout the highlands, with a precipitation gradient between 350 mm yr -1 (southeast) and 20 to 50 mm yr -1 (northwest). The elevational range of more than 80% of species is larger than 1000 m. The data set comprises 30% endemic species, with ten endemic genera. Conclusions: The wide thermal and hygric range of many species and high rate of endemism do not support the idea of high sensitivity to climate change or occurrence of past climate-driven extinctions. The prevailing plant functional types are grazing resilient, and evidence for overgrazing is very limited. Cushion plants and dwarf shrubs, however, become increasingly rare around settlements, because they are uprooted for fuel. Hence, the world's largest arid alpine biome is apparently resilient to climatic changes and grazing. This contradicts common perceptions about arid and alpine ecosystems and therefore deserves intense multi-disciplinary research efforts.
1478963|Various attempts have been made to describe and map the vegetation of southern Africa with recent efforts having an increasingly ecologi cal context. Vegetation classification is usually based on vegetation physiognomy and floristic composition, but phenology is useful source of information which is rarely used, although it can contribute functional information on ecosystems. The objectives of this study were to identify a suite of variables derived from time-series NDVI data that best describe the phenological phenomena of vegetation in southern Africa and, secondly, to assess a classification of pixels of the study area based on NDVI variables using a pre-existing map of the biomes that was delimited on the basis of life forms and climate. A number of variables were derived from the satellite data for describing phenological phenomena, which were analysed by multivariate techniques to determine which variables best explained the variation in the satellite data. This set of variables was used to produce a phenological classification of the vegetation of southern Africa, the results of which are discussed in relation to their concordance with the existing biome boundaries.
25488457|Question: How does agricultural land usage affect plant species diversity in semi-natural buffer strips at multiple scales? Location: Lepsm River watershed, Nurmijrvi, Southern Finland. Methods: Species diversity indicators included both richness and evenness. Plant communities in buffer strips were surveyed in 29 sampling sites. Using ArcGIS Desktop 9.0 (ArcInfo) and Fragstats 3.3 for GIS analysis, the landscape composition around each sampling site was characterized by seven parameters in square sectors at five scales: 4, 36, 100, 196, and 324 ha. For each scale, Principle Component Analysis was used to examine the importance of each structural metric to diversity indicators using multiple regression and other simple analyses. Results: For all but the smallest scales (4 ha), two structural metrics including the diversity of land cover types and percentage of arable land were positively and negatively correlated with species richness, respectively. Both metrics had the highest correlation coefficients for species richness at the second largest scale (196 ha). The density of arable field edges between the fields was the only metric that correlated with species evenness for all scales, which had highest predictive power at the second smallest scale (36 ha). Conclusions: Species richness and evenness of buffer strips had scale-dependent relationships to land use in agricultural ecosystems. The results of this study indicated that species richness depends on the pattern of arable land use at large scales, which may relate to the regional species pool. Meanwhile, species evenness depended on the level of field edge density at small scales, which relates to how the nearby farmland was divided by the edges (e.g. many small-scale fields with high edge density or a few big-scale fields with low edge density). This implies that it is important to manage the biodiversity of buffer strips within a landscape context at multiple scales.
1479089|The lowland calcareous grasslands of northwestern Europe are highly prized by ecologists and conservationists as a result of the diversity of their plant and invertebrate communities. Large areas of such grasslands have been lost this century as a result of changes in agricultural land use. Recent changes in agricultural policies, in particular the introduction of agri-environmental incentive schemes, have resulted in an increasing area being managed for the restoration of these communities. This paper reviews the management techniques employed in the restoration of lowland calcareous grasslands and the factors that govern their success. Constraints on the enhancement of the plant diversity of restoration sites include high soil fertility and the presence of undesirable species in the soil seed bank. However, it is thought that the primary constraint is the availability of propagules from which new populations can be established. Similarly, the dispersal mode and ability of insect species is likely to be the major factor limiting the enhancement of insect diversity. Evaluation of the success of restoration management usually involves monitoring changes in the plant community. However, as a result of their short life-cycles and sensitivity to small-scale environmental conditions, insects may respond more rapidly to changes resulting from restoration management and therefore provide better indicators of success. With the exception of a few high-profile butterfly species, the use of insects as indicator taxa has largely been neglected in terrestrial systems. This paper illustrates their potential use with reference to lowland calcareous grasslands in southern Britain.
25488430|Question: Pollution and eutrophication of surface water is increasingly a problem in agricultural landscapes. Do intact (relatively undisturbed) and degraded forests differ in seasonal nutrient storage and therefore potential to ameliorate nutrient pollution? Location: United States, Midwestern region. Methods: We used three sets of paired plots, where intact plots were located close to disturbed woodlands. Herbaceous perennials located in eight 0.25 m quadrats in the plots were harvested (in spring and mid-summer), dried, separated into above- and below-ground plant parts, and weighed to determine biomass. Nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium content of the plant tissues were then determined, and these data combined with biomass to estimate nutrient storage. Results: In spring, intact sites had 62% greater above-ground biomass than disturbed sites and 75% greater below-ground biomass. In summer, below-ground biomass of intact plots was still much greater than that of disturbed plots (73 percent), but above-ground biomass was similar. Nutrient tissue concentration generally did not differ, nor did soil nutrient levels. The disturbed sites were largely missing one group of species, the spring ephemerals, and this accounted for the difference in biomass and nutrient storage between sites. Conclusions: Relatively undisturbed woodlands in our study had a much greater capacity to store nutrients, and therefore ameliorate nutrient pollution, in early spring. This is significant because spring is also the time of highest potential leaching of nutrients into surface water.
4620446|Question: Do tree species, with different litter qualities, affect the within-forest distribution of forest understorey species on intermediate to base-rich soils? Since habitat loss and fragmentation have caused ancient forest species to decline, those species are the main focus of this study. Location: Three ancient forests, along a soil gradient from acidification-sensitive to base-rich, were studied: Limbrich-terbosch and Savelsbos in The Netherlands and Holtkrat in Denmark. Methods: Canopy and soil surveys along transects generated data for Redundancy Analysis on tree-humus relationships. We analysed the distribution of forest plant species with Canonical Correspondence Analysis. The explanatory factors were soil characteristics (pH, organic matter, loam content and thickness of the humus layers), external crown projection, groundwater and canopy data. We further analysed the relationship between forest species and humus characteristics with Spearman correlations. Results: Tree species have a significant impact on humus characteristics through the nature of their litter. Humus characteristics significantly explain the distribution of forest understorey species. The pH of the first 25 cm mineral soil and the thickness of the F-(fermentation) layer are the primary factors affecting the distribution of ancient forest species. Conclusion: This study indicates that the species composition of the forest canopy affects the distribution of forest understorey species. Ancient forest species are more abundant and frequent underneath trees with base-rich litter. On acidification-sensitive soils these relationships were stronger than on more base-rich, loamy soils.
1479054|Winter and spring burnings constitute a traditional management practice of the Flooding Pampa grasslands which are dominated by the tussock grass Paspalum quadrifarium. In addition to increasing the primary productivity and the nutrient quality of the regrowth, this burning favours the establishment of opportunistic species, especially the legume Lotus glaber and the thistles Cirsium vulgare and Carduus acanthoides. The aims of the present study were to assess the effects of burning and those of the remnant litter on L. glaber and thistle recruitment, as well as the effects of L. glaber density on the emergence, survival and flowering of thistles. Two field experiments were carried out: 1. A completely randomized factorial design with occurrence of L. glaber and fire was applied in a mature Paspalum stand; 2. A completely randomized design with four L. glaber seed densities oversown on a burned Paspalum stand, as the treatments. Thistle and L. glaber recruitment within the Paspalum stand was dependent on fire, but their emergence in burnt plots was reduced by the presence of remnant litter. Remnant litter and interference from L. glaber provide complementary mechanisms to reduce fire-cued colonization by thistles. While seedling emergence of thistles was mostly affected by the presence of remnant litter, seedling survival depended on local density of L. glaber. By the end of the first post-fire growing season, the survivorship of established thistles was linearly reduced with increasing sowing density and above-ground biomass of L. glaber. The maintenance of a significant litter coverage and a high density of L. glaber in the pre-fire seed bank, as well as the oversowing of L. glaber after fire, may be useful tools in fire management of Paspalum stands aimed to improve their forage value with reduced dependence on chemical control of weeds.
4620511|Question: What is the impact of grazing regime on plant species abundance, plant growth form, plant productivity and plant nutrient concentrations in a forest steppe? Location: Hustai National Park in the forest steppe region of Mongolia. Methods: On the Stipa steppe we applied three different grazing regimes by using; (1) one type of exclosure which excluded grazing by large mammalian herbivores, mainly takh (Przewalski horse), (2) another type of exclosure that excluded both large and small (Siberian marmots) mammalian herbivores, and (3) control plots which were freely grazed. We measured species frequencies, tiller densities, plant biomass and nitrogen concentrations of the vegetation. Results: Exclusion from grazing by takh and marmots significantly increased plant standing crop, but marmot grazing and full grazing did not show significant differences. Protection from grazing decreased forage quality, shown by a lower N-concentration of the standing crop. However, this was solely the result of the lower live-dead ratio of the vegetation. The frequency of the rhizomatous Leymus chinensis decreased under reduced grazing, as did the frequency of the total of rhizomatous species. The frequency of Stipa krylovii increased under reduced grazing, as did its basal areas, tiller density and tussock height. Conclusion: Reduced grazing leads to a lower abundance of rhizomatous species and an increase in tussock species.
1478996|Nutrient content of rainfall, throughfall and stemflow was studied over one year in the open and under the crowns of three tree species in a secondary rain forest at Ile-Ife, Nigeria. Throughfall and stemflow comprised 78.8% and 5.2% respectively; 16.0% of the incident rainfall was intercepted by the forest canopy. The concentrations of various nutrient elements in throughfall and stemflow were higher than those of incident rainfall. In throughfall and stemflow potassium concentration was highest and that of ammonium nitrogen was the lowest. Only calcium and sodium concentrations showed significant monthly variation in incident rainfall. Ca, Mg, K. Cu and P showed significant monthly variation in throughfall and stemflow. The concentrations of the elements were highest during the heavy-rain months (May-September). High concentrations of some of the elements were recorded also in November, the last rain month and the beginning of the dry season. The concentration of these elements in stemflow and throughfall was affected by tree species. The highest quantity of each element was deposited in the forest via throughfall followed by incident precipitation and the lowest via stemflow. The tree species affected the quantities of these elements by the volume of their stemflow and throughfall and the concentration of the various elements herein. Total nutrient concentration was much higher than available (dissolved) nutrient concentration. This was very pronounced with micronutrients.
1479060|The effects of different forms of land use on germination and establishment of the rare fen species Succisella inflexa were investigated in seed introduction experiments in a mown and an abandoned fen meadow in SE Germany. Treatments included abandonment, mowing in fall and mowing with creation of gaps in the moss and litter layer. Floating capacity of seeds was tested in order to estimate potential dispersal by water. On the mown meadow, gaps had a slightly positive effect on germination rates, while greatly increasing seedling survival until the next spring. At the abandoned site, litter inhibited germination, whereas mosses had a negative effect on germination and a positive effect on survival rates during the first year after germination. Both germination and seedling establishment were negatively affected by the presence of slug herbivores. On the abandoned site, no seedlings at all survived until the next spring. Even though seeds of Succisella inflexa were capable to float for several weeks and to germinate thereafter, the situation at the field sites indicates that long-distance dispersal is highly unlikely. Our results showed that not only direct effects of abandonment, such as accumulation of litter, may have led to poor germination and poor seedling establishment of the species. Additionally, indirect consequences of changes in land use, such as higher seedling herbivory by slugs and successional vegetation changes due to abandonment, were important in determining habitat quality and availability of microsites for seedling recruitment. Furthermore, early mowing imposed seed limitation on plant populations.
41318171|Questions: Can the accuracy of coarse resolution potential vegetation maps be improved through downscaling to finer resolution climatic grids? Can output from random forests produce new insight into the climatic characteristics that are associated with the structural characteristics of the vegetation? Location: Southern Mexico. Methods: A potential vegetation map (National Atlas of Mexico) at a 1:4 000 000 scale, was downscaled to a 1 km grid resolution using climatically based random forests models. The resulting map was then evaluated against 256 inventory plots sampled at the transition between different vegetation types in Southern Mexico. Results: Downscaling increased accuracy up to 0.40, as measured by the Kappa Index of Agreement. Multivariate analysis of the results allowed the association between Rzedowski's classification and climatic variation to be explored. This confirmed that many of the structural aspects of the vegetation that are used by the Rzedowski classification are closely associated with climate, but it also revealed weaknesses in the underlying basis of this classification system. Conclusions: Rzedowski's scheme for vegetation classification may require further modification in order to be an effective tool for research into vegetation-climate relationships.
41058155|Question: How many years are required for a gradient of microtopography to be initiated in revegetated cutover peatlands and become similar to natural bogs? Location: Newly formed Sphagnum carpets on cutover peatlands that revegetated spontaneously after site abandonment (in Estonia), or following active restoration (in Canada) and on undisturbed natural bogs nearby. Methods: Moss surface height was measured along linear transects above a local reference level (the lowest point for a given transect). Heights of at least 20 cm were associated with hummocks. Frequency distributions of surface height and principal component analyses (separately for Canada and Estonia) were conducted to follow the evolution of microtopography in revegetated sites and their similarity with those of natural peatlands. In Canada, regressions were also performed to estimate the time required for the microtopography in revegetated cutover peatlands to become similar to that found in natural bogs. Results: Only 10-30 yr were needed for microstructures comparable to those in natural bogs to develop on restored peatlands where Sphagnum diaspores have been reintroduced. However, this process may take more than a century in cutover peatlands left to revegetate spontaneously. Conclusions: In cutover peatlands with spontaneous revegetation, hummock-hollow formation starts on bare peat which lacks both plant propagules and viable seed banks, and the initiation of microstructures is probably more akin to the process that occurs naturally. Nonetheless, hummock-hollow microtopography resembling that found in natural bogs without pools appeared, in all of the examined cutover peatlands, over periods that are short in terms of peatland development time-scales. Active peatland restoration could effectively reduce the time required for initiation of microtopography by about 70 yr.
4620407|Two outstanding papers on restoration and succession are briefly discussed as model papers for the type of research papers Appl. Veg. Sci. should publish. The paper on restoration concentrates on the introduction of hay to a site in order to speed up the introduction of target species. The paper on succession discusses the importance of plant colonization 'windows' opened by extreme weather events for succession and for offering optimum periods for intervention in restoration practice. Some remarks are also made on the electronic availability of ecology papers.
1479057|Woodland colonization on wetlands is considered to have a detrimental effect on their ecological value, even though detailed analysis of this process is lacking. This paper provides an evaluation of the ecological changes resulting from succession of poor fen (base-poor mire) to willow wet woodland on Goss Moor NNR in Cornwall, UK. Different ages of willow carr were associated with eight understorey communities. During willow colonization, in the ground flora, there was a progressive decrease in poor fen species and an associated increase in woodland species, which appeared to be related to an increase in canopy cover and therefore shade. The most diverse community was found to be the most recent willow and was dominated by poor fen species. The oldest willow was the second most diverse and was associated with a reduction in poor fen species and an increase in woodland species. Architectural features were used successfully to assess the general condition and structure of willow. Tree height and DBH were identified as useful parameters to accurately assess willow age in the field. The implications of active intervention to remove willow in order to conserve the full range of communities within the hydrosere are discussed.
25488490|Question: How does regular management burning of a northern, Calluna vulgaris-dominated heathland affect the lichen diversity at the patch and landscape scale? Location: Mar Lodge Estate, Scottish Highlands, United Kingdom. Methods: 26 fire sites of different ages and 11 long-term unburnt stands were surveyed to create a chronosequence of changing lichen diversity following burning. Data were analysed graphically, with a GLM and using a CCA. Results: Though the immediate effect of fire was to significantly reduce lichen diversity, it generally recovered within 20 years. There was a significant difference in the population dynamics between wet and dry moorland areas with terricolous lichens in the former site being replaced by pleurocarpous mosses. Older stands, unburnt for 25 years or more, generally had lower diversity than stands 10 to 15 years old. Changes in lichen diversity and community composition can be attributed to the development of Calluna stand structure following burning. Conclusions: Fire can be seen to play an important role in maintaining the diversity of lichens in heathland areas by providing a variety of stand-structures and ages across the landscape that favours the development of greater beta-diversity.
1478926|Compositional and edaphic gradients were studied in montane forests of the Bavarian Alps (Germany), in which natural mixed deciduous-coniferous tree layers have been altered by past management in favour of Picea abies. Data on species composition and ecological factors were collected in a stratified random sample of 84 quadrats comprising a gradient from pure Picea to pure Fagus sylvatica stands. Data about the understorey composition were subjected to indirect (DCA) and direct gradient analysis (RDA) with the proportion of Picea in the canopy as a constraining variables. Three principal components of a matrix containing seven descriptors of mineral soil, relief and tree layer cover were included as covariables describing the variability of primary ecological factors. Gradients of organic topsoil morphology and chemistry were extracted correspondingly. Responses of individual species, species group and topsoil attributes were studied by simple and partial correlation analysis. Mosses were significantly more abundant and diverse under Picea stands. Few graminoid and herb species were partially associated with Picea, and total understorey richness and cover did not differ systematically by stand type. No relationship between tree layer and understorey diversity was detected at the studied scale. Juvenile Fagus sylvatica was the only woody species significantly less abundant under Picea. In the topsoil lower base saturation, lower pH and larger C/N-ratios in the litter layer were partially attributable to the proportion of Picea, only for base saturation a relationship was detected in greater soil depth also. The frequency of broad humus form types did not differ by tree species, nor was overall depth of organic forest floor attributable to canopy composition.
41318173|Question: Predictive models constitute an important tool in multiple ecological applications. In this paper, we examine and compare the performance of six state-of-the-art methods commonly used in ecological modelling: Multiple Logistic Regression (MLR), Artificial Neural Networks (ANN), Support Vector Machines (SVM), Classification and Regression Trees (CART), Maximum Entropy (MAXENT) and Multivariate Adaptive Regression Splines (MARS). Location: Northern Spain. Methods: We used presence/absence data of 15 plant species of an alpine rangeland in northern Spain and 14 topographical and geomorphological descriptors to build the models. We used leave-one-out cross validation on each model and computed the area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve (AUC) and the resolution and calibration diagrams of the resulting probabilistic predictions. We also analysed the binary presence/absence deterministic predictions and computed the corresponding confusion matrices to calculate sensitivity, specificity, Cohen's kappa and the True Skill Statistic (TSS). Results: In general, CART and MAXENT showed poor performance and MLR was competitive with the more sophisticated ANN, MARS and SVM methods. The best predictive resolution was obtained, in most cases, by ANN followed by SVM and CART models; however, MLR and MARS were generally the best calibrated. The MAXENT predictions attained, in general, poor resolution and moderate to good calibration. Conclusion: Assessment of model calibration and resolution, in addition to ROC and confusion matrix-derived indices, is an important step for model choice depending on the final aim. Most of the target species were accurately predicted showing that the variables used are suitable descriptors at the scale of analysis.
4620452|Question: Can combined sod cutting and liming successfully restore species composition of degraded wet heaths? Location: The Netherlands. Methods: The effects of sod cutting with or without liming on plant species composition were studied in two degraded wet heath areas. Seeds and seedlings of Arnica montana were put out in the treated plots to test the suitability of the restored soil conditions. In addition, seed banks of both degraded areas were studied. Results: Germination, growth and survival of Arnica montana were significantly greater after sod cutting and liming compared to sod cutting alone. At the end of the four-year study period, the number of endangered wet heath species was significantly greater in the sod-cut plots than in the untreated vegetation. Acid-tolerant species were especially positively affected. Additional liming only slightly increased the total number of species over the two-year study period and the number of endangered species did not increase. Viable seeds of most of the endangered species were absent in the seed banks of both areas. Conclusions: Sod cutting is sufficient for the return of acid-tolerant, endangered wet heath species of early successional stages, because their seeds are still present in the seed bank. In contrast, acid-sensitive species likely depend on combined sod cutting and liming, as they need the weakly buffered soil conditions created by these restoration measures. However, successful restoration of formerly species-rich wet heaths is limited significantly by the absence of seeds of the target species in the seed banks. Therefore, re-introduction of wet heath target species in areas with limited seed availability should be seriously considered.
25488436|Questions: What vegetational changes does a boreal rich fen (alkaline fen) undergo during a time period of 24 years after drainage? How is plant species richness affected, and what are the changes in composition of ecological groups of species? Is it possible to recover parts of the original flora by rewetting the rich fen? Which are the initial vegetation changes in the flora after rewetting? What are the major challenges for restoration of rich fen flora after rewetting? Location: Eastern central Sweden, southern boreal vegetational zone. Previously rich fen site, drained for forestry purposes during 1978-1979. The site was hydrologically restored (rewetted) in 2002. Method: Annual vegetation survey in permanent plots during a period of 28 years. Results: There were three successional stages in the vegetational changes. In the first stage there was a rapid (< 5 years) loss of rich fen bryophytes. The second step was an increase of sedges and early successional bryophytes, which was followed by an increase of a few emerging dominants, such as Molinia caerulea, Betula pubescens and Sphagnum spp. After rewetting, there are indications of vegetation recovery, albeit at slow rates. Depending on, for instance, initial species composition different routes of vegetation change were observed in the flora after drainage, although after 24 years, species composition became more homogenous and dominated by a few species with high cover. Conclusion: Major changes have occurred after changes in the hydrology (drainage and rewetting) with a severe impact on the biodiversity among vascular plants and bryophytes. Several rich fen bryophytes respond quickly to the changes in water level (in contrast to vascular plants). The recovery after rewetting towards the original rich fen vegetation is slow, as delayed by substrate degradation, dispersal limitation and presence of dominant species.
1479064|Boreal coniferous forests have been impacted by long distance airborne pollutant deposition for most of the 20th century. Changes in forest understorey vegetation attributable to N-deposition have been observed in southern Sweden, but not so far in southern Norway. We recorded the quantity of all species of vascular plants, bryophytes and lichens in 144 plots in a fertilization experiment in a 35-yr old Pinus sylvestris forest in Aust Agder County, southernNorway initiated 6 yr before our study. Each plot represented a combination of three levels of nitrogen, two levels of magnesium and two levels of phosphorus addition. Effects of fertilization on species quantity were tested by Kruskal-Wallis one-way analysis by ranks. For vascular plants, only small and hardly significant differences were found between treatments and control. Significant negative effects of N-fertilization were found on both mosses and lichens. To some extent, these effects could be attributed to direct effects of application of the fertilizer, but were more likely to be due to a negative feedback response to the faster growth of pine trees in fertilized stands, reducing throughfall precipitation and increasing litter fall. Significant differences between Mg- and P-fertilized sites and respective controls were found for too few species to be likely to represent an overall trend.
25488447|Question: Does grazing by large herbivores affect species composition or community-wide variation in plant functional traits? Location: Dune grasslands at the Belgian coast. Methods: Plant cover and soil data were collected in 146 plots that were randomly selected at 26 grazed and ungrazed grassland sites. Plant community composition was assessed by Detrended Correspondence Analysis and mean values of plant trait categories were calculated across the plots. Results: Differentiation of plant composition and community-wide plant trait characteristics was largely determined by grazing, soil acidity and their interaction. In ungrazed situations, a clear floristic distinction appears between acidic (non-calcareous) and alkaline (calcareous) grasslands. In grazed situations, these floristic differences largely disappeared, indicating that grazing results in a decrease of natural variation in species composition. At higher soil pH, a larger difference in plant community composition and community-wide plant traits was observed between grazed and ungrazed plots. In ungrazed situations, shifts in plant functional traits along the acidity gradient were observed. Conclusions: Grazing is responsible for shifts in plant community composition, and hence a decrease in plant diversity among grasslands at opposing acidity conditions in coastal dune grasslands. Therefore, care should be taken when introducing grazing as a system approach for nature conservation in dune grasslands as it may eliminate part of the natural variation in plant diversity along existing abiotic gradients.
1478971|Shrub encroachment, i.e. the increase in woody plant cover, is a major concern for livestock farming in southern Kalahari savannas. We developed a grid-based computer model simulating the population dynamics of Grewia flava, a common, fleshy-fruited encroaching shrub. In the absence of large herbivores, seeds of Grewia are largely deposited in the sub-canopy of Acacia erioloba. Cattle negate this dispersal limitation by browsing on the foliage of Grewia and dispersing seeds into the grassland matrix. In this study we first show that model predictions of Grewia cover dynamics are realistic by comparing model output with shrub cover estimates obtained from a time series of aerial photographs. Subsequently, we apply a realistic range of intensity of cattle-induced seed dispersal combined with potential precipitation and fire scenarios. Based on the simulation results we suggest that cattle may facilitate shrub encroachment of Grewia. The results show that the severity of shrub encroachment is governed by the intensity of seed dispersal. For a high seed dispersal intensity without fire (equivalent to a high stocking rate) the model predicts 56% shrub cover and 85% cell cover after 100 yr. With fire both recruitment and shrub cover are reduced, which may, under moderate intensities, prevent shrub encroachment. Climate change scenarios with two-fold higher frequencies of drought and wet years intensified shrub encroachment rates, although long-term mean of precipitation remained constant. As a management recommendation we suggest that shrub encroachment on rangelands may be counteracted by frequent fires and controlling cattle movements to areas with a high proportion of fruiting Grewia shrubs.
4620486|For wetland plants, dispersal by wind is often overlooked because dispersal by water is generally assumed to be the key dispersal process. This literature review addresses the role of seed dispersal by wind in wetlands. Why is wind dispersal relevant in wetlands? Which seeds are dispersed by wind and how far? And how can our understanding of wind dispersal be applied to wetland conservation and restoration? Literature review. Wind is a widely available seed dispersal vector in wetlands and can transport many seeds over long distances. Unlike water, wind can transport seeds in all directions and is therefore important for dispersal to upstream wetlands and to wetlands not connected by surface water flows. Wind dispersal transports seeds to a wider range of sites than water, and therefore reaches more sites but with lower seed densities. Many wetland plant species have adaptations to facilitate wind dispersal. Dispersal distances increase with decreasing falling velocity of seeds, increasing seed release height and selective release mechanisms. Depending on the adaptations, seeds may be dispersed by wind over many km or only a few m. The frequency of long-distance wind dispersal events depends on these adaptations, the number of produced seeds, the structure of the surrounding vegetation, and the frequency of occurrence of suitable weather conditions. Humans reduce the frequency of successful long-distance wind dispersal events in wetlands through wetland loss and fragmentation (which reduce the number and quality of seeds) and eutrophication (which changes the structure of the vegetation so that seed release into the wind flow becomes more difficult). This is yet another reason to focus on wetland conservation and restoration measures at increased population sizes, prevention of eutrophication, and the restoration of sites at short distances from seed sources.
1479024|The impact of cattle grazing on the vegetation of calcareous fens was compared to the effects of traditional autumn mowing in southern Germany. Vegetation composition was studied in adjacent pairs of fen meadows and pastures with similar environmental conditions and biomass production. Vegetation data were analysed with respect to species richness, species composition and response of species traits to disturbance, including morphology, defence mechanisms, clonal growth form and generative reproduction. Species richness was significantly reduced by grazing, but the percentage of typical fen species or Red Data Book species was not affected by land use type. Detrended Corrspondence Analysis indicated that species composition could best be explained in terms of a land use gradient. Species traits showed a clear trend in their response to land use type. Grazing favoured grasses and small forbs. Only a few species with defence mechanisms against foraging were more frequent or abundant on pastures. Many other species with defence mechanisms, however, did not have an advantage on pastures. Flowering and seed dispersal traits did not respond significantly to grazing or mowing. Species with fast spreading stem derived clonal organs were favoured on pastures, whereas all other clonal growth forms and, particularly, non-clonal species were more abundant on meadows. More indicator species of wet soil conditions and species adapted to flooding were found on pastures. Grazing can be recommended as an alternative land use to mowing in contrast to abandonment, but a reduction in species richness and changes in species composition and species traits may occur.
4620480|How do nitrogen and phosphorus budgets and balances differ between eutrophic fens and floodplains in western Europe and fens and floodplains in Poland, where we expect less eutrophication to occur? Wetlands along the rivers Dommel (The Netherlands), Zwarte Beek (Belgium) and Biebrza (NE Poland). Assessment of external input and output fluxes as well as net N-mineralization rates. Annual N- and P-balances were estimated by the sum of all external input and output fluxes: atmospheric deposition, input of dissolved matter by flooding, input of sediment by flooding, input by groundwater, output by leaching, output by hay-making and for N also input by N2-fixation. For N we also estimated net annual N-availability for plant growth, i.e. the N-budget, which includes net mineralization in soil. The studied wetland sites had a negative balance, which means that nutrients are depleted but only if mown annually, except for the Dutch/Belgian fens which had an equilibrium N-balance and the Polish fen which had an equilibrium P-balance. For the N-budget it appeared that atmospheric deposition added significantly to the budget of Dutch/ Belgian fens and N-mineralization added significantly to fen and floodplain budgets, except for the Polish fens. Mineralization dominates the N-budget of the western European floodplains. Hay-making is the most important output pathway, particularly if practised annually. It seems to diminish N-enrichment in the Dutch fens and floodplains. We conclude that western European fens and floodplains as well as Polish floodplains have a significant positive N-budget indicating that there is a surplus of N for plant growth. In the Polish fens this is less due to low atmospheric deposition and lower N-mineralization rates. The latter is associated with less drying out of the studied Polish ecosystems in summer. Our approach, although an approximate quantification, is helpful for assessing priorities focused on nutrient management.
41318168|Question: To what extent are environmental factors the main determinants of species abundance in Mediterranean coastal marshlands? Location: The Llobregat delta, Barcelona, Spain. Methods: Vegetation relevs were performed and a set of water table and soil variables were periodically monitored in 43 sampling points randomly distributed in four marsh areas (sites) along a coastal-inland gradient. A canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) was performed to identify the primary water and soil correlates of species cover, after considering the effect of site and point spatial location. The realized niches of dominant species were modeled through GLMs performed on the first two axes of CCA. Niche overlapping among these species was compared with their coexistence, assessed through pairwise correlations of relative species cover in each sampling point. Results: Water and soil variables explained more of the variation in species' abundance than site and spatial position. Mean water table level, maximum water conductivity and sodium adsorption ratio (SAR), summarized in the two first CCA axes, explained 23.8% of the variability in species' cover. Arthrocnemum fruticosum, Phragmites australis subsp. australis, Juncus acutus, Spartina versicolor and Juncus maritimus dominated the vegetation stands. Niches obtained from GLM response curves showed moderate overlapping among all these species except for A. fruticosum. However, pairwise correlations were mainly negative or nonsignificant, indicating low coincidence, and even segregation, between species' cover. Conclusions: The abundance of dominant plants in Mediterranean marshes is only partly explained by the environmental gradients summarized in niche models. The role of other factors such as facilitation or competition between species and random recruitment should be explored.
25488445|Question: How does the vegetation of boreal forests respond to harvesting and scarification? Location: 650 m a.s.l., central Sweden (6138' N). Methods: The response of boreal forest vegetation to cutting and scarification was studied in a field trial, which consisted of three treatments plus conventional harvesting as a control in a complete block design with four replicates. The cutting was done 14 years prior to vegetation inventory and scarification and planting were conducted the first or second years after cutting. Results: The species most abundant at higher cutting intensities were crustose lichens, Cladonia spp., Cladina arbuscula, Polytrichum spp. and pioneer mosses, the grass Deschampsia flexuosa, and the tree Betula pubescens, A few species had substantially lower abundance in treatments with higher cutting intensity, notably Hylocomium splendens and Vaccinium myrtillus. Scarification had a strong effect that was different from the one created by cutting. In scarification treatments, Polytrichum spp. were the only species with high abundance; most species had low abundance, i.e. Barbilophozia lycopodioides, Vaccinium vitis-idaea, Pleurozium schreberi, Carex globularis, Empetrum nigrum, Cladina arbuscula, Sphagnum spp. Conclusions: Our results elaborate on the details of the well-known effect of cutting on ground-layer flora, and also give support for the profound and long-lasting effect that soil scarification has on forest vegetation.
4620464| Global warming can potentially influence ecological communities through altered disturbance regimes in addition to increased temperatures. We investigate the response of pine savannas in the southeastern United States to global warming using a simple Lotka-Volterra competition model together with predicted changes to fire and hurricane disturbance regimes with global climate change. In the southeastern United States, decreased frequency of both fires and hurricanes with global warming will shift pine savannas toward a forested state. A CO fertilization effect that increases the growth rate of tree populations will also push southeastern landscapes from open savannas towards closed forests. Transient dynamics associated with climate driven changes in vegetation will last on the order of decades to a century. In our model, the sensitivity of savannas to relative changes in the frequency of fire versus hurricanes is linearly dependent on the growth rate and mortality of trees in fire and hurricane disturbances. 
4620451|Question: What are the effects of shallow flooding on boreal peatlands on vegetation composition and size of carbon pools in the living and dead vegetation? Location: Lake 979, Experimental Lakes Area, northwestern Ontario, Canada. Methods: A boreal basin peatland complex with treed bog, open bog, and open water was experimentally flooded by raising water level ca. 1.3 m. Vegetation and above-ground biomass were compared between pre-flood conditions and those nine years after flooding. Peat accumulation since flooding was also quantified. Results: Flooding caused almost all trees to die, leading to a net loss of 86% of the above-ground living plant biomass after nine years of the flooding. Floating up of peat was rapid in the central part of the basin, and the floating peat mats were characterized by newly established open bog community. Wetland types were diversified from bog into open bog, fen, and marsh, accompanied with great species turnover. Floating open bog community accumulated the greatest amount of peat since flooding. Conclusions: This study shows that shallow flooding of bog vegetation can lead to quick re-establishment of open bog vegetation upon the floating up of peat mats as well as changes to more diverse vegetation over decadal time spans. We estimate that the carbon pools in 2002 in living and dead plant biomass since 1992 are comparable to what they were in the above-ground biomass in 1992. Flooding caused an initial net decrease in carbon stores, but carbon in the pre-flood living plant biomass was replaced by both carbon in dead biomass of the pre-flood vegetation and newly sequestered carbon in new peat growth and post-flood living plant biomass. Possible vegetation change toward bog-dominated system could lead to increasing rate of new peat growth, which could affect future carbon sink/source strength of the system.
4620413| Question: How well does the use of NDVI predict secondary productivity at landscape scales? What is the influence of vegetation quality and phenology over secondary productivity? Location: Magellanic steppe in Tierra del Fuego, Argentina. (5245' to 54 S, 6815' to 6730' W). Methods: Monthly and yearly integrated NDVI (NDVI-I) were calculated from AVHRR/NOAA 14, as estimators of phenology and aerial net primary productivity respectively. From a vegetation map we obtained the proportional cover of different physiognomic types and calculated the palatable fraction (forage) productivity that were used as estimators of vegetation quality. Data were analysed through correlations and regressions. Results: NDVI-I was not related with secondary productivity indices, while December and annual maximum NDVI, proportion of lawns and tussock grasslands and forage productivity were positively related with secondary productivity. A negative relationship was found between the proportion of heathlands and secondary productivity, but a positive relationship between heathland's proportion and NDVI-I was found. Conclusions: NDVI-I is not a good predictor of secondary productivity at the scale of our study. These results could be due to: (1) NDVI-I is not related to primary productivity and (2) primary productivity is not related to secondary productivity. 
25488483|Questions: Is species diversity affected in protected areas where human activities are permitted or tolerated? On plots of a fixed size, does stem density alone predict number of species? Are differences in density related to disturbance and altitude? Location: Achanakmar-Amarkantak Biosphere Reserve, central India. Methods: 42 sites, each with three replicate 10-m radius plots, were examined. All trees ( 30 cm GBH) in each plot were measured for girth at breast height. -diversity, species richness and evenness were calculated for each site. The sites were ordinated by Nonmetric Multidimensional Scaling (NMS) using relative importance values of component species. Correspondence Analysis was used to broadly delineate communities. Anthropogenic disturbances were recorded in terms of percentage of trees lopped, scale of lopping, number of domestic livestock dung piles and foot trails (both livestock and people) for each plot. Results: The NMS analysis exhibited a near linear arrangement of sites with no evidence of discrete vegetation zones. NMS axes were significantly related to altitude and disturbance scores. With increasing elevation, basal area increased but number of species, -diversity and its components declined monotonically. The number of species and indices of species diversity were positively associated with tree lopping and also with total disturbance. Number of species was controlled by stem density only in plots not dominated by Shorea robusta. Conclusions: Recent levels of human disturbance are associated with higher species diversity in this biosphere reserve. There is some evidence that stands at all altitudes follow the same successional pattern to dominance by Shorea, a successional pattern that also results in decreased diversity without disturbance.
1478885|Sustainability is an important quality of the types of agriculture nowadays promoted in central Europe, notably 'biological agriculture' and 'integrated production'. Agronomists, decision-makers and the public generally assume that this agricultural sustainability implies the maintenance of species diversity. However, this assumption often does not hold true. This is shown in a case study of moderately fertilized Arrhenatheretum meadows in northern Switzerland. Earlier and more frequent mowing, simultaneous harvesting of all the grasslands in a region, and ecological changes in surrounding arable fields, hedges and other ecosystems often cause a decline in plant and animal species richness, while agricultural yield does not noticeably change. To emphasize the distinction the concept of biocenotic sustainability is proposed for describing the capability of a community to maintain its species composition and structure. For maintaining or attaining biocenotic sustainability, results of modern ecology have to be taken into account, e.g. the theories of island biogeography, minimum viable populations, dispersal, and metapopulations. There is evidence that biocenotic sustainability always implies sustainability of agricultural yield.
1478935|A floristic classification of British hedgerows is constructed. Hedges (the woody, structural element) and hedge-bottoms (the mainly herbaceous ground flora) were analysed separately because different natural and management processes were expected to affect them. The 11 hedge classes varied in size from five to over 500 plots. Over two-thirds of all hedges were dominated by Crataegus spp. or Prunus spinosa. Hedge-bottoms were more evenly grouped into four classes whose species composition could be related to broad land use/habitat types: intensive arable, rotational/mixed farming, managed grasslands, and woodland. The woodland class was only 12% of the total, and species characteristic of true woodland habitats were uncommon even within that class, so our data do not support the hypothesis of hedgerows acting as 'woodland corridors' for plants. Richness/diversity scores differed markedly between different hedge and hedge-bottom classes. The richest hedgerows, both in species and inferred habitats, were among the rarer types, while the most common classes (both hedge and hedge-bottom) were consistently the poorest. Comparison of species composition and diversity in hedges and hedge-bottoms, and associations between them, all supported the hypothesis that the relative importance of historical, management and ecological effects differed between the two parts of the hedgerow; hedges and hedge-bottoms should be treated ecologically as largely independent units. The classifications and richness/diversity scores enable easy preliminary assessment of the conservation value of a hedgerow. They also enable individual hedgerows to be placed in a wider (national) context.
41058166|Question: How does one best choose native vegetation types and site them in reclamation of disturbed sites ranging from cropland and strip mines? Application: World-wide, demonstrated in SE Montana. Methods: We assumed that pre-disturbance native communities are the best targets for revegetation, and that the environmental facet each occupies naturally provides its optimal habitat. Given this assumption, we used prestrip-mine data (800 points from a 88 km site) to demonstrate statistical methods for identifying native communities, describing them, and determining their environments. Results and conclusions: Classification and pruning analysis provided an objective method for choosing the number of target community types to be used in reclamation. The composition of eight target types, identified with these analyses, was described with a relev table to provide a species list, target cover levels and support the choice of species to be seeded. As a basis for siting communities, we modeled community presence as a function of topography, slope/aspect, and substrate. Logistic GLMs identified the optimal environment for each community. Classification and Regression Tree (CART) analysis identified the most probable community in each environmental facet. Topography and slope were generally the best predictors in these models. Because our analyses relate native vegetation to undisturbed environments, our results may apply best to sites with minimal substrate disturbance (i. e. better to abandoned cropland than to strip-mined sites).
1478940|This study examines whether competition between the unpalatable grass Hilaria mutica and three co-occurring, palatable grasses in a Texan mixed prairie is altered by non-selective or selective defoliation. In this four-year study, plants were grown in monoculture or in combination with the unpalatable Hilaria in a replacement design. Under no defoliation, the unpalatable Hilaria had a lower growth potential than Bouteloua curtipendula and Nassella leucotricha that were of equal stature, and produced only as much as the shorter grass, Buchloe dactyloides. Bouteloua had the highest growth potential under no-defoliation and was defoliation tolerant, except when defoliated at ground level. Nassella was more productive than the unpalatable Hilaria, since the ability to grow earlier in the year enabled it to compete successfully with Hilaria. These results indicate that with adequate deferment Bouteloua and Nassella should compete successfully with Hilaria and Buchloe should be able to maintain itself in the presence of Hilaria. Under non-selective defoliation, Hilaria was able to compete successfully only with Buchloe. Hilaria was sensitive to defoliation, despite being rhizomatous, and competed less successfully with Buchloe after non-selective defoliation than it did when not defoliated. This indicates that the management practice of burning and stocking heavily with livestock until Hilaria is avoided, resulting in non-selective defoliation, will not cause Hilaria to be more competitive with the more palatable Bouteloua, Buchloe or Nassella. Hilaria was able to compete most successfully under selective defoliation when it was not defoliated. Under selective defoliation, by avoiding herbivory, Hilaria is able to compete strongly with at least Buchloe and Nassella. The reaction of Nassella and Buchloe to selective defoliation indicates that they may have been displaced by Hilaria in the past. In contrast, under the short-term and non-limiting growth conditions of this study, Bouteloua competed successfully with Hilaria even under selective defoliation. These results do not rule out the possibility that, through selective defoliation, Hilaria may have displaced other grasses including Bouteloua in the past.
1478879|In the Seychelles the endemic palm Phoenicophorium borsigianum and the aggressively invasive alien Cinnamomum verum are competitors in a series of habitats. The extent to which demographic variables (relative growth rates of leaf area (RGRAL) and height (RGRH) together with mortality and recruitment) were important determinants of the competitive ability of the above species was investigated. It was studied whether competitive relations between Cinnamomum and Phoenicophorium can change with light intensity as a result of different morphological responses and to what extent native plants such as Phoenicophorium can establish, regenerate and potentially outcompete Cinnamomum in important biodiversity sites in mountain mist forest and intermediate forest habitats. The light intensity in terms of diffuse site factors (DifSF) was estimated at 32 microsites from hemispherical photographs using a computerized image analysis system. A new plant growth analysis function, the so-called leaf area height index (ALHI), has been introduced and a principal components analysis (PCA) was carried out to evaluate the seedling performance of Cinnamomum and Phoenicophorium. Competition between Cinnamomum and Phoenicophorium was greatly influenced by the amount of available photosynthetically active radiation (PAR). For both species there was a negative correlation between mean leaf area of seedlings and light levels. Phoenicophorium responded significantly better in terms of RGRAL and ALHI to low gap light levels than Cinnamomum. Both species showed no further response to direct sunlight with levels of 98.7% diffuse site factor. Phoenicophorium and probably other palms endemic to the Seychelles such as Deckenia nobilis and Roscheria melanochaetes act as a filter affecting the distribution and abundance of establishing Cinnamomum seedlings. Mortality of Cinnamomum was strongly negatively correlated with levels of PAR while Phoenicophorium showed no such correlation. Unlike Phoenicophorium, Cinnamomum could establish and regenerate only in light levels of > 7.5% diffuse site factor.
4620481| Which nutrient limits primary production in a lake created by flooding industrial cutaway peatland? Clongawny Lake (5310' N, 0753' W), County Offaly, Ireland Nutrient concentrations in lake water and the dynamics of phytoplankton populations were monitored over a 38-month period. The ratio of dissolved inorganic nitrogen to total phosphorus (DIN:TP) and nutrient enrichment bio-as-says were used to investigate temporal changes in nutrient limitation. Primary production in the new lake was phytoplankton-driven due to the scarcity of recolonizing macrophytes. Phytoplankton growth was initially phosphorus-limited. The runoff of phosphate fertilizer from an adjacent coniferous forestry plantation raised the TP concentration of lake water 5.5-fold. Consequently, the biovolume of phytoplankton increased 30-fold, and chlorophyll-a concentrations increased eightfold, reaching hyper-eutrophic levels. A concurrent depletion of nitrogen in lake water reduced the DIN:TP ratio from 17.8 to 0.6, and phytoplankton growth rapidly became nitrogen-limited. Phytoplankton composition shifted from dinoflagellates to minute, unicellular chlorophytes, with a coincident decline in species diversity. Cyanobacteria did not proliferate, most likely due to the acidic nature of the lake. Results illustrated the vulnerability of newly created cutaway peatland lakes to developing severe phytoplankton blooms and coincident secondary nitrogen limitation in the presence of moderate external phosphorus inputs. 
4620498| Questions: Does the diversity of heathland vegetation change when subjected to experimental disturbances such as cutting and nitrogen fertilization? Do changes in the vegetation structure negatively affect the regeneration of the dominant species Calluna vulgaris? Is cutting an alternative method of conserving the diversity and maintaining the structure of heathlands in the Cantabrian Mountains? Location: Calluna vulgaris heathlands on the southern slopes of the Cantabrian Mountain range, NW Spain. Methods: A total of 60 plots were treated with different combinations of cutting and twice the estimated atmospheric deposition of nitrogen (56 kg-N.ha.yr). The changes in the cover values of the species present were monitored over a five year study period. The cover values were used to calculate abundance and species richness. Results: Fertilizing with nitrogen allows biodiversity to increase over time. However, the greatest biodiversity is associated with the cutting plus fertilization treatment, since cutting allows gaps to be opened that are easily colonized by pioneer annual species, while fertilization mainly favours an increase in the mean number of perennial herbs (graminoids and forbs). Increased perennial herb richness also corresponds to a rise in their cover values. The recovery of the dominant woody species in these communities, Calluna vulgaris, is not impeded by the increase in perennial herbs species' cover values. Conclusions: In the Calluna vulgaris heathlands studied, cutting plus fertilization allowed an increase in biodiversity over time. No displacement of the dominant woody species, Calluna vulgaris, is observed due to the presence of the perennial herbs. Cutting patches of heathland is recommended as a mechanism for maintaining high vegetation diversity, when grazing is not possible. 
1479065|In this study the impact of land use changes on vegetation in the sub-alpine-alpine belt is analysed. The study sites (4.7 km
40927822|Question: Is there a need for disturbance mapping integrated in the CircumBoreal Vegetation Mapping Program? Location: Eurasian boreal forest. Disturbance and mapping: The boreal zone is characterized by a multitude of natural and anthropogenic disturbance agents with importance over a wide range of spatial and temporal scales. Disturbance is a prime driver of succession in most of the boreal zone, producing landscape diversity characterized by a large-scale vegetation mosaic of early to late succession states. When mapping the circumboreal vegetation, spatial extent, time involved from disturbance to recovered condition and likelihood of interacting disturbance types are crucial for how current vegetation is interpreted and subsequently included as map characteristics. In this paper we present examples from the boreal zone where natural and/or anthropogenic disturbance regimes dominate the state and distribution of vegetation, and possibilities for assessing the nature and extent of the disturbed regions using remotely sensed data. Conclusion: Disturbed vegetation occupies large areas in the boreal zone and related vegetation successions should be adequately represented when mapping the zone. In regions where the 'potential natural vegetation' is a hypothetical reconstruction from remnants of 'natural' vegetation it would be preferable to use the concept of 'actual real vegetation' for which remote sensing at coarse, medium and fine resolution is an efficient tool. The Land Cover Classification System (LCCS) may offer sufficient flexibility to incorporate information about the disturbance of circumboreal vegetation.
1478970|We assessed survival and growth of transplanted saplings of understory broad-leaved trees (Oreopanax xalapensis, Rapanea juergensenii, Rhamnus sharpii and Ternstroemia lineata) and canopy conifers (Abies guatemalensis, Pinus ayacahuite and P. pseudostrobus) into Grassland (GR), Mid-Successional Oak Forest (MS), and Old-Growth Oak Forest (OF) stands in the central highlands of Chiapas, Mexico. A total of 727 plants were monitored over eight years. The results suggest habitat preferences of the studied species that should be considered for their conservation oriented management. Conifers had highest survival and growth in GR, while broad-leaved trees survived better under sparse canopy in MS, but grew tallest in full light. Saplings of all species in dense canopy sites in OF were smaller, and the survival of conifers was lower. An integrated response index (IRI) calculated for each species with survival and relative growth rates showed similar trends. Re-introduction of the endangered A. guatemalensis is possible in open habitats if fire, trampling and grazing are suppressed. Open habitats in current man-made landscapes in the highlands of Chiapas may limit the establishment of understory trees requiring partial shade. Inclusion of such species in restoration programs has not been usual so far; yet, local and global interest in native species for such programs is increasing. Information on the response of these kind of species in contrasting habitats may help to incorporate them in the management of high-diversity forests that may follow pine plantations.
41058163|Question: What is the effect of climate change on tree species abundance and distribution in the Italian peninsula? Location: Italian peninsula. Methods: Regression tree analysis, Random Forest, generalized additive model and geostatistical methods were compared to identify the best model for quantifying the effect of climate change on tree species distribution and abundance. Future potential species distribution, richness, local colonization, local extinction and species turnover were modelled according to two scenarios (A2 and Bl) for 2050 and 2080. Results: Robust Random Forest proved to be the best statistical model to predict the potential distribution of tree species abundance. Climate change could lead to a shift in tree species distribution towards higher altitudes and a reduction of forest cover. Finns sylvestris and Tilia cordata may be considered at risk of local extinction, while the other species could find potential suitable areas at the cost of a rearrangement of forest community composition and increasing competition. Conclusions: Geographical and topographical regional characteristics can have a noticeable influence on the impact of predicted climate change on forest ecosystems within the Mediterranean basin. It would be highly beneficial to create a standardized and harmonized European forest inventory in order to evaluate, at high resolution, the effect of climate change on forest ecosystems, identify regional differences and develop specific adaptive management strategies and plans.
1478918|Fen meadows (Cirsio dissecti-Molinietum) are seriously threatened by desiccation, acidification and eutrophication. In The Netherlands several projects were launched to restore damaged fen meadows. This review describes how successes and failures of these restoration projects depend on hydrological systems. Six hydrological systems have been distinguished, which all provide the site conditions required by this community. Nowadays, the best developed fen meadows are found in the higher Pleistocene landscape of The Netherlands, where they depend on base-rich groundwater discharging from local or large groundwater systems. Fen meadows of the lower Holocene landscape usually occur in man-made surface water systems. Almost all stands have been severely deteriorated. Restoration of fen meadows in the Pleistocene landscape is promising when the hydrology is only slightly disturbed or when hydrological measures are taken in combination with sod cutting. Restoration prospects of fen meadows in the Holocene landscape are low. Until now a complete regeneration of Cirsio-Molinietum meadows has not been realized. Restoration measures failed to restore high pH values in the top soil. It is hypothesized that viable seeds of many target species lack in the soil seed bank. In addition, the dispersal capacities of these species seem to be limited.
27735092|Question: Continua landscape approaches conceptualize the effects of habitat fragmentation on the biota by considering fragmented landscapes as continuous gradients, departing from the view of habitat as either suitable (fragment) or unsuitable (matrix). They also consider the ecological gradients or the 'Umwelt' (species-specific perception of the landscape) to represent the processes that ultimately limit organisms' ability to colonize and persist within habitat remnants. Are these approaches suitable for evaluating the response of plant species to fragmentation? Location: Fragmented mid-elevation temperate forests, Cantabrian range, Spain. Methods: The presence, abundance and demographic structure of populations of the perennial herb Primula vulgaris were sampled across a continuous extent of 100 ha, subdivided into 400 50 m50 m sampling units. These variables were related to forest availability, forest subdivision and edge density, topography and the spatial clumpiness of populations (a measure of plant dispersal constraints and, hence, a major surrogate of plant Umwelt). Results: Fragmentation processes, especially habitat loss, negatively affect P. vulgaris, with a stronger effect on presence than on abundance and demography. Despite the importance of habitat availability, P. vulgaris does not occupy all potentially suitable forest habitat, mostly owing to dispersal constraints. A positive effect of slope on plant presence also suggests some effect of habitat quality in determining establishment and occupancy of forest landscape. Conclusions: Within-habitat dispersal constraints are as important as forest fragmentation in determining the landscape-scale distribution of P. vulgaris. By assessing the relative role of the diverse fragmentation processes, and of the species' landscape perception, a continua landscape approach proves to be a valuable tool for predicting plant response to landscape change.
41058162|Questions: Are there changes in species composition of the oceanic, Low-Arctic tundra vegetation after 40 years? Can possible changes be attributed to climate change? Location: Ammassalik Island near Tasiilaq, Southeast Greenland. Methods: Species composition and cover of 11 key vegetation types were recorded in 110 vegetation survey plots in 1968-1969 and in 11 permanent plots in 1981. Recording was repeated in 2007. Temporal changes in species composition and cover between the surveys were tested using permutation tests linked with constrained ordinations for vegetation types, and Mann-Whitney tests for individual species. Changes in vegetation were related to climate change. Results: Although climate became warmer over the studied period, most of the vegetation types showed minor changes. The changes were most conspicuous in mire and snowbed vegetation, such as the Carex rariflora mire and Hylocomium splendens snowbed. In the C. rariflora mire, species number and cover of vascular plants and cover of bryophytes increased, whereas in the H. splendens snowbed species numbers of vascular plants, bryophytes, and also lichens increased. Lichen richness increased in the Carex bigelowii snowbed and cover of bryophytes in the Salix herbacea snowbed. No such changes occurred in the Alchemilla glomerulans meadow, Alchemilla alpina snowbed and Phyllodoce coerulea heath. There was no change of species composition within the Salix glauca scrub, A. alpina snowbed, lichen grassland and the Empetrum nigrum and Phyllodoce coerulea heaths. Most changes resulted from increasing frequency or cover of some species; there were very few decreasing species. Most of the increasing species indicate drier substrate conditions. Conclusions: Only minor changes in species composition and cover were detected in the vegetation types studied. These changes were probably caused by milder winters and warmer summers during the years before the 2007 sampling. Climate warming may have reduced the duration of snow cover and soil moisture, particularly in snowbed and mire habitats, where species composition change was most pronounced. However, its magnitude was insufficient to cause a major change in species composition. Thus, on the level of plant community types, tundra vegetation near Tasiilaq was rather stable over the last 40 years.
1478936| Natural stands of Pinus brutia were compared to burned areas after a great fire in 1985 on the island of Thsos, North Greece, in relation to site quality effects on the success of natural regeneration and understorey vegetation. The number of seedlings in the natural stands of P. brutia was 1124/ha against 3188/ha in the burned area. In both cases natural regeneration was successful. Under the canopy of P. brutia forests the predominant shrubs were Quercus coccifera and Phillyrea latifolia. A high percentage (up to 40%) of the total area was covered by these species. In the burned areas, 12 yr after the wildfire of 1985, Cistus incanus and C. salvifolius played a significant role in the survival of P. brutia seedlings. These species had covered the burned area long before the pine seed germination. 
4620465|Question: The decline of the Pinus palustris ecosystems has resulted from anthropogenic influences, such as conversion to pine plantation forestry, agriculture and land development, all of which are closely related to increases in human populations. Other effects, however, have arisen from alterations in disturbance regimes that maintain the structure and function of these ecosystems. How have alterations of the disturbance regime altered the physiognomy of 'old-growth' stands, and what are the implications for ecosystem conservation and restoration? Methods: In contrast to models that emphasize close interactions among the vertically complex strata, we develop a conceptual phenomenological model for the physiognomic structure of Pinus palustris stands. We relate two natural disturbances (tropical storms and fire) that affect different stages of the life cycle to different aspects of the physiognomic structure. We then compare overstorey stand structure and ground cover composition of two old-growth longleaf stands near the extremes of different composite disturbance regimes: the Wade Tract (frequent hurricanes and fire) and the Boyd Tract (infrequent hurricanes and long-term fire exclusion). Results: We predict that tropical storms and fires have different effects on stand physiognomy. Tropical storms are periodic, and sometimes intense, whereas fires are more frequent and less intense. Hurricanes directly influence the overstorey via wind-caused damage and mortality, and indirectly influence the herb layer by altering the spatial distribution of shading and litter accumulation. Fire exerts direct effects on juvenile stages and indirect effects on the herb layer via fine fuel consumption and selective mortality of potential competitors of P. palustris juveniles. These differences in effects of disturbances can result in widely different physiognomies for P.palustris stands. Finally, some global climate change scenarios have suggested that changes may occur in tropical storm and fire regimes, altering frequency and severity. Such changes may greatly affect pine stands, and ultimately entire pine savanna ecosystems. Conclusions: Our phenomenological model of disturbance regimes in Pinus palustris old-growth produces very different physiognomies for different disturbances regimes that reflect natural process and human management actions. This model can be used to derive restoration strategies for pine savannas that are linked to reinstitution of important ecological processes rather than specific physiognomic states.
1479027|In France, most civil engineering and excavation projects are at present accompanied by compensatory measures with the aim of preserving biodiversity. In order to avoid the destruction of a habitat of high conservation interest in NE France, harbouring two legally protected plant species, an experiment of soil translocation was conducted on an area of 1 ha. The donor site was an extensively managed mesophilic meadow and the receiving site was a neighbouring arable land. The vegetation of the translocated meadow was described 8 and 17 months after soil translocation, and compared (1) with vegetation resulting from more classical restoration techniques tested on the arable land (natural regeneration and seed mixture sowing) and (2) with the soil seed bank and vegetation previously present on the donor site. Results showed that the soil translocation technique permitted the development of many meadow species, including two legally protected species, and few ruderal species despite a large area of bare ground. This technique seems effective in terms of number and abundance of meadow species compared to natural regeneration and commercial seed sowing. In the case of the two classical methods, species richness was lower and only widespread species were present. Topsoil translocation provides a good compensatory method to avoid habitat and species destruction. However, the study should be continued, with the aim of assessing the longer term development and stabilization of the vegetation of the translocated meadow.
25488456|Question: Can dissimilarity measures of individual plots be used to forecast the driving factors among various anthropogenic disturbances influencing understorey successional changes? Location: Yambulla State Forest, south-eastern Australia (3714' S, 14938' E). Methods: Assessments of understorey vegetation communities were taken prior to anthropogenic disturbances and at three subsequent time periods representing a period of 15 years post-disturbance. Dissimilarities were calculated from the original assessment and modelled in a Bayesian framework to examine the influence of logging, number of prescribed burns and time. Results: All sites underwent significant changes over time independently of the imposed management regimes. Logging resulted in an immediate change in vegetation assemblage which decreased in the subsequent assessments. The number of prescribed fires brought greater change in the shrub vegetation assemblages, but less change in the ground species vegetation assemblages. Conclusions: The anthropogenic disturbances did have some role in the changes of vegetation assemblages but these were minimal. The ongoing changes appear to be a natural response to the last wildfire, which passed through the study area in 1973 (13 years prior to the study). Forest management practices should consider the influence of wildfire succession when planning for the conservation of biodiversity.
25488465|Background: Senecio aquaticus is an esteemed wetland species, but it is also a poisonous species in grasslands for forage production of various countries (e.g. Great Britain and Central European states), and its further spread onto farmland must be prevented. To reveal links between management practice and the occurrence of S. aquaticus, a survey was carried out on agricultural grassland in the summer of 2005. Location: The mountain region in the northern and central part of Switzerland. Methods: Botanical assessments were carried out on management units (parcels) where S. aquaticus occurred and on neighbouring parcels without occurrence. For all parcels, we analysed the soil nutrients and the details of management such as intensity of fertilisation and defoliation frequency. Results: There was a high risk of S. aquaticus occurrence in parcels with low nitrogen fertilisation, a change of management intensity in the preceding 15 years, high inclination, and gaps in the sward. The change in the vegetation composition caused by altering the management intensity most probably provided gaps in the sward, which were then colonised by S. aquaticus. A novel finding is that, despite its preference for low-nutrient sites, the species was also persistent at sites with a moderate to high management intensity. Conclusion: A long-term control of S. aquaticus on agricultural grasslands can best be achieved by avoiding sward damage and by promoting dense and stable swards. The management should be adjusted to the local environmental conditions and the requirements of the favourable plant species. This could prevent the spread of S. aquaticus from the protected wetlands onto agricultural grasslands, where the species would threaten animal health.
25488416|Question: What is the impact of prescribed fires on the cover and composition of vegetation in Artemisia tridentata ssp. vaseyana steppe? Location: United States Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service, United States Sheep Experiment Station, eastern Idaho (4414'44" N, 11212'47" W). Methods: Multiple prescribed fires were lit in 2002 and 2003 in an Artemisia tridentata ssp. vaseyana (mountain big sagebrush) steppe ecosystem that was relatively free of exotic plants. Measurements of cover components and plant species frequencies were taken pre- and for 2 to 3 years post-fire. Results: Cover of forbs and grasses returned to pre-fire levels after two years. Shrub cover declined from 36 to 6% in the first year post-fire. Fire reduced the frequencies of three species, A. tridentata ssp. vaseyana, Festuca idahoensis, and Cordylanthus ramosus, of rangeland plants. Frequencies of four plant species, Hesperostipa comata, Polygonum douglasii, Chenopodium fremontii and Chenopodium leptophyllum increased, but only P. douglasii increased for more than a year. Conclusion: This study demonstrates that in an Artemisia tridentata ssp. vaseyana steppe ecosystem without significant non-native species or anthropogenic disturbances vegetative cover and species composition of the herbaceous community are only minimally altered by fire. The herbaceous component returned to pre-fire conditions within three years of a fire.
1479056|Ellenberg's bio-indication system for soil moisture (F), soil nitrogen (N) and soil reaction (R) was examined, based on 559 vegetation samples and environmental characteristics (vegetation cover, soil depth, soil moisture, chemical soil properties) from four Faroe islands. The original indicator values from central Europe were used for the calculation of weighted community indicator values of F, N and R. These were regressed with respect to environmental data, applying standard curvilinear regression and generalized linear modelling (GLM) and new predicted values of community indicator values were obtained from the best model. Faroe species optima values of 162 taxa for one or more of the three Ellenberg scales were derived from fitting Huisman-Olff-Fresco (HOF) models of species abundance with respect to predicted community indicator values and are proposed as new Ellenberg species indicator values to be used in the Faroe Islands. F was best correlated with a GLM model containing soil moisture, organic soil fraction, soil depth and total vegetation cover, R with a GLM model containing pH and calcium in % organic soil fraction, N with total phosphorus in % organic soil fraction. The calibrated species indicator scales are much truncated, as compared with the original values, resulting in significantly different overall distributions of the original and new species indicator values. The recalculated community indicator values are much better correlated to environmental measurements. Several species do not have clear optima, but linear or monotone relationships to the examined indicator scales. This probably indicates that the occurrence of some species in the Faroe Islands are either determined by factors other than moisture, pH or soil nutrient status or, given the young age and environmental instability of the islands, are governed by stochastic mechanisms. Extension of Ellenberg indicator values outside central Europe should always be carefully calibrated by means of adequate environmental data and adequate statistical models, such as HOF models, should be applied.
41318167|Questions: How does the severity of prescribed fires affect vegetation and seed bank in a wetland? Location: A fire-prone reed swamp in northern Japan (250 ha, 40 49'N,14122'E < 10 m a.s.l.). Methods: Vegetation, biomass and seed bank were monitored for the 2 yr after annual prescribed fires were discontinued. Plant communities were placed into three categories based on fire severity: high (H) -fire consumed litter completely; moderate (M) -fire removed standing litter but left wet fallen litter; and low (L) -fire incompletely removed standing litter and did not remove fallen litter. Soil samples were collected in autumn 2007 and early summer 2008, and germinable seed bank was investigated by greenhouse trials. Results: High fire severity increased diversity in the next growing season by the establishment of short herbs in the standing vegetation. The biomass of forbs and grasses was greater in H where Phragmites australis biomass was reduced. The density of seed bank was > 30 000 seeds m throughout all the treatments. Perennial plants were dominant in the vegetation, while annuals, biennials and rushes were dominant in the seed bank. Small seeds were more abundant in the soil than in the litter. Qualitative and quantitative similarities between seed bank and the vegetation were low, and tended to be higher in H. Conclusions: Fire contributed to the development of diverse standing vegetation via the positive effects on seed bank dynamics, and can be considered a tool to maintain species-rich marshes.
1479071|Livestock overgrazing and stream incision in the western USA often result in encroachment and dominance of Artemisia tridentata ssp. tridentata (Big sagebrush) in riparian areas that formerly supported meadows. To define the alternative states and thresholds for these ecosystems, we conducted a restoration experiment that included sites with high, intermediate or low water tables. We used a paired-plot approach in which one plot on each site was burned and seeded with native grasses and forbs typical of naturally occurring dry meadow and Artemisia/Leymus cinereus ecological types, while adjacent unburned plots served as controls. Sites with high and intermediate water tables had greater initial abundances of perennial grasses typical of dry meadows, such as Leymus triticoides and Poa secunda ssp. juncifolia, and these species increased after the burn. In contrast, sites with low water tables were dominated by annual forbs such as Chenopodium album and Descurainia pinnata after the burn. Biomass increased progressively from 1997 to 1999 on burned plots, while controls showed little change. Burning effects were microsite specific, with former Artemisia microsites exhibiting lower biomass than interspaces initially, but similar or higher biomass by the third year. Establishment of seeded species was low and species composition was determined largely by pre-burn vegetation. Artemisia dominated sites with high water tables appear to represent an alternative state of the dry meadow ecological type, while sites with low water table sites have crossed an abiotic threshold governed by water tables and represent a new ecological type. Burning is an effective tool for restoring relatively high water table sites, but low water table sites will require burning and seeding with species adapted to more xeric conditions.
25488433|Question: What is the role of Stipa tenacissima as a nurse plant of the rare and threatened endemic species Haplophyllum bastetanum? Location: Semi-arid steppe of the Guadix-Baza basin (SE Spain). Methods: In the two H. bastetanum populations known, we (1) estimated the number of individuals and (2) analysed the influence of the factors 'site' (S1 = Hernn Valle, S2 = Alicn), 'microhabitat' (inside and below the canopy of the S. tenacissima tussocks vs. open areas), 'life stage' (vegetative, reproductive), 'aspect' (N, S, E, W, flat) and 'damage' (yes or no), in relation to the distribution of individuals and to the height, number of flowers, number of capsules, and edaphic variables. Results: The total number of individuals was estimated at 3135. S. tenacissima was found to have a positive and significant effect on the distribution of H. bastetanum, more pronounced in the sample taken at S2 than S1, where 83.8% of the plants were growing in association with S. tenacissima. Similarly, there were more H. bastetanum individuals that became reproductive inside S. tenacissima tussocks than in the open areas, and H. bastetanum individuals had a greater production of flowers and fruits, especially in the sample taken at S1. Organic carbon, nitrogen, and carbon:nitrogen ratio were related to the height and number of flowers and capsules of the plants. Conclusion: Although new patches were established, with a larger number of individuals, H. bastetanum continues to be Critically Endangered (CR). The results support the hypothesis of the facilitation effect of S. tenacissima on this rare, endemic species. Facilitation of species of interest in conservation is an aspect that has not previously been clearly reported. We propound this important process as a valuable tool for rehabilitation of populations of threatened plant species in conservation biology projects.
1478967| In this study we compared the effects of fire on understorey vegetation in the Qubec southern boreal forest with effects of salvage-logging (clear-cutting after fire). All 61400 - m
1479036| Fine-scale spatial patterns of small mammal disturbances and local accumulation of plant litter were studied together with the spatial pattern of vegetation in different stages of old-field succession at Cedar Creek Natural History Area, Minnesota, USA. Seven stands from one to 66 years old were sampled. Presence of living plant species, local soil disturbances by pocket gophers (Geomys bursarius) and plant litter accumulation were recorded in 10 cm  10 cm contiguous microquadrats along elliptical transects. Spatial patterns and associations were analyzed using information theory models. Dominant grasses were spatially independent, while subordinate functional groups were strongly dependent on the existing patchwork of dominant species, plant litter and gopher disturbances. Litter had consistent negative associations with subordinate functional groups in all but the initial years. Gopher disturbances were abundant but had weak and variable associations with vegetation. These results suggest that gopher disturbance does not facilitate the colonization of native prairie species and that diversity can be improved by controlling litter accumulation in Minnesota old-fields. 
4620524|Question: How can long-term monitoring of hydrological and ecological parameters support management strategies aimed towards wetland restoration and re-creation in a complex hydrological system? Location: Newham Bog National Nature Reserve, Northumberland, UK, a site with a long history of active management, and recorded as drought-sensitive over the last 100 years. Methods: Water level readings are correlated with longer-term hydrological databases, and these data related to vegetation data collected intermittently over a 12 year period. Two analyses are undertaken: (1) a composite DCA analysis of 1993 and 2002 survey data to assess plant community transitions within the wetland and over time, and (2) analysis of recent vegetation data to explore wider vegetation gradients. This allows (3) communities to be classified using NVC classes and (4) integrated with revised Ellenberg F-values. Results: Drought impact and subsequent hydrological recovery over a 22-year period are quantified. Vegetation data display strong moisture and successional gradients. Analysis shows a shift from grassland communities toward mire communities across much of the site. Conclusion: The site is regionally unique in that it has a detailed long-term monitoring record. Hydrological data and vegetation survey have allowed the impact of the most recent 'groundwater' drought (1989-1997) to be quantified. This information on system resilience, combined with eco-hydrological analyses of plant community-water regime/quality relationships, provide a basis for recommendations concerning conservation and restoration.
1479016|Secondary succession and seed bank formation was studied in a formerly grazed, abandoned, eastern Hungarian sandy steppe-meadow (Pulsatillo-Festucetum). The vegetation was sampled at different elevations of a sand dune which became partly invaded by the tree Robinia pseudo-acacia ca. 10 yr ago. Pre-abandonment vegetation records were used as historic references. Though composition of the non-invaded grassland only changed moderately, dominance of tall grasses (Elymus hispidus, Poa angustifolia) increased significantly at the cost of annuals and low stature perennials. In the stand invaded by Robinia most grassland species were lost and replaced by nitrophytes. Vertical position influenced species abundance, but affected the composition only moderately. Fine-scale zonation of the vegetation also changed with time. Species richness of the above-ground vegetation and the seed density of soil samples at the lower elevation were slightly greater than at the higher sites. Seed banks of sensitive grassland specialists (e.g. Pulsatilla pratensis subsp. hungarica) disappeared during grass encroachment. Following extinction from above-ground vegetation, restoration must rely on dispersal from adjacent areas. In contrast, several annuals and perennials, which survived this degradation stage in the above-ground vegetation, possessed seed banks. Many of these species became extinct from the vegetation during the Robinia invasion but left viable persistent seeds. This fact is promising for restoration of the Potentillo-Festucetum sandy pasture. Competitive weedy species and sprouting Robinia can, however, limit seedling establishment.
25488472|Questions: What is the relative role of the bud bank, seed and various species traits in the regeneration of urban plant communities after severe disturbances? Do invasive and exotic species, highly abundant in disturbed communities, regenerate better than native species after disturbance? Methods: Hand tilling was applied to three urban plant communities with and without additional herbicide treatment to exclude regeneration from the bud bank. Plant traits were determined from the literature and databases. Species responses to the treatments were evaluated with RDA analyses in CANOCO. Linear models were applied to identify traits that could predict the responses of species to disturbance. Results: The bud bank played a key role in regeneration in the plots without herbicide. In the plots with herbicide treatment, the seed bank was important in re-establishing vegetation after disturbance. Exclusion of the bud bank by using herbicide allowed the establishment of small annuals, whereas biennials and perennials were successful in plots where the bud bank was not inhibited by herbicide. Exotic species with a long residence time in the local flora were successful in plots where regeneration from the bud bank was excluded, whereas species with short residence times or that were invasive were suppressed by both types of disturbance. Conclusion: In response to various types of disturbance, species with different regeneration strategies (either seeds or bud bank) were promoted. Exotic species were suppressed primarily by disturbance, which suggests that factors other than just regenerative capability contributed to the high abundance of exotics in urban communities.
25488462|Question: What is the combined effect of two drivers of local biodiversity changes (presence of a potentially invasive species and seasonal drought) on the performance of seedlings of plants from gypsum habitats under experimental conditions? Location: A controlled microcosm reconstruction of natural assemblages of gypsum plant communities from central Spain. Methods: We evaluated the effects of a potentially invasive grass (Lolium rigidum) and water stress on the survival, height growth and biomass of five woody species (Colutea hispanica, Gypsophila struthium, Thymus lacaitae, Lepidium subulatum and Helianthemum squamatum) from semi-arid gypsum ecosystems. Seedlings of the five species were grown with or without the potential invader and under three watering regimes: early stress - simulating an advanced summer, late stress - simulating the characteristic timing of current summer drought and well-watered. Results: Seedling survival and performance were negatively affected by the presence of the potential invader. Early stress had larger impacts on the gypsum species than late stress. No interactions were found between factors for any of the study variables, and responses to both factors were found to be species-specific. Conclusions: The lack of interactions between factors indicates that the presence of the potentially invasive grass and water stress had additive effects in our study system. The negative impact of early water stress draws attention to the possible consequences of the advances of summer drought predicted for Mediterranean ecosystems. Finally, the differential responses found for the study species suggest that plant communities will not respond as a unit to global change, leading to significant changes in species composition and dominance.
1478890|In two fen areas of northeastern Germany, different techniques of re-introduction to establish reed-bed species in formerly intensively used, species-poor, grasslands, after rewetting, were studied under three hydrological regimes (permanent inundation, temporary inundation, border irrigation) with the aims (1) to establish peat-forming vegetation and (2) to enhance species richness. Establishment was successful for nearly all species investigated under all hydrological variants. There were differences between individuals sown and those which had been planted. Wet, but not inundated soil linked with vegetation gaps create 'safe sites' which enable successful germination and seedling establishment. The survival rate for both planted and sown individuals was generally high, with the exception of Cladium mariscus, Eupatorium cannabinum and Phragmites australis Recommendations for restoration management include the establishment of the following successful species: Carex acutiformis, C. elata and C. paniculata to establish peatforming vegetation; Iris pseudacorus, Lysimachia vulgaris, Lythrum salicaria to enhance species richness.
1478998| We present a remote sensing based vegetation mapping technique well suited to a heterogeneous, semi-arid environment. 10 structural vegetation classes were identified and described on the ground. Using Landsat-TM from two different seasons and a combination of three conventional classification techniques (including a multi-temporal classification) we were unsuccessful in delineating all of the desired vegetation classes. We then employed a simple textural classification index, known as the Moving Standard Deviation Index (MSDI), that has been used to map degradation status. MSDI measures spatial variations in the landscape and is calculated by passing a 3  3 standard deviation filter across the Landsat-TM red band. High MSDI values are associated with degraded or disturbed rangelands whilst low MSDI values are associated with undisturbed rangeland. A combination of two conventional multi-spectral techniques and MSDI were used to produce a final vegetation classification at an accuracy of 84%. MSDI successfully discriminated between two contrasting vegetation types of identical spectral properties and significantly strengthened the accuracy of the classification. We recommend the use of a textural index such as MSDI to supplement conventional vegetation classification techniques in heterogeneous, semi-arid or arid environments. 
41318166|Question: How does restoration affect the hydrology and the understorey vegetation of managed pine fens? Location: Oligotrophic pine fens in Natura 2000 areas in Kainuu, eastern Finland. Methods: Eleven managed pine fens and eight pristine reference pine fens were chosen for the study in 2005. The managed fens, which had been drained for forestry during the 1970s and 1980s, were restored in 2007. The water table was monitored in all fens over four growing seasons during 2006 to 2009, and vegetation was surveyed from permanent sample plots in 2006 and 2009. Results: Before restoration in 2006, the water table was at a significantly lower level in the managed fens compared with the pristine fens. Immediately after restoration, the water table rose to the same level as in the pristine fens, and this change was permanent. Forest drainage had had little impact on the understorey vegetation of the managed fens in the three decades before restoration, with species typical of pristine fens still dominating the sites. Forest dwarf shrubs and feather mosses had started to increase in cover, but mire dwarf shrubs and Sphagnum mosses still dominated the managed fens. Only the typical hollow species Sphagnum majus, Sphagnum balticum and Scheuzeria palustris were missing from the managed fens. Two years after restoration, the changes in species composition were also marginal, with increased cover of mire dwarf shrubs and sedges being the only significant change. Conclusions: The success of restoration of oligotrophic pine fens seems likely, given that changes in hydrological functioning occurred rapidly, and since little change has occurred in the vegetation composition after draining. Speeding up the regeneration process in these peatland types by restoration may, therefore, be recommended, especially if the drainage effect extends to nearby pristine mires and influences their biodiversity.
27735072|Question: The seed production in several wetland communities across Europe was investigated and differences in seed output in relation to disturbance intensity were tested. The relationship between the vegetation composition and the seed production profile was examined and the results are discussed in relation to restoration. Location: Poland, Germany and the Netherlands. Methods: The seed production in various plant communities was estimated, based on field counts. In addition, records from available databases were used for missing data. Multivariate methods were used to characterize the vegetation and seed production. Communities were grouped according to level of disturbance and tested for differences in seed production. Similarity between vegetation composition and seed profile was examined using the Srensen index and Spearman correlation coefficient. Results: It was found that the seed production of the studied communities is large, variable and in general increasing with disturbance intensity. The estimated median seed production was ca. 24103 seeds m2 in fens, 167103 in fen meadows and 556103 seeds m2 in degraded meadows. The majority of seeds was produced by just a few species. The similarity between the vegetation composition and the seed production profile was low (similarity 52%, correlation coefficient 0.42, P<0.05) and slightly increased with disturbance intensity. Conclusions: Increased disturbance enhances seed production at the community level. The composition of the vegetation is a poor predictor of the seed output. It is estimated that the number of seeds transferred with hay is much lower than the seed production in fens and fen meadows.
27735048|Questions: What factors limit the distribution of epiphytic lichens and bryophytes at plot and tree level in beech forests? At what ages do epiphytic species, and species of conservation concern in particular, occur along a chronosequence of beech? Location: South-west Sweden. Method: Five hundred and seventy-one age-determined trees from 37 plots distributed among 29 beech-dominated stands were surveyed along with a number of environmental (16) and substrate (seven) variables in a landscape of ca. 550 ha. Non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMS) and indicator species analysis (ISA) were used for data analysis. Results: Plots containing old trees, confined to the base of slopes and with low impacts of recent forestry (thinning), generally had a high richness of species of conservation concern. Richness of common species and red-listed bryophytes were mostly related to the surveyed bark area. At tree level, primary factors explaining both species richness and composition were age, diameter at breast height and moss cover. There was a gradual replacement of tree age ranges for 58 lichens and 37 bryophytes along the chronosequence of beech. Red-listed lichens favoured damaged beech trees ( 180 years), whereas red-listed bryophytes were found on old and young stems in dense stands. Conclusions: Tree age exerts a profound influence on epiphytic lichens and bryophytes growing on beech. Many of the habitat specialists were found mainly on old beech because they inhabit specific substrates that occur on older trees. The association to high tree age commonly excludes red-listed lichens from conventionally managed beech forests with a 100- to 140-year rotation period.
25488467|Question: Does the vegetation of restored salt marshes increasingly resemble natural reference communities over time? Location: The Essex estuaries, southeast England. Methods: Abandoned reclamations, where coastal defences had been breached in storm events, and current salt marsh recreation schemes were surveyed giving a chronosequence of salt marsh regeneration from 2 to 107 years. The presence, abundance and height of plant species were recorded and comparisons were made with adjacent reference salt marsh communities at equivalent elevations. Results: Of the 18 paired sites surveyed, 13 regenerated marshes had fewer species than their adjacent reference marsh, three had an equal number and two had more. The plant communities of only two de-embankment sites matched that of the reference community. 0-50 year old sites and 51-100 year old sites had fewer species per quadrat than the 101+ year sites and the reference salt marshes. There was a weak relationship between differences in species richness for regenerated and reference marshes and the time since sites were first re-exposed to tidal inundation. Cover values for the invasive and recently evolved Spartina anglica were greater within regenerated than reference marshes. Conclusions: Salt marsh plants will colonise formerly reclaimed land relatively quickly on resumption of tidal flooding. However, even after 100 years regenerated salt marshes differ in species richness, composition and structure from reference communities.
41058026|Questions: What are the patterns of remotely sensed vegetation phenology, including their inter-annual variability, across South Africa? What are the phenological attributes that contribute most to distinguishing the different biomes? How well can the distribution of the recently redefined biomes be predicted based on remotely sensed, phenology and productivity metrics? Location: South Africa. Method: Ten-day, 1 km, NDVI AVHRR were analysed for the period 1985 to 2000. Phenological metrics such as start, end and length of the growing season and estimates of productivity, based on small and large integral (SI, LI) of NDVI curve, were extracted and long-term means calculated. A random forest regression tree was run using the metrics as the input variables and the biomes as the dependent variable. A map of the predicted biomes was reproduced and the differentiating importance of each metric assessed. Results: The phenology metrics (e.g. start of growing season) showed a clear relationship with the seasonality of rainfall, i.e. winter and summer growing seasons. The distribution of the productivity metrics, LI and SI were significantly correlated with mean annual precipitation. The regression tree initially split the biomes based on vegetation production and then by the seasonality of growth. A regression tree was used to produce a predicted biome map with a high level of accuracy (73%). Main conclusion: Regression tree analysis based on remotely sensed metrics performed as good as, or better than, previous climate-based predictors of biome distribution. The results confirm that the remotely sensed metrics capture sufficient functional diversity to classify and map biome level vegetation patterns and function.
25488470|Question: We asked how landscape configuration and present management influence plant species richness and abundance of habitat specialists in grasslands in a 'modern' (much exploited and transformed) agricultural Swedish landscape. Location: Selan, south-eastern Sweden (5924' N, 1710' E). Methods: Present and past (150 and 50 years ago) landscape pattern was analysed in a 25 km area. Species richness was investigated in 63 different grassland patches; grazed and abandoned semi-natural grasslands, and grazed ex-arable fields. Influence of landscape variables; area, past and present grassland connectivity, present management on total species richness, density and abundance of 25 grassland specialists was analysed. Results: Semi-natural grasslands (permanent unfertilised pastures or meadows formed by traditional agricultural methods) had declined from 60% 150 years ago to 5% today. There was a significant decline in species richness and density in abandoned semi-natural grasslands. Total species richness was influenced by present management, size and connectivity to present and past grassland pattern. Landscape variables did not influence species density in grazed semi-natural grassland suggesting that maintained grazing management makes grassland patches independent of landscape context. The abundance of 16 grassland specialists was mainly influenced by management and to some extent also by landscape variables. Conclusion: Although species richness pattern reflect management and to some extent landscape variables, the response of individual species may be idiosyncratic. The historical signal from past landscapes is weak on present-day species richness in highly transformed, agricultural landscapes. Generalizations of historical legacies on species diversity in grasslands should consider also highly transformed landscapes and not only landscapes with a high amount of diversity hotspots left.
1479038| The success in restoring seven low-production vegetation types on former agricultural soil after top-soil removal was investigated. The colonization and establishment of target species in permanent plots was recorded during the first nine years after restoration measures were taken. For each permanent plot abiotic site conditions were used to determine which of the vegetation types could persist there. A comparison of the actual vegetation in the permanent plots with reference relevs of the selected vegetation type revealed a gradually increasing similarity during consecutive years for five vegetation types. This was due to the occurrence of an increasing number of target species and the number of permanent plots they occurred in. However, nine years after top-soil removal a large number of the target species were still lacking from the vegetation in the permanent plots, although most were present in the local species pool. Seed dispersal therefore seems to be a major limiting factor for restoration of these low-production vegetation types on formerly agricultural soils. 
1478896| The North American mid-continent population of Lesser snow geese (Chen caerulescens caerulescens L.) has increased by ca. 7% per year, largely as a result of geese feeding on agricultural crops in winter and on migration. We describe the long-term effects of increasing numbers of geese at an arctic breeding ground (La Prouse Bay, Manitoba) on intertidal salt-marsh vegetation. Between 1985 and 1999 goose grubbing caused considerable loss of graminoid vegetation along transects in intertidal marshes. Loss of vegetation led to bare sediment with a plant cover of less than 2%. Changes in vegetation could not be described by simple linear, geometric or exponential functions: most losses occurred between 1988 and 1990 and losses were staggered in time between individual transects, some of which had all vegetation removed. Between 1979 and 1999 the standing crop in July in remaining intact heavily-grazed swards of Puccinellia phryganodes and Carex subspathacea fell from 40-60 g m
1478982|In order to define the 'regeneration niche' and then promote the re-introduction of Quercus rugosa into a disturbed area we studied seed predation, germination, seedling survival and growth of this species at three different sites: the forest interior, the forest border and a disturbed site, along a disturbance gradient. Acorn removal on the ground was high at the sites, with higher removal rates from 25-seed clusters than from 5- and 1-seed clusters. More seeds were removed at the forest border than at the other two sites, although in all cases some seeds remained in the soil for periods long enough for them to germinate and produce seedlings. Seed germination and seedling establishment were more successful and similar in the forest interior and the forest border, and much less successful at the disturbed site, due to acorn desiccation. Seedling survival was strongly affected by site, with the highest survival at the forest border and the lowest survival at the disturbed site after a year. The subsequent dry season, which was particularly harsh, caused a drop in survival both at the forest border and the disturbed site. In the former, a closer analysis revealed that partially shaded microsites enhanced survival, while in the latter overall survival was very low, with approximately 5% of the seedlings surviving, compared to 50% final survival at the other sites. There was a positive correlation between seed size and seedling survival at the forest border. The three size variables measured (seedling height, basal diameter and crown area) did not increase noticeably during the 20-month study period at the forest interior, while growth still occurred at the forest border and the disturbed site. However, during the two dry seasons there were large drops in mean seedling height and crown area at the disturbed site, due to more frequent dieback, causing large variation in seedling size. These results show that extensive re-introduction of this species to the disturbed area will probably fail under present conditions, and that careful selection or duplication of microsites that mimic the partial shade of the forest border is a sound method for improving oak establishment at this site.
41058024|Question: Do solid-walled polyethylene tubes and mesh fabric tubes improve the short-term survival of eight Mediterranean tree and shrub species often used in the restoration of arid environments? Location: We conducted two experimental plantations in degraded field sites in the province of Almera (SE Spain), under arid Mediterranean conditions. Methods: One-year-old seedlings of Ceratonia siliqua, Juniperus phoenicea, Olea europaea, Pinus halepensis, Pinus pinaster, Quercus coccifera, Quercus ilex and Tetraclinis articulata were planted either sheltered by one of the above shelter tubes, or by being left unsheltered. Survival was recorded the first growing season after planting, which was a very dry season. Results: Overall, seedling survival ranged from as little as 0% to 24%, and tree shelters consistently enhanced survival in Quercus species only, ranging from 16% in walled shelters to 8% in mesh shelters. Shelters failed to boost survival in the six remaining species. Conclusion: The results of this study suggest that both walled and mesh shelters were mostly ineffective at increasing seedling survival for the Mediterranean species used in this experiment; these species coincide with those used in restoration programs. The use of shelters in restoration programs conducted in arid environments should be reconsidered, while walled shelters might be advisable for Mediterranean Quercus species only. Further research is necessary to develop and assess improved types of shelters for arid environments.
41318162|Objective: To review the recent research into human-mediated dispersal (HMD) in the European rural landscape, and explore the potential positive aspect of HMD for grassland conservation, in contrast to it's common association with the spread of invasive species. Methods: A literature search was undertaken to identify HMD vectors in the rural landscape for discussion regarding dispersal potential past and present, implications for management, and the identification of future research needs. Results: Grazing animals are important propagule dispersers, but the reduced movement of livestock through the landscape has also meant a reduction in seeds dispersed in this way. Other, non-standard human-mediated dispersal vectors such as clothing and motor vehicles can also transport seeds of many species, and HMD vectors often transport seeds with a variety of dispersal specialisations. Recommendations: There should be a greater movement of grazing animals throughout the landscape, either within larger grazing areas or between existing grasslands. Where this is not possible, other, more directed dispersal of propagules from species-rich communities to target sites should be considered. The potential of non-standard HMD vectors to make a positive contribution to biodiversity should be considered, but more research into all types of HMD vectors is important if we are to fully understand their role in the dispersal of plant species in fragmented landscapes.
27735084|Question: What relationships exist between remotely sensed measurements and field observations of species density and abundance of tree species? Can these relationships and spatial interpolation approaches be used to improve the accuracy of prediction of species density and abundance of tree species? Location: Quintana Roo, Yucatan peninsula, Mexico. Methods: Spatial prediction of species density and abundance of species for three functional groups was performed using regression kriging, which considers the linear relationship between dependent and explanatory variables, as well as the spatial dependence of the observations. These relationships were explored using regression analysis with species density and abundance of species of three functional groups as dependent variables, and reflectance values of spectral bands, computed NDVI (normalized difference vegetation index), standard deviation of NDVI and texture measurements of Landsat 7 Thematic Mapper (TM) imagery as explanatory variables. Akaike information criterion was employed to select a set of candidate models and calculate model-averaged parameters. Variogram analysis was used to analyze the spatial structure of the residuals of the linear regressions. Results: Species density of trees was related to reflectance values of TM4, NDVI and spatial heterogeneity of land cover types, while the abundance of species in functional groups showed different patterns of association with remotely sensed data. Models that accounted for spatial autocorrelation improved the accuracy of estimates in all cases. Conclusions: Our approach can substantially increase the accuracy of the spatial estimates of species richness and abundance of tropical tree species and can help guide and evaluate tropical forest management and conservation.
4620467|Question: How does grazing intensity affect plant density, cover and species richness in an Patagonian arid ecosystem? Location: Monte steppe ecoregion, SW Argentina. Methods: I analysed the effect of grazing on plant density, cover and species richness using a stocking rate gradient within the same habitat. Six paddocks were used with stocking rates ranging between 0.002 - 0.038 livestock/ha. Plant density, species richness, plant cover and percentage of grazed branches were determined by sampling plots within each paddock. The percentage of grazed branches was used as an independent measurement of grazing intensity. Results: Higher stocking rates were related to lower plant density, species richness and plant cover. The paddock with the lowest grazing intensity had 86% more plants per unit area, 63% more plant cover and 48% higher species richness. The percentage of grazed branches and the quantity of dung increased with stocking rate. Conclusions: Introduced livestock seriously affect native vegetation in the Patagonian Monte. The damage observed in this xerophytic plant community suggests that plant adaptations to aridity do not provide an advantage to tolerate or avoid grazing by vertebrate herbivores in this region. Plant degradation in this arid environment is comparable to the degradation found in more humid ecosystems.
25488463|Question: What is the relationship of the naturally colonizing vegetation and substrate characteristics in fly ash lagoons? Location: West lagoon, Deep Bay, a 13-ha coastal lagoon in Hong Kong in subtropical Southeast Asia. Methods: Vegetation establishment was examined in a coal fly ash lagoon two years after its abandonment to investigate the distribution of vegetation in relationship to the chemical properties of the fly ash in the lagoon. A greenhouse experiment assessed the limits imposed on plant growth in fly ash. Results: The fly ash was saline, slightly alkaline and very poor in organic matter and nitrogen. Ash from bare and vegetated areas differed significantly in their salinity and extractable concentrations of inorganic nitrogen and various metals. Bare ash had a significantly higher conductivity and extractable sodium, aluminum, manganese, potassium, and lead. In total 11 plant species that belonged to seven families were found growing on the fly ash; all species except the shrub Tamarix chinensis were herbaceous. Using discriminant analysis, the most important factors in distinguishing bare and vegetated ashes were conductivity and sodium. Cluster analysis of bare samples gave two distinct groups, one from the periphery of the lagoon, which had lower sodium, conductivity, organic carbon, potassium and copper, and the other from a second group that contained ashes from the central region of the lagoon. Results of the greenhouse experiment showed that the inhibition of plant growth was significantly correlated with the presence of soluble toxic elements in ash. Conclusion: Toxicity and salinity seem to be the major limiting factors to plant establishment in fly ash, and these factors must be ameliorated for the successful reclamation of these fly ash lagoons.
1479034| This paper describes vegetation development after a severe drop in water level. Diversion of the Danube river in 1992 resulted in a substantial water level reduction and the appearance of new terrestrial habitats in the Szigetkz region. a unique part of the Danube Valley in Hungary. Plant colonization was very rapid in the recently exposed river bed, where the establishment of a new willow thicket zone took only 4 yr. Our results clearly indicate that the elevation/moisture gradient is primarily responsible for the small-scale vegetation heterogeneity that developed as succession proceeded. Further changes in vegetation patterns will be determined by the position of the water level as a result of water management. 
1479080|The main question to be dealt with in the papers published in this Special Feature is to which extent plant species richness can be applied as a parameter in restoration projects to qualify the ecosystem's state. Before considering this problem, it should be recognized that this approach illuminates only one side of the coin; the other side is touched by the opposite question, asking which plant species are essential components of an ecosystem. These two approaches towards the relationship between species richness and ecosystem functioning are not mutually exclusive, but should not be confused either. In view of ecosystem functioning certain species may be considered redundant, while in view of evolutionary processes certain ecosystem processes may be considered redundant. Where do the two approaches meet and when should they be separated? This paper touches upon this question by referring to the dual hierarchy of ecological systems.
1479069|In this study we report the first application of Landsat TM imagery to Chaco vegetation studies at a regional scale in Argentina. We produced a map showing 13 clearly differentiated land-cover types, and described the composition and structure of the plant communities, in an area of almost 40 000 km
4620434| Question: What are the effects of fire on the structure and the diversity of a Spartina argentinensis tall grassland in the short and medium run. S. argentinensis is the dominant species of tall grasslands on inland marshes of the Chaco-Pampean region (Argentina), where spontaneous or man-made fires are very frequent. Location: Federico Wildermuth Reserve (3157' S; 6123 W), Province of Santa Fe, Argentina, an area never ploughed that supported cattle until its exclusion in 1988. Methods: Vegetation was surveyed in randomly placed permanent plots using the Braun-Blanquet cover-abundance scale. The data were analysed by multivariate methods (PCA and MRPP) for synthesizing information and testing hypotheses. Results: Fire did not have a long-lasting effect on the tall grassland. There was only a temporarily reduction of cover-abundance of S. argentinensis which allowed an increase in the number of accompanying species such as Heliotropium curassavicum, Pluchea sagittalis, and Verbena litoralis and of some naturalised or weed species, such as Melilotus alba and Cirsium vulgare, respectively. Fire increased diversity, which remained relatively high for two to three years. Three years after the fire there were no significant differences on the amount of litter accumulated on burned and unburned plots. Conclusion: Fire should be considered an intrinsic part of the dynamics of S. argentinensis tall grassland. 
27735070|Questions: What are the effects of raised water levels on wet grassland plant communities and dynamics? To what extent do time since raised water levels, vegetation management and water regime influence community composition? Location: Pevensey Levels, southeast England, UK. Methods: Plant communities and hydrology were monitored during 2001-03 within 23 wet grassland meadows and pastures where water levels had been raised for nature conservation at different times over 21 years. Community variations were examined using species abundance and ecological traits. Results: Water regime, measured as duration of flooding, groundwater level and soil moisture was significantly related to plant community variation. Communities were divided into grasslands where inundation was shallow ( 8 cm) and relatively short ( 3 months) and sites where deeper flooding was prolonged ( 5 months), supporting a variety of wetland vegetation. With increasing wetness, sites were characterised by more bare ground and wetland plants such as sedges, helophytes and hydrophytes, and species with a stress-tolerating competitive strategy. All sites showed considerable annual dynamics, especially those with substantially raised water levels. There were no significant relationships between time since water levels were raised and plant community composition. Grassland management exerted a limited influence upon vegetation compared to water regime. Conclusions: Grassland plant communities are responsive to raised water levels and have potential for a rapid transition to wetland vegetation, irrespective of grazing or cutting management. Creation or restoration of wet grasslands by (re)wetting is feasible but challenging due to the high dynamism of wetland plant communities and the need for substantially raised water levels and prolonged flooding to produce significant community changes.
27735078|Question: What is the effect of frequent low intensity prescribed fire on foliar nutrients and insect herbivory in an Australian eucalypt forest? Location: Lorne State Forest (Bulls Ground Frequent Burning Study), mid-north coast, New South Wales, Australia. Methods: Eighteen independent sites were studied representing three experimental fire regimes: fire exclusion (at least 45 years), frequently burnt (every 3 years for 35 years) and fire exclusion followed by the recent introduction of frequent burning (two fires in 6 years). Mature leaves were collected from the canopy of Eucalyptus pilularis trees at each site and analysed for nutrients and damage by invertebrate herbivores. Results: Almost 75% of all leaves showed some signs of leaf damage. The frequency of past fires had no effect on carbon and nitrogen content of canopy leaves. These results were consistent with assessments of herbivore damage where no significant differences were found in the amount of invertebrate herbivory damage to leaves across fire treatments. Conclusions: This eucalypt forest displayed a high degree of resilience to both frequent burning and fire exclusion as determined by foliar nutrients and damage by insect herbivores. Fire frequency had no detectable ecological impact on this aspect of forest health.
25488488|Question: Does forest vegetation community structure reflect legislative land use designations? Location: Adirondack Park, New York, USA. Methods: The Adirondack Park, located in northern New York State, is a mixture of public and private lands, with state-owned Forest Preserve lands comprising ca. 42% of the 2.4 million ha, on which timber harvesting and many other forms of anthropogenic disturbance are prohibited. A survey of vegetation communities was conducted in eighteen upland catchments with differing land use history (managed and Forest Preserve), including overstory, understory, and dead wood (snags and downed woody debris) using randomly placed plots. Results: Mean overstory density and basal area were not significantly different between land uses, although mean overstory tree size was greater in Preserve catchments. Sapling densities were greater in managed catchments, while mean herb/shrub coverage was not affected by land use. Densities of 25% of common species were affected by land use, determined by GIS coverages constructed using an Inverse Distance Weighted estimation procedure. Discriminant Analysis of per-plot plant community data correctly classified 89% of both managed and Preserve plots. Conclusion: The success of the Discriminant Analysis in classifying land uses based on vegetation communities indicates its potential utility of this method in comparing forest vegetation to a reference condition in this and other areas. The analysis suggests that at least 85 years is required for Adirondack upland catchments to recover following harvesting. Uncertainty in classification was related to heterogenous management and disturbance patterns within catchments.
4620527|Question: How do moderate grazing, topsoil removal and hay transfer affect species diversity and abundance on a eutrophic fen grassland site? Location: Northern Germany. Method: A three-factorial field experiment with the factors grazing, topsoil removal and hay transfer of diaspore-rich material was established in 2001. Soil nutrients and seed bank were analysed at the beginning of the experiment, species composition and vegetation development was monitored for four years (2002-2005). Results: Topsoil removal had a significant effect on the abundance of different plant species groups: resident vegetation of agricultural grasslands was suppressed, while clonal reed species were facilitated in recolonising the area. The establishment of regionally rare and endangered species of nutrient-poor fens and wet meadows introduced with hay was achieved mainly on plots with topsoil removal, with the exception of Rhinanthus angustifolius, which also established on plots with intact topsoil. Effects of grazing after four years of experiments were of minor influence on species composition. Conclusion: The establishment of target plant species of nutrient-poor fens is most successful when both an adequate number of viable diaspores and suitable sites for germination and establishment are available. In our experiment this was achieved by the combination of topsoil removal and hay transfer. We recommend this combination, together with continuous management (grazing/cutting), for further restoration in fen grasslands.
25488414|Question: What are the responses of Racomitrium lanuginosum moss to altered snow-lie and sheep use? Location: A Carex bigelowii-Racomitrium lanuginosum heath on a Scottish montane plateau affected since 1986 by a fenced ski corridor. Methods: Permanent quadrats were set up along transects 45 m long perpendicular to the snow-fence. Cover was assessed over a 12-year period from 1990. Pellet-group clearance counts provided data on sheep usage between 1990 and 1996. Snow-lie was mapped in the springs of 1991-1996. Results: The snow-fence created a gradient in sheep use and altered the duration of snow-lie. At the start of monitoring Racomitrium cover was lower immediately adjacent to the fence, and after 12 years its cover was significantly reduced within 10 m of the fence. Further away from the fence Racomitrium cover was relatively stable. The loss of Racomitrium was correlated both with increased snow-lie and heavier sheep usage. Grass cover increased near the fence and was related to sheep use. Dicranum fuscescens responded differently to Racomitrium, increasing significantly near the fence. Conclusions: We found that changes in snow-lie and grazing pressure quickly brought about vegetation change in this montane ecosystem. Racomitrium was the most sensitive species to the changes in grazing and snow-lie caused by the fence, having the biggest initial changes. Loss of Racomitrium permitted increases of species more resistant to grazing including Dicranum fuscescens and grasses.
40927804|Question: Is there a light level at which alien grass biomass is reduced while still supporting growth and survival of native woody species, allowing for native species regeneration in abandoned pastures? Location: Island of Hawaii, USA. Methods: In a two-part study we examined the effect of light availability on common native woody and alien grass species found in secondary forests in Hawaii. A field survey was conducted to examine the relationship between light availability and canopy type (open pasture, planted canopy and secondary forest) on understory grass biomass and litter accumulation. We then experimentally manipulated light levels to determine the effect of light availability on growth and survival of six native woody species and three alien grasses. Low-light (5%), medium-light (10%) and high-light (20-30%) treatments were created using shade structures erected beneath the existing secondary koa canopy. Results: In the field survey, alien grass biomass was greatest under the open pasture and lowest in the secondary forest. There was a positive correlation between understory light availability and alien grass biomass. In the experimental study, large reductions in relative growth rates were documented for all of the grass species and four of the six woody species under the lowest light level. Although growth at 5% light is substantially reduced, survival is still high (84-100%), indicating that these species may persist under closed canopy. Conclusion: Low-light conditions result in the greatest reduction in alien grass biomass while creating an environment in which native woody species can grow and survive.
1478969|This paper describes the use of supervised methods for the classification of vegetation. The difference between supervised classification and clustering is outlined, with reference to their current use in vegetation science. In the paper we describe the classification of Danish grasslands according to the Habitats Directive of the European Union, and demonstrate how a supervised classification can be used to achieve a standardized and statistical interpretation within a local flora. We thereby offer a statistical solution to the legal problem of protection of certain selected habitat types. The Habitats Directive protects three types of Danish grassland habitats, whereas two remaining types fall outside protection. A classification model is developed, using available Danish grassland data, for the discrimination of these five types based on their species composition. This new Habitats Directive classification is compared to a previously published unsupervised classification of Danish grassland vegetation. An indicator species analysis is used to find significant indicator species for the three protected habitat types in Denmark, and these are compared to the characteristic species mentioned in the interpretation manual of the Habitats Directive. Eventually, we discuss the pros and cons of supervised and unsupervised classification and conclude that supervised methods deserve more attention in vegetation science.
1479092|In this study we present a new method for predicting the occurrences of species using data from deciduous forests in South Sweden. Complete species lists of vascular plants were compiled from 101 stands and from representative sample plots inside the stands. Soil samples from each stand were collected for determination of pH and nitrogen mineralization. Presence-absence data for species were fitted to the values of four environmental variables - soil moisture, soil reaction (pH), soil nitrogen and light - by means of Linear (Multiple) Logistic Regression (LLR), and Gaussian (Multiple) Logistic Regression (GLR). First, these values were estimated by calculating the weighted averages of Ellenberg indicator values. Second, the estimates for reaction and nitrogen were substituted by the real measurements of pH and mineralized NH
1479073|Piper aduncum is a neotropical invasive species which has spread throughout Papua New Guinea over the past three decades. It has become a most successful alien woody plant in New Guinea, occurring from sea level up to 2000 m a.s.l. The species prefers initial stages of forest succession and is particularly common in recently abandoned gardens representative of a system of swidden agriculture. It often attains high cover, suppresses other pioneer species and becomes the absolute dominant species in these habitats. The species is now also spreading into naturally disturbed habitats far from direct human influence, such as natural tree-fall gaps, land-slides and frequently flooded stream banks. It has, however, never been found in a closed primary forest. The species germinates from faeces of mammal and bird species, and we conclude that dispersal through endozoochory contributes to this species' extraordinary success in Papua New Guinea. A similar invasion behaviour has been documented over a large geographic area, from Malaysia to Fiji. Piper aduncum has attributes which are common amongst successful invasive species: (1) a large native geographic range; (2) aggressively colonizing disturbed habitats in its native area; (3) relatively small seeds; (4) a short juvenile period; (5) a large seed production every year.
4620463|Question: Do case studies from silvicultural and restoration studies and applied conservation management in second-growth Pinus palustris stands provide unique insights for conservation models? Methods: A review of management paradigms that conserve the high biological diversity and rare species, drawn from characteristics in both second-growth and old-growth stands, is presented for fire-maintained Pinus palustris (longleaf pine) forests. Results: A common assumption that old-growth stands provide the primary information for the development of conservation management strategies de-emphasizes lessons learned from second-growth and restoration studies. Primary conservation management goals for the Pinus palustris ecosystem include the perpetual regeneration of the fire-maintained forest and conservation of the characteristically high biological diversity and rare species. Several attributes, such as a sustained population of Picoides borealis (red-cockaded woodpecker), Aristida stricta (wiregrass)-dominated ground cover, and undisturbed upland-wetland ecotones, can predict a diverse and ecologically functional ecosystem. Such indicators are linked to critical structural and functional features of the system and reflect previous land management histories that suggest sustainable approaches. Conclusions: A traditional definition of 'old-growth' relying on overstorey may be limited in describing important features of healthy, diverse Pinus palustris ecosystems. Some characteristics are significantly more important for maintenance of diversity than age of the trees and these features may be present in old or second-growth forests. We advocate that the management history, structural characteristics and landscape context of stands that harbour desirable conservation attributes (red-cockaded woodpeckers, wiregrass, gopher tortoises and undisturbed upland-wetland ecotones) can be used as indicators to identify important conservation and forest management principles.
1479066| A local seed mixture from plants growing in a species-rich, traditionally managed hay meadow site at Varaldsy, Hardanger, western Norway, where many endangered hay meadow species of the region are growing, was sown in a newly harrowed experimental field 1 km from the source meadow in order to increase the habitat area for the endangered species. Of 25 endangered species recorded in the source meadow, only one (Holcus lanatus) was present in the target meadow. After sowing, 16 of the endangered species in addition to Holcus lanatus were recorded in the new site. Six species were only present in sown plots and seven others were more frequent there, while three species might have arrived by chance or originated from the seed bank. Replacing the traditional management regime, including one late cut and grazing in spring and in autumn, with three cutting times and the creation of gaps in the sward, resulted in a higher number of endangered species in plots which were only cut, possibly because the grazing was too intensive in the small enclosures. 
1478950|A technique for fine-scale vegetation mapping with the aid of low-altitude aerial photography was developed. The procedure is as follows: 1. The site is divided into a lattice pattern - in case the site is too large to fit into a single photograph with satisfactory resolution. The coordinates of every lattice point are surveyed to be used as control points for geometric correction. A photograph of each block of the lattice is taken using a remote-controlled camera system lifted by a captive helium balloon. 2. The vegetation is classified on the basis of a phytosociological survey. 3. The shapes and locations of vegetation patches appearing in the photographs are entered into a computer, using a digitizer. A geometric correction is carried out through coordinate transformation referring to the coordinates of the control points and subsequently a draft vegetation map is produced. Finally, discrepancies are corrected and the map is coloured to produce the final version of the vegetation map. This technique was applied to vegetation mapping at a bar, 500 m wide and 2 km long, in the river Yoshino in Shikoku, Japan. A fine-scale vegetation map was obtained and used to analyse the influence of plants on geomorphic processes and community-specific hydrogeomorphic conditions on the bar.
40927794|Question: What are the responses of epiphytic lichens to the intensity of management along a large environmental gradient in Mediterranean Quercus forests? Location: Central Spain. Methods: This study was carried out on 4590 trees located in 306 forest stands dominated by Quercus faginea or Quercus ilex ssp. ballota. The effect of forest management and other predictor variables on several species diversity indicators were studied.Variables modelled were total species richness, cyanolichen richness and community composition. A large number of predictor variables were included: forest fragmentation (patch size, stand variability), climate and topographic (altitude, slope, sun radiation, annual rainfall and mean annual temperature) and intensity of management. General linear models and constrained ordination techniques were used to model community traits and species composition, respectively. Results: Total richness and especially cyanolichens richness were significantly and negatively affected by the intensity of management. Lichen composition was influenced by management intensity, climatic and topographic variables and stand variability. Conclusions: In Mediterranean forests, human activities related to forestry, agricultural and livestock use cause impoverishment of lichen communities, including the local disappearance of the most demanding species. The conservation of unmanaged forests with a dense canopy is crucial for lichen diversity.
25488407|Questions: What is the best grassland management regime for the threatened plant species Gladiolus imbricatus; is the stage structure of local populations a feasible indicator of the effect of changed management. Location: Coastal meadow system in southwestern Estonia. Methods: The effect of five management regimes was studied in a long-term (three-year) field experiment: (1) mowing in late July, (2) grazing by cattle, (3) grazing by sheep, (4) sheep grazing during the first year and mowing during subsequent years, (5) no management (control). Results: The population density increased significantly in response to the mowing treatment and to the mowing after sheep grazing treatment. The proportion of grazed plant individuals was higher in the sheep-grazed than in the cattle-grazed treatment. Generative and vegetative adult individuals of G. imbricatus were significantly more damaged by cattle herbivory than juveniles. All management regimes shifted the population structure towards a dynamic state where juvenile stages dominate, while the not managed control retained a regressive population structure. Conclusions: Population stage structure was a useful indicator of different management conditions, even in the case where population density did not differ. As indicated by population stage structure, the best management regime for G. imbricatus was either mowing in late July only, or alternation of grazing and mowing in different years.
4620456|The well-documented decline of the Pinus palustris ecosystem has resulted from several anthropogenic influences, such as forest clearing (e.g. pine plantation forestry, agriculture) and urban development, both of which are closely related to increases in human populations. Other impacts have arisen from alterations in disturbance regimes responsible for maintaining the structure and function of these ecosystems. Restoration and management of degraded pine savanna ecosystems is critical. Identification of ecological processes that determine the structure and function of the intact system are important because successful restoration efforts should be based on sound scientific understanding. In this paper, we introduce this special issue on the ecology, conservation, and restoration of the Pinus palustris ecosystem. Some global climate change scenarios have suggested that future changes may occur that alter frequency and severity of disturbances such as fires and hurricanes. Such changes may have large effects on pine stands, and ultimately entire Pinus palustris savanna ecosystems, thus presenting further challenges to their sustainable management.
41058030|Questions: What are the interactive effects of flooding and cattle trampling upon the structural attributes and the floristic composition of a plant community? Do the effects on the plant community persist over an extended recovery period? Location: Flooding Pampa grasslands, Argentina (3630' S, 5830'W). Methods: We assessed the effects of 40-d of flooding, trampling and the combination thereof on plant cover and biomass, vertical distribution of foliage and floristic composition in lowland grassland mesocosms. We considered a 120-d recovery period to evaluate the persistence of flooding and trampling effects on the plant community. Results: Flooding, with or without trampling, increased cover and biomass of the graminoid species, especially marsh grasses, which developed a taller canopy, whereas most of the forb species were negatively affected. This was enhanced by trampling, as the aerial biomass of the dominant legume Lotus tenuis decreased by 90%, while three major forb species disappeared. Trampling under flooding conditions did not reduce the total above-ground biomass production, as the growth enhancement of graminoids was enough to compensate for the breakdown of the forbs. Below-ground biomass was lower when both perturbations occurred simultaneously. After 120-d of recovery, graminoids continued to be dominant while the remaining forbs (including L. tenuis) recovered only partially. Below-ground biomass recovered fully at the end of the growing season. Conclusions: The combination of flooding and trampling shifts the community co-dominance of graminoids and forbs towards a persistent dominance of graminoid species. When both perturbations are combined, the above-ground production of the grassland is unaffected and root biomass is rapidly recovered. However, the loss of the legume L. tenuis deserves attention because this is the unique nitrogen-fixing species of the ecosystem, which improves the forage quality for livestock production.
4620470|Question: How to improve reforestation success of Quercus pyrenaica. Location: 1800 m a.s.l., southern Spain. Methods: One-year-old Quercus pyrenaica seedlings were planted using two treatments: (1) bare soil, using a 30-cm diameter augur bit (conventional technique) and (2) under the canopy of a pioneer shrub, Salvia lavandulifolia, using a 12-cm diameter augur bit. Survival and growth were monitored for six years. Our hypothesis is that the use of shrubs as nurse plants is an alternative technique of reforestation with higher success than traditional techniques, in which pre-existing vegetation is usually considered a source of competition. The rationale for the study was that for environments with a dry season, pre-existing vegetation buffers summer drought stress, ameliorates the water status of seedlings and thus usually increases seedling recruitment. Results: Quercus survival was 6.3 x higher when planted under individuals of the pioneer shrub as compared to open areas. Quercus seedlings under shrubs also had shoots 1.8 x longer, while the number of shoots per plant did not differ among treatments. The first summer was the period with the highest mortality (49.1% of seedlings). Summer drought was the main cause of mortality. Conclusions: The use of shrubs as nurse plants for Q.pyrenaica reforestation is a viable technique to increase establishment success. The technique could be similarly useful in other environments with a dry period and for other Quercus species. In addition, this technique offers the advantage of following natural succession, thus minimizing the impact in the community.
1479009| A spatio-temporal variation of vegetation during spontaneous succession was studied in 56 basalt quarries spread over 1800 km
1478986|Temporal variations in the spatial distribution of fine-root mass and nutrient concentrations were studied in recently harvested and mature bamboo savanna sites in the dry tropical Vindhyan region in India. The soil block method and root-free-soil cages were used to investigate fine-root dynamics. The mean annual fine-root biomass was 596 and 690 g/ m
25488435|Question: How do habitat edges and trampling affect mesic (Myrtillus type) understorey vegetation in fragmented urban forests, and what are the relative strengths and spatial extent of these effects? Location: The city of Helsinki, southern Finland. Methods: Vegetation sample plots were placed at different distances from the forest edge. At each distance we selected plots on, next to and away from paths of different levels of wear, and the covers and frequencies of plant species were sampled. We used generalized linear mixed models and ordination techniques to test our hypotheses. Results: The effect of the edge penetrated up to 50 m into the forest interior. Only light effects of trampling were found in seemingly untrampled areas, in addition to the direct effects of trampling on the paths. Both trampling and edge effects changed the forest understorey species composition. Trampling changed plant species composition locally on paths, and provided opportunities for new species to establish in previously unbroken forest vegetation. Urban forest edges were characterised by species better adapted to sunny, warm and dry conditions. These species, such as grasses, replaced more sensitive forest species, such as dwarf shrubs and mosses. We observed a large number of light demanding deciduous trees at the edges, which may be one of the factors increasing soil fertility and consequently promoting the high abundance of fast growing species, such as grasses and herbs related to more fertile site types. Conclusions: We recommend that urban forest fragments left within urban development should be at least 2-3 ha in size and that the shape of the patch and the number of potential recreational users should be taken into account when preserving true forest understorey vegetation from the effects of edges and trampling.
25488410|Question: Is the successional transition from pine to hardwood, which has been inferred from chronosequence plots in previous studies, validated through a time line of satelite imagery? Location: Durham, North Carolina, USA. Methods: We examined successional trends in a time-series of winter-summer pairs of Thematic Mapper imagery from 1986 to 2000. We calculated the normalized difference of vegetation index (NDVI) for winter and summer, as well as the difference between summer and winter NDVI (i.e., summer increment NDVI). A set of approximately 50 forest stands of known age and phenology were used to interpret patterns in winter and summer increment NDVI over successional time, and a continuum was found to exist between pine-dominance and hardwood-dominance. We fitted a series of linear regressions that modeled the change in winter and summer increment NDVI as a function of initial winter and summer increment NDVI, and additional explanatory variables. Results: All regressions were highly significant (P < 0.0001, R = ca. 0.3). Predicted dynamics are in accord with successional theory, with pixels moving from evergreen dominance to deciduous dominance along a line of fairly constant summer NDVI. A large disturbance event that occurred over the course of this study, Hurricane Fran, appeared to slow rates of succession in the short term (1-3 years), but increase the rate of conversion to hardwoods over longer time spans. Conclusions: We conclude that temporal sequences of remote sensing images provide an excellent opportunity for broad-scale monitoring of successional processes, and that continuous metrics of that change are essential to accurate monitoring.
27735085|Questions: How does disturbance and successional age influence richness, size and composition of the soil seed bank? What is the potential contribution of the soil seed bank to the plant community composition on sites differing in their successional age or disturbance intensity? Location: Experimental Botanical Garden of Gttingen University, central Germany. Methods: Above-ground vegetation and soil seed bank were studied on formerly arable fields in a 36-year-old permanent plot study with five disturbance intensities, ranging from yearly ploughing via mowing to long-term uninterrupted succession. We compared species compositions, seed densities and functional features of the seed bank and above-ground vegetation by using several methods in parallel. Results: The seed bank was mainly composed of early successional species typical of strongly disturbed habitats. The difference between seed bank composition and above-ground vegetation decreased with increasing disturbance intensity. The species of greatest quantitative importance in the seed bank was the non-native forb Solidago canadensis. Conclusions: The ability of a plant community to regenerate from the soil seed bank dramatically decreases with increasing time since abandonment (successional age) and with decreasing disturbance intensity. The present study underlines that plant species typical of grasslands and woodlands are limited by dispersal capacity, owing to low capacity for accumulation of seeds in the soil and the fact that most species do not build up persistent seed banks. Rare and target species were almost absent from the seed bank and will, after local elimination, depend on reintroduction for continuation of their presence.
4620497| Question: Is the expansion of Hippopha rhamnoides in coastal dunes associated with a decline in plant species richness, and is this decline best described by a hump-backed relationship between species number and shrub cover? Location: Grey and yellow dunes on the East Frisian islands Spiekeroog and Norderney. Methods: Total plant species richness as well as the number of herbaceous and cryptogam species were determined in 2001 using plots of 16 m size. We compared shrubland plots with varying cover of Hippopha with neighbouring dune grassland plots without shrubs as reference sites. Soil samples were collected to determine the values of some important edaphic variables (pH, organic matter, nitrogen). Results: The shrubland plots with Hippopha had or tended to have lower soil pH and C/N ratios and higher contents of organic matter and nitrogen than the grassland plots. Total species richness was marginally significantly related to the cover of Hippopha in a hump-backed manner on both islands. The pattern was more pronounced for mosses and lichens than for herbaceous species. For all species groups on Spiekeroog and for the herbaceous species on Norderney, the hump-backed relationship was much improved when using the difference in species number between shrubland and grassland plot as a dependent variable. Relationships could be improved by including the soil parameters as co-variables. Species richness was highest at moderate levels of shrub expansion, while it was much reduced in very dense shrubland. The decrease in species number is caused by the decline in grassland species typical of the open dunes, including some rare taxa. Conclusions: The expansion of Hippopha rhamnoides is a serious threat to the plant species richness of open coastal dunes, and needs to be counteracted by management measures. 
1478946|Reconstruction mapping of the natural (primary) vegetation of intensively cultivated land is based on: (1) classification of actually existing remains of natural or near-natural plant communities as mapping units; (2) delimitation of their habitat types; (3) detection of correlations between vegetation units and habitat types. Natural plant communities thus serve as indicators of abiotic habitat conditions. Reconstruction mapping is based on the extrapolation of the potential distribution of individual vegetation units to sites of similar habitat types where the natural vegetation does not exist any more. The same procedure is used for mapping the potential natural vegetation. Both types of natural vegetation maps are identical on sites where the abiotic natural habitat conditions (relief, geological substratum, climate, water regime, soils) remain practically unchanged. On sites where the natural habitat conditions have been considerably changed by man, e.g. in areas with superficial coal mining (complete destruction of the landscape, removal of soil cover, creation of large slag heaps) or in towns, no natural (primary) vegetation exists. This causes difficulties in the hypothetical concept of the potential natural vegetation and its definition. In contrast, in such sites reconstruction vegetation mapping uses the extrapolation of mapping units of the primary vegetation to the original natural habitat conditions.
27735054|Questions: What are the short-term effects of restoration treatments, including fire and/or partial cutting with dead wood creation, on seedling density and distribution among microsites, and do they differ between upland and paludified biotopes? Location: Mature managed Picea abies-dominated stands in southern Finland. Methods: The restoration treatments consisted of four levels of cutting, with and without fire: uncut, low-CWD (partial cutting leaving 50 m3 ha1 of standing retention trees and 5 m3 ha1 of down retention trees, DRT), intermediate-CWD (as previous but with 30 m3 ha1 of DRT), and high-CWD (as previous but with 60 m3 ha1 of DRT). Results: The cutting treatment alone did not affect seedling density. Fire had an immediate effect, both by itself in upland biotopes (decreasing effect on P. abies density) and in combination with cutting in paludified biotopes (increasing effect on Betula spp. density). The density of other deciduous species (Sorbus aucuparia, Populus tremula, and Salix spp.) was not affected. Before treatments, seedlings grew predominantly on level ground and mounds. After treatments, more Betula, but fewer P. abies and other deciduous species, grew on these microsites. More Betula and other deciduous species grew next to CWD and under a fallen crown; more P. abies grew under a fallen crown in unburned stands. Conclusion: The post-treatment tree seedling density and distribution among microsites can be affected by restoration treatments. However, knowledge of local site characteristics and their interaction with different restoration treatments is needed to achieve the goals set for restoration at the stand and landscape levels.
1478951| Grid maps are used as a basic vegetation data base in Japan; they are simplified from vector-based vegetation maps. We estimated the frequency error or lack of information corresponding to reduced resolution and examined the reliable limits of this data base. We produced 10 grid maps on five different scales from 50 m to 1000 m using two different methods using both the whole cell (W-method) and only the central circle (C-method) from a vegetation map at scale 1: 25 000. We found that patches larger than the area of a cell on a vector-based map could be kept almost certainly on any map, but many patches of less than the cell size were lost. The number of missing patches with the C-method is fewer at every scale than those with the W-method. Though the value of Morisita's C  (p) index showed that the similarity with the original map was high - from the 50-m to the 200-m resolution - it was increasingly lower on the 400-m and 1000-m grid maps. The values of the Shannon index on the original map, 50-m and 100-m grid maps were not different, but they decreased from the 200-m to 1000-m grid maps. Because the vegetation data base of the Japanese Environment Agency used a 1000-m C-method grid map, we found that much information on patches less than 100 ha had disappeared. Information about dominant vegetation or large patches is almost accurate in this data base. 
1479026|The role of sheep grazing on vegetation change in upland mires removed from livestock farming and surrounded by conifer plantation was investigated with a grazing trial at Butterburn Flow in northern England. Paired grazed and ungrazed plots from central and peripheral locations were compared over 14 yr. Vegetation data from 34 mires in Kielder Forest provided an ordination framework within which vegetation trends were investigated. A gradient from dry moorland/hummock to wet mire/hollow vegetation dominated this framework and may reflect hydrological variability and structural vegetation differences between the mires. Some species were significantly affected by change in grazing intensity and there were differences between the edge and the centre of the mire. Overall vegetation change depended upon the grazing management and the position of the plots such that the removal of sheep grazing decreased the cover of species typical of wet ombrotrophic conditions, but only at the periphery of the mire. The vegetation in one plot became very similar to that of mires elsewhere in Kielder Forest where sheep were removed several decades ago. Cessation of grazing on upland mires is likely to lead to slow structural and species change in vegetation at the mire edge with a long-term loss of ombrotrophic species. The nature conservation significance of these changes will depend upon whether or not management objectives target natural conditions or wish to maximize ombrotrophic vegetation. The context of external factors such as climate and pollution may, however, be more important in determining site condition on the wettest mires.
40928272|Questions: Does the invasive alien Hedychium gardnerianum (1) replace native understory species, (2) suppress natural regeneration of native plant species, (3) increase the invasiveness of other non-native plants and (4) are native forests are able to recover after removal of H. gardnerianum. Location: A mature rainforest in Hawai'i Volcanoes National Park on the island of Hawai'i (about 1200m a.s.l.; precipitation approximately 2770 mm yr).Study sites included natural plots without effects of alien plants, ginger plots with a H. gardnerianum-dominated herb layer and cleared plots treated with herbicide to remove alien plants. Methods: Counting mature trees, saplings and seedlings of native and alien plant species. Using nonparametric H-tests to compare impact of H. gardnerianum on the structure of different sites. Results: Results confirmed the hypothesis that H. gardnerianum has negative effects on natural forest dynamics. Lower numbers of native tree seedlings and saplings were found on ginger-dominated plots. Furthermore, H. gardnerianum did not show negative effects on the invasive alien tree species Psidium cattleianum. Conclusions: This study reveals that where dominance of H. gardnerianum persists, regeneration of the forest by native species will be inhibited. Furthermore, these areas might experience invasion by P. cattleianum, resulting in displacement of native canopy species in the future, leading to a change in forest structure and loss of other species dependent on natural rainforest, such as endemic birds. However, if H. gardnerianum is removed the native Hawaiian forest is likely to regenerate and regain its natural structure.
4620430| What is the contribution of the seed bank to restoration of species-rich vegetation in oligotrophic wet dune slacks? Does the restoration management affect the seed bank? Calcareous coastal dune slacks at the west coast of The Netherlands. Species composition of the seed bank and the above-ground vegetation was sampled in dune slacks that had a variable extent of groundwater level rise in combination with either topsoil removal or mowing. The seed bank had a high potential for restoration of species-rich vegetation: 60 species were found in the seed bank of which 14 were characteristic of oligotrophic, wet dune vegetation. While topsoil removal almost completely removed the seed bank, groundwater level rise did not permanently submerge the seed bank of species of oligotrophic, wet conditions. Changes in abundance in the established vegetation were unrelated to species abundance in the seed bank. Of all new species establishments in the vegetation relevs, 76% occurred where the species was not found in the seed bank. The chance that presence of a species in the seed bank led to establishment the following year was only 11%. The seed bank was not the dominant source for newly establishing species following the large disturbance that was induced by restoration management. Changes in species abundance after the restoration impact were not related to species abundance in the seed bank, but to ongoing succession and current year dispersal. To attain a high number of new establishments, restoration projects should preferably be planned in the proximity of refuge populations, rather than relying on the seed bank alone. 
1479005|It is remarkable that after many thousands of years of pastoralism in arid and semi-arid savannas, there is still no clear answer to the basic question: Does livestock grazing have more than a marginal effect on the dynamics of arid and semi-arid land vegetation? A small study of semi-arid savanna vegetation along a spatial gradient in grazing pressure, repeated three times over 19 years is used as a basis for discussing the behaviour of dry land vegetation under heavy grazing. Three basic theories are compared: (1) the theory that heavy grazing causes desertification; (2) the theory that heavy grazing causes no directed change in the vegetation of arid and semi-arid rangelands; and (3) the theory that heavy grazing leads to a switch between alternative states of vegetation. On the basis of the current data the first two theories are rejected, but the conclusion is that there is much evidence for a more complex behaviour of dry rangelands under grazing than what is accommodated in any of the three theories. Probably, site-specific properties including interactive and indirect effects of herbivory in the system are important for vegetation development under grazing in arid and semi-arid rangelands.
4620436| Question: We characterized the spatial variability and temporal dynamics of the photosynthetic active radiation absorbed (APAR) by the canopy, a descriptor of ecosystem functioning. Location: Cabo de Gata - Njar Natural Park (CGNNP) (SE Spain). Methods: Ecosystem functioning was characterized for 5 landscape classes using the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) derived from NOAA/AVHRR LAC (1x1 km) images. We also used a 19-year time series of NDVI PAL data (8km x 8km) to analyze the relationship APAR-precipitation inside and outside the park. Results: The vegetation of the CGNNP absorbed less than 20% of the incoming radiation. Plains intercepted 37% and hills 14% less photosynthetic active radiation than mountains, the most productive landscape of the park. CGNNP showed a well-defined growing season with a unique peak of APAR. Plains and piedmont, covered by annual vegetation displayed an earlier development of the leaf area index than the shrublands and grasslands typical of the other landscapes. APAR had a significant relationship with the sum of the precipitation of the current and two previous growing seasons, except for the Plains. Conclusions: The APAR of the areas more modified by humans (outside the park) showed a lower sensitivity to changes in precipitation than those under protection. The differences were higher if the accumulated precipitation of the previous three growing seasons was considered. The description of such differences in the response of absorbed PAR to water availability are proposed as the base of a monitoring system for semi-arid and arid areas. 
1478903|Due to economic pressures and policy changes Lolium perenne-Trifolium repens sown swards in upland UK sheep systems are likely to become less intensively managed. We present results from the first 5 yr of a long-term experiment studying vegetation change under more extensive grazing management at three sites. One treatment was representative of current, intensive management and 5 were unfertilized with different intensities of seasonal grazing. The species composition of unfertilized, ungrazed swards changed dramatically within 2 yr and the sown species had virtually disappeared by year 5. Ranunculus repens, Poa trivialis, Agrostis gigantea, Juncus spp. and Carex spp. became dominant at the wettest site. Grasses were dominant at the other sites. In contrast, the sown species were retained in the unfertilized, grazed treatments; there were small shifts in abundance of the species present initially and few additions or losses of species. Some colonizing species were present in the seed bank whereas others with a transient seed bank appeared to have invaded from neighbouring vegetation. Implications of these results for compensation schemes to reduce animal output and increase biodiversity are discussed.
40927812|Question: Is it possible to translate vegetation maps into reliable thematic maps of site conditions? Method: This paper presents a new method, called Iteratio, by which a coherent spatial overview of specific environmental conditions can be obtained from a comprehensive vegetation survey of a specific area. Iteratio is a database application which calculates environmental indicator values for vegetation samples (relevs) on the basis of known indicator values of a limited number of plant species. The outcome is then linked to a digitalized vegetation map (map of plant communities) which results in a spatial overview of site conditions. Iteratio requires the indicator values of a minimum of 10-20% of the species occurring. The species are given a relative weight according to their amplitudes: species with a narrow range are weighted stronger, species with a broad range are weighted weaker. Conclusion: The method presented here enables a coherent assessment of site conditions on the basis of a vegetation survey and the indicator values of a limited number of plant species.
4620416|Question: Do large herbivores contribute to the dispersal of plant seeds between isolated habitats by epizoochory? Location: Nature reserves in Flanders, Belgium. Methods: Epizoochory was studied by brushing plant seeds from the fur of 201 domesticated large herbivores (Galloway cattle, donkeys and horses), grazing in 27 Flemish nature reserves. Several herbivores were examined after transport between different nature reserves as part of the seasonal grazing system in Flanders, allowing detection of seed dispersal both within and between reserves. The seedling emergence method was used to identify the dispersed plant species. Results: In total, 6385 epizoochorous seeds from 75 species germinated, yet the real seed quantity was underestimated by the seedling emergence method. A wide variety of seed morphology, seed weights and plant heights was represented among the dispersed species, many of which had a transient seed bank. There was a gradual turnover in epizoochorous species composition in the course of the vegetation season, and seed dispersal occurred both within and between different nature reserves. Conclusions: Domesticated large herbivores, as models for wild mammals in the present and the past, are important dispersers of many plant species. Through seasonal grazing, the herbivores function as 'mobile link organisms', connecting isolated nature reserves through seed dispersal, possibly influencing vegetation development and long-term survival of plant populations. As such, large herbivores are important instruments in ecological restoration, especially in fragmented ecosystems.
40928275|Question: What was the role of fire in montane pineoak (Pinus-Quercus) stands under changing human land uses on a temperate forest landscape in eastern North America? Location: Mill Mountain in the central Appalachian Mountains, Virginia, US. Methods: A dendroecological reconstruction of fire history was generated for four stands dominated by xerophytic pine and oak species. The fire chronology began under presettlement conditions following aboriginal depopulation. Subsequent land uses included European settlement, iron mining, logging, and US Forest Service acquisition and fire protection. Results: Fires occurred approximately every 5 years until 1930 without any evidence of a temporal trend in fire frequency. Burning ceased after 1930. Areawide fires affecting multiple pine stands were common, occurring at intervals of approximately 16 years. Most living pines became established during the late 1800s and early 1900s. Dead pines indicated that an older cohort established ca. 1730.Most hardwoods were established between the 1920s and 1940s. Conclusions: Except for fire protection, changes in land use had no discernible influence on fire frequency.Lightning ignitions and/or large fire extent may have been important for maintaining frequent burning in the 1700s, while fuel recovery may have constrained fire frequency during later periods. The disturbance regime appears to be characterized by frequent surface fires and occasional severe fires, insect outbreaks or other disturbances followed by pine recruitment episodes. Industrial disturbances appear to have had little influence on the pine stands. The greatest impact of industrial society is fire exclusion, which permitted hardwood establishment.
1478931|A 44-yr record of herbaceous vegetation change was analysed for three contrasting grazing regimes within a semi-arid savanna to evaluate the relative contribution of confined livestock grazing and climatic variability as agents of vegetation change. Grazing intensity had a significant, directional effect on the relative composition of short- and mid-grass response groups: their composition was significantly correlated with time since the grazing regimes were established. Interannual precipitation was not significantly correlated with response group composition. However, interannual precipitation was significantly correlated with total plant basal area while time since imposition of grazing regimes was not, but both interannual precipitation and time since the grazing regimes were established were significantly correlated with total plant density. Vegetation change was reversible even though the herbaceous community had been maintained in an altered state for ca. 60 yr by intensive livestock grazing. However, ca. 25 yr were required for the mid-grass response group to recover following the elimination of grazing and recovery occurred intermittently. The increase in mid-grass composition was associated with a significant decrease in total plant density and an increase in mean individual plant basal area. Therefore, we failed to reject the hypotheses based on the proportional change in relative response group composition with grazing intensity and the distinct effects of grazing and climatic variability on response group composition, total basal area and plant density. Long-term vegetation change indicates that grazing intensity established the long-term directional change in response group composition, but that episodic climate events defined the short-term rate and trajectory of this change and determines the upper limit on total basal area. The occurrence of both directional and non-directional vegetation responses were largely a function of (1) the unique responses of the various community attributes monitored and (2) the distinct temporal responses of these community attributes to grazing and climatic variation. This interpretation supports previous conclusions that individual ecosystems may exist in equilibrial and non-equilibrial states at various temporal and spatial scales.
4620490|Can the biodiversity of fens in Europe and North America be maintained through the use of grazing (especially cattle grazing), fire, and/or cutting? European and North American fens. This paper is a review of the literature on the effects of grazing, fire and cutting on fens, to explore the relationship between management and biodiversity in fens. A reduction of cattle grazing, mowing and burning in fens has led to a reduction in biodiversity in fens. The vegetation of abandoned fens shifts to trees and shrubs after 10-15 years, which shade the smaller and rarer species of these wetlands. While careful use of fire is used to manage fens in North America, it is not widely used in European fens, perhaps because the peat of drained fens may catch fire. Cattle grazing cannot be considered a natural disturbance in North America, since cattle did not evolve on that continent. In Europe, cattle do not generally graze in unaltered fens, but they do use slightly drained fen meadows. Three approaches have been used to control the dominance of tall woody and herbaceous species in abandoned fens, including the re-introduction of cattle, mowing, and burning. Overgrazing results in a permanent reduction in biodiversity, therefore cattle re-introduction must be approached cautiously. In Europe, but not in North America, mowing has been an important management tool, and mowing has been successful in maintaining species richness, particularly in fens that have been mowed annually for centuries. Fire has been the most common and successful management tool in North America although it is not effective in removing shrubs that have become large. Because the problems and solutions are similar, the literature of both European and North American fen management can be analyzed to better assess the management of fens on both continents. Many management questions require further study and these are listed in the paper.
25488418|Question: Is Opuntia stricta more frequent, and its patches larger, under trees suitable for baboon roosting? If so, does it mean that baboons are major dispersal agents and that plants established under these trees are important foci of Opuntia stricta spread? Location: Skukuza, Kruger National Park, South Africa. Method: We surveyed an area invaded by Opuntia stricta in the Skukuza region of KNP. The survey included plots under potential baboon roosting trees, plots under trees unlikely to support baboons, and paired randomly located open sites. Results: The null hypothesis - tree-Opuntia spatial independence - can be rejected for Acacia nilotica, but not for Spirostachys africana. Opuntia plants are positively associated with Acacia trees suitable for baboon roosting. However, there is no significant difference between frequency of Opuntia under Acacia trees suitable and unsuitable for baboon roosting. It appears that all Acacia trees can serve as nurse trees for Opuntia. Compared to plots under Acacia trees, frequencies of old and robust Opuntia plants are significantly higher in open areas and under dead trees. Conclusions: While baboons may be responsible for long distance Opuntia dispersal (over km), their role is not detectable at a local scale. On the other hand, elephants seem to contribute substantially to the local vegetative propagation of this species. Opuntia establishment and growth are more influenced by micro-habitat than previously thought.
4620449| Question: Can prescribed winter burning compensate atmospheric nutrient loads for dry heathlands? What effects does prescribed burning have on nutrient balances, particularly as regards the limiting nutrients N and P? Location: Lueneburg Heath, NW Germany. Methods: In two burning experiments (in 10/15 year old Calluna-stands) nutrient balances (for N, Ca, K, Mg, P) were calculated by analysing nutrient inputs (atmospheric deposition, ash deposition), nutrient stores (above-ground biomass, organic horizon) and nutrient outputs (biomass combustion, leaching). Results: Atmospheric nutrient deposition amounted to 22.8 kg.ha.a for N and < 0.5 kg.ha.a for P. Nutrient stores in the above-ground biomass were 95/197 kg.ha for N and 5/13 kg.ha for P (first/second experiment, respectively). From these stores 90/53% (for N) and 25/14% (for P) were removed by burning. Effects of leaching on nutrient balances were low. In the first two years after burning, leaching rates of N increased by about 4/6 kg.ha, whereas leaching rates of P did not change significantly. Input/output-ratios showed that prescribed burning leads to positive nutrient balances for N, Ca and Mg in the long term. For example, the amounts of N removed by prescribed burning are equivalent to ca. five years of atmospheric inputs. Applied in ten-year cycles, this measure alone cannot prevent N accumulation in the long term. Conclusion: Regarding 10/15 year old Calluna-heaths, we assume that prescribed burning cannot compensate for atmospheric N inputs, thus making long-term changes in the nutritional state inevitable. Therefore, prescribed burning should be applied in combination with high-intensity management measures. 
1478917|Recently established forests are commonly characterized by an impoverished understorey. Restoration is mostly based on spontaneous secondary succession, but little is known about the time period needed to achieve a community species pool with species composition equal to that of ancient forests. Vegetation in transects of 197 plots in 13 recent forest stands contiguous to the Meerdaalwoud ancient forest complex was surveyed. The recent forest stands ranged in age from 36 to 132 yr. The community species pool was described with an ecological, functional and phytosociological approach and based on groups derived from a CCA. Differences in community species pool between age classes of recent forest stands were analysed. During establishment of a new forest competitive species, forest edge species and species with high Ellenberg values for light and nitrogen and a more persistent seed bank will dominate the understorey. After 90 yr of succession the cover by these species decreases and reaches equal values to ancient forest after ca. 105 yr. A large number of forest species will be able to colonize the forest in less than 90 yr. Some typical forest species, however, have very low colonization rates and still have low cover in recent forest more than 105 yr old, so that complete restoration of the understorey requires a time period of over a century. Anthropogenic introduction of forest plant species may reduce the time required for ancient forest vegetation equality.
25488481|Question: Which factors determine diversity of native and alien vascular plant species in semi-natural dry grasslands? Location: Northern limestone Alps to the southern rim of the Bohemian massif in northern Austria. Methods: In 70 randomly chosen dry grassland patches (0.008 ha - 7 ha) we sampled a complete inventory of vascular plant species at each site. We analysed the correlation between species diversity of natives, archaeophytes (pre-1500 aliens) and neophytes (post-1500 aliens). We used GLM to study the relationship of species number (natives, neophytes, archaeophytes) to five explanatory variables (altitude, within habitat diversity, habitat diversity of adjacent areas, within land-use diversity and land-use in adjacent areas). Orthogonal components of these variables were derived with a PCA and used in the models. We also tested the influence of minimum residence time (MRT) and the covariables origin, mode of introduction and life form on the number of grassland sites with neophytes with analogous GLMs. Results: Native species diversity species was positively correlated with the species diversity of new, but not old invaders. GLM explains 70% of the variance in the number of native species. Patch size explained the largest part of the variation in the number of native species. PCA axes 1 and 3 were significantly related to the number of native species. Axis 1 was related to on-site habitat and land-use diversity. The GLM of the archaeophyte diversity explains 18% of the variance. Altitude and presence of fields and grassland in the neighbourhood mainly explained archaeophyte species diversity. The GLM of neophyte diversity explains 12% of the variance. The number of neophytes was positively related to that of archaeophytes. Only PCA axis 3, which is mainly influenced by adjacent land-use types, showed a relationship with neophytes. MRT, mode of introduction and region of origin (but not life form) were significantly related to the number of grassland sites invaded by neophytes, explaining 35% of the variance. Conclusion: Most factors governing native species diversity are not significantly related to alien species diversity. Additional determinants of the local scale diversity of alien species exist such as region of origin and historical factors (MRT, mode of introduction).
1478888|The possible use of fire for the management of the Ankarafantsika Reserve in the northwest of Madagascar and of its surrounding area is studied. Within this savanna landscape large parts of the remaining dry forests still exist with a unique biotic diversity, both in terms of total number of species and endemism. Unfortunately, mainly man-induced uncontrolled fires threaten these forests. Actual and former fire regimes of the local communities are analysed. The use of fire is an integrated part of land use and is also governed by socio-cultural traditions. The impact of fire on the dynamics of dry forests and grass savannas is studied considering the specifics of different fire regimes. We propose that a deliberate and controlled use of fire respecting the vegetation stage and the defined objectives could be an appropriate management tool. The strategy of a fire management is elaborated considering both the conservation of biodiversity and improvement of the livelihood of the local population depending upon the Reserve's resources. Obviously, a sustainable management of the natural resources requires a substantial participation of the community.
40927826|Question: To what extent can aerial photography be used for taxonomic identification of Amazonian tree crowns? Objective: To investigate whether a combination of dichotomous keys and a web-based interface is a suitable approach to identify tree crowns. Location: The fieldwork was conducted at Tiputini Biodiversity Station located in the Amazon, eastern Ecuador. Methods: High-resolution imagery was taken from an airplane flying at a low altitude (600 m) above the ground. Imagery of the observable upper layer of the tree crowns was used for the analysis. Dichotomous identification keys for different types of crowns were produced and tested. The identification keys were designed to be web-based interactive, using Google Earth as the main online platform. The taxa analysed were Iriartea, Astrocaryum, Inga, Parkia, Cecropia, Pourouma, Guarea, Otoba, Lauraceae and Pouteria. Results: This paper demonstrates that a combination of photo-imagery, dichotomous keys and a web-based interface can be useful for the taxonomic identification of Amazonian trees based on their crown characteristics. The keys tested with an overall identification accuracy of over 50% for five of the ten taxa with three of them showing accuracy greater than 70% (Iriartea, Astrocaryum and Cecropia). Conclusions: The application of dichotomous keys and a web-based interface provides a new methodological approach for taxonomic identification of various Amazonian tree crowns. Overall, the study showed that crowns with a medium-rough texture are less reliably identified than crowns with smoother or well-defined surfaces.
25488475|Questions: Does the increased atmospheric deposition of nitrogen, which can have major effects on the established vegetation of nutrient-poor habitats, also impact germination from the soil seed bank? Location: Coastal dune slacks at Newborough Warren, Wales, UK. Methods: The effects of nitrogen addition (15 kg.ha.a) on seed germination from the soil seed bank were investigated using the seedling emergence method between September 2004 and February 2005. Results: More seedlings emerged from fertilised samples than unfertilised controls. Most species showed enhanced germination after fertilisation with nitrogen, with seedling numbers statistically significantly greater in nitrogen addition samples in a quarter of species abundant enough for analysis. Species that responded positively to fertilisation were species with low Ellenberg indicator values indicative of infertile sites. Conclusions: Most species showed increased germination after fertilisation with nitrogen, including early successional species normally growing in nutrient-poor conditions. This suggests that the increased atmospheric deposition of nitrogen probably not only impacts on established vegetation, but also has the potential to alter seed bank dynamics.
4620429|Which factors affect the spatial variation of maquis and phryganic vegetation and how can the role of human activities be estimated through degradation models. Island of Sifnos, Cyclades, Greece. Data on woody vegetation, environmental conditions and intensity of human activity were collected by field survey. The vegetation data were analysed using TWINSPAN. Models based on the combination of Canonical Variate Analysis and logistic regressions were used in order to examine and describe the different pathways of maquis degradation. The spatial variation of maquis and phryganic vegetation was related to both environmental and disturbance factors. The replacement of maquis by phryganic vegetation can follow two different pathways which reflect differences on the environmental conditions. However, the pathways them-selves are determined by the combinations and levels of disturbance only. Degradation models can provide essential information on the effects of human activities on the vegetation. Maquis vegetation is relatively tolerant of disturbance, however, if disturbance exceeds certain critical thresholds, maquis is replaced by phryganic vegetation. The presence of phryganic vegetation is not always the result of maquis degradation.
1479041| Sheep grazing was investigated as an alternative to traditional management of meadows in the Krkonoe Mts. Until the second World War these meadows were mown in mid-summer and grazed by cattle for the rest of the season. Subsequent abandonment of the meadows has resulted in decreasing species richness. Degradation phases of the former communities have been replacing the original species-rich vegetation. Significant changes were apparent six years after the introduction of sheep grazing. In grazed plots the proportion of dominant herbs (Polygonum bistorta and Hypericum maculatum) decreased and grasses (Deschampsia cespitosa, Festuca rubra, Agrostis capillaris, Anthoxanthum alpinum) increased. The increase in grasses was positively correlated with an increase in several herbs. The proportion of some herbs increased despite being selectively grazed (Adenostyles alliariae, Melandrium rubrum, Veratrum lobelianum). Any losses caused by grazing of mature plants were probably compensated by successful seedling establishment. Cessation of grazing resulted in significant changes in vegetation within three years. The cover of nitrophilous tall herbs and grasses (e.g. Rumex alpestris, Holcus mollis, Deschampsia cespitosa, Geranium sylvaticum) increased in the abandoned plots. In the plots grazed for nine years cover of species-rich mountain meadow species increased (e.g. fine-leaved grasses, Campanula bohemica, Potentilla aurea, Viola lutea, Silene vulgaris). The main conservation risk is the expansion of a competitive species with low palatability, Deschampsia cespitosa. This species can be suppressed by a combination of grazing and mowing. In order for grazing to be effective, the number of sheep should be proportional to meadow production. This may be difficult to maintain as production is variable and is impossible to predict at the beginning of a growing season. A large part of the biomass may thus remain intact in some years. Negative effects of grazing may be, at least partly, eliminated by a combination of cutting and grazing. 
4620506| Question: What is the impact of the presence of Rhinanthus minor on forb abundance in newly established swards? Location: Wetherby, West Yorkshire, UK (5355' N, 122' W). Method: A standard meadow mix containing six forbs and six grasses was sown on an ex-arable field and immediately over-sown using a randomised plot design with three densities of Rhinanthus minor (0, 600, and 1000 seeds per m). Above-ground biomass was analysed over a period of three years, while detailed assessments of sward composition were performed during the first two years. Results: Values of grass biomass were reduced in the presence of Rhinanthus, especially at the higher sowing density. The ratio of grass:forb biomass was also lower in association with Rhinanthus, but only at the higher sowing density. The presence of Rhinanthus had no effect on species number or diversity, which decreased between years regardless of treatment. Conclusions: Although not tested in a multi-site experiment, the benefit of introducing Rhinanthus into newly established swards to promote forb abundance was determined. The efficacy of Rhinanthus presence is likely to depend on whether species not susceptible to the effects of parasitism are present. 
27735049|Questions: Have the natural plant communities of two mined bogs experienced changes in composition and richness over a three-decade period, and are these changes associated with anthropogenic disturbances? Location: Bas-Saint-Laurent region, southeastern Qubec, Canada. Methods: We monitored three decades of floristic changes in two disturbed bogs by revisiting 57 plots in 1998, which were previously sampled in 1965 and 1966. Changes in species richness and composition were evaluated using Wilcoxon signed rank tests, principal component analysis and partial redundancy analyses (pRDA). We also used pRDA and an indicator species analysis to determine which species had undergone the greatest changes over time. Variation partitioning was used to evaluate the relative influence of human disturbance in compositional change. Results: The main changes in the vegetation of the two bogs were 1) a decrease of overall species diversity, 2) an increase in the percent cover of trees and of species tolerant of shade or drought, and 3) a decrease in the cover of heliophilous species. Picea mariana, Sphagnum fuscum and Pleurozium schreberi increased in percent cover while Chamaedaphne calyculata and Sphagnum rubellum decreased in percent cover. Variation partitioning suggested that human activities had a significant impact on vegetation composition. Conclusion: The results indicated that substantial changes occurred in the vegetation of the natural fragments of these severely disturbed bogs. Although human activities were partially responsible for the changes, our study suggested that the drying of the peat surface due to drought during the 1960s and 1980s may have contributed to the vegetation changes.
41058031|Question: How resilient is the seed bank of an invaded dune system? Is that resilience dependent on duration of invasion? How does the accumulated litter layer contribute to the soil seed bank? Location: Coastal sand dunes invaded by Acacia longifolia, Portugal. Methods: Seedling emergence was used to quantify and compare soil seed banks in long-invaded, recently invaded and non-invaded areas. Changes in seed banks were also compared with areas where A. longifolia and the litter layer were removed. Results: Species richness, seedling density and diversity were higher in noninvaded and recently-invaded areas than in long-invaded areas. Although there was an apparent similarity between non-invaded and recently-invaded areas, analyses of species traits revealed differences. Non-invaded areas had a wider array of traits. Exotic/invasive species dominated invaded seed banks while native species dominated non-invaded seed banks. Life forms, growth forms, longevity and dispersal mode showed differences between areas, with cleared plots of long-invaded areas being apparently the most similar to noninvaded plots. Acacia longifolia seeds were most abundant in long-invaded areas, particularly where the litter layer remained. Removal of A. longifolia plus the litter had little effect on the seed bank composition of recently-invaded areas but resulted in noticeable changes in seed banks of long-invaded areas. Conclusions: Long-invaded areas are less resilient and show a higher reinvasion potential, despite severe alteration of the seed banks of both areas. Seed bank studies can be a useful tool to guide management, but can give misleading results when invasion periods are protracted.
27735042|Question: What is the best way to model savanna dynamics? Specifically, under what conditions is a traditional succession model, i.e., a model of ordered, uni-directional change in the plant community, better than a state-and-transition model? Location: Central Texas savannas. Methods: We describe three examples of successional processes in central Texas savannas: (a) woody plant encroachment, (b) invasion by a non-native grass, and (c) establishment of different grass species in highly disturbed sites. Results and Conclusions: Savanna dynamics are now commonly conceptualized with state-and-transition models. However, in some situations a traditional succession model may be more appropriate or more useful. Succession models may better fit current ecological reality, as found in central Texas. Succession models emphasize transient dynamics rather than an (often unknown) endpoint, and direct us towards relevant literature from non-savanna ecosystems. Succession models may be particularly useful for land management and restoration, and where woody plant encroachment and/or invasions by non-native species control vegetation dynamics.
40927820|Questions: How are the early survival and growth of seedlings of Everglades tree species planted in an experimental setting on artificial tree islands affected by hydrology and substrate type? What are the implications of these responses for broader tree island restoration efforts? Location: Loxahatchee Impoundment Landscape Assessment (LILA), Boynton Beach, Florida, USA. Methods: An experiment was designed to test hydrological and substrate effects on seedling growth and survivorship. Two islands  a peat and a limestonecore island representing two major types found in the Everglades  were constructed in four macrocosms. A mixture of eight tree species was planted on each island in March of 2006 and 2007. Survival and height growth of seedlings planted in 2006 were assessed periodically during the next two and a half years. Results: Survival and growth improved with increasing elevation on both tree island substrate types. Seedlings' survival and growth responses along a moisture gradient matched species distributions along natural hydrological gradients in the Everglades. The effect of substrate on seedling performance showed higher survival of most species on the limestone tree islands, and faster growth on their peat-based counterparts. Conclusions: The present results could have profound implications for restoration of forests on existing landforms and artificial creation of tree islands. Knowledge of species tolerance to flooding and responses to different edaphic conditions present in wetlands is important in selecting suitable species to plant on restored tree islands
1479047| This paper reports on vegetation dynamics on terrestrial, temperate grassland sites at the upper range of the productivity scale, i.e. on abandoned sewage fields (fields once used for waste water disposal) at Berlin-Blankenfelde, Germany. I studied regeneration and the influence of different management practices (removal of top soil and mowing in late summer). Changes in species composition and cover were followed on permanent plots of 2m  2m size through five years of vegetation development. At the outset of the experiment the abandoned fields were dominated by dense Urtica dioica/Elymus repens stands. Species richness was 7 species/4 m
40927799|Questions: How does draining affect the composition of vegetation? Are certain functional groups favoured? Can soil parameters explain these differences? Location: Central Faroe Islands, treeless islands in the northern boreal vegetation zone. Since 1987, an area of 21km at 100200 m a. s. l. was drained in order to provide water for hydro-electric production. Method: Vegetation and soil of a drained area and a control, undrained neighbouring area of approximately the same size were sampled in 2007. Six sites were sampled in each area. The vegetation was classified with cluster analysis. Results: Four plant communities were defined in the area: Calluna vulgarisEmpetrum nigrum-Vaccinium myrtillus heath, Scirpus cespitosusEriophorum angustifolium blanket mire, Carex bigelowii-Racomitrium lanuginosum moss-heath, Narthecium ossifragum-Carex panacea mire. Heath was more extensively distributed within, and was the dominant community of the drained area, whereas mossheath was more extensive in the undrained area.Blanket mire and mire had approximately the same distribution in both areas. For the blanket mire, species composition indicated drier conditions in the drained than in the undrained area. The drained area had higher frequencies of woody species and lichens, grasses had finer roots and available soil phosphate was considerably higher, whereas the undrained area had higher frequencies of grasses and sedges. Conclusion: The dominant plant communities were different in the two areas, which indicated that the blanket mire was drying in the drained area. Higher concentration of soil phosphate in the drained area also indicated increased decomposition of organic soils owing to desiccation.
41058028|Question: Does clear-felling influence forest herb colonization into postagricultural forest? Location: A stand of poplar cultivars with a dense understorey of Acer pseudoplatanus in Muizen forest (northern Belgium), planted in 1952 on farmland adjacent to ancient forest and clear-felled in 1997. Methods: Shade-tolerant forest herbs were surveyed in 112 grid-based sample plots: just before clear-felling, and 5 and 10yr afterwards. Shade-tolerant herbs were subdivided into ancient forest species (AFS) and other shade-tolerant species (OSS). Effects of clear-felling on species number per plot, total cover per plot and colonization rate of species groups were compared using nonparametrical tests. Species number per plot was modelled by means of generalized linear mixed models (GLMMs), with inventory time, distance to the nearest parcel edge, and cover of light-loving species (LS) as explanatory variables. The C-S-R signature (competitive, stress-tolerant and ruderal strategies, respectively) shift of sample plots was calculated on the selected shadetolerant species. Results: Frequency of most species increased during the 10-yr period. Number of OSS increased more and faster than that of AFS. OSS increased to the level of the adjacent forest, but was lower where LS cover remained high. There was a positive correlation between the change of the colonization rate and the competitive plant strategy. Conclusions: We assume that clear-felling stimulated generative reproduction of shade-tolerant herbs, whereas quickly emerging woody species controlled competitive exclusion by LS. Succession of dark and light phases, such as provided by an understorey managed as a coppice, could promote colonization of shade-tolerant herbs into post-agricultural forest.
4620494| Question: Will a non-indigenous, invasive, understorey shrub, such as Lonicera maackii (Amur honeysuckle) have an impact on the productivity of overstorey trees in hardwood forests? Location: Trees from 12 invaded and four non-invaded sites were sampled in hardwood forests of southwestern Ohio, US. Methods: Changes in radial and basal area tree growth in the ten years prior to L. maackii invasion vs. ten years after invasion were examined using dendrochronological techniques. Intervention analysis was used to detect growth changes 25 years prior to and 25 years following invasion, and estimates of load impacts for L. maackii population and biomass were also calculated. Results: We found that the rate of radial and basal area growth of overstorey trees was reduced significantly in eleven out of twelve invaded sites. Non-invaded sites did not exhibit this consistent pattern of reduced growth. For invaded vs. non-invaded sites, the mean basal area growth was reduced by 15.8%, and the overall rate of basal area growth was reduced by 53.1%. Intervention analysis revealed that the first significant growth reductions were 6.25  1.24 (mean  SE) years after invasion with the greatest frequency of negative growth changes occurring 20 years after invasion. In invaded stands, 41% of trees experienced negative growth changes. In terms of invasive load estimates per 1000 L. maackii individuals, radial tree growth was reduced by 0.56 mm.a, and basal area growth was reduced by 0.74 cm.a. Given these findings, significant economic losses could occur in hardwood forests of Ohio. Conclusions: To our knowledge, this is the first study using dendrochronological techniques to investigate the impact of a non-indigenous, understorey plant on overstorey tree growth. Active management will likely be needed to maintain forest productivity in L. maackii impacted landscapes. 
25488450|Question: Do anthropogenic disturbances interact with local environmental factors to increase the abundance and frequency of invasive species, which in turn exerts a negative effect on native biodiversity? Location: Mature Quercus-Carya and Quercus-Carya-Pinus (oak-hickory-pine) forests in north Mississippi, USA. Methods: We used partial correlation and factor analysis to investigate relationships between native ground cover plant species richness and composition, percent cover of Lonicera japonica, and local and landscape-level environmental variables and disturbance patterns in mature upland forests. We directly measured vegetation and environmental variables within 34 sampling subplots and quantified the amount of tree cover surrounding our plots using digital color aerial photography. Results: Simple bivariate correlations revealed that high species richness and a high proportion of herbs were associated with low Lonicera japonica cover, moist and sandy uncompacted soils, low disturbance in the surrounding landscape, and periodic prescribed burning. Partial correlations and factor analysis showed that once we accounted for the environmental factors, L. japonica cover was the least important predictor of composition and among the least important predictors of species richness. Hence, much of the negative correlation between native species diversity and this invasive species was explained by soil texture and local and landscape-level land-use practices. Conclusions: We conclude that negative correlations between the abundance of invasive species and native plant diversity can occur in landscapes with a gradient of human disturbance, regardless of whether there is any negative effect of invasive species on native species.
40927798|Question: Our knowledge of secondary old-field succession in Mediterranean environments is extremely poor and is non-existent for restrictive soil conditions. How these ecosystems, such as those on semi-arid gypsum outcrops, recover seems a priority for managing change and for ensuring conservation of specialized and endangered biota. We tested whether reinstallation of gypsum vegetation after cropland abandonment requires: (1) soil physical restructuring and (2) chemical readjustment to enable growth and survival of specialized gypsophilous vegetation, and more specifically how time from abandonment drives such environmental change. Location: We sampled a complete set of old fields on gypsum soils (160 yr since abandonment) in Villarrubia de Santiago (Toledo, Spain). Methods: Generalized linear models and model comparisons were used to analyse the effect of several environmental parameters on species abundance and richness. Ordination methods (canonical correspondence analyses and partial canonical correspondence analyses) were undertaken to evaluate compositional variation among the sampled fields. Results: Secondary old-field succession on semi-arid Mediterranean gypsum soils was controlled by a complex set of factors acting relatively independently.Surprisingly, time since abandonment explains only a small proportion of compositional variation (3%). Conversely, soil chemical features independently from time since abandonment are important for explaining differences found in oldfield composition. Conclusions: Secondary succession on specialized Mediterranean soils does not follow the widely described "amelioration" process in which soil features and composition are closely related over time.Restrictive soil conditions control both structure and functioning of mature communities and also secondary succession.
41318184|Aim: To present a first description of plant communities of the Tibetan alpine steppes based on floristically complete vegetation records as a baseline reference for future ecological and palaeoecological studies. These constitute the world's largest alpine biome, but their vegetation is virtually unknown. Due to their vast extent, they are relevant for functioning of large-scale climatic systems. In turn, arid and alpine biomes are suspected to be highly sensitive to ongoing climate change, underwent climate-driven changes during the Last Glacial Maximum and have been subject to overgrazing and desertification. Location: Northwestern Tibetan highlands (China: Xizang, Qinghai), 4200 to 5400 m a.s.L., total area ca. 800 000 km. Methods: Two hundred and fifty-three vegetation records with absolute percentage cover were classified based on expert knowledge and analysed by DCA; composition of plant functional types related to grazing resilience was also assessed. Results: Ten communities of alpine steppe were distinguished. A set of 11 alpine steppe species is distributed throughout the highlands, with a precipitation gradient between 350 mm yr -1 (southeast) and 20 to 50 mm yr -1 (northwest). The elevational range of more than 80% of species is larger than 1000 m. The data set comprises 30% endemic species, with ten endemic genera. Conclusions: The wide thermal and hygric range of many species and high rate of endemism do not support the idea of high sensitivity to climate change or occurrence of past climate-driven extinctions. The prevailing plant functional types are grazing resilient, and evidence for overgrazing is very limited. Cushion plants and dwarf shrubs, however, become increasingly rare around settlements, because they are uprooted for fuel. Hence, the world's largest arid alpine biome is apparently resilient to climatic changes and grazing. This contradicts common perceptions about arid and alpine ecosystems and therefore deserves intense multi-disciplinary research efforts.
1478963|Various attempts have been made to describe and map the vegetation of southern Africa with recent efforts having an increasingly ecologi cal context. Vegetation classification is usually based on vegetation physiognomy and floristic composition, but phenology is useful source of information which is rarely used, although it can contribute functional information on ecosystems. The objectives of this study were to identify a suite of variables derived from time-series NDVI data that best describe the phenological phenomena of vegetation in southern Africa and, secondly, to assess a classification of pixels of the study area based on NDVI variables using a pre-existing map of the biomes that was delimited on the basis of life forms and climate. A number of variables were derived from the satellite data for describing phenological phenomena, which were analysed by multivariate techniques to determine which variables best explained the variation in the satellite data. This set of variables was used to produce a phenological classification of the vegetation of southern Africa, the results of which are discussed in relation to their concordance with the existing biome boundaries.
25488457|Question: How does agricultural land usage affect plant species diversity in semi-natural buffer strips at multiple scales? Location: Lepsm River watershed, Nurmijrvi, Southern Finland. Methods: Species diversity indicators included both richness and evenness. Plant communities in buffer strips were surveyed in 29 sampling sites. Using ArcGIS Desktop 9.0 (ArcInfo) and Fragstats 3.3 for GIS analysis, the landscape composition around each sampling site was characterized by seven parameters in square sectors at five scales: 4, 36, 100, 196, and 324 ha. For each scale, Principle Component Analysis was used to examine the importance of each structural metric to diversity indicators using multiple regression and other simple analyses. Results: For all but the smallest scales (4 ha), two structural metrics including the diversity of land cover types and percentage of arable land were positively and negatively correlated with species richness, respectively. Both metrics had the highest correlation coefficients for species richness at the second largest scale (196 ha). The density of arable field edges between the fields was the only metric that correlated with species evenness for all scales, which had highest predictive power at the second smallest scale (36 ha). Conclusions: Species richness and evenness of buffer strips had scale-dependent relationships to land use in agricultural ecosystems. The results of this study indicated that species richness depends on the pattern of arable land use at large scales, which may relate to the regional species pool. Meanwhile, species evenness depended on the level of field edge density at small scales, which relates to how the nearby farmland was divided by the edges (e.g. many small-scale fields with high edge density or a few big-scale fields with low edge density). This implies that it is important to manage the biodiversity of buffer strips within a landscape context at multiple scales.
1479089|The lowland calcareous grasslands of northwestern Europe are highly prized by ecologists and conservationists as a result of the diversity of their plant and invertebrate communities. Large areas of such grasslands have been lost this century as a result of changes in agricultural land use. Recent changes in agricultural policies, in particular the introduction of agri-environmental incentive schemes, have resulted in an increasing area being managed for the restoration of these communities. This paper reviews the management techniques employed in the restoration of lowland calcareous grasslands and the factors that govern their success. Constraints on the enhancement of the plant diversity of restoration sites include high soil fertility and the presence of undesirable species in the soil seed bank. However, it is thought that the primary constraint is the availability of propagules from which new populations can be established. Similarly, the dispersal mode and ability of insect species is likely to be the major factor limiting the enhancement of insect diversity. Evaluation of the success of restoration management usually involves monitoring changes in the plant community. However, as a result of their short life-cycles and sensitivity to small-scale environmental conditions, insects may respond more rapidly to changes resulting from restoration management and therefore provide better indicators of success. With the exception of a few high-profile butterfly species, the use of insects as indicator taxa has largely been neglected in terrestrial systems. This paper illustrates their potential use with reference to lowland calcareous grasslands in southern Britain.
25488430|Question: Pollution and eutrophication of surface water is increasingly a problem in agricultural landscapes. Do intact (relatively undisturbed) and degraded forests differ in seasonal nutrient storage and therefore potential to ameliorate nutrient pollution? Location: United States, Midwestern region. Methods: We used three sets of paired plots, where intact plots were located close to disturbed woodlands. Herbaceous perennials located in eight 0.25 m quadrats in the plots were harvested (in spring and mid-summer), dried, separated into above- and below-ground plant parts, and weighed to determine biomass. Nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium content of the plant tissues were then determined, and these data combined with biomass to estimate nutrient storage. Results: In spring, intact sites had 62% greater above-ground biomass than disturbed sites and 75% greater below-ground biomass. In summer, below-ground biomass of intact plots was still much greater than that of disturbed plots (73 percent), but above-ground biomass was similar. Nutrient tissue concentration generally did not differ, nor did soil nutrient levels. The disturbed sites were largely missing one group of species, the spring ephemerals, and this accounted for the difference in biomass and nutrient storage between sites. Conclusions: Relatively undisturbed woodlands in our study had a much greater capacity to store nutrients, and therefore ameliorate nutrient pollution, in early spring. This is significant because spring is also the time of highest potential leaching of nutrients into surface water.
4620446|Question: Do tree species, with different litter qualities, affect the within-forest distribution of forest understorey species on intermediate to base-rich soils? Since habitat loss and fragmentation have caused ancient forest species to decline, those species are the main focus of this study. Location: Three ancient forests, along a soil gradient from acidification-sensitive to base-rich, were studied: Limbrich-terbosch and Savelsbos in The Netherlands and Holtkrat in Denmark. Methods: Canopy and soil surveys along transects generated data for Redundancy Analysis on tree-humus relationships. We analysed the distribution of forest plant species with Canonical Correspondence Analysis. The explanatory factors were soil characteristics (pH, organic matter, loam content and thickness of the humus layers), external crown projection, groundwater and canopy data. We further analysed the relationship between forest species and humus characteristics with Spearman correlations. Results: Tree species have a significant impact on humus characteristics through the nature of their litter. Humus characteristics significantly explain the distribution of forest understorey species. The pH of the first 25 cm mineral soil and the thickness of the F-(fermentation) layer are the primary factors affecting the distribution of ancient forest species. Conclusion: This study indicates that the species composition of the forest canopy affects the distribution of forest understorey species. Ancient forest species are more abundant and frequent underneath trees with base-rich litter. On acidification-sensitive soils these relationships were stronger than on more base-rich, loamy soils.
1479054|Winter and spring burnings constitute a traditional management practice of the Flooding Pampa grasslands which are dominated by the tussock grass Paspalum quadrifarium. In addition to increasing the primary productivity and the nutrient quality of the regrowth, this burning favours the establishment of opportunistic species, especially the legume Lotus glaber and the thistles Cirsium vulgare and Carduus acanthoides. The aims of the present study were to assess the effects of burning and those of the remnant litter on L. glaber and thistle recruitment, as well as the effects of L. glaber density on the emergence, survival and flowering of thistles. Two field experiments were carried out: 1. A completely randomized factorial design with occurrence of L. glaber and fire was applied in a mature Paspalum stand; 2. A completely randomized design with four L. glaber seed densities oversown on a burned Paspalum stand, as the treatments. Thistle and L. glaber recruitment within the Paspalum stand was dependent on fire, but their emergence in burnt plots was reduced by the presence of remnant litter. Remnant litter and interference from L. glaber provide complementary mechanisms to reduce fire-cued colonization by thistles. While seedling emergence of thistles was mostly affected by the presence of remnant litter, seedling survival depended on local density of L. glaber. By the end of the first post-fire growing season, the survivorship of established thistles was linearly reduced with increasing sowing density and above-ground biomass of L. glaber. The maintenance of a significant litter coverage and a high density of L. glaber in the pre-fire seed bank, as well as the oversowing of L. glaber after fire, may be useful tools in fire management of Paspalum stands aimed to improve their forage value with reduced dependence on chemical control of weeds.
4620511|Question: What is the impact of grazing regime on plant species abundance, plant growth form, plant productivity and plant nutrient concentrations in a forest steppe? Location: Hustai National Park in the forest steppe region of Mongolia. Methods: On the Stipa steppe we applied three different grazing regimes by using; (1) one type of exclosure which excluded grazing by large mammalian herbivores, mainly takh (Przewalski horse), (2) another type of exclosure that excluded both large and small (Siberian marmots) mammalian herbivores, and (3) control plots which were freely grazed. We measured species frequencies, tiller densities, plant biomass and nitrogen concentrations of the vegetation. Results: Exclusion from grazing by takh and marmots significantly increased plant standing crop, but marmot grazing and full grazing did not show significant differences. Protection from grazing decreased forage quality, shown by a lower N-concentration of the standing crop. However, this was solely the result of the lower live-dead ratio of the vegetation. The frequency of the rhizomatous Leymus chinensis decreased under reduced grazing, as did the frequency of the total of rhizomatous species. The frequency of Stipa krylovii increased under reduced grazing, as did its basal areas, tiller density and tussock height. Conclusion: Reduced grazing leads to a lower abundance of rhizomatous species and an increase in tussock species.
1478996|Nutrient content of rainfall, throughfall and stemflow was studied over one year in the open and under the crowns of three tree species in a secondary rain forest at Ile-Ife, Nigeria. Throughfall and stemflow comprised 78.8% and 5.2% respectively; 16.0% of the incident rainfall was intercepted by the forest canopy. The concentrations of various nutrient elements in throughfall and stemflow were higher than those of incident rainfall. In throughfall and stemflow potassium concentration was highest and that of ammonium nitrogen was the lowest. Only calcium and sodium concentrations showed significant monthly variation in incident rainfall. Ca, Mg, K. Cu and P showed significant monthly variation in throughfall and stemflow. The concentrations of the elements were highest during the heavy-rain months (May-September). High concentrations of some of the elements were recorded also in November, the last rain month and the beginning of the dry season. The concentration of these elements in stemflow and throughfall was affected by tree species. The highest quantity of each element was deposited in the forest via throughfall followed by incident precipitation and the lowest via stemflow. The tree species affected the quantities of these elements by the volume of their stemflow and throughfall and the concentration of the various elements herein. Total nutrient concentration was much higher than available (dissolved) nutrient concentration. This was very pronounced with micronutrients.
1479060|The effects of different forms of land use on germination and establishment of the rare fen species Succisella inflexa were investigated in seed introduction experiments in a mown and an abandoned fen meadow in SE Germany. Treatments included abandonment, mowing in fall and mowing with creation of gaps in the moss and litter layer. Floating capacity of seeds was tested in order to estimate potential dispersal by water. On the mown meadow, gaps had a slightly positive effect on germination rates, while greatly increasing seedling survival until the next spring. At the abandoned site, litter inhibited germination, whereas mosses had a negative effect on germination and a positive effect on survival rates during the first year after germination. Both germination and seedling establishment were negatively affected by the presence of slug herbivores. On the abandoned site, no seedlings at all survived until the next spring. Even though seeds of Succisella inflexa were capable to float for several weeks and to germinate thereafter, the situation at the field sites indicates that long-distance dispersal is highly unlikely. Our results showed that not only direct effects of abandonment, such as accumulation of litter, may have led to poor germination and poor seedling establishment of the species. Additionally, indirect consequences of changes in land use, such as higher seedling herbivory by slugs and successional vegetation changes due to abandonment, were important in determining habitat quality and availability of microsites for seedling recruitment. Furthermore, early mowing imposed seed limitation on plant populations.
41318171|Questions: Can the accuracy of coarse resolution potential vegetation maps be improved through downscaling to finer resolution climatic grids? Can output from random forests produce new insight into the climatic characteristics that are associated with the structural characteristics of the vegetation? Location: Southern Mexico. Methods: A potential vegetation map (National Atlas of Mexico) at a 1:4 000 000 scale, was downscaled to a 1 km grid resolution using climatically based random forests models. The resulting map was then evaluated against 256 inventory plots sampled at the transition between different vegetation types in Southern Mexico. Results: Downscaling increased accuracy up to 0.40, as measured by the Kappa Index of Agreement. Multivariate analysis of the results allowed the association between Rzedowski's classification and climatic variation to be explored. This confirmed that many of the structural aspects of the vegetation that are used by the Rzedowski classification are closely associated with climate, but it also revealed weaknesses in the underlying basis of this classification system. Conclusions: Rzedowski's scheme for vegetation classification may require further modification in order to be an effective tool for research into vegetation-climate relationships.
41058155|Question: How many years are required for a gradient of microtopography to be initiated in revegetated cutover peatlands and become similar to natural bogs? Location: Newly formed Sphagnum carpets on cutover peatlands that revegetated spontaneously after site abandonment (in Estonia), or following active restoration (in Canada) and on undisturbed natural bogs nearby. Methods: Moss surface height was measured along linear transects above a local reference level (the lowest point for a given transect). Heights of at least 20 cm were associated with hummocks. Frequency distributions of surface height and principal component analyses (separately for Canada and Estonia) were conducted to follow the evolution of microtopography in revegetated sites and their similarity with those of natural peatlands. In Canada, regressions were also performed to estimate the time required for the microtopography in revegetated cutover peatlands to become similar to that found in natural bogs. Results: Only 10-30 yr were needed for microstructures comparable to those in natural bogs to develop on restored peatlands where Sphagnum diaspores have been reintroduced. However, this process may take more than a century in cutover peatlands left to revegetate spontaneously. Conclusions: In cutover peatlands with spontaneous revegetation, hummock-hollow formation starts on bare peat which lacks both plant propagules and viable seed banks, and the initiation of microstructures is probably more akin to the process that occurs naturally. Nonetheless, hummock-hollow microtopography resembling that found in natural bogs without pools appeared, in all of the examined cutover peatlands, over periods that are short in terms of peatland development time-scales. Active peatland restoration could effectively reduce the time required for initiation of microtopography by about 70 yr.
4620407|Two outstanding papers on restoration and succession are briefly discussed as model papers for the type of research papers Appl. Veg. Sci. should publish. The paper on restoration concentrates on the introduction of hay to a site in order to speed up the introduction of target species. The paper on succession discusses the importance of plant colonization 'windows' opened by extreme weather events for succession and for offering optimum periods for intervention in restoration practice. Some remarks are also made on the electronic availability of ecology papers.
1479057|Woodland colonization on wetlands is considered to have a detrimental effect on their ecological value, even though detailed analysis of this process is lacking. This paper provides an evaluation of the ecological changes resulting from succession of poor fen (base-poor mire) to willow wet woodland on Goss Moor NNR in Cornwall, UK. Different ages of willow carr were associated with eight understorey communities. During willow colonization, in the ground flora, there was a progressive decrease in poor fen species and an associated increase in woodland species, which appeared to be related to an increase in canopy cover and therefore shade. The most diverse community was found to be the most recent willow and was dominated by poor fen species. The oldest willow was the second most diverse and was associated with a reduction in poor fen species and an increase in woodland species. Architectural features were used successfully to assess the general condition and structure of willow. Tree height and DBH were identified as useful parameters to accurately assess willow age in the field. The implications of active intervention to remove willow in order to conserve the full range of communities within the hydrosere are discussed.
25488490|Question: How does regular management burning of a northern, Calluna vulgaris-dominated heathland affect the lichen diversity at the patch and landscape scale? Location: Mar Lodge Estate, Scottish Highlands, United Kingdom. Methods: 26 fire sites of different ages and 11 long-term unburnt stands were surveyed to create a chronosequence of changing lichen diversity following burning. Data were analysed graphically, with a GLM and using a CCA. Results: Though the immediate effect of fire was to significantly reduce lichen diversity, it generally recovered within 20 years. There was a significant difference in the population dynamics between wet and dry moorland areas with terricolous lichens in the former site being replaced by pleurocarpous mosses. Older stands, unburnt for 25 years or more, generally had lower diversity than stands 10 to 15 years old. Changes in lichen diversity and community composition can be attributed to the development of Calluna stand structure following burning. Conclusions: Fire can be seen to play an important role in maintaining the diversity of lichens in heathland areas by providing a variety of stand-structures and ages across the landscape that favours the development of greater beta-diversity.
1478926|Compositional and edaphic gradients were studied in montane forests of the Bavarian Alps (Germany), in which natural mixed deciduous-coniferous tree layers have been altered by past management in favour of Picea abies. Data on species composition and ecological factors were collected in a stratified random sample of 84 quadrats comprising a gradient from pure Picea to pure Fagus sylvatica stands. Data about the understorey composition were subjected to indirect (DCA) and direct gradient analysis (RDA) with the proportion of Picea in the canopy as a constraining variables. Three principal components of a matrix containing seven descriptors of mineral soil, relief and tree layer cover were included as covariables describing the variability of primary ecological factors. Gradients of organic topsoil morphology and chemistry were extracted correspondingly. Responses of individual species, species group and topsoil attributes were studied by simple and partial correlation analysis. Mosses were significantly more abundant and diverse under Picea stands. Few graminoid and herb species were partially associated with Picea, and total understorey richness and cover did not differ systematically by stand type. No relationship between tree layer and understorey diversity was detected at the studied scale. Juvenile Fagus sylvatica was the only woody species significantly less abundant under Picea. In the topsoil lower base saturation, lower pH and larger C/N-ratios in the litter layer were partially attributable to the proportion of Picea, only for base saturation a relationship was detected in greater soil depth also. The frequency of broad humus form types did not differ by tree species, nor was overall depth of organic forest floor attributable to canopy composition.
41318173|Question: Predictive models constitute an important tool in multiple ecological applications. In this paper, we examine and compare the performance of six state-of-the-art methods commonly used in ecological modelling: Multiple Logistic Regression (MLR), Artificial Neural Networks (ANN), Support Vector Machines (SVM), Classification and Regression Trees (CART), Maximum Entropy (MAXENT) and Multivariate Adaptive Regression Splines (MARS). Location: Northern Spain. Methods: We used presence/absence data of 15 plant species of an alpine rangeland in northern Spain and 14 topographical and geomorphological descriptors to build the models. We used leave-one-out cross validation on each model and computed the area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve (AUC) and the resolution and calibration diagrams of the resulting probabilistic predictions. We also analysed the binary presence/absence deterministic predictions and computed the corresponding confusion matrices to calculate sensitivity, specificity, Cohen's kappa and the True Skill Statistic (TSS). Results: In general, CART and MAXENT showed poor performance and MLR was competitive with the more sophisticated ANN, MARS and SVM methods. The best predictive resolution was obtained, in most cases, by ANN followed by SVM and CART models; however, MLR and MARS were generally the best calibrated. The MAXENT predictions attained, in general, poor resolution and moderate to good calibration. Conclusion: Assessment of model calibration and resolution, in addition to ROC and confusion matrix-derived indices, is an important step for model choice depending on the final aim. Most of the target species were accurately predicted showing that the variables used are suitable descriptors at the scale of analysis.
4620452|Question: Can combined sod cutting and liming successfully restore species composition of degraded wet heaths? Location: The Netherlands. Methods: The effects of sod cutting with or without liming on plant species composition were studied in two degraded wet heath areas. Seeds and seedlings of Arnica montana were put out in the treated plots to test the suitability of the restored soil conditions. In addition, seed banks of both degraded areas were studied. Results: Germination, growth and survival of Arnica montana were significantly greater after sod cutting and liming compared to sod cutting alone. At the end of the four-year study period, the number of endangered wet heath species was significantly greater in the sod-cut plots than in the untreated vegetation. Acid-tolerant species were especially positively affected. Additional liming only slightly increased the total number of species over the two-year study period and the number of endangered species did not increase. Viable seeds of most of the endangered species were absent in the seed banks of both areas. Conclusions: Sod cutting is sufficient for the return of acid-tolerant, endangered wet heath species of early successional stages, because their seeds are still present in the seed bank. In contrast, acid-sensitive species likely depend on combined sod cutting and liming, as they need the weakly buffered soil conditions created by these restoration measures. However, successful restoration of formerly species-rich wet heaths is limited significantly by the absence of seeds of the target species in the seed banks. Therefore, re-introduction of wet heath target species in areas with limited seed availability should be seriously considered.
25488436|Questions: What vegetational changes does a boreal rich fen (alkaline fen) undergo during a time period of 24 years after drainage? How is plant species richness affected, and what are the changes in composition of ecological groups of species? Is it possible to recover parts of the original flora by rewetting the rich fen? Which are the initial vegetation changes in the flora after rewetting? What are the major challenges for restoration of rich fen flora after rewetting? Location: Eastern central Sweden, southern boreal vegetational zone. Previously rich fen site, drained for forestry purposes during 1978-1979. The site was hydrologically restored (rewetted) in 2002. Method: Annual vegetation survey in permanent plots during a period of 28 years. Results: There were three successional stages in the vegetational changes. In the first stage there was a rapid (< 5 years) loss of rich fen bryophytes. The second step was an increase of sedges and early successional bryophytes, which was followed by an increase of a few emerging dominants, such as Molinia caerulea, Betula pubescens and Sphagnum spp. After rewetting, there are indications of vegetation recovery, albeit at slow rates. Depending on, for instance, initial species composition different routes of vegetation change were observed in the flora after drainage, although after 24 years, species composition became more homogenous and dominated by a few species with high cover. Conclusion: Major changes have occurred after changes in the hydrology (drainage and rewetting) with a severe impact on the biodiversity among vascular plants and bryophytes. Several rich fen bryophytes respond quickly to the changes in water level (in contrast to vascular plants). The recovery after rewetting towards the original rich fen vegetation is slow, as delayed by substrate degradation, dispersal limitation and presence of dominant species.
1479064|Boreal coniferous forests have been impacted by long distance airborne pollutant deposition for most of the 20th century. Changes in forest understorey vegetation attributable to N-deposition have been observed in southern Sweden, but not so far in southern Norway. We recorded the quantity of all species of vascular plants, bryophytes and lichens in 144 plots in a fertilization experiment in a 35-yr old Pinus sylvestris forest in Aust Agder County, southernNorway initiated 6 yr before our study. Each plot represented a combination of three levels of nitrogen, two levels of magnesium and two levels of phosphorus addition. Effects of fertilization on species quantity were tested by Kruskal-Wallis one-way analysis by ranks. For vascular plants, only small and hardly significant differences were found between treatments and control. Significant negative effects of N-fertilization were found on both mosses and lichens. To some extent, these effects could be attributed to direct effects of application of the fertilizer, but were more likely to be due to a negative feedback response to the faster growth of pine trees in fertilized stands, reducing throughfall precipitation and increasing litter fall. Significant differences between Mg- and P-fertilized sites and respective controls were found for too few species to be likely to represent an overall trend.
25488447|Question: Does grazing by large herbivores affect species composition or community-wide variation in plant functional traits? Location: Dune grasslands at the Belgian coast. Methods: Plant cover and soil data were collected in 146 plots that were randomly selected at 26 grazed and ungrazed grassland sites. Plant community composition was assessed by Detrended Correspondence Analysis and mean values of plant trait categories were calculated across the plots. Results: Differentiation of plant composition and community-wide plant trait characteristics was largely determined by grazing, soil acidity and their interaction. In ungrazed situations, a clear floristic distinction appears between acidic (non-calcareous) and alkaline (calcareous) grasslands. In grazed situations, these floristic differences largely disappeared, indicating that grazing results in a decrease of natural variation in species composition. At higher soil pH, a larger difference in plant community composition and community-wide plant traits was observed between grazed and ungrazed plots. In ungrazed situations, shifts in plant functional traits along the acidity gradient were observed. Conclusions: Grazing is responsible for shifts in plant community composition, and hence a decrease in plant diversity among grasslands at opposing acidity conditions in coastal dune grasslands. Therefore, care should be taken when introducing grazing as a system approach for nature conservation in dune grasslands as it may eliminate part of the natural variation in plant diversity along existing abiotic gradients.
1478971|Shrub encroachment, i.e. the increase in woody plant cover, is a major concern for livestock farming in southern Kalahari savannas. We developed a grid-based computer model simulating the population dynamics of Grewia flava, a common, fleshy-fruited encroaching shrub. In the absence of large herbivores, seeds of Grewia are largely deposited in the sub-canopy of Acacia erioloba. Cattle negate this dispersal limitation by browsing on the foliage of Grewia and dispersing seeds into the grassland matrix. In this study we first show that model predictions of Grewia cover dynamics are realistic by comparing model output with shrub cover estimates obtained from a time series of aerial photographs. Subsequently, we apply a realistic range of intensity of cattle-induced seed dispersal combined with potential precipitation and fire scenarios. Based on the simulation results we suggest that cattle may facilitate shrub encroachment of Grewia. The results show that the severity of shrub encroachment is governed by the intensity of seed dispersal. For a high seed dispersal intensity without fire (equivalent to a high stocking rate) the model predicts 56% shrub cover and 85% cell cover after 100 yr. With fire both recruitment and shrub cover are reduced, which may, under moderate intensities, prevent shrub encroachment. Climate change scenarios with two-fold higher frequencies of drought and wet years intensified shrub encroachment rates, although long-term mean of precipitation remained constant. As a management recommendation we suggest that shrub encroachment on rangelands may be counteracted by frequent fires and controlling cattle movements to areas with a high proportion of fruiting Grewia shrubs.
4620486|For wetland plants, dispersal by wind is often overlooked because dispersal by water is generally assumed to be the key dispersal process. This literature review addresses the role of seed dispersal by wind in wetlands. Why is wind dispersal relevant in wetlands? Which seeds are dispersed by wind and how far? And how can our understanding of wind dispersal be applied to wetland conservation and restoration? Literature review. Wind is a widely available seed dispersal vector in wetlands and can transport many seeds over long distances. Unlike water, wind can transport seeds in all directions and is therefore important for dispersal to upstream wetlands and to wetlands not connected by surface water flows. Wind dispersal transports seeds to a wider range of sites than water, and therefore reaches more sites but with lower seed densities. Many wetland plant species have adaptations to facilitate wind dispersal. Dispersal distances increase with decreasing falling velocity of seeds, increasing seed release height and selective release mechanisms. Depending on the adaptations, seeds may be dispersed by wind over many km or only a few m. The frequency of long-distance wind dispersal events depends on these adaptations, the number of produced seeds, the structure of the surrounding vegetation, and the frequency of occurrence of suitable weather conditions. Humans reduce the frequency of successful long-distance wind dispersal events in wetlands through wetland loss and fragmentation (which reduce the number and quality of seeds) and eutrophication (which changes the structure of the vegetation so that seed release into the wind flow becomes more difficult). This is yet another reason to focus on wetland conservation and restoration measures at increased population sizes, prevention of eutrophication, and the restoration of sites at short distances from seed sources.
1479024|The impact of cattle grazing on the vegetation of calcareous fens was compared to the effects of traditional autumn mowing in southern Germany. Vegetation composition was studied in adjacent pairs of fen meadows and pastures with similar environmental conditions and biomass production. Vegetation data were analysed with respect to species richness, species composition and response of species traits to disturbance, including morphology, defence mechanisms, clonal growth form and generative reproduction. Species richness was significantly reduced by grazing, but the percentage of typical fen species or Red Data Book species was not affected by land use type. Detrended Corrspondence Analysis indicated that species composition could best be explained in terms of a land use gradient. Species traits showed a clear trend in their response to land use type. Grazing favoured grasses and small forbs. Only a few species with defence mechanisms against foraging were more frequent or abundant on pastures. Many other species with defence mechanisms, however, did not have an advantage on pastures. Flowering and seed dispersal traits did not respond significantly to grazing or mowing. Species with fast spreading stem derived clonal organs were favoured on pastures, whereas all other clonal growth forms and, particularly, non-clonal species were more abundant on meadows. More indicator species of wet soil conditions and species adapted to flooding were found on pastures. Grazing can be recommended as an alternative land use to mowing in contrast to abandonment, but a reduction in species richness and changes in species composition and species traits may occur.
4620480|How do nitrogen and phosphorus budgets and balances differ between eutrophic fens and floodplains in western Europe and fens and floodplains in Poland, where we expect less eutrophication to occur? Wetlands along the rivers Dommel (The Netherlands), Zwarte Beek (Belgium) and Biebrza (NE Poland). Assessment of external input and output fluxes as well as net N-mineralization rates. Annual N- and P-balances were estimated by the sum of all external input and output fluxes: atmospheric deposition, input of dissolved matter by flooding, input of sediment by flooding, input by groundwater, output by leaching, output by hay-making and for N also input by N2-fixation. For N we also estimated net annual N-availability for plant growth, i.e. the N-budget, which includes net mineralization in soil. The studied wetland sites had a negative balance, which means that nutrients are depleted but only if mown annually, except for the Dutch/Belgian fens which had an equilibrium N-balance and the Polish fen which had an equilibrium P-balance. For the N-budget it appeared that atmospheric deposition added significantly to the budget of Dutch/ Belgian fens and N-mineralization added significantly to fen and floodplain budgets, except for the Polish fens. Mineralization dominates the N-budget of the western European floodplains. Hay-making is the most important output pathway, particularly if practised annually. It seems to diminish N-enrichment in the Dutch fens and floodplains. We conclude that western European fens and floodplains as well as Polish floodplains have a significant positive N-budget indicating that there is a surplus of N for plant growth. In the Polish fens this is less due to low atmospheric deposition and lower N-mineralization rates. The latter is associated with less drying out of the studied Polish ecosystems in summer. Our approach, although an approximate quantification, is helpful for assessing priorities focused on nutrient management.
41318168|Question: To what extent are environmental factors the main determinants of species abundance in Mediterranean coastal marshlands? Location: The Llobregat delta, Barcelona, Spain. Methods: Vegetation relevs were performed and a set of water table and soil variables were periodically monitored in 43 sampling points randomly distributed in four marsh areas (sites) along a coastal-inland gradient. A canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) was performed to identify the primary water and soil correlates of species cover, after considering the effect of site and point spatial location. The realized niches of dominant species were modeled through GLMs performed on the first two axes of CCA. Niche overlapping among these species was compared with their coexistence, assessed through pairwise correlations of relative species cover in each sampling point. Results: Water and soil variables explained more of the variation in species' abundance than site and spatial position. Mean water table level, maximum water conductivity and sodium adsorption ratio (SAR), summarized in the two first CCA axes, explained 23.8% of the variability in species' cover. Arthrocnemum fruticosum, Phragmites australis subsp. australis, Juncus acutus, Spartina versicolor and Juncus maritimus dominated the vegetation stands. Niches obtained from GLM response curves showed moderate overlapping among all these species except for A. fruticosum. However, pairwise correlations were mainly negative or nonsignificant, indicating low coincidence, and even segregation, between species' cover. Conclusions: The abundance of dominant plants in Mediterranean marshes is only partly explained by the environmental gradients summarized in niche models. The role of other factors such as facilitation or competition between species and random recruitment should be explored.
25488445|Question: How does the vegetation of boreal forests respond to harvesting and scarification? Location: 650 m a.s.l., central Sweden (6138' N). Methods: The response of boreal forest vegetation to cutting and scarification was studied in a field trial, which consisted of three treatments plus conventional harvesting as a control in a complete block design with four replicates. The cutting was done 14 years prior to vegetation inventory and scarification and planting were conducted the first or second years after cutting. Results: The species most abundant at higher cutting intensities were crustose lichens, Cladonia spp., Cladina arbuscula, Polytrichum spp. and pioneer mosses, the grass Deschampsia flexuosa, and the tree Betula pubescens, A few species had substantially lower abundance in treatments with higher cutting intensity, notably Hylocomium splendens and Vaccinium myrtillus. Scarification had a strong effect that was different from the one created by cutting. In scarification treatments, Polytrichum spp. were the only species with high abundance; most species had low abundance, i.e. Barbilophozia lycopodioides, Vaccinium vitis-idaea, Pleurozium schreberi, Carex globularis, Empetrum nigrum, Cladina arbuscula, Sphagnum spp. Conclusions: Our results elaborate on the details of the well-known effect of cutting on ground-layer flora, and also give support for the profound and long-lasting effect that soil scarification has on forest vegetation.
4620464| Global warming can potentially influence ecological communities through altered disturbance regimes in addition to increased temperatures. We investigate the response of pine savannas in the southeastern United States to global warming using a simple Lotka-Volterra competition model together with predicted changes to fire and hurricane disturbance regimes with global climate change. In the southeastern United States, decreased frequency of both fires and hurricanes with global warming will shift pine savannas toward a forested state. A CO fertilization effect that increases the growth rate of tree populations will also push southeastern landscapes from open savannas towards closed forests. Transient dynamics associated with climate driven changes in vegetation will last on the order of decades to a century. In our model, the sensitivity of savannas to relative changes in the frequency of fire versus hurricanes is linearly dependent on the growth rate and mortality of trees in fire and hurricane disturbances. 
4620451|Question: What are the effects of shallow flooding on boreal peatlands on vegetation composition and size of carbon pools in the living and dead vegetation? Location: Lake 979, Experimental Lakes Area, northwestern Ontario, Canada. Methods: A boreal basin peatland complex with treed bog, open bog, and open water was experimentally flooded by raising water level ca. 1.3 m. Vegetation and above-ground biomass were compared between pre-flood conditions and those nine years after flooding. Peat accumulation since flooding was also quantified. Results: Flooding caused almost all trees to die, leading to a net loss of 86% of the above-ground living plant biomass after nine years of the flooding. Floating up of peat was rapid in the central part of the basin, and the floating peat mats were characterized by newly established open bog community. Wetland types were diversified from bog into open bog, fen, and marsh, accompanied with great species turnover. Floating open bog community accumulated the greatest amount of peat since flooding. Conclusions: This study shows that shallow flooding of bog vegetation can lead to quick re-establishment of open bog vegetation upon the floating up of peat mats as well as changes to more diverse vegetation over decadal time spans. We estimate that the carbon pools in 2002 in living and dead plant biomass since 1992 are comparable to what they were in the above-ground biomass in 1992. Flooding caused an initial net decrease in carbon stores, but carbon in the pre-flood living plant biomass was replaced by both carbon in dead biomass of the pre-flood vegetation and newly sequestered carbon in new peat growth and post-flood living plant biomass. Possible vegetation change toward bog-dominated system could lead to increasing rate of new peat growth, which could affect future carbon sink/source strength of the system.
4620413| Question: How well does the use of NDVI predict secondary productivity at landscape scales? What is the influence of vegetation quality and phenology over secondary productivity? Location: Magellanic steppe in Tierra del Fuego, Argentina. (5245' to 54 S, 6815' to 6730' W). Methods: Monthly and yearly integrated NDVI (NDVI-I) were calculated from AVHRR/NOAA 14, as estimators of phenology and aerial net primary productivity respectively. From a vegetation map we obtained the proportional cover of different physiognomic types and calculated the palatable fraction (forage) productivity that were used as estimators of vegetation quality. Data were analysed through correlations and regressions. Results: NDVI-I was not related with secondary productivity indices, while December and annual maximum NDVI, proportion of lawns and tussock grasslands and forage productivity were positively related with secondary productivity. A negative relationship was found between the proportion of heathlands and secondary productivity, but a positive relationship between heathland's proportion and NDVI-I was found. Conclusions: NDVI-I is not a good predictor of secondary productivity at the scale of our study. These results could be due to: (1) NDVI-I is not related to primary productivity and (2) primary productivity is not related to secondary productivity. 
25488483|Questions: Is species diversity affected in protected areas where human activities are permitted or tolerated? On plots of a fixed size, does stem density alone predict number of species? Are differences in density related to disturbance and altitude? Location: Achanakmar-Amarkantak Biosphere Reserve, central India. Methods: 42 sites, each with three replicate 10-m radius plots, were examined. All trees ( 30 cm GBH) in each plot were measured for girth at breast height. -diversity, species richness and evenness were calculated for each site. The sites were ordinated by Nonmetric Multidimensional Scaling (NMS) using relative importance values of component species. Correspondence Analysis was used to broadly delineate communities. Anthropogenic disturbances were recorded in terms of percentage of trees lopped, scale of lopping, number of domestic livestock dung piles and foot trails (both livestock and people) for each plot. Results: The NMS analysis exhibited a near linear arrangement of sites with no evidence of discrete vegetation zones. NMS axes were significantly related to altitude and disturbance scores. With increasing elevation, basal area increased but number of species, -diversity and its components declined monotonically. The number of species and indices of species diversity were positively associated with tree lopping and also with total disturbance. Number of species was controlled by stem density only in plots not dominated by Shorea robusta. Conclusions: Recent levels of human disturbance are associated with higher species diversity in this biosphere reserve. There is some evidence that stands at all altitudes follow the same successional pattern to dominance by Shorea, a successional pattern that also results in decreased diversity without disturbance.
1478885|Sustainability is an important quality of the types of agriculture nowadays promoted in central Europe, notably 'biological agriculture' and 'integrated production'. Agronomists, decision-makers and the public generally assume that this agricultural sustainability implies the maintenance of species diversity. However, this assumption often does not hold true. This is shown in a case study of moderately fertilized Arrhenatheretum meadows in northern Switzerland. Earlier and more frequent mowing, simultaneous harvesting of all the grasslands in a region, and ecological changes in surrounding arable fields, hedges and other ecosystems often cause a decline in plant and animal species richness, while agricultural yield does not noticeably change. To emphasize the distinction the concept of biocenotic sustainability is proposed for describing the capability of a community to maintain its species composition and structure. For maintaining or attaining biocenotic sustainability, results of modern ecology have to be taken into account, e.g. the theories of island biogeography, minimum viable populations, dispersal, and metapopulations. There is evidence that biocenotic sustainability always implies sustainability of agricultural yield.
1478935|A floristic classification of British hedgerows is constructed. Hedges (the woody, structural element) and hedge-bottoms (the mainly herbaceous ground flora) were analysed separately because different natural and management processes were expected to affect them. The 11 hedge classes varied in size from five to over 500 plots. Over two-thirds of all hedges were dominated by Crataegus spp. or Prunus spinosa. Hedge-bottoms were more evenly grouped into four classes whose species composition could be related to broad land use/habitat types: intensive arable, rotational/mixed farming, managed grasslands, and woodland. The woodland class was only 12% of the total, and species characteristic of true woodland habitats were uncommon even within that class, so our data do not support the hypothesis of hedgerows acting as 'woodland corridors' for plants. Richness/diversity scores differed markedly between different hedge and hedge-bottom classes. The richest hedgerows, both in species and inferred habitats, were among the rarer types, while the most common classes (both hedge and hedge-bottom) were consistently the poorest. Comparison of species composition and diversity in hedges and hedge-bottoms, and associations between them, all supported the hypothesis that the relative importance of historical, management and ecological effects differed between the two parts of the hedgerow; hedges and hedge-bottoms should be treated ecologically as largely independent units. The classifications and richness/diversity scores enable easy preliminary assessment of the conservation value of a hedgerow. They also enable individual hedgerows to be placed in a wider (national) context.
41058166|Question: How does one best choose native vegetation types and site them in reclamation of disturbed sites ranging from cropland and strip mines? Application: World-wide, demonstrated in SE Montana. Methods: We assumed that pre-disturbance native communities are the best targets for revegetation, and that the environmental facet each occupies naturally provides its optimal habitat. Given this assumption, we used prestrip-mine data (800 points from a 88 km site) to demonstrate statistical methods for identifying native communities, describing them, and determining their environments. Results and conclusions: Classification and pruning analysis provided an objective method for choosing the number of target community types to be used in reclamation. The composition of eight target types, identified with these analyses, was described with a relev table to provide a species list, target cover levels and support the choice of species to be seeded. As a basis for siting communities, we modeled community presence as a function of topography, slope/aspect, and substrate. Logistic GLMs identified the optimal environment for each community. Classification and Regression Tree (CART) analysis identified the most probable community in each environmental facet. Topography and slope were generally the best predictors in these models. Because our analyses relate native vegetation to undisturbed environments, our results may apply best to sites with minimal substrate disturbance (i. e. better to abandoned cropland than to strip-mined sites).
1478940|This study examines whether competition between the unpalatable grass Hilaria mutica and three co-occurring, palatable grasses in a Texan mixed prairie is altered by non-selective or selective defoliation. In this four-year study, plants were grown in monoculture or in combination with the unpalatable Hilaria in a replacement design. Under no defoliation, the unpalatable Hilaria had a lower growth potential than Bouteloua curtipendula and Nassella leucotricha that were of equal stature, and produced only as much as the shorter grass, Buchloe dactyloides. Bouteloua had the highest growth potential under no-defoliation and was defoliation tolerant, except when defoliated at ground level. Nassella was more productive than the unpalatable Hilaria, since the ability to grow earlier in the year enabled it to compete successfully with Hilaria. These results indicate that with adequate deferment Bouteloua and Nassella should compete successfully with Hilaria and Buchloe should be able to maintain itself in the presence of Hilaria. Under non-selective defoliation, Hilaria was able to compete successfully only with Buchloe. Hilaria was sensitive to defoliation, despite being rhizomatous, and competed less successfully with Buchloe after non-selective defoliation than it did when not defoliated. This indicates that the management practice of burning and stocking heavily with livestock until Hilaria is avoided, resulting in non-selective defoliation, will not cause Hilaria to be more competitive with the more palatable Bouteloua, Buchloe or Nassella. Hilaria was able to compete most successfully under selective defoliation when it was not defoliated. Under selective defoliation, by avoiding herbivory, Hilaria is able to compete strongly with at least Buchloe and Nassella. The reaction of Nassella and Buchloe to selective defoliation indicates that they may have been displaced by Hilaria in the past. In contrast, under the short-term and non-limiting growth conditions of this study, Bouteloua competed successfully with Hilaria even under selective defoliation. These results do not rule out the possibility that, through selective defoliation, Hilaria may have displaced other grasses including Bouteloua in the past.
1478879|In the Seychelles the endemic palm Phoenicophorium borsigianum and the aggressively invasive alien Cinnamomum verum are competitors in a series of habitats. The extent to which demographic variables (relative growth rates of leaf area (RGRAL) and height (RGRH) together with mortality and recruitment) were important determinants of the competitive ability of the above species was investigated. It was studied whether competitive relations between Cinnamomum and Phoenicophorium can change with light intensity as a result of different morphological responses and to what extent native plants such as Phoenicophorium can establish, regenerate and potentially outcompete Cinnamomum in important biodiversity sites in mountain mist forest and intermediate forest habitats. The light intensity in terms of diffuse site factors (DifSF) was estimated at 32 microsites from hemispherical photographs using a computerized image analysis system. A new plant growth analysis function, the so-called leaf area height index (ALHI), has been introduced and a principal components analysis (PCA) was carried out to evaluate the seedling performance of Cinnamomum and Phoenicophorium. Competition between Cinnamomum and Phoenicophorium was greatly influenced by the amount of available photosynthetically active radiation (PAR). For both species there was a negative correlation between mean leaf area of seedlings and light levels. Phoenicophorium responded significantly better in terms of RGRAL and ALHI to low gap light levels than Cinnamomum. Both species showed no further response to direct sunlight with levels of 98.7% diffuse site factor. Phoenicophorium and probably other palms endemic to the Seychelles such as Deckenia nobilis and Roscheria melanochaetes act as a filter affecting the distribution and abundance of establishing Cinnamomum seedlings. Mortality of Cinnamomum was strongly negatively correlated with levels of PAR while Phoenicophorium showed no such correlation. Unlike Phoenicophorium, Cinnamomum could establish and regenerate only in light levels of > 7.5% diffuse site factor.
4620481| Which nutrient limits primary production in a lake created by flooding industrial cutaway peatland? Clongawny Lake (5310' N, 0753' W), County Offaly, Ireland Nutrient concentrations in lake water and the dynamics of phytoplankton populations were monitored over a 38-month period. The ratio of dissolved inorganic nitrogen to total phosphorus (DIN:TP) and nutrient enrichment bio-as-says were used to investigate temporal changes in nutrient limitation. Primary production in the new lake was phytoplankton-driven due to the scarcity of recolonizing macrophytes. Phytoplankton growth was initially phosphorus-limited. The runoff of phosphate fertilizer from an adjacent coniferous forestry plantation raised the TP concentration of lake water 5.5-fold. Consequently, the biovolume of phytoplankton increased 30-fold, and chlorophyll-a concentrations increased eightfold, reaching hyper-eutrophic levels. A concurrent depletion of nitrogen in lake water reduced the DIN:TP ratio from 17.8 to 0.6, and phytoplankton growth rapidly became nitrogen-limited. Phytoplankton composition shifted from dinoflagellates to minute, unicellular chlorophytes, with a coincident decline in species diversity. Cyanobacteria did not proliferate, most likely due to the acidic nature of the lake. Results illustrated the vulnerability of newly created cutaway peatland lakes to developing severe phytoplankton blooms and coincident secondary nitrogen limitation in the presence of moderate external phosphorus inputs. 
4620498| Questions: Does the diversity of heathland vegetation change when subjected to experimental disturbances such as cutting and nitrogen fertilization? Do changes in the vegetation structure negatively affect the regeneration of the dominant species Calluna vulgaris? Is cutting an alternative method of conserving the diversity and maintaining the structure of heathlands in the Cantabrian Mountains? Location: Calluna vulgaris heathlands on the southern slopes of the Cantabrian Mountain range, NW Spain. Methods: A total of 60 plots were treated with different combinations of cutting and twice the estimated atmospheric deposition of nitrogen (56 kg-N.ha.yr). The changes in the cover values of the species present were monitored over a five year study period. The cover values were used to calculate abundance and species richness. Results: Fertilizing with nitrogen allows biodiversity to increase over time. However, the greatest biodiversity is associated with the cutting plus fertilization treatment, since cutting allows gaps to be opened that are easily colonized by pioneer annual species, while fertilization mainly favours an increase in the mean number of perennial herbs (graminoids and forbs). Increased perennial herb richness also corresponds to a rise in their cover values. The recovery of the dominant woody species in these communities, Calluna vulgaris, is not impeded by the increase in perennial herbs species' cover values. Conclusions: In the Calluna vulgaris heathlands studied, cutting plus fertilization allowed an increase in biodiversity over time. No displacement of the dominant woody species, Calluna vulgaris, is observed due to the presence of the perennial herbs. Cutting patches of heathland is recommended as a mechanism for maintaining high vegetation diversity, when grazing is not possible. 
1479065|In this study the impact of land use changes on vegetation in the sub-alpine-alpine belt is analysed. The study sites (4.7 km
40927822|Question: Is there a need for disturbance mapping integrated in the CircumBoreal Vegetation Mapping Program? Location: Eurasian boreal forest. Disturbance and mapping: The boreal zone is characterized by a multitude of natural and anthropogenic disturbance agents with importance over a wide range of spatial and temporal scales. Disturbance is a prime driver of succession in most of the boreal zone, producing landscape diversity characterized by a large-scale vegetation mosaic of early to late succession states. When mapping the circumboreal vegetation, spatial extent, time involved from disturbance to recovered condition and likelihood of interacting disturbance types are crucial for how current vegetation is interpreted and subsequently included as map characteristics. In this paper we present examples from the boreal zone where natural and/or anthropogenic disturbance regimes dominate the state and distribution of vegetation, and possibilities for assessing the nature and extent of the disturbed regions using remotely sensed data. Conclusion: Disturbed vegetation occupies large areas in the boreal zone and related vegetation successions should be adequately represented when mapping the zone. In regions where the 'potential natural vegetation' is a hypothetical reconstruction from remnants of 'natural' vegetation it would be preferable to use the concept of 'actual real vegetation' for which remote sensing at coarse, medium and fine resolution is an efficient tool. The Land Cover Classification System (LCCS) may offer sufficient flexibility to incorporate information about the disturbance of circumboreal vegetation.
1478970|We assessed survival and growth of transplanted saplings of understory broad-leaved trees (Oreopanax xalapensis, Rapanea juergensenii, Rhamnus sharpii and Ternstroemia lineata) and canopy conifers (Abies guatemalensis, Pinus ayacahuite and P. pseudostrobus) into Grassland (GR), Mid-Successional Oak Forest (MS), and Old-Growth Oak Forest (OF) stands in the central highlands of Chiapas, Mexico. A total of 727 plants were monitored over eight years. The results suggest habitat preferences of the studied species that should be considered for their conservation oriented management. Conifers had highest survival and growth in GR, while broad-leaved trees survived better under sparse canopy in MS, but grew tallest in full light. Saplings of all species in dense canopy sites in OF were smaller, and the survival of conifers was lower. An integrated response index (IRI) calculated for each species with survival and relative growth rates showed similar trends. Re-introduction of the endangered A. guatemalensis is possible in open habitats if fire, trampling and grazing are suppressed. Open habitats in current man-made landscapes in the highlands of Chiapas may limit the establishment of understory trees requiring partial shade. Inclusion of such species in restoration programs has not been usual so far; yet, local and global interest in native species for such programs is increasing. Information on the response of these kind of species in contrasting habitats may help to incorporate them in the management of high-diversity forests that may follow pine plantations.
41058163|Question: What is the effect of climate change on tree species abundance and distribution in the Italian peninsula? Location: Italian peninsula. Methods: Regression tree analysis, Random Forest, generalized additive model and geostatistical methods were compared to identify the best model for quantifying the effect of climate change on tree species distribution and abundance. Future potential species distribution, richness, local colonization, local extinction and species turnover were modelled according to two scenarios (A2 and Bl) for 2050 and 2080. Results: Robust Random Forest proved to be the best statistical model to predict the potential distribution of tree species abundance. Climate change could lead to a shift in tree species distribution towards higher altitudes and a reduction of forest cover. Finns sylvestris and Tilia cordata may be considered at risk of local extinction, while the other species could find potential suitable areas at the cost of a rearrangement of forest community composition and increasing competition. Conclusions: Geographical and topographical regional characteristics can have a noticeable influence on the impact of predicted climate change on forest ecosystems within the Mediterranean basin. It would be highly beneficial to create a standardized and harmonized European forest inventory in order to evaluate, at high resolution, the effect of climate change on forest ecosystems, identify regional differences and develop specific adaptive management strategies and plans.
1478918|Fen meadows (Cirsio dissecti-Molinietum) are seriously threatened by desiccation, acidification and eutrophication. In The Netherlands several projects were launched to restore damaged fen meadows. This review describes how successes and failures of these restoration projects depend on hydrological systems. Six hydrological systems have been distinguished, which all provide the site conditions required by this community. Nowadays, the best developed fen meadows are found in the higher Pleistocene landscape of The Netherlands, where they depend on base-rich groundwater discharging from local or large groundwater systems. Fen meadows of the lower Holocene landscape usually occur in man-made surface water systems. Almost all stands have been severely deteriorated. Restoration of fen meadows in the Pleistocene landscape is promising when the hydrology is only slightly disturbed or when hydrological measures are taken in combination with sod cutting. Restoration prospects of fen meadows in the Holocene landscape are low. Until now a complete regeneration of Cirsio-Molinietum meadows has not been realized. Restoration measures failed to restore high pH values in the top soil. It is hypothesized that viable seeds of many target species lack in the soil seed bank. In addition, the dispersal capacities of these species seem to be limited.
27735092|Question: Continua landscape approaches conceptualize the effects of habitat fragmentation on the biota by considering fragmented landscapes as continuous gradients, departing from the view of habitat as either suitable (fragment) or unsuitable (matrix). They also consider the ecological gradients or the 'Umwelt' (species-specific perception of the landscape) to represent the processes that ultimately limit organisms' ability to colonize and persist within habitat remnants. Are these approaches suitable for evaluating the response of plant species to fragmentation? Location: Fragmented mid-elevation temperate forests, Cantabrian range, Spain. Methods: The presence, abundance and demographic structure of populations of the perennial herb Primula vulgaris were sampled across a continuous extent of 100 ha, subdivided into 400 50 m50 m sampling units. These variables were related to forest availability, forest subdivision and edge density, topography and the spatial clumpiness of populations (a measure of plant dispersal constraints and, hence, a major surrogate of plant Umwelt). Results: Fragmentation processes, especially habitat loss, negatively affect P. vulgaris, with a stronger effect on presence than on abundance and demography. Despite the importance of habitat availability, P. vulgaris does not occupy all potentially suitable forest habitat, mostly owing to dispersal constraints. A positive effect of slope on plant presence also suggests some effect of habitat quality in determining establishment and occupancy of forest landscape. Conclusions: Within-habitat dispersal constraints are as important as forest fragmentation in determining the landscape-scale distribution of P. vulgaris. By assessing the relative role of the diverse fragmentation processes, and of the species' landscape perception, a continua landscape approach proves to be a valuable tool for predicting plant response to landscape change.
41058162|Questions: Are there changes in species composition of the oceanic, Low-Arctic tundra vegetation after 40 years? Can possible changes be attributed to climate change? Location: Ammassalik Island near Tasiilaq, Southeast Greenland. Methods: Species composition and cover of 11 key vegetation types were recorded in 110 vegetation survey plots in 1968-1969 and in 11 permanent plots in 1981. Recording was repeated in 2007. Temporal changes in species composition and cover between the surveys were tested using permutation tests linked with constrained ordinations for vegetation types, and Mann-Whitney tests for individual species. Changes in vegetation were related to climate change. Results: Although climate became warmer over the studied period, most of the vegetation types showed minor changes. The changes were most conspicuous in mire and snowbed vegetation, such as the Carex rariflora mire and Hylocomium splendens snowbed. In the C. rariflora mire, species number and cover of vascular plants and cover of bryophytes increased, whereas in the H. splendens snowbed species numbers of vascular plants, bryophytes, and also lichens increased. Lichen richness increased in the Carex bigelowii snowbed and cover of bryophytes in the Salix herbacea snowbed. No such changes occurred in the Alchemilla glomerulans meadow, Alchemilla alpina snowbed and Phyllodoce coerulea heath. There was no change of species composition within the Salix glauca scrub, A. alpina snowbed, lichen grassland and the Empetrum nigrum and Phyllodoce coerulea heaths. Most changes resulted from increasing frequency or cover of some species; there were very few decreasing species. Most of the increasing species indicate drier substrate conditions. Conclusions: Only minor changes in species composition and cover were detected in the vegetation types studied. These changes were probably caused by milder winters and warmer summers during the years before the 2007 sampling. Climate warming may have reduced the duration of snow cover and soil moisture, particularly in snowbed and mire habitats, where species composition change was most pronounced. However, its magnitude was insufficient to cause a major change in species composition. Thus, on the level of plant community types, tundra vegetation near Tasiilaq was rather stable over the last 40 years.
1478936| Natural stands of Pinus brutia were compared to burned areas after a great fire in 1985 on the island of Thsos, North Greece, in relation to site quality effects on the success of natural regeneration and understorey vegetation. The number of seedlings in the natural stands of P. brutia was 1124/ha against 3188/ha in the burned area. In both cases natural regeneration was successful. Under the canopy of P. brutia forests the predominant shrubs were Quercus coccifera and Phillyrea latifolia. A high percentage (up to 40%) of the total area was covered by these species. In the burned areas, 12 yr after the wildfire of 1985, Cistus incanus and C. salvifolius played a significant role in the survival of P. brutia seedlings. These species had covered the burned area long before the pine seed germination. 
4620465|Question: The decline of the Pinus palustris ecosystems has resulted from anthropogenic influences, such as conversion to pine plantation forestry, agriculture and land development, all of which are closely related to increases in human populations. Other effects, however, have arisen from alterations in disturbance regimes that maintain the structure and function of these ecosystems. How have alterations of the disturbance regime altered the physiognomy of 'old-growth' stands, and what are the implications for ecosystem conservation and restoration? Methods: In contrast to models that emphasize close interactions among the vertically complex strata, we develop a conceptual phenomenological model for the physiognomic structure of Pinus palustris stands. We relate two natural disturbances (tropical storms and fire) that affect different stages of the life cycle to different aspects of the physiognomic structure. We then compare overstorey stand structure and ground cover composition of two old-growth longleaf stands near the extremes of different composite disturbance regimes: the Wade Tract (frequent hurricanes and fire) and the Boyd Tract (infrequent hurricanes and long-term fire exclusion). Results: We predict that tropical storms and fires have different effects on stand physiognomy. Tropical storms are periodic, and sometimes intense, whereas fires are more frequent and less intense. Hurricanes directly influence the overstorey via wind-caused damage and mortality, and indirectly influence the herb layer by altering the spatial distribution of shading and litter accumulation. Fire exerts direct effects on juvenile stages and indirect effects on the herb layer via fine fuel consumption and selective mortality of potential competitors of P. palustris juveniles. These differences in effects of disturbances can result in widely different physiognomies for P.palustris stands. Finally, some global climate change scenarios have suggested that changes may occur in tropical storm and fire regimes, altering frequency and severity. Such changes may greatly affect pine stands, and ultimately entire pine savanna ecosystems. Conclusions: Our phenomenological model of disturbance regimes in Pinus palustris old-growth produces very different physiognomies for different disturbances regimes that reflect natural process and human management actions. This model can be used to derive restoration strategies for pine savannas that are linked to reinstitution of important ecological processes rather than specific physiognomic states.
1479027|In France, most civil engineering and excavation projects are at present accompanied by compensatory measures with the aim of preserving biodiversity. In order to avoid the destruction of a habitat of high conservation interest in NE France, harbouring two legally protected plant species, an experiment of soil translocation was conducted on an area of 1 ha. The donor site was an extensively managed mesophilic meadow and the receiving site was a neighbouring arable land. The vegetation of the translocated meadow was described 8 and 17 months after soil translocation, and compared (1) with vegetation resulting from more classical restoration techniques tested on the arable land (natural regeneration and seed mixture sowing) and (2) with the soil seed bank and vegetation previously present on the donor site. Results showed that the soil translocation technique permitted the development of many meadow species, including two legally protected species, and few ruderal species despite a large area of bare ground. This technique seems effective in terms of number and abundance of meadow species compared to natural regeneration and commercial seed sowing. In the case of the two classical methods, species richness was lower and only widespread species were present. Topsoil translocation provides a good compensatory method to avoid habitat and species destruction. However, the study should be continued, with the aim of assessing the longer term development and stabilization of the vegetation of the translocated meadow.
25488456|Question: Can dissimilarity measures of individual plots be used to forecast the driving factors among various anthropogenic disturbances influencing understorey successional changes? Location: Yambulla State Forest, south-eastern Australia (3714' S, 14938' E). Methods: Assessments of understorey vegetation communities were taken prior to anthropogenic disturbances and at three subsequent time periods representing a period of 15 years post-disturbance. Dissimilarities were calculated from the original assessment and modelled in a Bayesian framework to examine the influence of logging, number of prescribed burns and time. Results: All sites underwent significant changes over time independently of the imposed management regimes. Logging resulted in an immediate change in vegetation assemblage which decreased in the subsequent assessments. The number of prescribed fires brought greater change in the shrub vegetation assemblages, but less change in the ground species vegetation assemblages. Conclusions: The anthropogenic disturbances did have some role in the changes of vegetation assemblages but these were minimal. The ongoing changes appear to be a natural response to the last wildfire, which passed through the study area in 1973 (13 years prior to the study). Forest management practices should consider the influence of wildfire succession when planning for the conservation of biodiversity.
25488465|Background: Senecio aquaticus is an esteemed wetland species, but it is also a poisonous species in grasslands for forage production of various countries (e.g. Great Britain and Central European states), and its further spread onto farmland must be prevented. To reveal links between management practice and the occurrence of S. aquaticus, a survey was carried out on agricultural grassland in the summer of 2005. Location: The mountain region in the northern and central part of Switzerland. Methods: Botanical assessments were carried out on management units (parcels) where S. aquaticus occurred and on neighbouring parcels without occurrence. For all parcels, we analysed the soil nutrients and the details of management such as intensity of fertilisation and defoliation frequency. Results: There was a high risk of S. aquaticus occurrence in parcels with low nitrogen fertilisation, a change of management intensity in the preceding 15 years, high inclination, and gaps in the sward. The change in the vegetation composition caused by altering the management intensity most probably provided gaps in the sward, which were then colonised by S. aquaticus. A novel finding is that, despite its preference for low-nutrient sites, the species was also persistent at sites with a moderate to high management intensity. Conclusion: A long-term control of S. aquaticus on agricultural grasslands can best be achieved by avoiding sward damage and by promoting dense and stable swards. The management should be adjusted to the local environmental conditions and the requirements of the favourable plant species. This could prevent the spread of S. aquaticus from the protected wetlands onto agricultural grasslands, where the species would threaten animal health.
25488416|Question: What is the impact of prescribed fires on the cover and composition of vegetation in Artemisia tridentata ssp. vaseyana steppe? Location: United States Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service, United States Sheep Experiment Station, eastern Idaho (4414'44" N, 11212'47" W). Methods: Multiple prescribed fires were lit in 2002 and 2003 in an Artemisia tridentata ssp. vaseyana (mountain big sagebrush) steppe ecosystem that was relatively free of exotic plants. Measurements of cover components and plant species frequencies were taken pre- and for 2 to 3 years post-fire. Results: Cover of forbs and grasses returned to pre-fire levels after two years. Shrub cover declined from 36 to 6% in the first year post-fire. Fire reduced the frequencies of three species, A. tridentata ssp. vaseyana, Festuca idahoensis, and Cordylanthus ramosus, of rangeland plants. Frequencies of four plant species, Hesperostipa comata, Polygonum douglasii, Chenopodium fremontii and Chenopodium leptophyllum increased, but only P. douglasii increased for more than a year. Conclusion: This study demonstrates that in an Artemisia tridentata ssp. vaseyana steppe ecosystem without significant non-native species or anthropogenic disturbances vegetative cover and species composition of the herbaceous community are only minimally altered by fire. The herbaceous component returned to pre-fire conditions within three years of a fire.
1479056|Ellenberg's bio-indication system for soil moisture (F), soil nitrogen (N) and soil reaction (R) was examined, based on 559 vegetation samples and environmental characteristics (vegetation cover, soil depth, soil moisture, chemical soil properties) from four Faroe islands. The original indicator values from central Europe were used for the calculation of weighted community indicator values of F, N and R. These were regressed with respect to environmental data, applying standard curvilinear regression and generalized linear modelling (GLM) and new predicted values of community indicator values were obtained from the best model. Faroe species optima values of 162 taxa for one or more of the three Ellenberg scales were derived from fitting Huisman-Olff-Fresco (HOF) models of species abundance with respect to predicted community indicator values and are proposed as new Ellenberg species indicator values to be used in the Faroe Islands. F was best correlated with a GLM model containing soil moisture, organic soil fraction, soil depth and total vegetation cover, R with a GLM model containing pH and calcium in % organic soil fraction, N with total phosphorus in % organic soil fraction. The calibrated species indicator scales are much truncated, as compared with the original values, resulting in significantly different overall distributions of the original and new species indicator values. The recalculated community indicator values are much better correlated to environmental measurements. Several species do not have clear optima, but linear or monotone relationships to the examined indicator scales. This probably indicates that the occurrence of some species in the Faroe Islands are either determined by factors other than moisture, pH or soil nutrient status or, given the young age and environmental instability of the islands, are governed by stochastic mechanisms. Extension of Ellenberg indicator values outside central Europe should always be carefully calibrated by means of adequate environmental data and adequate statistical models, such as HOF models, should be applied.
41318167|Questions: How does the severity of prescribed fires affect vegetation and seed bank in a wetland? Location: A fire-prone reed swamp in northern Japan (250 ha, 40 49'N,14122'E < 10 m a.s.l.). Methods: Vegetation, biomass and seed bank were monitored for the 2 yr after annual prescribed fires were discontinued. Plant communities were placed into three categories based on fire severity: high (H) -fire consumed litter completely; moderate (M) -fire removed standing litter but left wet fallen litter; and low (L) -fire incompletely removed standing litter and did not remove fallen litter. Soil samples were collected in autumn 2007 and early summer 2008, and germinable seed bank was investigated by greenhouse trials. Results: High fire severity increased diversity in the next growing season by the establishment of short herbs in the standing vegetation. The biomass of forbs and grasses was greater in H where Phragmites australis biomass was reduced. The density of seed bank was > 30 000 seeds m throughout all the treatments. Perennial plants were dominant in the vegetation, while annuals, biennials and rushes were dominant in the seed bank. Small seeds were more abundant in the soil than in the litter. Qualitative and quantitative similarities between seed bank and the vegetation were low, and tended to be higher in H. Conclusions: Fire contributed to the development of diverse standing vegetation via the positive effects on seed bank dynamics, and can be considered a tool to maintain species-rich marshes.
1479071|Livestock overgrazing and stream incision in the western USA often result in encroachment and dominance of Artemisia tridentata ssp. tridentata (Big sagebrush) in riparian areas that formerly supported meadows. To define the alternative states and thresholds for these ecosystems, we conducted a restoration experiment that included sites with high, intermediate or low water tables. We used a paired-plot approach in which one plot on each site was burned and seeded with native grasses and forbs typical of naturally occurring dry meadow and Artemisia/Leymus cinereus ecological types, while adjacent unburned plots served as controls. Sites with high and intermediate water tables had greater initial abundances of perennial grasses typical of dry meadows, such as Leymus triticoides and Poa secunda ssp. juncifolia, and these species increased after the burn. In contrast, sites with low water tables were dominated by annual forbs such as Chenopodium album and Descurainia pinnata after the burn. Biomass increased progressively from 1997 to 1999 on burned plots, while controls showed little change. Burning effects were microsite specific, with former Artemisia microsites exhibiting lower biomass than interspaces initially, but similar or higher biomass by the third year. Establishment of seeded species was low and species composition was determined largely by pre-burn vegetation. Artemisia dominated sites with high water tables appear to represent an alternative state of the dry meadow ecological type, while sites with low water table sites have crossed an abiotic threshold governed by water tables and represent a new ecological type. Burning is an effective tool for restoring relatively high water table sites, but low water table sites will require burning and seeding with species adapted to more xeric conditions.
25488433|Question: What is the role of Stipa tenacissima as a nurse plant of the rare and threatened endemic species Haplophyllum bastetanum? Location: Semi-arid steppe of the Guadix-Baza basin (SE Spain). Methods: In the two H. bastetanum populations known, we (1) estimated the number of individuals and (2) analysed the influence of the factors 'site' (S1 = Hernn Valle, S2 = Alicn), 'microhabitat' (inside and below the canopy of the S. tenacissima tussocks vs. open areas), 'life stage' (vegetative, reproductive), 'aspect' (N, S, E, W, flat) and 'damage' (yes or no), in relation to the distribution of individuals and to the height, number of flowers, number of capsules, and edaphic variables. Results: The total number of individuals was estimated at 3135. S. tenacissima was found to have a positive and significant effect on the distribution of H. bastetanum, more pronounced in the sample taken at S2 than S1, where 83.8% of the plants were growing in association with S. tenacissima. Similarly, there were more H. bastetanum individuals that became reproductive inside S. tenacissima tussocks than in the open areas, and H. bastetanum individuals had a greater production of flowers and fruits, especially in the sample taken at S1. Organic carbon, nitrogen, and carbon:nitrogen ratio were related to the height and number of flowers and capsules of the plants. Conclusion: Although new patches were established, with a larger number of individuals, H. bastetanum continues to be Critically Endangered (CR). The results support the hypothesis of the facilitation effect of S. tenacissima on this rare, endemic species. Facilitation of species of interest in conservation is an aspect that has not previously been clearly reported. We propound this important process as a valuable tool for rehabilitation of populations of threatened plant species in conservation biology projects.
1478967| In this study we compared the effects of fire on understorey vegetation in the Qubec southern boreal forest with effects of salvage-logging (clear-cutting after fire). All 61400 - m
1479036| Fine-scale spatial patterns of small mammal disturbances and local accumulation of plant litter were studied together with the spatial pattern of vegetation in different stages of old-field succession at Cedar Creek Natural History Area, Minnesota, USA. Seven stands from one to 66 years old were sampled. Presence of living plant species, local soil disturbances by pocket gophers (Geomys bursarius) and plant litter accumulation were recorded in 10 cm  10 cm contiguous microquadrats along elliptical transects. Spatial patterns and associations were analyzed using information theory models. Dominant grasses were spatially independent, while subordinate functional groups were strongly dependent on the existing patchwork of dominant species, plant litter and gopher disturbances. Litter had consistent negative associations with subordinate functional groups in all but the initial years. Gopher disturbances were abundant but had weak and variable associations with vegetation. These results suggest that gopher disturbance does not facilitate the colonization of native prairie species and that diversity can be improved by controlling litter accumulation in Minnesota old-fields. 
4620524|Question: How can long-term monitoring of hydrological and ecological parameters support management strategies aimed towards wetland restoration and re-creation in a complex hydrological system? Location: Newham Bog National Nature Reserve, Northumberland, UK, a site with a long history of active management, and recorded as drought-sensitive over the last 100 years. Methods: Water level readings are correlated with longer-term hydrological databases, and these data related to vegetation data collected intermittently over a 12 year period. Two analyses are undertaken: (1) a composite DCA analysis of 1993 and 2002 survey data to assess plant community transitions within the wetland and over time, and (2) analysis of recent vegetation data to explore wider vegetation gradients. This allows (3) communities to be classified using NVC classes and (4) integrated with revised Ellenberg F-values. Results: Drought impact and subsequent hydrological recovery over a 22-year period are quantified. Vegetation data display strong moisture and successional gradients. Analysis shows a shift from grassland communities toward mire communities across much of the site. Conclusion: The site is regionally unique in that it has a detailed long-term monitoring record. Hydrological data and vegetation survey have allowed the impact of the most recent 'groundwater' drought (1989-1997) to be quantified. This information on system resilience, combined with eco-hydrological analyses of plant community-water regime/quality relationships, provide a basis for recommendations concerning conservation and restoration.
1479016|Secondary succession and seed bank formation was studied in a formerly grazed, abandoned, eastern Hungarian sandy steppe-meadow (Pulsatillo-Festucetum). The vegetation was sampled at different elevations of a sand dune which became partly invaded by the tree Robinia pseudo-acacia ca. 10 yr ago. Pre-abandonment vegetation records were used as historic references. Though composition of the non-invaded grassland only changed moderately, dominance of tall grasses (Elymus hispidus, Poa angustifolia) increased significantly at the cost of annuals and low stature perennials. In the stand invaded by Robinia most grassland species were lost and replaced by nitrophytes. Vertical position influenced species abundance, but affected the composition only moderately. Fine-scale zonation of the vegetation also changed with time. Species richness of the above-ground vegetation and the seed density of soil samples at the lower elevation were slightly greater than at the higher sites. Seed banks of sensitive grassland specialists (e.g. Pulsatilla pratensis subsp. hungarica) disappeared during grass encroachment. Following extinction from above-ground vegetation, restoration must rely on dispersal from adjacent areas. In contrast, several annuals and perennials, which survived this degradation stage in the above-ground vegetation, possessed seed banks. Many of these species became extinct from the vegetation during the Robinia invasion but left viable persistent seeds. This fact is promising for restoration of the Potentillo-Festucetum sandy pasture. Competitive weedy species and sprouting Robinia can, however, limit seedling establishment.
25488472|Questions: What is the relative role of the bud bank, seed and various species traits in the regeneration of urban plant communities after severe disturbances? Do invasive and exotic species, highly abundant in disturbed communities, regenerate better than native species after disturbance? Methods: Hand tilling was applied to three urban plant communities with and without additional herbicide treatment to exclude regeneration from the bud bank. Plant traits were determined from the literature and databases. Species responses to the treatments were evaluated with RDA analyses in CANOCO. Linear models were applied to identify traits that could predict the responses of species to disturbance. Results: The bud bank played a key role in regeneration in the plots without herbicide. In the plots with herbicide treatment, the seed bank was important in re-establishing vegetation after disturbance. Exclusion of the bud bank by using herbicide allowed the establishment of small annuals, whereas biennials and perennials were successful in plots where the bud bank was not inhibited by herbicide. Exotic species with a long residence time in the local flora were successful in plots where regeneration from the bud bank was excluded, whereas species with short residence times or that were invasive were suppressed by both types of disturbance. Conclusion: In response to various types of disturbance, species with different regeneration strategies (either seeds or bud bank) were promoted. Exotic species were suppressed primarily by disturbance, which suggests that factors other than just regenerative capability contributed to the high abundance of exotics in urban communities.
25488462|Question: What is the combined effect of two drivers of local biodiversity changes (presence of a potentially invasive species and seasonal drought) on the performance of seedlings of plants from gypsum habitats under experimental conditions? Location: A controlled microcosm reconstruction of natural assemblages of gypsum plant communities from central Spain. Methods: We evaluated the effects of a potentially invasive grass (Lolium rigidum) and water stress on the survival, height growth and biomass of five woody species (Colutea hispanica, Gypsophila struthium, Thymus lacaitae, Lepidium subulatum and Helianthemum squamatum) from semi-arid gypsum ecosystems. Seedlings of the five species were grown with or without the potential invader and under three watering regimes: early stress - simulating an advanced summer, late stress - simulating the characteristic timing of current summer drought and well-watered. Results: Seedling survival and performance were negatively affected by the presence of the potential invader. Early stress had larger impacts on the gypsum species than late stress. No interactions were found between factors for any of the study variables, and responses to both factors were found to be species-specific. Conclusions: The lack of interactions between factors indicates that the presence of the potentially invasive grass and water stress had additive effects in our study system. The negative impact of early water stress draws attention to the possible consequences of the advances of summer drought predicted for Mediterranean ecosystems. Finally, the differential responses found for the study species suggest that plant communities will not respond as a unit to global change, leading to significant changes in species composition and dominance.
1478890|In two fen areas of northeastern Germany, different techniques of re-introduction to establish reed-bed species in formerly intensively used, species-poor, grasslands, after rewetting, were studied under three hydrological regimes (permanent inundation, temporary inundation, border irrigation) with the aims (1) to establish peat-forming vegetation and (2) to enhance species richness. Establishment was successful for nearly all species investigated under all hydrological variants. There were differences between individuals sown and those which had been planted. Wet, but not inundated soil linked with vegetation gaps create 'safe sites' which enable successful germination and seedling establishment. The survival rate for both planted and sown individuals was generally high, with the exception of Cladium mariscus, Eupatorium cannabinum and Phragmites australis Recommendations for restoration management include the establishment of the following successful species: Carex acutiformis, C. elata and C. paniculata to establish peatforming vegetation; Iris pseudacorus, Lysimachia vulgaris, Lythrum salicaria to enhance species richness.
1478998| We present a remote sensing based vegetation mapping technique well suited to a heterogeneous, semi-arid environment. 10 structural vegetation classes were identified and described on the ground. Using Landsat-TM from two different seasons and a combination of three conventional classification techniques (including a multi-temporal classification) we were unsuccessful in delineating all of the desired vegetation classes. We then employed a simple textural classification index, known as the Moving Standard Deviation Index (MSDI), that has been used to map degradation status. MSDI measures spatial variations in the landscape and is calculated by passing a 3  3 standard deviation filter across the Landsat-TM red band. High MSDI values are associated with degraded or disturbed rangelands whilst low MSDI values are associated with undisturbed rangeland. A combination of two conventional multi-spectral techniques and MSDI were used to produce a final vegetation classification at an accuracy of 84%. MSDI successfully discriminated between two contrasting vegetation types of identical spectral properties and significantly strengthened the accuracy of the classification. We recommend the use of a textural index such as MSDI to supplement conventional vegetation classification techniques in heterogeneous, semi-arid or arid environments. 
41318166|Question: How does restoration affect the hydrology and the understorey vegetation of managed pine fens? Location: Oligotrophic pine fens in Natura 2000 areas in Kainuu, eastern Finland. Methods: Eleven managed pine fens and eight pristine reference pine fens were chosen for the study in 2005. The managed fens, which had been drained for forestry during the 1970s and 1980s, were restored in 2007. The water table was monitored in all fens over four growing seasons during 2006 to 2009, and vegetation was surveyed from permanent sample plots in 2006 and 2009. Results: Before restoration in 2006, the water table was at a significantly lower level in the managed fens compared with the pristine fens. Immediately after restoration, the water table rose to the same level as in the pristine fens, and this change was permanent. Forest drainage had had little impact on the understorey vegetation of the managed fens in the three decades before restoration, with species typical of pristine fens still dominating the sites. Forest dwarf shrubs and feather mosses had started to increase in cover, but mire dwarf shrubs and Sphagnum mosses still dominated the managed fens. Only the typical hollow species Sphagnum majus, Sphagnum balticum and Scheuzeria palustris were missing from the managed fens. Two years after restoration, the changes in species composition were also marginal, with increased cover of mire dwarf shrubs and sedges being the only significant change. Conclusions: The success of restoration of oligotrophic pine fens seems likely, given that changes in hydrological functioning occurred rapidly, and since little change has occurred in the vegetation composition after draining. Speeding up the regeneration process in these peatland types by restoration may, therefore, be recommended, especially if the drainage effect extends to nearby pristine mires and influences their biodiversity.
27735072|Question: The seed production in several wetland communities across Europe was investigated and differences in seed output in relation to disturbance intensity were tested. The relationship between the vegetation composition and the seed production profile was examined and the results are discussed in relation to restoration. Location: Poland, Germany and the Netherlands. Methods: The seed production in various plant communities was estimated, based on field counts. In addition, records from available databases were used for missing data. Multivariate methods were used to characterize the vegetation and seed production. Communities were grouped according to level of disturbance and tested for differences in seed production. Similarity between vegetation composition and seed profile was examined using the Srensen index and Spearman correlation coefficient. Results: It was found that the seed production of the studied communities is large, variable and in general increasing with disturbance intensity. The estimated median seed production was ca. 24103 seeds m2 in fens, 167103 in fen meadows and 556103 seeds m2 in degraded meadows. The majority of seeds was produced by just a few species. The similarity between the vegetation composition and the seed production profile was low (similarity 52%, correlation coefficient 0.42, P<0.05) and slightly increased with disturbance intensity. Conclusions: Increased disturbance enhances seed production at the community level. The composition of the vegetation is a poor predictor of the seed output. It is estimated that the number of seeds transferred with hay is much lower than the seed production in fens and fen meadows.
27735048|Questions: What factors limit the distribution of epiphytic lichens and bryophytes at plot and tree level in beech forests? At what ages do epiphytic species, and species of conservation concern in particular, occur along a chronosequence of beech? Location: South-west Sweden. Method: Five hundred and seventy-one age-determined trees from 37 plots distributed among 29 beech-dominated stands were surveyed along with a number of environmental (16) and substrate (seven) variables in a landscape of ca. 550 ha. Non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMS) and indicator species analysis (ISA) were used for data analysis. Results: Plots containing old trees, confined to the base of slopes and with low impacts of recent forestry (thinning), generally had a high richness of species of conservation concern. Richness of common species and red-listed bryophytes were mostly related to the surveyed bark area. At tree level, primary factors explaining both species richness and composition were age, diameter at breast height and moss cover. There was a gradual replacement of tree age ranges for 58 lichens and 37 bryophytes along the chronosequence of beech. Red-listed lichens favoured damaged beech trees ( 180 years), whereas red-listed bryophytes were found on old and young stems in dense stands. Conclusions: Tree age exerts a profound influence on epiphytic lichens and bryophytes growing on beech. Many of the habitat specialists were found mainly on old beech because they inhabit specific substrates that occur on older trees. The association to high tree age commonly excludes red-listed lichens from conventionally managed beech forests with a 100- to 140-year rotation period.
25488467|Question: Does the vegetation of restored salt marshes increasingly resemble natural reference communities over time? Location: The Essex estuaries, southeast England. Methods: Abandoned reclamations, where coastal defences had been breached in storm events, and current salt marsh recreation schemes were surveyed giving a chronosequence of salt marsh regeneration from 2 to 107 years. The presence, abundance and height of plant species were recorded and comparisons were made with adjacent reference salt marsh communities at equivalent elevations. Results: Of the 18 paired sites surveyed, 13 regenerated marshes had fewer species than their adjacent reference marsh, three had an equal number and two had more. The plant communities of only two de-embankment sites matched that of the reference community. 0-50 year old sites and 51-100 year old sites had fewer species per quadrat than the 101+ year sites and the reference salt marshes. There was a weak relationship between differences in species richness for regenerated and reference marshes and the time since sites were first re-exposed to tidal inundation. Cover values for the invasive and recently evolved Spartina anglica were greater within regenerated than reference marshes. Conclusions: Salt marsh plants will colonise formerly reclaimed land relatively quickly on resumption of tidal flooding. However, even after 100 years regenerated salt marshes differ in species richness, composition and structure from reference communities.
41058026|Questions: What are the patterns of remotely sensed vegetation phenology, including their inter-annual variability, across South Africa? What are the phenological attributes that contribute most to distinguishing the different biomes? How well can the distribution of the recently redefined biomes be predicted based on remotely sensed, phenology and productivity metrics? Location: South Africa. Method: Ten-day, 1 km, NDVI AVHRR were analysed for the period 1985 to 2000. Phenological metrics such as start, end and length of the growing season and estimates of productivity, based on small and large integral (SI, LI) of NDVI curve, were extracted and long-term means calculated. A random forest regression tree was run using the metrics as the input variables and the biomes as the dependent variable. A map of the predicted biomes was reproduced and the differentiating importance of each metric assessed. Results: The phenology metrics (e.g. start of growing season) showed a clear relationship with the seasonality of rainfall, i.e. winter and summer growing seasons. The distribution of the productivity metrics, LI and SI were significantly correlated with mean annual precipitation. The regression tree initially split the biomes based on vegetation production and then by the seasonality of growth. A regression tree was used to produce a predicted biome map with a high level of accuracy (73%). Main conclusion: Regression tree analysis based on remotely sensed metrics performed as good as, or better than, previous climate-based predictors of biome distribution. The results confirm that the remotely sensed metrics capture sufficient functional diversity to classify and map biome level vegetation patterns and function.
25488470|Question: We asked how landscape configuration and present management influence plant species richness and abundance of habitat specialists in grasslands in a 'modern' (much exploited and transformed) agricultural Swedish landscape. Location: Selan, south-eastern Sweden (5924' N, 1710' E). Methods: Present and past (150 and 50 years ago) landscape pattern was analysed in a 25 km area. Species richness was investigated in 63 different grassland patches; grazed and abandoned semi-natural grasslands, and grazed ex-arable fields. Influence of landscape variables; area, past and present grassland connectivity, present management on total species richness, density and abundance of 25 grassland specialists was analysed. Results: Semi-natural grasslands (permanent unfertilised pastures or meadows formed by traditional agricultural methods) had declined from 60% 150 years ago to 5% today. There was a significant decline in species richness and density in abandoned semi-natural grasslands. Total species richness was influenced by present management, size and connectivity to present and past grassland pattern. Landscape variables did not influence species density in grazed semi-natural grassland suggesting that maintained grazing management makes grassland patches independent of landscape context. The abundance of 16 grassland specialists was mainly influenced by management and to some extent also by landscape variables. Conclusion: Although species richness pattern reflect management and to some extent landscape variables, the response of individual species may be idiosyncratic. The historical signal from past landscapes is weak on present-day species richness in highly transformed, agricultural landscapes. Generalizations of historical legacies on species diversity in grasslands should consider also highly transformed landscapes and not only landscapes with a high amount of diversity hotspots left.
1479038| The success in restoring seven low-production vegetation types on former agricultural soil after top-soil removal was investigated. The colonization and establishment of target species in permanent plots was recorded during the first nine years after restoration measures were taken. For each permanent plot abiotic site conditions were used to determine which of the vegetation types could persist there. A comparison of the actual vegetation in the permanent plots with reference relevs of the selected vegetation type revealed a gradually increasing similarity during consecutive years for five vegetation types. This was due to the occurrence of an increasing number of target species and the number of permanent plots they occurred in. However, nine years after top-soil removal a large number of the target species were still lacking from the vegetation in the permanent plots, although most were present in the local species pool. Seed dispersal therefore seems to be a major limiting factor for restoration of these low-production vegetation types on formerly agricultural soils. 
1478896| The North American mid-continent population of Lesser snow geese (Chen caerulescens caerulescens L.) has increased by ca. 7% per year, largely as a result of geese feeding on agricultural crops in winter and on migration. We describe the long-term effects of increasing numbers of geese at an arctic breeding ground (La Prouse Bay, Manitoba) on intertidal salt-marsh vegetation. Between 1985 and 1999 goose grubbing caused considerable loss of graminoid vegetation along transects in intertidal marshes. Loss of vegetation led to bare sediment with a plant cover of less than 2%. Changes in vegetation could not be described by simple linear, geometric or exponential functions: most losses occurred between 1988 and 1990 and losses were staggered in time between individual transects, some of which had all vegetation removed. Between 1979 and 1999 the standing crop in July in remaining intact heavily-grazed swards of Puccinellia phryganodes and Carex subspathacea fell from 40-60 g m
1478982|In order to define the 'regeneration niche' and then promote the re-introduction of Quercus rugosa into a disturbed area we studied seed predation, germination, seedling survival and growth of this species at three different sites: the forest interior, the forest border and a disturbed site, along a disturbance gradient. Acorn removal on the ground was high at the sites, with higher removal rates from 25-seed clusters than from 5- and 1-seed clusters. More seeds were removed at the forest border than at the other two sites, although in all cases some seeds remained in the soil for periods long enough for them to germinate and produce seedlings. Seed germination and seedling establishment were more successful and similar in the forest interior and the forest border, and much less successful at the disturbed site, due to acorn desiccation. Seedling survival was strongly affected by site, with the highest survival at the forest border and the lowest survival at the disturbed site after a year. The subsequent dry season, which was particularly harsh, caused a drop in survival both at the forest border and the disturbed site. In the former, a closer analysis revealed that partially shaded microsites enhanced survival, while in the latter overall survival was very low, with approximately 5% of the seedlings surviving, compared to 50% final survival at the other sites. There was a positive correlation between seed size and seedling survival at the forest border. The three size variables measured (seedling height, basal diameter and crown area) did not increase noticeably during the 20-month study period at the forest interior, while growth still occurred at the forest border and the disturbed site. However, during the two dry seasons there were large drops in mean seedling height and crown area at the disturbed site, due to more frequent dieback, causing large variation in seedling size. These results show that extensive re-introduction of this species to the disturbed area will probably fail under present conditions, and that careful selection or duplication of microsites that mimic the partial shade of the forest border is a sound method for improving oak establishment at this site.
41058024|Question: Do solid-walled polyethylene tubes and mesh fabric tubes improve the short-term survival of eight Mediterranean tree and shrub species often used in the restoration of arid environments? Location: We conducted two experimental plantations in degraded field sites in the province of Almera (SE Spain), under arid Mediterranean conditions. Methods: One-year-old seedlings of Ceratonia siliqua, Juniperus phoenicea, Olea europaea, Pinus halepensis, Pinus pinaster, Quercus coccifera, Quercus ilex and Tetraclinis articulata were planted either sheltered by one of the above shelter tubes, or by being left unsheltered. Survival was recorded the first growing season after planting, which was a very dry season. Results: Overall, seedling survival ranged from as little as 0% to 24%, and tree shelters consistently enhanced survival in Quercus species only, ranging from 16% in walled shelters to 8% in mesh shelters. Shelters failed to boost survival in the six remaining species. Conclusion: The results of this study suggest that both walled and mesh shelters were mostly ineffective at increasing seedling survival for the Mediterranean species used in this experiment; these species coincide with those used in restoration programs. The use of shelters in restoration programs conducted in arid environments should be reconsidered, while walled shelters might be advisable for Mediterranean Quercus species only. Further research is necessary to develop and assess improved types of shelters for arid environments.
41318162|Objective: To review the recent research into human-mediated dispersal (HMD) in the European rural landscape, and explore the potential positive aspect of HMD for grassland conservation, in contrast to it's common association with the spread of invasive species. Methods: A literature search was undertaken to identify HMD vectors in the rural landscape for discussion regarding dispersal potential past and present, implications for management, and the identification of future research needs. Results: Grazing animals are important propagule dispersers, but the reduced movement of livestock through the landscape has also meant a reduction in seeds dispersed in this way. Other, non-standard human-mediated dispersal vectors such as clothing and motor vehicles can also transport seeds of many species, and HMD vectors often transport seeds with a variety of dispersal specialisations. Recommendations: There should be a greater movement of grazing animals throughout the landscape, either within larger grazing areas or between existing grasslands. Where this is not possible, other, more directed dispersal of propagules from species-rich communities to target sites should be considered. The potential of non-standard HMD vectors to make a positive contribution to biodiversity should be considered, but more research into all types of HMD vectors is important if we are to fully understand their role in the dispersal of plant species in fragmented landscapes.
27735084|Question: What relationships exist between remotely sensed measurements and field observations of species density and abundance of tree species? Can these relationships and spatial interpolation approaches be used to improve the accuracy of prediction of species density and abundance of tree species? Location: Quintana Roo, Yucatan peninsula, Mexico. Methods: Spatial prediction of species density and abundance of species for three functional groups was performed using regression kriging, which considers the linear relationship between dependent and explanatory variables, as well as the spatial dependence of the observations. These relationships were explored using regression analysis with species density and abundance of species of three functional groups as dependent variables, and reflectance values of spectral bands, computed NDVI (normalized difference vegetation index), standard deviation of NDVI and texture measurements of Landsat 7 Thematic Mapper (TM) imagery as explanatory variables. Akaike information criterion was employed to select a set of candidate models and calculate model-averaged parameters. Variogram analysis was used to analyze the spatial structure of the residuals of the linear regressions. Results: Species density of trees was related to reflectance values of TM4, NDVI and spatial heterogeneity of land cover types, while the abundance of species in functional groups showed different patterns of association with remotely sensed data. Models that accounted for spatial autocorrelation improved the accuracy of estimates in all cases. Conclusions: Our approach can substantially increase the accuracy of the spatial estimates of species richness and abundance of tropical tree species and can help guide and evaluate tropical forest management and conservation.
4620467|Question: How does grazing intensity affect plant density, cover and species richness in an Patagonian arid ecosystem? Location: Monte steppe ecoregion, SW Argentina. Methods: I analysed the effect of grazing on plant density, cover and species richness using a stocking rate gradient within the same habitat. Six paddocks were used with stocking rates ranging between 0.002 - 0.038 livestock/ha. Plant density, species richness, plant cover and percentage of grazed branches were determined by sampling plots within each paddock. The percentage of grazed branches was used as an independent measurement of grazing intensity. Results: Higher stocking rates were related to lower plant density, species richness and plant cover. The paddock with the lowest grazing intensity had 86% more plants per unit area, 63% more plant cover and 48% higher species richness. The percentage of grazed branches and the quantity of dung increased with stocking rate. Conclusions: Introduced livestock seriously affect native vegetation in the Patagonian Monte. The damage observed in this xerophytic plant community suggests that plant adaptations to aridity do not provide an advantage to tolerate or avoid grazing by vertebrate herbivores in this region. Plant degradation in this arid environment is comparable to the degradation found in more humid ecosystems.
25488463|Question: What is the relationship of the naturally colonizing vegetation and substrate characteristics in fly ash lagoons? Location: West lagoon, Deep Bay, a 13-ha coastal lagoon in Hong Kong in subtropical Southeast Asia. Methods: Vegetation establishment was examined in a coal fly ash lagoon two years after its abandonment to investigate the distribution of vegetation in relationship to the chemical properties of the fly ash in the lagoon. A greenhouse experiment assessed the limits imposed on plant growth in fly ash. Results: The fly ash was saline, slightly alkaline and very poor in organic matter and nitrogen. Ash from bare and vegetated areas differed significantly in their salinity and extractable concentrations of inorganic nitrogen and various metals. Bare ash had a significantly higher conductivity and extractable sodium, aluminum, manganese, potassium, and lead. In total 11 plant species that belonged to seven families were found growing on the fly ash; all species except the shrub Tamarix chinensis were herbaceous. Using discriminant analysis, the most important factors in distinguishing bare and vegetated ashes were conductivity and sodium. Cluster analysis of bare samples gave two distinct groups, one from the periphery of the lagoon, which had lower sodium, conductivity, organic carbon, potassium and copper, and the other from a second group that contained ashes from the central region of the lagoon. Results of the greenhouse experiment showed that the inhibition of plant growth was significantly correlated with the presence of soluble toxic elements in ash. Conclusion: Toxicity and salinity seem to be the major limiting factors to plant establishment in fly ash, and these factors must be ameliorated for the successful reclamation of these fly ash lagoons.
1479034| This paper describes vegetation development after a severe drop in water level. Diversion of the Danube river in 1992 resulted in a substantial water level reduction and the appearance of new terrestrial habitats in the Szigetkz region. a unique part of the Danube Valley in Hungary. Plant colonization was very rapid in the recently exposed river bed, where the establishment of a new willow thicket zone took only 4 yr. Our results clearly indicate that the elevation/moisture gradient is primarily responsible for the small-scale vegetation heterogeneity that developed as succession proceeded. Further changes in vegetation patterns will be determined by the position of the water level as a result of water management. 
1479080|The main question to be dealt with in the papers published in this Special Feature is to which extent plant species richness can be applied as a parameter in restoration projects to qualify the ecosystem's state. Before considering this problem, it should be recognized that this approach illuminates only one side of the coin; the other side is touched by the opposite question, asking which plant species are essential components of an ecosystem. These two approaches towards the relationship between species richness and ecosystem functioning are not mutually exclusive, but should not be confused either. In view of ecosystem functioning certain species may be considered redundant, while in view of evolutionary processes certain ecosystem processes may be considered redundant. Where do the two approaches meet and when should they be separated? This paper touches upon this question by referring to the dual hierarchy of ecological systems.
1479069|In this study we report the first application of Landsat TM imagery to Chaco vegetation studies at a regional scale in Argentina. We produced a map showing 13 clearly differentiated land-cover types, and described the composition and structure of the plant communities, in an area of almost 40 000 km
4620434| Question: What are the effects of fire on the structure and the diversity of a Spartina argentinensis tall grassland in the short and medium run. S. argentinensis is the dominant species of tall grasslands on inland marshes of the Chaco-Pampean region (Argentina), where spontaneous or man-made fires are very frequent. Location: Federico Wildermuth Reserve (3157' S; 6123 W), Province of Santa Fe, Argentina, an area never ploughed that supported cattle until its exclusion in 1988. Methods: Vegetation was surveyed in randomly placed permanent plots using the Braun-Blanquet cover-abundance scale. The data were analysed by multivariate methods (PCA and MRPP) for synthesizing information and testing hypotheses. Results: Fire did not have a long-lasting effect on the tall grassland. There was only a temporarily reduction of cover-abundance of S. argentinensis which allowed an increase in the number of accompanying species such as Heliotropium curassavicum, Pluchea sagittalis, and Verbena litoralis and of some naturalised or weed species, such as Melilotus alba and Cirsium vulgare, respectively. Fire increased diversity, which remained relatively high for two to three years. Three years after the fire there were no significant differences on the amount of litter accumulated on burned and unburned plots. Conclusion: Fire should be considered an intrinsic part of the dynamics of S. argentinensis tall grassland. 
27735070|Questions: What are the effects of raised water levels on wet grassland plant communities and dynamics? To what extent do time since raised water levels, vegetation management and water regime influence community composition? Location: Pevensey Levels, southeast England, UK. Methods: Plant communities and hydrology were monitored during 2001-03 within 23 wet grassland meadows and pastures where water levels had been raised for nature conservation at different times over 21 years. Community variations were examined using species abundance and ecological traits. Results: Water regime, measured as duration of flooding, groundwater level and soil moisture was significantly related to plant community variation. Communities were divided into grasslands where inundation was shallow ( 8 cm) and relatively short ( 3 months) and sites where deeper flooding was prolonged ( 5 months), supporting a variety of wetland vegetation. With increasing wetness, sites were characterised by more bare ground and wetland plants such as sedges, helophytes and hydrophytes, and species with a stress-tolerating competitive strategy. All sites showed considerable annual dynamics, especially those with substantially raised water levels. There were no significant relationships between time since water levels were raised and plant community composition. Grassland management exerted a limited influence upon vegetation compared to water regime. Conclusions: Grassland plant communities are responsive to raised water levels and have potential for a rapid transition to wetland vegetation, irrespective of grazing or cutting management. Creation or restoration of wet grasslands by (re)wetting is feasible but challenging due to the high dynamism of wetland plant communities and the need for substantially raised water levels and prolonged flooding to produce significant community changes.
27735078|Question: What is the effect of frequent low intensity prescribed fire on foliar nutrients and insect herbivory in an Australian eucalypt forest? Location: Lorne State Forest (Bulls Ground Frequent Burning Study), mid-north coast, New South Wales, Australia. Methods: Eighteen independent sites were studied representing three experimental fire regimes: fire exclusion (at least 45 years), frequently burnt (every 3 years for 35 years) and fire exclusion followed by the recent introduction of frequent burning (two fires in 6 years). Mature leaves were collected from the canopy of Eucalyptus pilularis trees at each site and analysed for nutrients and damage by invertebrate herbivores. Results: Almost 75% of all leaves showed some signs of leaf damage. The frequency of past fires had no effect on carbon and nitrogen content of canopy leaves. These results were consistent with assessments of herbivore damage where no significant differences were found in the amount of invertebrate herbivory damage to leaves across fire treatments. Conclusions: This eucalypt forest displayed a high degree of resilience to both frequent burning and fire exclusion as determined by foliar nutrients and damage by insect herbivores. Fire frequency had no detectable ecological impact on this aspect of forest health.
25488488|Question: Does forest vegetation community structure reflect legislative land use designations? Location: Adirondack Park, New York, USA. Methods: The Adirondack Park, located in northern New York State, is a mixture of public and private lands, with state-owned Forest Preserve lands comprising ca. 42% of the 2.4 million ha, on which timber harvesting and many other forms of anthropogenic disturbance are prohibited. A survey of vegetation communities was conducted in eighteen upland catchments with differing land use history (managed and Forest Preserve), including overstory, understory, and dead wood (snags and downed woody debris) using randomly placed plots. Results: Mean overstory density and basal area were not significantly different between land uses, although mean overstory tree size was greater in Preserve catchments. Sapling densities were greater in managed catchments, while mean herb/shrub coverage was not affected by land use. Densities of 25% of common species were affected by land use, determined by GIS coverages constructed using an Inverse Distance Weighted estimation procedure. Discriminant Analysis of per-plot plant community data correctly classified 89% of both managed and Preserve plots. Conclusion: The success of the Discriminant Analysis in classifying land uses based on vegetation communities indicates its potential utility of this method in comparing forest vegetation to a reference condition in this and other areas. The analysis suggests that at least 85 years is required for Adirondack upland catchments to recover following harvesting. Uncertainty in classification was related to heterogenous management and disturbance patterns within catchments.
4620527|Question: How do moderate grazing, topsoil removal and hay transfer affect species diversity and abundance on a eutrophic fen grassland site? Location: Northern Germany. Method: A three-factorial field experiment with the factors grazing, topsoil removal and hay transfer of diaspore-rich material was established in 2001. Soil nutrients and seed bank were analysed at the beginning of the experiment, species composition and vegetation development was monitored for four years (2002-2005). Results: Topsoil removal had a significant effect on the abundance of different plant species groups: resident vegetation of agricultural grasslands was suppressed, while clonal reed species were facilitated in recolonising the area. The establishment of regionally rare and endangered species of nutrient-poor fens and wet meadows introduced with hay was achieved mainly on plots with topsoil removal, with the exception of Rhinanthus angustifolius, which also established on plots with intact topsoil. Effects of grazing after four years of experiments were of minor influence on species composition. Conclusion: The establishment of target plant species of nutrient-poor fens is most successful when both an adequate number of viable diaspores and suitable sites for germination and establishment are available. In our experiment this was achieved by the combination of topsoil removal and hay transfer. We recommend this combination, together with continuous management (grazing/cutting), for further restoration in fen grasslands.
25488414|Question: What are the responses of Racomitrium lanuginosum moss to altered snow-lie and sheep use? Location: A Carex bigelowii-Racomitrium lanuginosum heath on a Scottish montane plateau affected since 1986 by a fenced ski corridor. Methods: Permanent quadrats were set up along transects 45 m long perpendicular to the snow-fence. Cover was assessed over a 12-year period from 1990. Pellet-group clearance counts provided data on sheep usage between 1990 and 1996. Snow-lie was mapped in the springs of 1991-1996. Results: The snow-fence created a gradient in sheep use and altered the duration of snow-lie. At the start of monitoring Racomitrium cover was lower immediately adjacent to the fence, and after 12 years its cover was significantly reduced within 10 m of the fence. Further away from the fence Racomitrium cover was relatively stable. The loss of Racomitrium was correlated both with increased snow-lie and heavier sheep usage. Grass cover increased near the fence and was related to sheep use. Dicranum fuscescens responded differently to Racomitrium, increasing significantly near the fence. Conclusions: We found that changes in snow-lie and grazing pressure quickly brought about vegetation change in this montane ecosystem. Racomitrium was the most sensitive species to the changes in grazing and snow-lie caused by the fence, having the biggest initial changes. Loss of Racomitrium permitted increases of species more resistant to grazing including Dicranum fuscescens and grasses.
