4139100| Repeat photography is a powerful tool for detection of landscape change over decadal timescales. Here a novel method is presented that applies spatial analysis software to digital photo-pairs, allowing vegetation change to be categorized and quantified. This method is applied to 12 sites within the alpine treeline ecotone of Glacier National Park, Montana, and is used to examine vegetation changes over timescales ranging from 71 to 93 years. Tree cover at the treeline ecotone increased in 10 out of the 12 photo-pairs (mean increase of 60%). Establishment occurred at all sites, infilling occurred at 11 sites. To demonstrate the utility of this method, patterns of tree establishment at treeline are described and the possible causes of changes within the treeline ecotone are discussed. Local factors undoubtedly affect the magnitude and type of the observed changes, however the ubiquity of the increase in tree cover implies a common forcing mechanism. Mean minimum summer temperatures have increased by 1.5C over the past century and, coupled with variations in the amount of early spring snow water equivalent, likely account for much of the increase in tree cover at the treeline ecotone. Lastly, shortcomings of this method are presented along with possible solutions and areas for future research. 
10.2307/1552524|In order to study the long-term effect of climatic conditions on organic matter decomposition, the difference in the mass loss rate of organic substrates was examined along the altitudinal temperature gradient (1500-2400 m) of Mt. Fuji, Japan. Two standard substrates, cellulose filter paper and wood chips of beech (Fagus crenata), were placed in the L and FH layers at each altitude. The mass loss rates tended to be smaller with increasing altitude and were significantly correlated with the annual mean air temperature in a log-linear fashion. The temperature dependence of the mass loss rates was much larger than that of microbial respiration. The initial increase in ergosterol content (an indicator of fungal biomass) of organic substrates was more rapid at low altitudes than at higher altitudes. The effects of fungal biomass and freezing temperatures on the temperature dependence of decomposition were examined using a simple simulation model. The results suggest that the effects of temperature increase on decomposition could be much larger than those estimated from the temperature-microbial respiration curves.
4095909|Heavy, increasing recreation on Colorado's high peaks has created numerous social trails requiring restoration. We studied success of turf transplants 3 yr after transplanting on Mount Belford in the Sawatch Range, and Humboldt Peak in the Sangre de Cristo Range. Based on point-intercept data, sum of all vascular species' covers was 12% to 31% lower in transplanted plots than in control areas. We found no differences in canopy density and height between transplant and control plots on Mount Belford, while both were about 40% lower in transplants on Humboldt Peak. Species richness adjusted for plot size was slightly greater in transplant plots on Mount Belford and slightly lower on Humboldt Peak. On both peaks, we found greater absolute cover of grasses in transplant plots, while forb cover was lower. After 3 yr, turf transplants effectively established vegetation cover and maintained high species richness in these communities. Whenever turf is available, e.g., new trail construction, it should be used to restore closed social trails and campsites, and turf transplants can be considered in other ecosystems for small disturbances in high-value areas where restoration would otherwise be slow.
40801763|Kasatochi Island is a small volcanic island in the central Aleutian Islands that erupted on 7 August 2008. An interdisciplinary team visited the island and its vicinity in the summer of 2009 to describe the immediate consequences of the eruptions on terrestrial, coastal, and benthic communities. The initial effects of the eruptions on soils, oceanic waters, benthic terrain, terrestrial plants, land birds, shore birds, nesting sea birds, arthropods, marine algae, and marine invertebrates were described. This overview summarizes the conventional understanding of mechanisms that drive the reassembly of devastated ecosystems and shows how studies of Kasatochi Island may enhance our understanding of succession. The presence of residual soils and low mortality among sea birds will hasten early recovery, but significant erosion (removal of tephra and marine sediments) must occur to permit a return to a fully functional ecosystem. Long-distance dispersal over seawater will be needed to replenish the plant communities. While scavenger arthropods survived, dispersal will be needed to generate complete insect communities. Land birds were killed and their habitats destroyed, so their re-colonization awaits vegetation development. Ecosystem recovery will be facilitated by allochthonous inputs of nutrients and by plant establishment. Monitoring how the biota returns to a new equilibrium and comparisons to adjacent islands will allow tests of assembly and biogeographic theory and further our understanding of terrestrial-marine interactions. The study of Kasatochi Island's recovery will produce a valuable story of ecosystem reassembly.
1552435| Analysis of mass balance data from arctic mountain and subpolar glaciers with an aggregate area of more than 300*10<sup>3</sup> km<sup>2</sup> reveals that these glaciers were the main source of increased freshwater inflow to the Arctic Ocean over the 1961-1998 period. The sum of net water inflow from glaciers was larger than net water inflow from rivers in the panarctic region, and the combined contribution from both glacier and land components had accelerated. Compared to the 1961-1990 averaged values, the largest combined contribution was observed at the end of the 1970s, declined in the 1980s, and began increasing again in the mid-1990s. Net glacier inflow supposedly increased due to Northern Hemisphere temperature warming. We attribute the increase in net river inflow to an increase in annual precipitation over the 50-70N latitude belt in North America and Eurasia. 
41416452|This study reports changes of small glaciers in the Trans-Himalayan Kang Yatze Massif, Ladakh, northwest India, between 1969 and 2010. The region covers an area of about 1000 km and is located in a transitional position between predominantly receding glaciers of the Central Himalaya and some advancing ice masses of the Karakorum. A multi-temporal remote sensing approach based on satellite images (Corona, SPOT, Landsat) was used to detect and analyze area changes of 121 small glaciers and to measure the retreat of 60 cirque and valley glaciers between 1969 and 2010. Over the last four decades, the glaciated area decreased by about 14% (0.3% yr) from 96.4 to 82.6 km and the average ice front retreat amounts to 125 m (3 m yr). The ice cover loss shows a high decadal variability with the maximum shrinkage between 1991 and 2002 (0.6% yr), followed by a lower decrease rate since then (0.2% yr). Due to the high variability of glacier change with a generally decreasing trend and a few stable glaciers, it becomes obvious that an extrapolation even on a regional scale is problematic. Therefore, a consideration of differing responses of various glacier types and glacier sizes is of utmost importance.
10.2307/1552257| We compared growing season CO<sub>2</sub> flux patterns between botanically similar arctic and alpine dry tundra ecosystems in Alaska and Colorado under ambient and experimentally warmed conditions. Measurements were taken during the 1997 growing season, 3 yr after the warming treatments were begun. Under ambient weather conditions, arctic dry tundra at Toolik Lake, Alaska was a net source (4 g CO<sub>2</sub>-C m<sup>-2</sup>) of CO<sub>2</sub> to the atmosphere, while alpine dry tundra at Niwot Ridge, Colorado, was a net CO<sub>2</sub> sink (7 g CO<sub>2</sub>-C m<sup>-2</sup>) during the growing season. Experimental warming of arctic tundra by 1 to 3C, resulted in a seven-fold (32 g CO<sub>2</sub>-C m<sup>-2</sup>) increase in this ecosystem's carbon source activity. Similar warming in alpine tundra changed this ecosystem from a net carbon sink to a net carbon source of 8 g CO<sub>2</sub>-C m<sup>-2</sup> over the growing season. In the Arctic, increased CO<sub>2</sub> efflux with warming was largely the result of increased rates of ecosystem respiration throughout the entire growing season, while in the alpine ecosystem respiration increased only early in the growing season. Rates of photosynthesis were generally not affected by experimental warming at either site. These data suggest that global warming will accentuate the carbon source activity of dry tundra in the northern foothills of Alaska and will change the net CO<sub>2</sub> exchange of alpine dry tundra in the northern Rocky Mountains from a net CO<sub>2</sub> sink to a source. 
20181825|Arctic and subarctic ecosystems have undergone considerable environmental changes in recent years as the result of climate warming. Fossil records of freshwater diatoms in lakes throughout the circumpolar Arctic, including the central Canadian Arctic treeline region, have revealed marked directional shifts in diatom assemblages in recent lake sediments. These algal changes have been linked to longer growing seasons, decreased duration of ice cover, and/or increased thermal stability. The effects of these recent environmental changes on higher trophic levels, such as the Cladocera, are still unclear. Using cladoceran remains preserved in the sediments of 50 lakes, which were previously examined for changes in diatoms, we show that significant changes in cladoceran species composition have occurred from pre-industrial times to the present. However, these changes are considerably muted compared to the more substantial changes observed in the diatom record. We found no consistent patterns of change in planktonic cladocerans (i.e. Daphnia, Bosmina) within our study lakes, and the response of the Cladocera to environmental changes does not appear to be strongly coupled to recent changes in diatom communities, thus further confirming that the previously observed diatom changes were related to bottom-up limnological controls. These results highlight the complex response of Arctic freshwater food webs to climate change, and the need for incorporating multitrophic studies into climate change investigations.
40305839|Photosynthesis, as the basis of most food chains and a crucial global carbon sink, makes chief contributions to overall ecosystem carbon budgets, but specific responses of the plant component cannot be obtained from such budgets. To gain much-needed further information on possible interspecies differences in seasonal patterns of photosynthesis, capacities for light-and CO -saturated rates of oxygen evolution at 25C (photosynthetic capacity) were determined during the summer-fallwinter transition for five conifer species over their natural distribution along a steep altitudinal gradient. Findings include (i) a transient upregulation of photosynthetic capacity during the summer-to-fall transition in all five conifer species that preceded the previously reported winter downregulation in conifers. However, there were (ii) interspecific differences in this response at the highest altitudes, with higher maximal photosynthetic capacities displayed by pine and spruce species compared to fir species. Lastly, the winter downregulation of photosynthetic capacity was not as complete in the present study (winter of 2006) as that which has been reported for previous winter seasons, which has implications for the winter survival strategy of conifers in response to global warming.
10.2307/1552528|A 403-yr tree-ring chronology (A.D. 1595-1997) was developed from living and dead Pinus sylvestris L. (Scots pine) from near treeline on the Kola Peninsula in northwestern Russia. Ring-width is significantly correlated with mean July temperatures. A reconstruction of mean July temperatures generally parallels similar dendroclimatic reconstructions from northern Fennoscandia. The Kola reconstruction indicates that the early- to mid-20th century experienced an exceptional period of warm summer temperatures. Dendrochronological techniques were used to estimate the timing of establishment and mortality of Pinus sylvestris at the site. Tree recruitment and mortality appear inversely related and episodic, with pulses of recruitment occurring during the late-17th, 18th, and mid- to late-20th centuries. The mid-20th century pine recruitment episode lags several decades behind the initiation of 20th-century summer warming. Analysis of instrumental climate records and pine recruitment suggests a link between warm fall and early spring conditions in the mid-20th century and increased pine regeneration. The results of this study are similar to findings from northern Fennoscandia and extend this pattern of recent climatic variation and associated treeline response eastward into the Kola Peninsula.
1552175| We present here the 2001-2004 results of observational field studies aimed at quantifying tropical timberline climate and radial increment of Pinus hartwegii Lindl. trees on Nevado de Colima, in the middle of the North American Monsoon region. An automated weather station was installed at 3760 m a.s.l., 1934.778N latitude, 10337.180W longitude, within a forest where multi-century tree-ring records had been previously developed. At the same time, automated electronic sensors for recording tree growth at 30-min intervals were set up at two sites within a 1-km radius from the weather station. Meteorological observations recorded every 30 min were summarized on a daily basis. Time-series patterns are reported for atmospheric pressure, precipitation, incoming solar radiation, air and soil temperature, relative humidity, soil moisture, and wind speed and direction. Of particular interest is the sudden decrease in air temperature after the onset of the monsoon season, which determines very high relative humidity over the summer and results in air temperature having a spring maximum. Despite sub-freezing air temperatures in most months, soil temperatures never drop below 0C. Dendrometer data show that the timberline growing season begins in March-April as temperature increases, then radial growth continues throughout the cool-wet summer monsoon, and ends in October-November. As an unexpected result, it was also possible to measure the progressive decline of Pinus hartwegii stem increment in response to an outbreak of roundheaded pine beetle (Dendroctonus adjunctus Blandford), which ultimately killed most trees at one of our two experimental sites. 
20181771|We investigated the effects of snow and environmental variables on the depths to which moose sank in snow, and the extent to which moose followed in the tracks of other free-ranging moose in the mountains of the subarctic areas of northernmost Sweden. We tested a method to combine the variables that affect snow quality (e.g. density and hardness) into a single variable that is easier to measure in the field. We also studied the snow conditions in the summer and winter ranges of migrating moose. First, we performed correlation analyses that revealed that sinking depths of moose decreased with increasing snow quality, snow depth, altitude, and air temperature. Next, we next used the Akaike information criterion (AIC) to determine the best model of sinking depth, which indicated that the important variables were snow quality, altitude, and snow temperature. For trail-following behavior, the best model included air temperature only. Regarding seasonal ranges, winter ranges had considerably less snow than the summer ranges that these individual moose left, but snow quality did not differ. Overall, our new method to index snow quality (here, using a dynamometer to measure the force required to press a simulated moose foot down in the snow to the depth of a moose footprint) shows promise, and we suggest that future studies of ungulate winter ecology investigate it further.
20181748|Foliar C values measured in 101 samples from 13 sites in northern Tibet aveaged amplitude -26.9, and were higher than those of other mountain regions in the world. C plants were found at 4161 m, higher than C species have been found before. The foliar C values increased with altitude; however, the amplitude of increase was dependent on species. Furthermore, significantly higher C values were found in plants grown in the southern than the northern Tanggula Mountains, a difference ascribed to precipitation.
23252333|Fine-scale genetic structure of plant populations depends on several ecological processes. In this study, we analyzed the impact of hydrological heterogeneity on the spatial genetic structure of the wind-pollinated black sedge Carex nigra in an alpine fen. We performed amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLPs) with 111 samples collected along a grid covering the whole area of the fen and studied fine-scale genetic structure using spatial autocorrelation and Bayesian cluster analyses. We observed a significant spatial genetic structure indicating isolation-by-distance, which can be ascribed to restricted seed dispersal. Bayesian cluster analysis revealed four groups of genetically related and patchy distributed samples within the fen. Two of these groups were distributed in the deeper and moister regions of the fen, while the two other groups were spatially restricted to the higher and drier regions of the fen. We think that the observed pattern of spatial genetic variation reflects hydrological heterogeneity within the fen and conclude that the four groups represent cohorts of individuals originating from different recruitment events in different parts of the fen. Genetic variation was much lower in the groups from the drier regions of the fen. Since Carex species require moist conditions for germination and establishment, the low level of genetic variation can most likely be ascribed to restricted seedling recruitment in the drier regions of the fen. Habitat heterogeneity affects, therefore, both spatial genetic structure and levels of genetic variation. This study clearly demonstrates that integrating fine-scale genetic analyses with complementary biological data can markedly improve the identification of processes that shape fine-scale genetic structure within plant populations.
4095890|Alnus viridis seedlings were planted on placer mine spoil in an Alaskan subalpine watershed to bypass a seedling establishment bottleneck for A. viridis, and to evaluate the interaction between A. viridis and the dominant riparian woody plants, Salix alaxensis and Populus balsamifera. The study area was divided into 11 replicate blocks, each on a homogeneous recontoured spoil pile. Blocks were divided into two 0.01 ha plots, and treatments without (control) and with 84 planted A. viridis seedlings were randomly assigned to plots. After 10 years, the Alnus treatment had a dense stand of A. viridis 1-2 m tall, while the control had fewer, smaller seedlings. Compared to the control, planted A. viridis had a neutral effect on S. alaxensis and inhibited P. balsamifera at the seedling establishment stage, but facilitated the growth of established plants of both species, with many plants overtopping the A. viridis canopy. Compared to the control, S. alaxensis plants in the Alnus treatment had higher levels of foliar N and 
40305828|The role of backcountry huts as introduction points for the establishment and spread of non-native plants into remote natural areas has received little attention. We surveyed soil and vegetation around 25 backcountry huts in the subalpine landscape of the Australian Alps to examine the role that such huts play in acting as foci for invasion by non-native species into remote mountain areas. We found that the hut surroundings were characterized by greater soil compaction, lower vegetation height, and more bare ground relative to the native plant community located 100 m from huts. At the landscape-scale, a total of 32 non-native species were recorded within 100 m of huts. Seven species were found at greater than 50% of huts (Hypochoeris radicata, Taraxacum officinale, Acetosella vulgar is, Trifolium repens, Cerastium glomeratum, Agrostis capillaris, Poa annua), and these tended to be the species that have (a) been long-established (> 50100 yrs) and (b) are the most frequent in the broader landscape. Hence, huts act to promote these ruderals by providing opportunities for their establishment, but such opportunities are not confined to hut surroundings. Several other non-native species, however, were common around huts but largely absent from the wider landscape (e.g. Anthoxanthum odoratum, Plantago major, Polygonum aviculare, Stellaria media). This suggests that some species are advantaged by the disturbance and dispersal opportunities provided by hut recreational activities in a way that is not catered for elsewhere in the Australian Alps. A weak negative relationship between non-native species richness and increasing altitude was found, but native species richness and distance of hut from access road were poor predictors of non-native species richness. Our study highlights that recreational activities may provide opportunities for the establishment of nonnative plant species in remote high mountain areas, some of which are novel to the landscape, and that these may form the basis for further invasion into adjoining native vegetation.
1552575|We used integrated multiproxy analysis of a lake sediment core and glacial geomorphology to reconstruct the late Pleistocene and Holocene climate and geomorphic evolution of the Burstall Pass area, Kananaskis Country, Alberta, Canada. Analysis of macrofossils, pollen, sedimentology, and sediment geochemistry from a lake sediment core and geomorphology and tephrochronology of glacial moraines provide evidence for multiple modes of climate during the last ca. 11,000 yr. An advance of the Robertson Glacier prior to ca. 9200 <sup>14</sup>C BP is correlated to the Crowfoot advance and was the largest of the postglacial period. Immediately following this event, increased lake productivity and the deposition of marl as well as increased arboreal/nonarboreal pollen (AP/NAP) ratios suggest that the climate warmed, possibly accompanied by increased aridity. Decreased turbidity and clastic sediment flux in Lower Burstall Lake during the early Holocene suggest reduced glacial runoff and may indicate the complete ablation of the Robertson Glacier shortly after 10,000 <sup>14</sup>C BP. Clastic sediment flux to Lower Burstall Lake remained minimal until after ca. 3500 <sup>14</sup>C BP, when decreasing LOI (loss-on-ignition) organic carbon levels in lake sediments signaled the return of glacial runoff to the lake system. The largest Neoglacial advance in the Burstall Pass area appears to have been the most recent and was followed by rapid recession during the 20th century.
24551627|Low nitrogen (N) supply is a limiting factor for plant growth in most terrestrial ecosystems. N-fixing legumes therefore have the potential to facilitate surrounding vegetation by increasing soil N levels. This effect should be especially pronounced in low-productivity habitats where ambient soil N levels are low, such as in alpine areas. We examined whether plant species composition, community diversity measures, and soil N levels differed with and without the presence of two alpine legumes, Oxytropis lapponica (Wahlenb.) Gay and Astragalus alpinus L., in a Dryas octopetala heath at Finse, Norway. Species composition and richness differed between plots with and without Oxytropis in one of two study sites, as other plant species were positively associated with the legume. None of the measured community properties differed between plots with and without the presence of Astragalus. The contrasting influence of the two legume species corresponds to our findings of higher soil N levels below Oxytropis, but not Astragalus. Differences in microhabitat N levels may explain why only Oxytropis acts as a facilitator. By affecting local species composition Oxytropis increases spatial heterogeneity, which may increase total species richness of the ecosystem.
1552353|Nitrogen (N) deposition has been implicated in changes in surface water chemistry and algal composition in several dilute mountain lakes of the western United States. Lakes of the Snowy Range (Medicine Bow National Forest, Wyoming) appear to have low nitrate concentrations currently, and 2 Snowy Range lakes showed strong eutrophication responses to N or N + phosphorus (P) additions in previous enclosure experiments. In this study, we explored the regional extent of phytoplankton N limitation by examining a nutrient ratio index (dissolved inorganic nitrogen:total phosphorus) and phytoplankton species-environment relationships across 15 Snowy Range lakes. Based on this index, we estimate that phytoplankton biomass in the study lakes is largely N limited or N + P colimited. In addition, redundancy analysis demonstrated strong relationships between phytoplankton species composition and N gradients, with chrysophyte taxa favored in low-N lakes and cyanophytes and chlorophytes favored in higher-N lakes. We conclude that both phytoplankton biomass and community structure are sensitive indicators of N gradients in lakes of the Snowy Range, and that eutrophication responses to future increases in N loading could be widespread in these and other low-N lakes.
4095943|The aim of this study was to assess the influence of comparable unequal environmental conditions on primary vegetation succession in an alpine glacier valley by the means of transects. Two longitudinal transects were established along the glacier foreland of the Rotmoosferner, Tyrol, Austria, and two transverse transects were established across the valley on the 1923 and 1858 moraines. The progressions of alpha- and beta-diversity were compared, and vegetation data within the glacier foreland were analyzed. Moraine age emerged as the primary factor within a canonical correspondence analysis (CCA), while the second axis separated the two valley sides. A clearly differentiated development of plant communities became obvious especially within the early development stages. Early development of vegetation cover and alpha diversity was further developed on the shaded valley side, and progression of beta diversity differed significantly among the valley sides. The results indicate two different successional pathways, on both the qualitative and the quantitative level. These can be attributed to differences in the extent of solar irradiation (sunny vs. shaded side), lithology, geomorphic processes, and a multitude of other factors, reinforcing the dissimilarity between the valley sides. Our approach highlights the necessity of a deliberate sampling design within different glacier forelands sensitive to environmental conditions created by the topography that may impact comparisons among the forelands.
40305820|The Arctic is extremely vulnerable to projected climate change, and global warming may result in major community reorganizations. The aim of this study was a thorough investigation of plant biomass production throughout an entire growing season in five different high arctic vegetation types: Cassiope, Dryas, and Salix heath, grassland, and fen. The main focus was on the gross ecosystem production (GEP), and the biotic and abiotic factors which may influence GEP. Photosynthesis, aboveground biomass, and carbon, nitrogen, and chlorophyll content were measured weekly during nine weeks. There were large differences in seasonal growth and production within and among vegetation types. Mosses contributed considerably to the total C and N pool in grassland, fen, and Salix heath. Fen, which had the highest pool of leaf N, leaf chlorophyll, and moss N, was the most productive vegetation type in terms of GEP, despite the lowest total biomass. Across vegetation types, leaf biomass, leaf N, and moss N pool size influenced GEP. Within most vegetation types GEP correlated with leaf N, in correspondence with the notion that N may limit plant production in many high arctic ecosystems. The timing of the peaks in C and N pools in leaves did not coincide with that in the mosses and in woody tissues. This emphasizes the importance of sampling throughout the growing season, when using field data from the Arctic to estimate plant biomasses and modeling C and N fluxes and pool sizes.
4095849|Holocene lake and catchment environmental history and regional climate are reconstructed from lake sediments at
10.2307/1552549|Forty-four lakes in the Austrian Alps were studied to examine the influence of catchment characteristics on water chemistry. The lakes are located along an altitudinal gradient (1502-2309 m a.s.l.) in a small study area (35.5 km * 15.5 km) without glaciers. Longitude and latitude accounted for 21.4% of the variation in water chemistry. Bedrock mineralogy explained 14.5% of the variation. Vegetation accounted for 13.2% and slope for 5.5% of the variation in water chemistry. No correlations were found between exposure and water chemistry. Water chemistry appeared to be mainly determined by (1) chemical weathering of carbonate minerals and (2) in-lake productivity. Carbonate minerals were assumed to be present in all watersheds. Trees and shrubs enhanced chemical weathering. Concentrations of chemical parameters indicating physical weathering were high in lakes with large, steep catchments. Steep watersheds were correlated with enhanced nitrogen concentrations in the lakes. In-lake productivity obscured relationships between chemical parameters and catchment characteristics. Nonetheless, catchment characteristics explained 45% of the variation in water chemistry, stressing their importance for water chemistry in mountain lakes.
10.2307/1552620|Saxifraga oppositifolia is morphologically variable, and many scientists recognize two morphs; the Prostrate form (P-form) and Cushion form (C-form). In order to investigate the adaptation of the different growth forms, we analyzed the relationships between growth forms, growth patterns, manner of reproduction, tolerance to disturbance and succession. The distribution of the third internode length of shoots showed bimodality, long-internode shoot, and short-internode shoot, and it was closely related with the growth form--P-form and C-form, respectively. When both C-form and P-form plants were growing in the same moist riverbank, they had similar net photosynthesis per dry weight. The colony expansion rate of P-form was faster than C-form and the shoot fragments of P-form were easy to root and establish. On the other hand, C-form had a larger number of flowers per plant dry weight than P-form, and this caused an increase in seed production. These results showed that growth forms and reproductive characteristics were closely related, and P-form was advantageous in vegetative propagation by shoot fragments while C-form was advantageous in sexual reproduction. Morphological variability within population of S. oppositifolia appeared to be adaptive for this species as a pioneer in the primary succession in High Arctic where the selective forces vary spatially and temporally.
1552342|In Alaskan alpine tundra, grizzly bears excavate deep holes in search of ground squirrels, but few studies have tested the importance of grizzlies, or other large mammals, in maintaining plant community structure. We examined 43 bear digs, asking how they affect plant species richness and diversity, recolonization patterns, and plants with different clonal growth strategies. Bears remove most vegetation from digs, and recovering digs had lower species richness than adjacent mature tundra. Mature tundra alone, however, had significantly fewer species than mature tundra and bear digs combined, suggesting that bear digs contribute to the overall richness of tundra communities. Digs develop the highest plant richness and diversity at intermediate ages, but even in new digs the overall species composition is similar to adjacent tundra. Plants of different clonal growth forms reacted differently to bear digs. The two species significantly more common in digs than elsewhere have a nonspreading (phalanx) clonal habit, whereas five of six plant species significantly more common in mature tundra are capable of rapid, diffuse (guerrilla) clonal growth. Overall, bear digs cause less pronounced effects on community composition than mammalian diggings in some other systems, possibly because subarctic alpine tundra is already characterized by high levels of abiotic disturbance.
1552306|Vegetation in high Mediterranean mountains usually consists of patchy communities. Patch structures have been interpreted as a result of the prevalence of facilitation phenomena in highly stressful environments. Several mechanisms have been proposed in order to explain the factors that control the existence of these clumped structures. However, they have not been evaluated in these mountains. Our hypothesis is that patchy structure in high mountain Mediterranean vegetation is a consequence of facilitative and competitive interactions in a very harsh environment which ultimately involve strong localized effects on soil properties. Our results show that levels of soil nutrients were higher under vegetation patches than in bare ground areas, confirming the hypothesis of an amelioration of soil resources under canopies. Pairwise associations and repulsions suggest the existence of two contrasting composition stages. Contrasting models relating patch species composition (cover and biomass) and soil resources indicated a weak relationship between species features and soil nutrient levels. Finally, structural modeling showed that patch size has a relevant but indirect effect on soil resource levels through grass and total biomass. We conclude that patch structure and dynamics in high Mediterranean mountain communities may be partly controlled by an endogenous process involving facilitation and competition for soil key resources. These interactions may operate through some community traits related to patch size but not to composition.
1552302| We evaluated fecal pellet counts as an index of hoary marmot (Marmota caligata) social group size in order to develop a simple, inexpensive method for monitoring population change of a widely distributed, but poorly studied alpine mammal. Fecal pellet counts were conducted in three separate seasons along several 2 m  100 m transects located parallel to and 10, 20, and 30 m from the edge of alpine boulderfields (talus) occupied by marmots. Marmot activity and location relative to talus was also determined to assess the proportion of time spent foraging as a function of distance from refuge. Marmots spent 74% of their activities in meadows at a mean distance of 11.6 m from talus, and activity in meadows declined with increasing distance from talus, as did fecal pellet counts. Fecal counts at 10 m from the edge of talus were strongly and linearly related (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.89) to marmot abundance. The functional equation of marmot abundance predicted marmot abundance in five independent social groups within 17% of the observed group size. Fecal pellet counts appear to provide a precise index of marmot group size suitable for long-term monitoring of population change. 
10.2307/1552487| The influence of environmental factors on the nitrogen fixation activity in soil and vegetation samples from different types of plant communities from the Sassen Valley (78N, 16E), Svalbard, Norway, was measured under controlled laboratory conditions using the acetylene reduction assay throughout the summers of 1997 and 2000. Samples for study were chosen from six sites along a 2-km-long transect representing different types of arctic vegetation. The influence of temperature, soil water content, and light intensity on acetylene reduction rates was studied. Samples from all sites showed low and almost constant acetylene reduction rates between 0 and 10C. Above 10C the activity of all samples increased rapidly and reached its maximum at about 25 and 32C for the samples with free-living cyanobacteria and moss-associated cyanobacteria, respectively. There was a significant water-dependent increase of acetylene reduction activity for all types of vegetation. The samples showed a clear response to varying light conditions, i.e. a rapid decrease in acetylene reduction rates when light intensity decreased from 140 to 80 mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup> depending on the type of vegetation. 
1552179|Palsas in all stages of growth and decay were investigated for vegetation, snow depth, and thaw depth in summer in four bogs in northern Sweden. A field classification of successive palsa stages was developed based on palsa vegetation composition and morphology. The initial phase of the aggrading stage is characterized by low mound forms and vegetation with the same hydrophilous composition as in the bog, but somewhat dried out. In the stage of continued aggradation Betula nana colonizes from the surroundings and hydrophilous vegetation is poorly represented in the higher parts even though the mounds are still low. Stable palsas, which are usually the tallest mounds, have vegetation that tolerates drier conditions; Empetrum hermaphroditum is the vascular species with the highest coverage at this stage. Decay starts with block erosion and melting of the mound forms. Degrading palsas have taller shrub vegetation that causes significantly thicker snow reducing heat loss from the core in winter. Conversely, the shrub vegetation has a dampening effect on penetration of heat into the mounds in summer. The degraded stage bears no morphological resemblance to the mounds, but at this stage there is a higher diversity of species owing to additional moist and wet growing sites.
10.2307/1552219| To understand response patterns of leaf traits in tundra plants against decreasing annual season length comprehensively, a graphic model based on carbon balance theory was presented. The model predicted that leaves with very short life-span and high nitrogen concentration (N<sub>mass</sub>) or leaves with very long life-span and small N<sub>mass</sub> will be dominate under the conditions of a short growing season. To test this prediction, leaf life-span and other leaf traits of 26 tundra species were compared among four sites selected along a gradient of climatic harshness: a subalpine site at Abisko in northern Sweden, two nearby mid-alpine sites at Latnjajaure with early and late snowmelt, and a site at Ny-lesund (Svalbard) in the High Arctic. In herbaceous and deciduous shrub species, leaf life-span and/or leaf mass per unit area (LMA) tended to decrease, and leaf N<sub>mass</sub> tended to increase along the climatic gradient with decreasing growing season and lower temperatures. In evergreen shrub species, both leaf life-span and leaf N<sub>mass</sub> tended to increase under harsh conditions, but the response pattern of LMA was less clear. Deciduous species produced short-lived leaves with a low construction cost and probably high photosynthetic potential, whereas evergreen species produced long-lived leaves. The contrastive patterns of leaf-trait variation between the deciduous and evergreen plants observed in this study were concordant with the prediction of the model. 
23359379|Local mountain meteorology of the landscape around Longyearbyen in central Svalbard is analyzed through the decade from 2000 to 2011. Standard meteorological stations from close to sea level and up to 464 m a.s.l. located on different periglacial landforms, have been used. During winters with little sea ice, strong temperature inversions do not develop, and then there is a distinct cooling with height, as opposed to when sea ice is present. Airflow is accelerated due to topography and direction deflected in the confined valleys, whereas open plateaus have on average 1 m/s lower wind speeds with a regional SE direction. The permafrost thermal state is largely controlled by meteorology, with permafrost in the valley bottoms as cold as on the mountain plateaus. The periglacial landform most exposed to climatic variability is ice-wedges, which seem to crack mainly during shorter cooling periods. Such activity is also linked to temperature inversions, and thus also occur mainly when sea ice is present. Solifluction is mainly controlled by the balance between summer thawing and winter freezing in combination with snow dynamics, whereas avalanches are mainly wind controlled. Avalanches and avalanche controlled landforms are least sensitive to climatic variability.
4139101| This paper is dedicated to Otto Ludwig Lange on the occasion of his 80th birthday. Hymenelia prevostii and H. coerulea are common endolithic lichen species on limestone outcrops in the eastern alpine mountains. We investigated their photosynthetic properties under controlled laboratory conditions and analyzed them with respect to relevant meso- and macroclimatic parameters to determine specific adaptations to the extreme habitat. For the first time, it can be shown that endolithically living lichens are able to utilize water vapor alone to gain positive net photosynthesis (NP) rates. With respect to liquid water, both species reached optimum NP rates at low water content (H. prevostii: 0.26 mm, H. coerulea: 0.07 mm rainfall equivalent), and NP was increasingly depressed at water suprasaturation. In their preferred microhabitat on steep limestone outcrops in alpine regions, endolithic lichens avoid inundation over long time spans, but could perfectly utilize the high air humidity of monthly means between 60 and 80%. Due to light reduction by endolithic growth, both species revealed relatively high photosynthetic light compensation and saturation values, thus avoiding the high light intensities of the alpine habitat. Both lichen species were able to perform 90% of their optimal NP over a wide temperature range and still reached about one-third of their maximum NP rates at 2 C, demonstrating their capability to cope with the large temperature changes occurring in their habitat. 
20181807|The altitudinal variation of precipitation, evapotranspiration, and runoff was quantified at 16 different grassland sites between 580 and 2550 m a.s.l. in the Austrian Alps. Along this altitudinal transect annual evapotranspiration decreased from roughly 690 mm at low elevation sites to 210-220 mm at the upper limit of the alpine grassland belt. A detailed analysis of the data showed that the observed reduction in the annual sum of evapotranspiration could be mainly explained by the altitudinal decline of the length of the snow-free period (i.e. the vegetation period). Daily mean sums of evapotranspiration showed no altitudinal trend and averaged 2.2 mm d independent of elevation, although the leaf area index, growing season mean air temperature, and vapor pressure deficit declined with increasing altitude. As precipitation increased with elevation, evapotranspiration seems to be of secondary importance when compared to runoff. Inter-annual variability of evapotranspiration was fairly low across contrasting dry and wet years (coefficient of variation = 7%), indicating that even during dry years water availability was not limiting evapotranspiration.
10.2307/1552555|We investigated major physical-chemical characteristics and benthic algae of different alpine lotic systems comprising streams and lake outlets of rhithral and kryal origin over an annual cycle. We also evaluated the structure of the algal communities and its relation to environmental characteristics for the different stream types. Algal communities were generally dominated by diatoms, Cyanophyta, and Hydrurus foetidus (Chrysophyceae). Community structure was similar among alpine streams and lake outlets, but more algal taxa occurred in lake outlets (rhithral and kryal) than in kryal streams. Although algae were identified mainly to genera, distinct patterns in community structure were evident. A major environmental determinant of the algal community among stream types was the presence of a glacier and resulting seasonal differences in flow, temperature, and turbidity. An upstream lake was a secondary determinant in buffering seasonal fluctuations in environmental conditions thus leading to greater stability. Algal communities, consequently, were more diverse and less seasonally variable at lake outlets. The diatom genera Amphora, Denticula, Fragilaria, Gomphonema, Nitzschia, and Synedra and the blue-green algae Oscillatoria and Phormidium were characteristic of lake outlets, whereas Chamaesiphon (blue-green) and Hydrurus foetidus were indicative of kryal sites.
1552323|The effects of climatic conditions on the shoot elongation of alpine dwarf pine (Pinus pumila) were examined at its lower and upper altitudinal limits on Mt. Norikura (2500 and 2840 m a.s.l.) and Mt. Shogigashira (2640 and 2675 m a.s.l.) in central Japan. Altitudinal forest-structural changes were also described. Shoot elongation and stem height of P. pumila increased with decreasing altitude, but its abundance was markedly decreased at the altitudinal ecotone between the upper P. pumila zone and the lower Betula ermanii zone because of the suppression by tall B. ermanii. Thus, the lower altitudinal limit of P. pumila was probably determined by the competition with B. ermanii. The interannual variation in the shoot elongation of P. pumila was related to climatic conditions; long shoot length was associated with high summer temperatures of the previous year at both the upper and lower altitudinal limits on the two mountains. In addition, rates of the increase of shoot elongation in response to the increase of air temperature were not different between the upper and lower altitudinal limits. Thus, the increase of summer temperatures would enhance the growth of P. pumila from its upper to lower altitudinal limits. However, it is harder to predict the altitudinal distribution shift of P. pumila due to environmental change because its lower altitudinal limit is largely affected by competition with B. ermanii. Therefore, this study concluded that long-term monitoring of the population dynamics at the P. pumila--B. ermanii ecotone is necessary to predict the distribution shift of P. pumila.
1552379| The ice masses of Svalbard cover an area of ca. 36 600 km<sup>2</sup>, and are thus among the largest glaciated areas in the Arctic. Annual mass balance measurements have been carried out on several Svalbard glaciers over up to 30 yr. However, these glaciers extend over only 0.5% of the total ice-covered area. The measured mean net balance has been negative and no changing trend has been observed. On some glaciers and larger ice caps, the mean net balance has also been measured at different altitudes by detecting radioactive reference layers from nuclear fallouts in 1963 and 1986 in shallow ice cores. The net balance/altitude curves have been estimated for thirteen different regions in Svalbard, and combined with digital elevation models of all Svalbard ice masses used to calculate the net balance in each 100-m altitude interval. The net loss of mass through iceberg calving was estimated and appears to be an important component of the net mass loss from Svalbard ice masses. The overall total net balance is slightly negative, -4.5  1 km<sup>3</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>, giving a specific net balance of ca. -120  30 mm yr<sup>-1</sup> over the archipelago. The contribution of ice caps and glaciers on Svalbard to global sea-level change is, therefore, close to 0.01 mm yr<sup>-1</sup> as an average value over the last 30 years, which is less negative than former estimates. 
24551708|Biophysical variables have both direct and indirect effects on the uptake and release of carbon dioxide (CO2) within tundra ecosystems. Arctic landscape shows high levels of spatial heterogeneity. High spatial-resolution remote sensing data has the ability to capture the fine-grain spectral response of various biophysical variables at the landscape scale. To accurately model CO2 flux patterns using remote sensing data we first need to model the relationships between biophysical variables and their spectral response. In this study we model percent vegetation cover (PVC), aboveground biomass (AGB), and soil moisture using high spatial-resolution (IKONOS 4 m) normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) values. At two non-overlapping Arctic landscape sites statistically robust landscape-scale sampling procedures were used to characterize the biophysical variables. NDVI values were extracted from IKONOS data, and linear bivariate regression models were calibrated and validated using a k-fold cross-validation technique. PVC and percent soil moisture produced the strongest and most consistent results (r2  .84 and .73, respectively). Analysis of covariance tested the use of common models for each site. The models were not coincidentalcombining data from various sites should be done with cautionbut illustrated parallelism in that NDVI responds to each biophysical variable equally, regardless of site.
40305848|The land-atmosphere interaction processes are unique at Mt. Everest as a result of high elevation. Based on turbulent data collected from April 2005 to March 2006 with the eddy covariance method at Quzong in the Rongbu Valley on the northern slope of Mt. Everest, land-atmosphere energy budget before and after the southwest monsoon onset and surface layer turbulent characteristics are studied for the first time. It is found that energy budget components (net radiation flux, sensible heat flux, latent heat flux, and soil heat flux) and surface heating field have strong diurnal and seasonal variations. In particular, under the influence of the southwest monsoon, the characteristics of surface parameters can be clearly identified. From pre-monsoon to monsoon season, the sensible heat flux decreases whereas the latent heat flux increases. The latent heat flux and Evaporative Fraction at Quzong are relatively high most of the year. Furthermore, the intensity of heating source in the wet season (from June to August) is much greater than that in the dry season (from October to December). The relationship between normalized standard deviation of wind speed and atmospheric stability, variations of normalized standard deviation of temperature, and humidity with atmospheric stability are analyzed using the Monin-Obukhov similarity theory. The result reveals that the normalized standard deviation of velocity components of the three-dimensional wind speed follows similarity relationships in the convective and near-neutral surface layer, but does not seem to be valid in stable surface layer. However, the normalized standard deviation of temperature and humidity does not obey Monin-Obukhov similarity theory in the entire interval of atmospheric stratifications.
4095868|We have reconstructed a continuous high-resolution penguin population record over the past ~1300 years from the geochemical and
10.2307/1552234| Not only do high-latitude tree-ring data reveal minor and major Holocene climatic variation, but the distribution in time of subfossil trees provides information about former tree-line fluctuation. Over 152 samples of Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris) were collected and measured from lake Lilla Rrtjrnen, situated close to the present treeline. Five floating chronologies were built spanning 498 B.C.-A.D. 19, A.D. 50-390, A.D. 431-884, A.D. 946-1256, and A.D. 1337-1865. The floating chronologies were crossdated with a dendrochronology from Tornetrsk. No trees were dated from 20-49 A.D., 391-430 A.D., 885-945 A.D., and 1257-1336, A.D., The temporal distribution of pines in the lake suggests periods of intensive germination, with each phase occurring within 80 to 100 yr from the beginning of each floating chronology. At the end of each phase higher lake levels drowned trees close to the shore. Both the existence and the preservation of the dead pines is likely to have been controlled by changes in lake level. 
1552424| Our study examined carbon dioxide exchange and nitrogen cycling over two consecutive years (winter and summer) in a grazed alpine grassland and in an embedded long-term grazing exclosure to ascertain whether grazing history had resulted in divergent soil carbon attributes. CO<sub>2</sub> exchange rates, and different vegetation C and N and soil N processes. Soil C and N concentrations and masses were significantly higher in the grazed than in the ungrazed area, though grass leaf N was higher in the ungrazed area, as was vegetation biomass. Detectable amounts of CO<sub>2</sub> were lost from the grazed and ungrazed areas of this grassland during the winters of 1998, 1999, and 2000, and at 6 of 15 winter flux sample dates, CO<sub>2</sub> efflux was greater in the grazed area than in the ungrazed area. The ungrazed area consistently gained more C during the summer months than the grazed area, with net CO<sub>2</sub> exchange peaking in mid-July 1998 at nearly 5 mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup> in the ungrazed area compared to <2 mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup> in the grazed area. During the 2-yr study period, the grazed area was a carbon source of 170 g C m<sup>-2</sup>, while the ungrazed area was a carbon sink of 83 g C m<sup>-2</sup>. Lower N mineralization rates early and late in the summer (1999) in the grazed site at Libby Flats corresponded to reductions in net CO<sub>2</sub> exchange and lower plant N content compared to the ungrazed exclosure. Based on these results, we suggest that: (1) long-term grazing in high-altitude rangelands can alter annual CO<sub>2</sub> exchange and N dynamics; (2) temporal synchrony in C and N processes occur during the summer; that is, increased C exchange rates accompany increased N mineralization rates; and (3) integrative (total soil C and N) and instantaneous (CO<sub>2</sub> exchange and vegetation N) measures of C and N dynamics may not necessarily lead to the same interpretation regarding C sequestration and N cycling in alpine grasslands. 
23359624|To better understand the basic characteristics of the land surface energy budget, nearly 7 years of continuous measurements at the Qomolangma Station for Atmospheric and Environmental Observation and Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences (QOMS/CAS) (28.21N, 86.56E, 4276 m a.s.l.) have been analyzed systematically. Seasonal and annual variations of micrometeorological measurements and land surface energy balance were analyzed. The general nature of the diurnal variation of the surface winds on the north of Mt. Everest is represented by a maximum in the afternoon and a constant wind speed in the early morning, which is controlled not only by the significant glacier wind but also by the local mountain-valley circulation and upper-level wind. Surface albedo decreases with increasing soil moisture content, showing the typical exponential relation between surface albedo and soil moisture. The data set disclosed that the high soil moisture in summer is coordinated with low albedo. The ratio between sensible heat and net radiation (H/Rn) can be as high as 0.49 when the soil is dry. The ratio (H/Rn) decreases to 0.14 with the increasing of soil moisture. On the contrary, the ratio between latent heat flux and net radiation (LE/Rn) is increased when soil moisture is rising. The highest ratio (LE/Rn) can be as high as 0.5 when soil moisture changes between 15% and 20%. After defining the effects of different soil moisture level on partitioning of surface available energy into sensible and latent heat fluxes, we can qualify how much the sensible heating is decreasing and the latent heating is increasing in this region under current plateau environment changes of warming and moistening.
10.2307/1552584|Surface sediment diatom assemblages from 51 Alaskan lakes, distributed along a north-south transect, were enumerated in order to develop transfer functions that could be used to make inferences of past climatic and environmental change. Environmental variables that were found to be the strongest predictors of the diatom assemblages, identified through Canonical Correspondence Analyses, were ionic and nutrient concentrations, as well as lake depth. A number of weighted-averaging (WA) regression-calibration techniques were employed to develop transfer functions for lake-water conductivity, total phosphorus concentration, and lake depth, but simple WA with classical deshrinking produced the most robust models for all variables. The strength of these models (r<sup>2</sup><sub>boot</sub> ranged between 0.52 and 0.53) is comparable to those generated from other northern calibration studies. Application of our models to fossil diatom assemblages could provide information on the magnitude of past environmental change, and may serve as a basis for assessing anthropogenically induced impacts.
10.2307/1552271| Information on hydrological fluctuations and lake dynamics in the Mackenzie Delta in Arctic Canada is provided in a paleolimnological study of eight delta lakes. Because macrophyte production within Mackenzie Delta lakes is largely governed by the degree of river influence, estimates of past production within a lake may be used to infer past Mackenzie River influence. A diatom-based predictive model, using sub-ice winter methane concentrations as an indirect estimate of macrophyte production, was applied to fossil diatom assemblages identified in Mackenzie Delta lake sediment cores. Temporal shifts in the relative abundance of fossil diatom assemblages were recorded at all sites. Benthic and epiphytic fossil diatom taxa were common in lakes with minor river influence, whereas planktonic species dominated lakes with appreciable river connection. The fossil diatom record indicated that taxa are responding to changes in the degree of river influence and lake genesis. Lakes having the least amount of river connection supported the most favorable environment for macrophyte production, resulting in the highest sediment organic matter content, and consequently, the highest estimates of methane concentrations. In general, the diatom-inferred winter methane concentrations appeared to be reliable, and they indirectly track the main direction of variation in the fossil diatom assemblages. The lack of consistent trends between sites in diatom assemblage changes/inferred methane values indicates that the hydrology near Inuvik, although highly variable, has not undergone a steady-state shift over the past 200 yr. However, our results do indicate that diatom taxa in delta lakes are sensitive to hydrological fluctuations in the Mackenzie River and that our present approach would be ideally suited for detecting long-term (e.g., decadal) hydrological variations. 
24551610|We have studied changes in the ice-flow velocity and ice thickness in Rhonegletscher, Switzerland, over the period 18742006. The flow velocity field and surface elevation were analyzed in the lower half of the glacier using aerial photograph pairs taken in 1970/1971, 1981/1982, 1999/2000, and 2005/2006. We also digitized velocities measured by Mercanton (1916) in 18741910 by tracking stones distributed on the glacier. The results showed that the ice-flow velocity and ice straining conditions were strongly influenced by changes in the glacier geometry over the last 100 years. For example, the longitudinal strain rate near the current terminus has changed from tensile to compressive since the retreat of the glacier over a steep bedrock slope to a relatively flat region. The velocity decreased over the studied region from 1981 to 2006, which is in agreement with the ice thinning during the same period. However, the rate of the velocity change was smaller in the post-1990 period, because the effect of the thinning on ice flow speed was partly canceled out by the effect of steepening of the ice surface. The velocity change also implied that the magnitude of basal ice motion was influenced by changing subglacial drainage conditions and proglacial lake formation. Our unique data set contributes to a better understanding of ice dynamics under changing glacier geometry.
4139124|Some of the world's highest-altitude butterflies belong to the tribe Pierini of the family Pieridae. Two nominal species of Baltia occur in arid-semiarid oreal environments in Central Asia, the Himalaya, and Pamir to over 5500 m. At least 13 species currently placed in four genera (Phulia, Infraphulia, Pierphulia, Piercolias) occur in similar environments at similar altitudes in the high Andes. These genera all share numerous morphospecializations whose functional relation to the oreal environment is not understood. Their evolutionary and biogeographic relationships have been debated for over a century. We performed a phylogenetic analysis based on sequencing portions of the mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase subunit I and subunit II regions (COI and COII), incorporating all the genera but Piercolias and a variety of suspected relatives. The results from analyses of COI and COII were compared to relationships inferred from morphological and ecological characters. We conclude that Baltia is not the sister-group of the Andean genera, which are clearly nested within a Neotropical clade. The "Camelid scenario" deriving all the genera from a common ancestor no longer appears viable.
40305864|Glacial erosion patterns on northwest Iceland are quantified using a Geographic Information System (GIS) in order to interpret subglacial characteristics of part of northwest Iceland affected by ice sheet glaciation. Ice scour lake density is used as a proxy for glacial erosion. Erosion classes are interpreted from variations in the density of lake basins. Lake density was calculated using two different methods: the first is sensitive to the total number of lakes in a specific area, and the second is sensitive to total lake area in a specific area. Both of these methods result in a value for lake density, and the results for lake density calculated using the two methods are similar. Areas with the highest density of lakes are interpreted as areas with the most intense erosion with the exception of alpine regions. The highest density of lakes in the study area exceeds 8% and is located on upland plateaus where mean elevations range from 400 to 800 m a. s. l. Low lake density (0-2%) is observed in steep alpine areas where steep topography does not favor lake development. The GIS analysis is combined with geomorphic mapping to provide ground truth for the GIS interpretations and to locate paleo-ice flow indicators and landforms. The patterns identified in this study illustrate distinct regions of glacial erosion and flow paths that are best explained by two independent ice sheets covering northwest Iceland during the Last Glacial Maximum (LGM). Areas of alpine glacial landforms and the presence of nunataks within the glaciated region support interpretations that ice-free regions or cold-based ice cover existed on parts of northwest Iceland during the LGM. The methods developed in this study are easily transferable to other formerly glaciated regions and provide tools to evaluate subglacial properties of former ice sheets. The data generated yield important subglacial boundary conditions for ice sheet models of Iceland.
25642094|We used a rapid assessment to survey American pika (Ochotona princeps) populations and documented 420 pika site occurrences in southwestern U.S.A. These included 329 sites from the Sierra Nevada (SN), California; 67 from six southwestern Great Basin (swGB) ranges, California and Nevada; 16 from three central Great Basin ranges, Nevada; and 8 from the central Oregon Cascades. Of these, 67% were currently occupied, 27% modern (indirectly scored active), and 6% old. Sites were grouped into 148 demes, 88 regions, and 11 mountain ranges. Current elevations ranged from 1645 m (1827 m excluding Oregon) to 3887 m, extending the lower elevational range of the species at the study latitude. Sites were distributed on all slope aspects with a preference for north to easterly aspects, and without preference for substrate. Rock-ice-feature (RIF) till, notably rock-glacier and boulder-stream landforms, accounted for 83% of the sites. Climatic relationships from the PRISM model for the SN and swGB sites showed wide tolerance, with average precipitation 910 mm, average minimum temperature -3.9 C, and average maximum temperature 8.7 C. Average minimum temperatures for old sites were not significantly different from recent sites, whereas average maximum temperatures were significantly higher in old sites. Unusual features of RIF landforms make them important refugia for pikas as climates warm. In contrast to studies that document species vulnerability elsewhere, pikas in the SN and swGB appear to be thriving and tolerating a wide range of thermal environments.
1552430|There are few data on the effect of long-term manipulations on soil protozoa, and almost nothing is known about soil protozoa in Alaska. I studied the response of testate amoebae to nitrogen and phosphorus addition in an Arctic fen, at Toolik Lake Long-Term Experimental Research (LTER) Station, Alaska. Testate amoebae were extracted from Sphagnum mosses in control and fertilized plots. Of the 35 testate amoebae taxa recorded, 7 are first observations for the Arctic (excluding Russia) and 14 for Alaska. The total density and biomass of testate amoebae were significantly reduced, by 77% and 84%, in the fertilized plots. The structure of testate amoebae communities was also modified in those plots, although for most taxa the changes were not significant. Four taxa (Amphitrema flavum, Assulina muscorum, Placocista spinosa ssp. hyalina, and Hyalosphenia papilio) accounted for over half of the population in the control plots but only for 11% in the N and P plots. The densities of A. muscorum and Difflugia oviformis were significantly lower in the N and P-treated plots. The relative abundance and contribution to biomass of Centropyxis aerophila, Phryganella acropodia, and Tracheleuglypha dentata increased in the fertilized plots, while that of D. oviformis decreased. These effects suggest that testate amoebae respond to nutrient manipulations in the Arctic.
23252330|Many boreal forests grow in regions where climate is now warming rapidly. Changes in these vast, cold forests have the potential to affect global climate because they store huge amounts of carbon and because the relative abundances of their different tree species influence how much solar radiation reflects back to space. Both the carbon cycling and albedo of boreal forests are strongly affected by wildland fires, which in turn are closely controlled by summer climate. Here we use a forest disturbance model in both a retrospective and predictive manner to explore how the forests of Interior Alaska respond to changing climate. Results suggest that a widespread shift from coniferous to deciduous vegetation began around A.D. 1990 and will continue over the next several decades. This ecological regime shift is being driven by old, highly flammable spruce stands encountering a warmer climate conducive to larger and more frequent fires. Increased burning promotes the spread of early successional, deciduous species at the expense of spruce. These striking changes in the vegetation composition and fire regime are predicted to alter the biophysics of Alaska's forests. The ground will warm, and a surge of carbon emission is likely. Our modeling results support previous inferences that Alaska's boreal forest is now shifting to a new ecological state and that positive feedbacks to global warming will accompany this change.
4095939|This paper describes the results of a revegetation experiment involving partial removal of gravel fill followed by various revegetation treatments on five sites in the Prudhoe Bay Oilfield on Alaska's Arctic Coastal Plain. Gravel fill was removed to a residual thickness of approximately 25 cm. Revegetation treatments were transplanted tundra plugs and fertilizer; seeding with indigenous graminoids and fertilizer; seeding with native-grass cultivars and fertilizer; fertilizer only; and no treatment. We monitored surface stability, soil characteristics, and vegetation response from 1990 to 2003. Thaw settlement of 17-40 cm occurred over most areas (with >1 m over areas with ice wedges) between 1990 and 1997; sites had mostly stabilized by 2003. Soil properties important for plant growth generally were poor. The establishment of vegetation dominated by indigenous species was similar when adding only fertilizer as compared to also adding plant materials. Although total live vascular cover was similar among fertilized, tundra-plug transplant, and indigenous graminoid seed treatments (26.1-38.3%), species richness was highest for the indigenous graminoid seed and tundra-plug transplant treatments. The results from this study will drive decisions about planting and fertilization schemes for future North Slope rehabilitation projects.
10.2307/1552531|Light rings in black spruce (Picea mariana [Mill.] BSP.) at the arctic treeline are characterized by pale-colored latewood made of a single or very few latewood-cell layers with thin-walled cells. Their widespread occurrence and their high frequency greatly facilitate the cross-dating procedure in dendrochronological studies. In this study, black spruce tree-ring density and wood structure were analyzed for light ring characteristics along with the mechanism of their formation according to ambient temperature. Light rings were quantitatively categorized into three classes based on the maximum tree-ring density using a normalized standard distribution. A light-ring chronology was established according to this classification. The results indicate that the grade of light ring was positively related to the frequency of light rings obtained from visual light-ring chronologies. The following anatomic variables were examined: number of cell layers of latewood, number of cells of the whole ring, percentage of latewood in the total ring width, and mean latewood cell-wall thickness. Among these anatomic variables, the mean latewood cell-wall thickness represents the best quantitative descriptor of a typical light ring as recognized by optical examination. The main causal factors of light rings are insufficient length of the growing season or cool summers.
20181813|Lakes are dynamic processors of nutrients and may hold an active role in modifying the water chemistry of stream systems. In this study, we examine the influence of lakes and an important terrestrial component--forest cover--on the nutrient levels of stream water in 11 Rocky Mountain (Idaho) watersheds. Water samples were collected from the inflow and outflow of lakes with varying amounts of upstream lakes and forested area during spring runoff and summer base flow. During base flow, mean total nitrogen concentrations at the inflow of final lakes were significantly related to relative upstream lake area, increasing from 34 to 103 g N L as upstream lake cover in the watersheds increased from 0% to 4%. Forest cover was not significantly correlated with total nitrogen concentrations exported from the watersheds. However, similar to other studies, inflow nitrate concentrations were negatively correlated with relative forest cover. At the scale of individual lakes, dissolved organic carbon and dissolved organic nitrogen increased, and nitrate was significantly reduced from inflows to outflows. The results indicate a potentially critical role of mountain lakes in governing nitrogen flux downstream, and suggest the role of lakes as nitrogen sinks or sources may reverse between spring runoff and summer base flow.
10.2307/1552491| Twenty-three AMS radiocarbon dates obtained from central Ross Sea sediment cores constrain the timing of ice advance across the continental shelf and highlight the difficulties of determining a chronology of ice-sheet retreat in this region. Ages derived from till and postglacial sediments are bimodally distributed and the majority of dates are >20 <sup>14</sup>C ka. The dates obtained from the acid-insoluble organic fraction of till indicate that grounded ice advanced across the inner central Ross Sea continental shelf 17.8  1 <sup>14</sup>C ka. Benthic foraminifera from till on the outer shelf indicate that grounded ice reached its maximum position after 13.8 <sup>14</sup>C ka indicating that the Ross Sea sector of the Antarctic ice sheet was advancing as eustatic sea level was on the rise. Postglacial sediment sequences in the central Ross Sea are up to 70 cm thick, and the ages are older than those from the western Ross Sea. These postglacial sediments produced ages >20 <sup>14</sup>C ka (uncorrected) that are apparently inconsistent with the timing of ice advance and preclude development of a high-resolution chronology of ice-sheet retreat. Surface sediments deposited under open-marine conditions in the central Ross Sea typically range from 4000 to 6000 <sup>14</sup>C yr BP. Total organic carbon (TOC) measurements for the dated sediments in this study reveal no significant relationship between TOC content and reported <sup>14</sup>C age. 
23252334|Fridtjovbreen, Svalbard, is a partially tidewater-terminating glacier that started a 7-year surge during the 1990s. Flow peaked during 1996 and no surge front was apparent. We use two pre-surge (1969 and 1990) and a post-surge (2005) digital elevation models (DEMs) together with a bed DEM to quantify volume changes and iceberg calving during the surge, calculate the changes in glacier hypsometry, and investigate the surge trigger. Between 1969 and 1990, the glacier lost 5% of its volume, retreated 530 m and thinned by up to 60 m in the lower elevations while thickening by up to 20 m in its higher elevations. During the surge, the reservoir zone thinned by up to 118 m and the receiving zone thickened by ~140 m. Fridtjovbreen's ice divide moved ~500 m, incorporating extra ice into its catchment. Despite this volume gain, during 19902005 the glacier lost ~10% of its volume through iceberg calving and 7% through surface melt. The surge occurred in a climate of decreasing overall ice volume, so we need to revise the notion that surging is triggered by a return to an original geometry, and we suggest Fridtjovbreen's surge was triggered by increasing shear stresses primarily caused by increases in surface slope.
20181802|We investigated changes in vascular plant species richness in nine summit floras in the central part of the Fennoscandian mountain range compared to historical data from 1950. We revisited the summits (defined as the top 50 altitudinal meters of each mountain) in 2002, and recorded all species. The changes in species richness were tested against both species and mountain characteristics. Species richness had declined on eight of the nine summits. Five of the species were new since the 1950s, while 17 species were lost from the summits. However, species turnover was even higher: 57 of our recorded species occurrences had established on at least one mountain since the 1950s, while we could not find 132 of the recorded occurrences in 1950 on one or more mountains. Temperature had increased since 1950 by about 1 C and precipitation by 12%. The reindeer population has more than doubled. No correlations between plant responses, plant characteristics, and mountain characteristics were found, suggesting individualistic and mountain-specific responses. We conclude that climate changes may be responsible for an increased establishment and reindeer trampling for increased mortality of established individuals. However, the net result is a decline in species richness.
10.2307/1552586|We report tree seedling (mostly Picea engelmannii, some Abies lasiocarpa, very infrequent Pinus contorta) invasion into meadows at upper timberline in the Snowy Range, Wyoming, from 1994 to 1996. We used gradient analysis to relate this to environmental patterns, particularly plant community structure (as aggregates of plant life-forms) and persistence of snowpack in 1995 and 1996. Tree seedlings established best at sites where snow melted earliest; the site with the shortest growing season had fewest seedlings. Microsites dominated by vascular plants admitted few or no seedlings; seedlings were most likely to be found where cryptogams dominated. These findings have implications for forest advance under some climate scenarios and successional hypotheses.
20181818|This paper deals with a two-year study of karst soils and eolian dust deposition on the Reiteralpe paleosurface (1600 to 2000 m), Northern Calcareous Alps, Germany. Thirty soil profiles of Cambisols developed on Triassic and Cretaceous limestones are investigated. Dust samples collected periodically on snow cover provide influx rates and a seasonal dust record. Samples of soils, insoluble bedrock residue, and dust are characterized by pedological (e.g. grain size) and mineralogical (e.g. heavy minerals) data. The data indicate that limestone subtypes with varying crack-fillings (ferrous clays) determine the colors and amounts of residue. Both correlate positively with the thickness of reddish Bo-horizons, supporting their autochthonous character. The topsoils, however, show substantial eolian addition (silt, fine sand, mica). In winter, far-traveled red Saharan dust without organic material prevails, carried to the area by strong foehn winds. In early springtime, browner dust (organic rich) is observed which contains periglacial silicate-rich detritus from regional sources such as the Crystalline Austrian Alps. The measured winter dust influx rates are 4.8 cm per 10,000 years (related to 210 winter days). This is more than twice the calculated thickness of Holocene residue accumulation out of limestone weathering (2.3 cm per 10,000 years, related to 210 winter days), which indicates that eolian dust is a major contributor to alpine karst soil development.
10.2307/1552554| The fluvial system in the upper Val Roseg in the Swiss Alps is characterized by a complex glacial floodplain. To analyze the changes in floodplain morphology between 1947 and 1999, a period during which the two main glaciers lost 700 to 1600 m in length, ten sets of aerial images were rectified and channel network and active floodplain area were digitized into a Geographic Information System (GIS). Changes mainly included an increase in the active floodplain width in the upper part of the floodplain. In the 100- to 500-m wide floodplain, the average lateral shift of the main channel ranged from 2 to 10 m yr<sup>-1</sup>. While the channel network was continuously renewed at a turnover rate of 25% per year, the overall structure of the Roseg floodplain remained relatively constant, despite rapid glacial retreat that increased the availability of glacial sediments potentially susceptible to fluvial transport. The sinuosity index averaged 1.15  0.01 and the braiding index 4.6  1.2. Only the connectivity index showed high variation (6.6  5.0), about 34% of which may be attributed to variation in discharge. 
1552425| Krkevagge, an alpine ecosystem in the subarctic, has been the subject of scientific study for half a century. We investigated the relationship of its vegetation to soil properties. At the lowest elevations, on stable portions of the landscape dominated by Betula and Empetrum, are found Spodosols developed in glacio-fluvial sediments. Cryosaprists occur in scattered bedrock depressions with bog-type vegetation. Cryofluvents are found in flood-prone areas covered by dwarf-willow thickets. Intermediate elevations have meadow-type vegetation with Cryofluvents on floodplains and on lower colluvial slopes, Cryaquents in wetter areas, and Cryorthents on steeper soliflucted slopes. Above that, on steep, west-facing Dryas-covered colluvial slopes, soils are Ca-rich Eutrocryepts and Haplocryolls. The highest-elevation soils are infertile with poor horizonation, despite their possible antiquity, and vegetation that is largely cryptogams. Dystrocryepts occur on more stable alpine locations; Cryorthents on soliflucted areas; and Haploturbels, with shallow permafrost, above 1400 m. Measured annual soil temperatures range from +2.4C at a Dryas site to -3.4C at 1585 m at an alpine cryptogam site. Vegetation distribution in Krkevagge is related to climatic factors, which are controlled by elevation and landscape position, and edaphic factors, which control soil moisture and nutrient availability. 
4095867|Variations in the timing and duration of seasonal snow cover have a significant impact on local and regional atmospheric dynamics, hydrologic and geomorphic processes through the modification of the surface-radiation balance and the ultimate effect on near-surface-air temperature. This study investigated numerically the effect of variations in the date of seasonal snow-cover disappearance on the components of surface-energy balance on the Alaskan North Slope by using a heat-transfer model with phase change. The baseline inputs for the meteorological characteristics included mean daily air temperature, dew-point temperature, snow-cover depth, incident solar radiation, wind speed, and atmospheric pressure observed at Barrow, Alaska, from 1995 to 1998. Three simulation cases were conducted by using the measured snow data and by varying the snowpack-disappearance date by 10 days in 1998. The mean differences of the components of surface-energy balance caused by variations in snowpack disappearance were also quantified on an annual basis from July 1997 through June 1998. Results indicate that varying the snowpack-disappearance date by 10 days in spring can strongly affect the mean annual net solar radiation, sensible heat flux, and latent heat flux and can slightly affect the mean annual net longwave radiation and conductive heat flux.
10.2307/1552272| We used fossil beetles recovered from three peatlands of the James Bay area (Radisson, northern Qubec, Canada), and the mutual climatic range (MCR) method, to produce a quantitative reconstruction of summer temperatures during the last 5000 yr. Our main objective was to test the hypothesis that a significant climatic cooling episode occurred during the late Holocene epoch, leading to the opening up of the boreal forest, and to the progressive replacement of black spruce (Picea mariana) forests by jack pine (Pinus banksiana) stands. Beetle assemblages in the Radisson area were very stable during the late Holocene epoch. We used a total of 22 beetle species to conduct the MCR analyses. Reconstructed mean July temperatures ranged from 14.5 to 17.5C, which is close to the present-day (A.D. 1977-1996) temperature range found in the Radisson area. The general stability of beetle assemblages, and the MCR analyses, suggest that there was no major change in July temperatures during the last 5000 yr in the Radisson area. This study provides no evidence that the progressive replacement of black spruce forests by jack pine stands in the Radisson area during the last 2700 yr can be explained by a long-term climatic cooling episode affecting the postfire regeneration potential of trees. Consequently, an alternative hypothesis (more frequent fires favoring jack pine) should be seriously considered to explain the late Holocene changes in the forest environment of the Radisson area. 
20181845|Monitoring studies show that many mountain glaciers worldwide are decreasing in mass. An important component of the process of ice mass loss is the effect of dust on albedo and its effect on glacier mass balance. The characteristics of surface dust were investigated in August 2006 on the rmqi Glacier No. 1 in the Tien Shan Mountains, China. The bare ice surface of the glacier was mostly covered by brown dust. The amounts of surface dust on the ice surface (dry weight) ranged from 86 to 1113 g m (mean: 335 g m, standard deviation: = 211), which is within the normal range for Asian glaciers, but significantly greater than those on glaciers in other regions such as Alaska, Patagonia, and the Canadian Arctic. An analysis of organic matter and microscopy of the surface dust revealed that the dust contained high levels of organic matter, including living cyanobacteria. This suggests that it is comprised not only of deposits of wind-blown desert dust, but is also a product of microbial activity on the glacier itself. Spectral albedo of the glacial surface showed spectrum curves typical of those of snow and ice contaminated with dust. The integrated surface albedo ranged from 0.09 to 0.24 (mean: 0.14) in the ice area, from 0.50 to 0.64 (mean: 0.56) in the snow area. The lower albedo on the glacial surface compared with that of clean bare ice or snow surface suggests that the albedo was significantly reduced by the surface dust on this glacier. Results suggest that the mineral and organic dust on the glacial surface substantially accounts for the recent shrinkage of the glacier.
41240439|The melting of glaciers in the European Alps has exposed new terrain in the last decades. Ground beetles (Carabidae, Coleptera) are among the first colonizers of this new alpine land. Since 1999, we have studied the ground beetle assemblages of the recently deglaciated areas in the Hornkees glacier foreland (Zillertal Alps, Austria). Data were collected in July 1999, 2001, 2007, and 2009. Two species of Carabidae, Nebria jockischii and Nebria germari, were dominant in the areas immediately below the glacier in all sampling periods. The occurrence of Nebria jockischii larvae very close to the edge of the glacier strongly suggests that reproduction occurred in the area which had been ice-free for only one year. Comparison of the carabid beetle assemblages from the recently deglaciated areas with those from neighboring and longer exposed areas indicates that the first colonizers continuously expanded their range following the path of the glacial retreat. We hypothesize that Nebria jockischii populated the new alpine terrain by initial migration from the banks of the glacial stream, whereas Nebria germari probably colonized the recently deglaciated area by migration from the lateral moraines. These carabid beetles represent the first predatory insects in the initial phase of colonization of the Hornkees foreland.
10.2307/1552547| Using data from alpine and subalpine watersheds in the southern and central Sierra Nevada, California, we develop the concept of representative elementary area (REA) for a hydrological variable (maximum snow depth at the beginning of the melt season), and for outflow concentrations and the annual export of a biologically important ion (nitrate) and the products of weathering (base cations and silica). Up to 1000 snow-depth measurements were taken each year since 1990 at maximum accumulation in the upper Marble Fork watershed (a 1900-ha headwater watershed of the Kaweah River, 363622N, 1184059W). The random nature of snow distribution is illustrated in semivariograms, which usually have an autocorrelation range of <30 m, i.e., adjacent pixels with similar terrain and radiation inputs can have dissimilar snow depths. There is a consistent year-to-year relationship between the mean Marble Fork basin snow-depth at maximum accumulation and mean depths in the sub-basins; the REA appears to be on the order of 50 ha. Our results suggest that the REA for annual volume-weighted mean (VWM) nitrate concentration, nitrate yield, and possibly the temporal variation in outflow concentrations lies in the range of 35 to 70 ha. A similar-sized REA seems to apply to the annual export and VWM concentrations of base cations and silica. 
10.2307/1552464|Combined catchment, subbottom acoustic, and sedimentary studies of high arctic, proglacial Bear Lake, Devon Island, were carried out to evaluate the role lacustrine processes and Holocene catchment evolution have had on the sedimentary record. In the proximal basin, bottom deposits up to 60 m thick are generated in part by turbid underflows associated with peak meltwater flow from the Devon Island Ice Cap. These underflows produce rhythmically laminated structures that are likely varves. In shallower locations, accumulation is slower and results from homopycnal distribution of fine suspended sediment throughout the proximal basin, resulting in a simple varve couplet. The distal basin is isolated from glacial meltwater by a shallow sill, although some fine-grained detrital carbonate transported by the glacial meltwater is deposited in both basins. In most locations in the distal basin Holocene sediments are less than 10 m thick. They are composed primarily of massive clay and some carbonate interrupted by irregular graded carbonate units produced by sporadic heavy summer rainfall and sediment transport from small plateau tributaries. Eolian sedimentation is also important throughout the lake, especially when high accumulations melt through the ice in the proximal basin, producing isolated grains and layers of coarse sand in the sedimentary record. Holocene ice margin changes have influenced the sedimentary record substantially, particularly during the mid-Holocene when the ice cap is inferred to have retreated from the catchment.
1552642| Winter climate is a key factor affecting population dynamics in high-arctic ungulates, with many studies showing a strong negative correlation of winter precipitation to fluctuations in population growth rate. Terrestrial ice crust or ground-ice can also have a catastrophic impact on populations, although it is rarely quantified. We assess the impact of winter climate on the population dynamics of an isolated herd of Svalbard reindeer near Ny-lesund with a retrospective analysis of past winter snowpack. We model landscape-scale snowpack and ground-ice thickness using basic temperature and precipitation data in a simple degree-day model containing four adjustable parameters. Parameter values are found that lead to model snow and ground-ice thicknesses which correlate well with three different model targets: reindeer population growth rates; April snow accumulation measurements on two local glaciers; and a limited number of ground-icing observations. We explain a significant percentage (80%) of the variance in the observed reindeer population growth rate using just the modeled mean winter ground-ice thickness in a simple regression. Adding other explanatory parameters, such as modeled mean winter snowpack thickness or previous years' population size does not much improve the regression relation. 
1552331|We divide the Alaskan Arctic cold season into five stages based on transitions in climatological and thermophysical conditions in the atmosphere, snowpack, and soil active layer. Each of these stages has distinct characteristics which drive ecosystem processes. During the two autumnal stages (Early Snow and Early Cold) soils remain warm, unfrozen water is present, and the highest rates of cold-season soil respiration occur. The next two stages (Deep Cold and Late Cold) are characterized by a frozen active layer with decreasing temperature. Thaw is critical in determining the length of the growing season and the resumption of biological processes. Deep Cold and Late Cold result from a radiation deficit, show little interannual variation, and will be resistant to change under almost any reasonable climate change scenario. These are also the stages with the least amount of biological activity and have the least impact on the ecosystem. However, Early Snow, Early Cold and Thaw stages vary significantly from year to year, have more ecosystem implications, and are also the most likely to undergo significant change in timing and character as the arctic climate changes. This 5-fold subdivision is useful for framing discussions of biophysical interactions during the arctic winter and for focusing attention on critical cold-season periods.
4139127|Species distributions may be limited by substrate boundaries due to constraints at either the germination or seedling establishment life history stages. In a community of alpine tundra plants from the Sierra Nevada, some species are widespread, occurring across all four substrates studied: diorite, granite, hornfels, and marble. Other species are restricted to fewer soil types. We collected seeds from 12 species and performed a reciprocal transplant experiment in growth chambers using native soils. Eleven species germinated and established equally well across all soil types, indicating substrate chemistry did not alone determine species field distributions. However, two patterns emerged that may contribute to our understanding of species composition and dominance across substrates. First, species more dominant on the drier substrates reached at least half their total germination within two weeks of planting. Species more dominant on the wetter substrates required a longer period in wet soil to germinate. Second, there is a strong correlation between species relative abundance and percent germination, indicating that high percent germination may contribute to some species' dominance. To determine the influence of soil type on plant size, a subset of species were grown for more time. All species were larger on hornfels and marble than on granite and diorite, indicating that species have the highest growth on the most nutrient-rich soils, rather than on their native soils. Taken together, these data suggest that water may be the limiting factor for species germination, and the differential nutrient availability across soil types has a strong influence on early seedling growth.
41416429|Vegetation in primary succession is influenced by multiple stochastic and environmental factors at different spatial and temporal scales. In this study we analyze the effect of meso-topographic heterogeneity on vegetation development following the retreat of Glaciar Seco in the southern Patagonian Andes. Composition and cover of algae, lichens, mosses, and vascular plants were recorded in 580 plots located in different topographic positions within a chronosequence of eight consecutive moraines. Sample plots were characterized by topographical and surface features. Spatiotemporal patterns in vegetation composition and their relationships to environmental factors were assessed by classification and ordination. We recognized eight communities that correspond to four major successional stages. The successional sequence is characterized by a physiognomic development from pioneer saxicolous lichens (first stage) to secondary colonizer lichens (second stage), followed by shrub colonization (third stage) and the development of Nothofagus spp. forests (fourth stage). Alternative successional trajectories on different topographic positions vary in the sequence of these four major successional stages, with the trajectories on the moraine ridge-top and base not going through some of the stages. A variance partition procedure shows that time since dglaciation and topographic position on the moraines account for comparable amounts of vegetation variance, emphasizing the importance of spatiotemporal analysis of vegetation development on heterogeneous landscapes. Broad trends in vegetation development follow environmental gradients. However, emergence and persistence of vegetation patterns can also be attributed to dynamic geomorphic processes such as moraine slope degradation affecting boulder distribution along the moraine foreslope. At the landscape scale, successional trajectories converge to a Nothofagus-ommtQ state, but significant variability remains in the understory due to the differential distribution of cryptogams along the moraine topographic gradient. Convergence is mostly related to the expansion of communities from more favorable sites towards the harsher moraine crest, but it is not a process of gradual deterministic changes along the different successional pathways.
10.2307/1552617|Radiocarbon dates from prehistoric campsites and game-drive systems were used to develop a 3000-yr chronology of human population change at high altitude in the Colorado Front Range. Populations increased to record levels during the Late Prehistoric Period and then declined, tracking a probable warming-and-cooling trend. Superimposed on the long-term cycle were short-term oscillations that correlate closely with episodes of lichen snowkill inferred from the diameters of Rhizocarpon subgenus Rhizocarpon thalli in randomly selected 100-m<sup>2</sup> sample plots above tree limit. Transplant experiments and historical accounts of an epic storm in the spring of 1844 help understand the causes of lichen snowkill and its linkage to hunter-gatherers. During five periods of unknown duration between 1000 BC and AD 1230, vast areas above timberline remained snow covered for an average of at least 40 wk yr<sup>-1</sup>. Upslope snowstorms triggered by low temperatures and by cut-off low pressure systems in the southwestern United States are thought to have been responsible. The snow caused elk (Cervus elaphus), bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis), and mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) to starve on their springtime ranges in the eastern Front Range foothills. It damaged important forage species above timberline, discouraging surviving game animals and their human predators from returning to high altitudes for many decades. Springtime snow became less important after AD 1230, when northwesterly airflow intensified and lichen mortality was restricted to the floors of expanded snowpatches in topographic catchments. Low temperatures, summer drought, and epidemic disease were characteristic of this part of the archaeological record. The study demonstrates that changes in the frequency of archaeological radiocarbon dates in extreme environments can provide useful proxy evidence for climatic change and a precise chronological framework in which to interpret discontinuous paleo-environmental data. It cautions that the East Slope of the Front Range is vulnerable to upslope snowstorms larger and more frequent than any that have occurred since the beginning of meteorological observations in the region.
10.2307/1552412| Multiproxy paleoecological investigation of a small lake in the high subalpine zone near Stoyoma Mountain, northern Cascade Mountains of British Columbia, reveals significant change in vegetation, limnic conditions, and inferred climate throughout the Holocene (last 10,000 radiocarbon years). Three zones of distinct pollen, plant macrofossil, and chironomid assemblages are apparent in the sediment core from 3M Pond (informal name). A dry, sparsely vegetated spruce parkland and a warm-adapted chironomid community existed in and around the study sites in the early Holocene (ca. 10,000 to 7000 <sup>14</sup>C yr BP). Between 7000 and 3500 <sup>14</sup>C yr BP, Engelmann spruce--subalpine fir forest conditions established and then declined around 3M Pond leading to modern subalpine parkland conditions from 3500 <sup>14</sup>C yr BP to present. Chironomid communities at 3M Pond between 7000 and 3500 <sup>14</sup>C yr BP are indicative of warmer waters than present, but show a transition to modern assemblages. Three climatic regimes are identified near Stoyoma Mountain: (1) the early Holocene xerothermic period (10,000 to 7000 <sup>14</sup>C yr BP, (2) a period of climatic transition in the mid-Holocene (7000 to 3500 <sup>14</sup>C yr BP), and (3) cool, modern neoglacial conditions (after 3500 <sup>14</sup>C yr BP). These findings confirm vegetation and inferred climate changes identified at Cabin Lake, British Columbia (a nearby lake in the subalpine forest). Changes in treeline position, plant communities, chironomid communities, and inferred climate are nearly synchronous and validate the multiproxy approach for paleoecological reconstruction. Chironomid-based paleotemperature reconstructions confirm earlier evidence that the early Holocene was significantly warmer than present, with estimated summer water surface temperatures up to 4C higher than today. 
20181706|In our study, we asked whether butterflies visiting Chaetanthera lycopodioides (Asteraceae) in the subnival at 3450 m a.s.l. in the central Andes prefer larger floral displays. To answer this question, we compared the population distribution of display sizes with the distribution of visited display sizes at two sites. Six high elevation butterflies: Faunula leucoglene (Satyridae) (the dominant species), Hylephila sp. (Hesperiidae), Phulia nymphula (Pieridae), Vanessa terpsichore (Nymphalidae), Tatochila mercedis (Nymphalidae), and Yramea modesta (Nymphalidae) were reported as visitors. Butterflies tended to discriminate against plants with a single open head, preferring larger display sizes at both sites. Butterflies visited few plants per bout (mean: 3.1-4.5) and probed increasingly smaller proportions of the open heads per plant with increasing display size (overall mean: 45.8-48.4%). Results suggest that high elevation butterflies tend to prefer larger display sizes over smaller ones, but final choices are conditioned by the relative abundance of each display size in a population. Although previous studies show that butterflies prefer larger artificial individual flowers over smaller ones, our work appears to constitute the first report of butterfly preference for larger floral displays in any plant species or ecosystem.
23359632|Bryophytes and lichens are ubiquitous in subarctic ecosystems, but their roles in controlling energy fluxes are rarely studied at the species level despite large, recent observed shifts in subarctic vegetation. We quantified the surface and subsurface temperatures and spectral reflectance of common moss and lichen species at field sites in Alaska and Sweden. We also used MODIS observations to determine if the removal of Cladonia spp. by reindeer overgrazing impacts land surface albedo and temperature. Radiometric surface temperature of a feather moss (Pleurozium schreberi) exceeded 50 C on occasion when dry, up to 20 C higher than co-located Sphagnum fuscum or C. rangiferina. Spectral reflectance of S. fuscum was on average higher than Polytrichum piliferum across the 3501400 nm range, with substantial within-species variability. MODIS albedo was significantly higher on the Norwegian (relatively undisturbed) side versus the Finnish (disturbed) side of a border reindeer fence by an average of 1% during periods without snow cover. MODIS nighttime land surface temperatures were often significantly higher on the Norwegian side of the fence by an average of 0.7 C despite higher albedo, likely due to poor conductance of heat to the subsurface as observed in C. rangiferina in the field. Changes to bryophyte and lichen community composition alter the surface energy balance, and future work must determine how to best incorporate these effects into Earth system models.
10.2307/1552604| Area variations of outlet glaciers of the Hielos Patagnicos (Patagonia icefields), South America, since 1944/45, are summarized, and the volume of ice loss due to recession and thinning estimated, in order to derive the contribution of the Patagonian glaciers to sea-level change. For the Hielo Patagnico Norte (HPN), variations of 22 outlet glaciers were studied for the period between 1944/45 and 1995/96. Until 1990, most glaciers retreated at increasing rates; however, since then, the retreat has slowed down. The total area loss of the HPN due to frontal recession is about 64 km<sup>2</sup>. From the estimated ice thickness and thinning rates, a total ice loss of 152-310 km<sup>3</sup> was obtained for the 51 yr. In the Hielo Patagnico Sur (HPS), 48 outlet glaciers were studied for the period between 1944/45 and 1985/86. Most glaciers have been retreating, with a few remaining almost stagnant, but two glaciers, Po XI and Perito Moreno, showed a net advance. The total area loss of the HPS due to recession was about 200 km<sup>2</sup>. From the estimated ice thickness and thinning rates, a total ice loss was 285-670 km<sup>3</sup> for the period of 1945-1986. With a simple linear extrapolation to the period of 1945-1996, figures of 355-833 km<sup>3</sup> were obtained. The total volume reduction of the HPN and HPS is therefore roughly 825  320 km<sup>3</sup> for the 51-yr period. This amount roughly translates into a world-wide sea-level rise of 1.93  0.75 mm, or 0.038 mm yr<sup>-1</sup> since 1944/45, which accounts for 3.6% of the total sea-level change. Analyses of climatic data at several Chilean and Argentinean meteorological stations located around the icefield revealed a slight increase in air temperature and a decrease in precipitation over the last 40 to 50 yr. Other factors affecting the variation include calving status, the ratio of the accumulation area to the total area (AAR), the gradient of the glacier surface near the equilibrium line (EL), and subglacial topography. 
10.2307/1552622| Geophysical and lithological data collected from the southwest margin of Iceland provide clear evidence of multiple glaciations across the shelf, many of which reached the shelf-slope break. These paleo-ice sheets delivered much glacial sediment to the slope facing Denmark Strait. A large moraine some 20 to 100 m in height lies at the shelf break due west of Ltra Bank. The moraine may mark the Late Weichselian extent of the western Iceland ice, although a single date from a 50-cm gravity core collected from the seaward side of the moraine provided an age of 35,650  560 <sup>14</sup>C BP. Retreat of this ice sheet appears to have been rapid, except for a minor pause when the ice sheet terminus approached the coastline. A marine reservoir-corrected basal date of 12,705  85 <sup>14</sup>C BP was obtained from a 17-m giant piston core collected in Jkuldjp (a shelf trough) which sampled glacial marine sediments close to underlying ice-contact sediment. Because this date is very close to the age of shells near the marine limit in West Iceland, some 100 km to the east-northeast, it suggests that this margin of the Iceland Ice Sheet retreated extremely rapidly during the Blling/Allerd interstadial (13,000 to 11,000 <sup>14</sup>C BP). 
4095869|Spatio-temporal gradients between ecosystems of the central Norwegian high mountain are analyzed. Complex landscape ecological site analyses combined with intensive pitfall trapping are carried out in four investigation areas in two regions. Key questions are addressed for the differences among ecosystems along a broad-scaled oceanic-continental gradient. The answers are based on ecological process analysis and mapping of zoocoenses in small catchments of two alpine altitudinal belts. A comparison of four ridge site is presented by analyzing water and temperature balance and activity of arthropods during the driest summer month. The results do not implicate summer drought and heat as limiting factors; summer wetness and cooling are most decisive. Landscape ecological processes, like the accumulation of snow during winter, snow melting, freeze-thaw action, percolation, soil moisture variation, and temperature regimes are exemplified by long-term measurements throughout the year in a small catchment in continental eastern Norway-the driest mountain region in Scandinavia. To learn about the organization and diversity of zoocoenoses, epigeic arthropods (Araneae, Carabidae) are investigated along spatial gradients. Interrela between distribution patterns of animals and spatio-temporal dynamics of the environmental conditions are presented. The results are framed by gradient theory in landscape ecology. Finally, the complexity of spatio-temporal gradient determination between ecosystems is discussed and summarized by a scheme of gradient principles for the Norwegian mountains.
40962394|Glacial recession is a major process in terrestrial ecosystems of the world and an obvious result of global warming. Here we describe the alpine (above tree line) and subalpine forested and wetland/peatland vegetation chronosequences in Glacier Bay National Park and Preserve, Alaska. We derived the results from three products: (1) deglaciation map of 50,000-, 13,000-, and 1- to 246-year-old (Neoglacial) surfaces; (2) a landcover map; and (3) a plant association classification. For the alpine chronosequence, Neoglacial surfaces are dominated by the tall shrub (>1.5 m) (Alnus and Salix), dwarf shrub (<0.1 m) (Salix and Dryas), and mesic herbaceous landcover classes. These landcover classes also dominate the 13,000- and 50,000-year-old surfaces but dwarf shrub dominance changes to ericaceous. The subalpine forested chronosequence consists of Populus balsamifera ssp. trichocarpa and Picea sitchensis classes dominating the mid- and late-seral Neoglacial surfaces, then Tsuga mertensiana and Picea sitchensis classes dominating the 13,000- and 50,000-year-old surfaces. Wetlands/peatlands are rare on the Neoglacial and 13,000-year-old surfaces but common on the 50,000-year-old surface. Alnus is rare on the 50,000-year-old surface yet common on the 13,000-year-old surface and, we speculate, is a relict from the end of the Pleistocene.
40801688|One of the major remaining obstacles to understanding how ecosystems process carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) within soil organic matter (SOM) is landscape heterogeneity. While many studies have investigated landscape heterogeneity in total SOM and N, less information exists on landscape patterns for differently aged constituents within SOM. These differently aged constituents can show distinct landscape-level patterns and levels of heterogeneity that contribute to our understanding of the production and decomposition processes that create SOM.Using field measurements from an alpine-subalpine ecosystem and geostatistical analyses, I show here that and N in the older more recalcitrant SOM of mineral soil have more defined spatial patterns and are less heterogeneous than and N in the newer more labile SOM of mineral soil at the forest-alpine tundra ecotone (SOM CV = 45% in older, 59% in newer; partial sill [sill minus nugget, i. e., percent of variation explained by spatial autocorrelation] = 38% in older, 11% in newer; SOM N: CV = 50% in older, 48% in newer; partial sill = 6% in older, 44% in newer). I also demonstrate that C: N ratios show better spatial patterns and reduced landscape heterogeneity when compared with their constituent and N concentrations (CV of total SOM 41%, total SOM N = 31%, total SOM C: N = 20%; partial sill of total SOM 15%, total SOM N = 18%, total SOM C: N = 64%). The reduced heterogeneity and strong relationships between and N in older SOM suggest that landscape variation in the chemical composition of the SOM in mineral soils converges over time, possibly as a result of greater chemical variation in plant inputs relative to the products of decomposition reactions.
25642078|The ectomycorrhizal communities in alpine habitats have been relatively little studied. As global change is predicted to have a large impact in Arctic and alpine environments, it is important to document the fungi of these climatic regions to monitor changes and to understand upcoming successions. This study investigates the ectomycorrhizal community of Dryas octopetala and Salix reticulata on cliff ledges in a mid-alpine setting using the internal transcribed spacer region of nuclear ribosomal DNA for the identification of the fungal component of ectomycorrhizal root tips. It is shown that the community is relatively species rich, with 74 molecular operational taxonomic units (MOTUs)/species, and that it is dominated by Cenococcum geophilum, Thelephoraceae spp., Cortinarius spp., and Sebacinales spp. Furthermore, the dominating species have low specificity regarding the tested hosts and seem likely to be able to facilitate the succession of the alpine tundra to subalpine forest by serving as mycorrhizal partners for establishing pioneer trees.
1552355|Sediment cores from Pyramid Lake, an alpine tarn in the Cassiar Mountains of northwestern British Columbia, were investigated for changes in pollen, plant macrofossils, charcoal, and clastic sediment, which are used to infer changes in climate throughout the Holocene. Radiometric dating has yielded a chronology of high-magnitude rainstorm events and timberline migration for the Pyramid Lake basin since deglaciation at about 10600 B.P. Fifteen distinct minerogenic layers represent material delivered to the lake by runoff events. The frequency of minerogenic layer deposition, and by analogy of storms, has changed throughout the Holocene. Four large-magnitude rainstorm events occurred between 4400 and 5100 B.P. During this period white spruce (Picea cf. glauca) was likely present near the lake, although a closed forest stand did not develop around the lake at any point during the Holocene. The macrofossil record indicates that subalpine fir (Abies lasiocarpa) has been present, likely as krummholz, above the elevation of the lake since at least 9400 B.P. Pollen of western hemlock (Tsuga heterophylla) is represented from ca. 1500 B.P. to the present and may be a consequence of changes in regional airmass circulation patterns.
41416437|Past debris-flow and snow avalanche activity was assessed for the Reiselehnrinne (Tyrol, Austria) using growth disturbances in growth-ring series of 372 Norway spruce (Picea abies (L.) Karst.) trees. Determination of events was performed by analyzing (a) the number and (b) intensity of growth disturbances within tree-ring series and (c) the spatial distribution of affected trees. Differentiation of debris flow from snow avalanche events was based on the intra-annual position of scars, callus tissues or tangential rows of traumatic resin ducts, and on the spatial distribution of trees with simultaneous reactions in the tree-ring series. We introduce a weighting factor to substantiate the dating of past process activity in a comprehensive way and to compare individual events as to their intensity and total number of tree-ring responses. The accuracy of the dendrogeomorphic assessment was then evaluated by comparing the reconstructed event frequency with chronologies available for the Reiselehnrinne. Comparison of tree-ring with historical data demonstrated clearly that the reconstructed event frequency contains the majority of past debris flow and snow avalanche events in the Reiselehnrinne, but that dating of events is not always possible, especially if they are clustered in time or have a limited spread on the cone.
10.2307/1552589|Three species of Microtus (voles) living in Pyrenean subalpine pastures brought seeds to the surface on vole mounds. This activity was studied to learn about the voles' influence on seed composition and vegetation gap colonization. Twenty-two plant species germinated from seed in the soil mounds. The plant composition of pastures was dominated by graminoids-hemicryptophytes. Nearly half of the seeds that occurred in mounds are of annual dicots able to quickly colonize the gaps and complete their vegetative cycle before the entry of perennial plants. Mound revegetation occurs chiefly by means of vegetative reproduction strategies. Nevertheless germination of seed brought to the surface can be important at the early stages of colonization after soil disturbance. Thus, such disturbances increase short-term plant diversity and patch heterogeneity.
1552350| We describe energy fluxes involved in melting ice in the proglacial lake Jkulsarlon and the transport of thermal energy into the lake from the atmosphere and the sea. Data from earlier fieldwork and campaigns have been used to estimate the net radiation balance, the turbulent fluxes, the heat provided by inflowing seawater, and the glacial meltwater flux. From aerial photographs, DGPS measurements, and mass balance measurements, we calculated a calving flux of 260  10<sup>6</sup> m<sup>3</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup> for the present. The total energy required to melt all the ice in the lake is approximately 160 W m<sup>-2</sup> assuming that all the calved ice is melted during 1 yr. The most important contribution is heat from seawater. Radiation provides approximately 70 W m<sup>-2</sup>. The albedo depends on the ice-covered fraction of the lake and ranges from 22% in summer to 41% in winter. The turbulent fluxes are around 10 W m<sup>-2</sup>. Difficulties occurred in finding an appropriate range for the roughness parameter z<sub>0</sub>, but the most likely values are in the range of a few centimeters. We considered different future scenarios with respect to inflow of seawater and air temperature, albedo, and even inhibition of seawater intrusion, which would have a significant impact on ice cover in the lake. 
1552570|Polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) concentrations and congener profiles in terrestrial soils, vascular plants, and freshwater lake sediments were compared with respect to their relative utilities for assessing the redistribution of PCBs from a local contaminant source into the surrounding arctic environment. Plants (n = 62), soils (n = 58), and surficial freshwater lake sediments (n = 16) were collected at varying distances up to 27 km from the source at Saglek, Labrador. Total PCB concentrations in these media exhibited similar negative log-linear relationships with increasing distance from the contaminant source. Analysis of congener compositions indicated that plants are more reflective of recent PCB exposure than either soils or sediments. Vascular plants reflect current ambient contaminant concentrations, whereas terrestrial soils and freshwater sediments represent much longer periods of contaminant deposition and are further influenced by such factors as their organic carbon content, particle size distribution, lake watershed size and productivity (in the case of sediments), and proximity to a drainage course (in the case of soils). Collectively, the data indicate that short-range transport of PCBs at Saglek has resulted in a halo of contamination that is up to 50 km in diameter.
24551626|Wet snow avalanches breaking through to the base of the snowpack or overriding snowfree surfaces can entrain basal material and act as important agents of sediment transport in steep alpine catchments. Here we present results from 4 years of measurements at the Guggigraben catchment (Matter Valley, Canton Valais), quantifying the volume of sediment transported by avalanches each winter season. Sediment load was estimated by measuring the debris content within representative areas and then extrapolating the cumulative volume. Results reveal a total transported sediment volume of 70 m3 in 2009, 23 m3 in 2010, 15 m3 in 2011, and 35 m3 in 2012, which correspond to catchment-wide erosion rates of approximately 0.05, 0.02, 0.01, and 0.03 mm/a, respectively. Sediment appears to be sourced predominantly from within the main channel or one its tributaries, originating first from rockfall or landslides. Avalanches thus play an important role at the Guggigraben in transporting loose sediment from temporary storage sites to the fan and main river system. Within the bedrock gully and in the avalanche source region above, signs of abrasive wear were evident on exposed bedrock surfaces. These included rounded and scoured bedrock, fresh boulder impacts, and scratch marks on the gully walls.
25642077|Here we present the first tree-ring series (18502003) of stable carbon (C) and oxygen (O) isotope ratios from a high-latitude treeline site in northwestern Canada. Both C and O were measured at annual resolution from whole-ring -cellulose of three white spruce trees (Picea glauca [Moench] Voss) growing in the Mackenzie Delta. There is a strong positive association between C and maximum summer temperatures. This relation likely results from the influence of temperature-induced drought stress on stomatal conductance. Mean summer relative humidity is also significantly correlated, inversely, with C reflecting its direct influence on stomatal conductance. The O record is strongly and positively correlated with early-spring to mid-summer minimum temperatures likely owing to the temperature dependence of O in precipitation and uptake of this water during the growing season. Mean summer relative humidity is also significantly and inversely correlated with O due to leaf water evaporative enrichment. Our C and O records contain a large amount of climate-driven variability indicating their considerable potential to infer past climate changes in the Mackenzie Delta region.
10.2307/1552283|The extent to which nutrient limitation affects species composition, abundance, and productivity of the alpine tundra is an ongoing area of ecological inquiry. At Niwot Ridge in the Front Range of Colorado, plant species richness and foliage production were studied with respect to N and P additions in three alpine communities varying in snowpack depth and duration. These effects were also measured in conjunction with a snowpack enhancement experiment. Measurements of plant responses were made 4 yr following the initiation of the manipulations. The addition of either N or P enhanced plant foliage productivity (P = 0.05 and P = 0.03, respectively). Nitrogen additions had a negative effect on the species richness censused in 1-m<sup>2</sup> plots (P < 0.001), while P additions had no effect on species richness (P > 0.60). Snowpack did not affect foliage productivity (P = 0.20), but species richness was negatively affected (P < 0.001). Snowpack also appeared to mediate species-specific responses to N and P additions. In the alpine, the relationship between species diversity and plant productivity is mediated by species-specific traits. After 4 yr, the increased production by plant species sensitive to P additions did not reduce species richness. This suggests that production-induced competitive exclusion is not a generalization that can be used to explain the decline in species richness. Moreover, the reduction in species richness due to N addition occurred across all of the tundra communities studied here. These communities differ with respect to the strength of other potential limiting resources such as ligth (self-shading) or water. Thus, this negative response is best explained by changes in soil chemistry that resulted directly or indirectly from N additions.
24551623|In recent decades, the use of some subalpine mountain grasslands in the Central Spanish Pyrenees has changed. Ski resorts have been developed and cattle herd management has shifted from the traditional "rotational-type" system in which grazing cattle are overseen by a herder to a "continuous-type" system that does not involve a herder. In 2005, the locations of 30 floristic inventories performed in 1972 were revisited and inventories were repeated in two adjacent similar areas, although one had been used for the development of ski runs and the other had not. The objective was to assess the effects of those changes on plant diversity and other characteristics of the grasslands. In both areas, plant diversity was significantly higher in 2005 than it was in 1972. Both areas had been grazed by cattle to a similar extent; thus, the results suggest that diversity was affected primarily by the change in the livestock grazing system. Livestock grazing within the skiing area appears to have counterbalanced any reduction in plant diversity that would have occurred because of the construction and use of ski runs. In the skiing area, legume cover and pastoral value decreased, the Ellenberg Nitrogen Index reflected lower soil nutrients available to plants, and the cover of plant species that regenerate by seeds increased between 1972 and 2005; such changes did not occur in the non-skiing area. The abundance of ruderal species increased more in the skiing area than in the non-skiing area. Between 1981 and 2000, the amount of bare ground increased only in the skiing area.
10.2307/1552606|To examine the scales at which the maximum variability of active-layer thickness occurs within local areas, a nested sampling and analysis design was implemented in five 1-km<sup>2</sup> areas distributed over two physiographic provinces in north-central Alaska. The primary variations of thaw depth in the low-relief terrain of the Arctic Coastal Plain province occur over distances between 100 and 300 m, and are superimposed on a trend related to the regional climatic gradient. In the Arctic Foothills province, much of the variation within the study areas occurs over horizontal distances less than 3 m, and is superimposed on mesoscale variations induced by terrain climate. To achieve maximum effectiveness, research programs concerned with sampling, interpolating, or modeling thaw depth and closely related phenomena should be designed to accommodate substantial variability at multiple spatial scales.
10.2307/1552260|Observations have been made in a major, eastern canyon of the Sierra Nevada, and are the first documentation of the mountain and valley wind system in this range. The topography of the "Eastside" of the Sierra Nevada is unique, producing some interesting flow patterns. Surface and upper-air data have been collected during summer and winter from 1994 through 1997. The mountain wind and similarly the valley wind have been observed as regular features of Lee Vining Canyon. However, results have shown a complex wind regime where the normal up-canyon valley wind is often replaced with a down-canyon flow by mid-afternoon. This wind, which depends on a number of mechanisms, is more common during summer than winter which suggests that it may be thermally driven. During winter, katabatic flows have been observed in the upper reaches of the canyon proper, while a distinct valley wind dominated the lower regions of the canyon.
4139095|This study proposes a new hypothesis: Debris-covered glaciers served as Pleistocene biological refugia. This is based on detailed studies of vascular plant growth on six debris-mantled glaciers, literally around the world, as well as many casual observations also across the globe. We find that such glaciers are quite common and are distributed globally. Using Carbon Glacier, Mount Rainier, U.S.A., as a type locality and case study, we show aspects of the floristic and structural diversity as well as spatial patterns of plant growth on the glacier surface. Migration strategies, root characteristics, and origin and dispersal strategies for vascular plant species are documented. Also reported are special microclimatic conditions in these areas allowing for this remarkable plant ecology. We find that alpine taxa can grow considerably below their usual altitudinal niche due to the cooler subsurface soil temperatures found on glacial debris with ice underneath, and that may have significantly altered the spatial distribution of such flora during full glacial conditions. This in turn creates previously undocumented areas from which alpine, and perhaps arctic, plant species reestablished in post-glacial time. This hypothesis is complementary to both the nunatak hypothesis and tabula rasa theory and possibly helps solve the ongoing controversy between them.
23359628|Carbon dynamics of high-latitude regions are an important and highly uncertain component of global carbon budgets, and efforts to constrain estimates of soil-atmosphere carbon exchange in these regions are contingent on accurate representations of spatial and temporal variability in carbon fluxes. This study explores spatial and temporal variability in soil-atmosphere carbon dynamics at both fine and coarse spatial scales in a high-elevation, permafrost-dominated boreal black spruce forest. We evaluate the importance of landscape-level investigations of soil-atmosphere carbon dynamics by characterizing seasonal trends in soil-atmosphere carbon exchange, describing soil temperature-moisture-respiration relations, and quantifying temporal and spatial variability at two spatial scales: the plot scale (05 m) and the landscape scale (5001000 m). Plot-scale spatial variability (average variation on a given measurement day) in soil CO 2 efflux ranged from a coefficient of variation (CV) of 0.25 to 0.69, and plot-scale temporal variability (average variation of plots across measurement days) in efflux ranged from a CV of 0.19 to 0.36. Landscape-scale spatial and temporal variability in efflux was represented by a CV of 0.40 and 0.31, respectively, indicating that plot-scale spatial variability in soil respiration is as great as landscape-scale spatial variability at this site. While soil respiration was related to soil temperature at both the plot- and landscape scale, landscape-level descriptions of soil moisture were necessary to define soil respirationmoisture relations. Soil moisture variability was also integral to explaining temporal variability in soil respiration. Our results have important implications for research efforts in high-latitude regions where remote study sites make landscape-scale field campaigns challenging.
10.2307/1552607|Large amounts of soil carbon and sensitivity of arctic ecosystems to climate change is leading to increased interest in the spatial and temporal variability of CO<sub>2</sub> release from arctic tundra during winter. The purpose of this research was to quantify early and late winter CO<sub>2</sub> efflux along a 200-km transect of the Kuparuk River drainage in northern Alaska, from the foothills of the Brooks Range to Prudhoe Bay. Measurements were made in November 1996 and April 1997 at 25 sites which encompassed four broad tundra types, including upland tussock tundra, water tracks, tall willow riparian, and coastal plain tundra. Carbon dioxide concentrations within the snowpack were measured using a portable infrared gas analyzer, and conservative CO<sub>2</sub> efflux estimates were calculated using a steady-state diffusion model. Mean CO<sub>2</sub> efflux in November was 204, 314, 359, and 527 mg CO<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup> for tall willow riparian, upland tussock, coastal plain, and water track tundra, respectively, while in April means were 70, 82, 96, and 203 mg CO<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>. Snow depth and temperature exhibited no direct relationship with CO<sub>2</sub> loss, suggesting that winter CO<sub>2</sub> efflux from arctic tundra is controlled by additional mechanisms. Our measurements are the most spatially extensive yet made in arctic tundra.
20181848|This study tested the hypothesis that the thickness of the pollen wall will increase in response to enhanced UV-B irradiation, by examining the effect of enhanced UV-B irradiance on the pollen morphology of Salix polaris Wahlem. grown in a field experiment on the Arctic tundra of Svalbard. Measurements of pollen morphology were conducted by light microscopy on plants grown at two sites, Adventdalen and Isdammen. Salix vegetation was grown under control, enhanced UV-A, and two enhanced UV-B (simulating 15 and 30% reduction in the thickness of the stratospheric ozone layer) treatments. At the Adventdalen site, pollen wall thickness significantly increased under enhanced UV-A and UV-B treatments compared with the control. A thicker pollen wall helps to prevent damage by UV-B radiation of the DNA of the pollen. In contrast, plants at the Isdammen site did not exhibit any significant pollen morphological response to the enhanced UV treatments. The inconsistency in plant response to enhanced UV treatments between the two sites may be explained by greater habitat heterogeneity at the Isdammen site; abiotic soil conditions including nutrient and water availability may also have an influence on pollen morphology.
25642088|Space-borne remotely sensed data can provide valuable insight into cryospheric processes in remote high-latitude regions for which direct observations are limited. In this study we use synthetic aperture radar (SAR) and Landsat imagery to evaluate recent changes in the ice cover of Upper and Lower Murray Lakes (8120N, 6930W) on Ellesmere Island, Nunavut, Canada. These data highlight changes in ice conditions that have occurred over the past decade and provide a means for assessing the likely impacts of rising temperatures on future lake-ice conditions. Under current (19972007) climatic conditions the Murray Lakes average several weeks of ice-free conditions in August and early September, although in some years a partial ice cover persists throughout the year. The observed relationship between summer temperature and ice melt at Upper and Lower Murray Lakes suggests that recent warming in the High Arctic has forced the lakes near a threshold from a state characterized by perennial ice cover to the current state that includes seasonal melting of lake ice. Projected future warming will significantly increase the duration of ice free conditions on Upper and Lower Murray Lakes, with ice-out predicted to occur 13.5  4.0 and 17.6  5.6 days earlier, respectively, for every 1 C increase in mean JuneJuly temperature.
24551710|Antarctic studies have indicated that during summer, ice-free areas experience greater temperatures than those along the glacial boundaries. This allows for the availability of liquid water and thus influences the biogeochemical processes of Antarctic terrestrial ecosystems. In this study we explore whether the patterns of soil phosphorus cycling differ between the glacial boundary and ice-free areas. To do so, we chose two sites on the Fildes Peninsula in Antarctica, one at the boundary of the Collins Glacier and another within an ice-free area close to Lake Uruguay. In each location, we determined soil phosphorus distribution, iron and aluminum fractions, soil mineralogy, alkaline phosphatase activity, and fluorescein diacetate hydrolysis. The results showed that soils of the ice-free area had a greater content of phosphorus sorbed on iron/aluminum oxyhydroxides and occluded forms. An opposite pattern was obtained for the calcium-bound phosphorus pool. Accordingly, soil samples from the ice-free area showed the greatest levels of iron/aluminum oxyhydroxides and the presence of secondary minerals such as hematite and the intergrade chlorite-vermiculite-montmorillonite. Alkaline phosphatase activity and the fluorescein diacetate hydrolysis were also favored at the ice-free area. The overall results suggest that the less extreme microclimatic conditions and the presence of liquid water in the ice-free area promote the biogeochemical cycling of soil phosphorus. In a context of climate warming this study may contribute to the comprehension of how the expansion of the ice-free areas due to glacial retreat influences biogeochemical cycling of essential nutrients in the Antarctic Peninsula.
24551624|Snow particle size is an important parameter strongly affecting snow cover broadband albedo from seasonally snow covered areas and ice sheets. It is also important in remote sensing analyses because it influences the reflectance and scattering properties of the snow. We have developed a digital image processing method for the capture and analysis of data of snow particle size and shape. The method is suitable for quick and reliable data capture in the field. Traditional methods based on visual inspection of samples have been used but do not yield quantitative data. Our method provides an alternative to both simpler and more complex methods by providing a tool that limits the subjective effect of the visual analysis and provides a quantitative particle size distribution. The method involves image analysis software and field efficient instrumentation in order to develop a complete process-chain easily implemented under field conditions. The output from the analysis is a two-dimensional analysis of particle size, shape, and distributions for each sample. The results of the segmentation process were validated against manual delineation of snow particles. The developed method improves snow particle analysis because it is quantitative, reproducible, and applicable for different types of field sites.
10.2307/1552608|Foliar nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) concentrations, leaf mass per unit area (LMA), and leaf gas exchange were measured in seven populations of Frasera speciosa along a 1700 m gradient, to assess whether altitudinal variation in net photosynthesis rates was related to foliar N and P concentrations, LMA, and stomatal conductance. A secondary goal was to evaluate whether altitudinal trends in foliar chemistry were independent of phenology of the plants. Leaf N and P concentrations per unit mass changed seasonally in all populations, but increased with altitude throughout the growing season. Leaf mass per unit area decreased with increasing altitude, unlike most other studies which have found LMA to increase with altitude. As a result foliar N per unit area of leaf did not change with increasing altitude. Net photosynthesis rates and stomatal conductance did not change with increasing altitude. Transpiration rates increased, while water-use efficiency and the mole fraction of intercellular CO<sub>2</sub> decreased with increasing altitude. The change in LMA was the predominant response to increasing altitude in populations of Frasera, and assuming the decrease in CO<sub>2</sub> partial pressure with increasing altitude imposes a constraint on photosynthesis, increased internal conductance and/or increased photosynthetic capacity may have resulted in maintenance of similar field photosynthesis rates among populations.
4095866|Two large suspended sediment concentration (SSC) pulses were recorded in 1998 in a small snowmelt-fed stream on Ellesmere Island in the Canadian High Arctic. The largest pulse occurred from 7 to 8 July, when 32% of the monitored seasonal sediment transport occurred in only four hours. SSC reached
20181775|Natural snow avalanches have periodically damaged infrastructure and disrupted railroad and highway traffic at the southwestern corner of Glacier National Park, Montana. The 94-year history of these disruptions constitutes an uncommon record of natural avalanches spanning over nine decades and presents a unique opportunity to examine how natural avalanche frequency and minimum extent have varied over time due to climatic or biophysical changes. This study compared the historic record of natural avalanches in one avalanche path with tree-ring evidence of avalanches from 109 cross sections and increment cores collected in the same path. Results from combined historic and tree-ring records yielded 27 avalanche years in the 1910-2003 chronology, with the historic record alone underestimating avalanche years by half. Mean return period was 3.2 years. Interpolated maps allowed for more spatially precise estimates of return periods throughout the runout zone than previous studies. The maps show return periods increase rapidly downslope from 2.3 to 25 years. Avalanche years were associated with positive Snow Water Equivalent anomalies at a nearby snow course. Minimum avalanche extent was highly variable but not associated with snowpack anomalies. Most avalanche years coincided with years in which the mean January-February Pacific Decadal Oscillation (PDO) and El Nio-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) 3.4 indices were neutral. The findings suggest that changes in Pacific climate patterns that influence snowfall could also alter the frequency of natural snow avalanches and could thus change disturbance patterns in the montane forests of the canyon.
1552641|The study focuses on vegetation changes in the Nordic mountain birch forest in northern Norway, covering a period of more than 40 yr. The study area comprises the municipalities of Kautokeino and Karasjok on Finnmarkskvidda; it is predominantly covered by lichen and dwarf shrub vegetation. Sizes of various vegetation classes were estimated by the use of remote-sensing techniques and ground surveys. A significant change in vegetation cover during the study period was registered in the whole study area. Vegetation types dominated by bilberry (Vaccinium myrtillus), wavy hair-grass (Deschampsia fleuxuosa), the dwarf cornel (Cornus suecica), and mosses have tripled in abundance compared to 40 yr ago. In contrast, lichen-dominated heaths and woodland (forests), preferred by the reindeer stocks intensively utilizing these areas of Finnmarksvidda, have decreased by approximately 80% in abundance during the same period. Correspondingly, there has been a significant increase in the extent of birch forests especially in Kautokeino (90% increase). The reason for the steep decline in lichen-dominated areas appears to be a direct consequence of the intensive grazing by the increasing reindeer population in the period 1961-1987, but climate change (increased precipitation), caterpillar attacks, and long-transported air pollution (e.g., nitrogen) may also have accentuated the increase of forests and other vegetation types.
4095883| A combination of empirical modeling and a diatom-based transfer function was developed to reconstruct air temperature and ice-cover duration through the study of lake sediments. By using a thermal degree-day modeling approach, ice-cover duration on European mountain and sub-Arctic lakes is found to be very sensitive to temperature change. For example, our model, which incorporates a weather generator, predicts a 100-day shortening in ice-cover duration for a 3C temperature rise for catchments at elevations of 1500 m in the Southern Alps and the Pyrenees. For the more maritime lakes of Scotland, 30% higher sensitivities (130 d per 3C) are found, whereas lakes in northwest Finland, in a more continental setting, have only half the sensitivity (50 d per 3C). A pan-European data set of the species abundance of 252 diatom taxa in 459 mountain and sub-Arctic lakes has been compiled and taxonomically harmonized. Transfer functions were created that relate both seasonal air temperature and ice-cover duration to diatom species composition on the basis of a weighted averaging-partial least squares (WA-PLS) approach. Cross validation was used to test the transfer functions. For ice-cover duration the pan-European data set yields an R-squared value of 0.73, a jack-knifed R-squared value of 0.58, and a residual-mean-square error of prediction (RMSEP) of 23 days. A regional, northern Fennoscandian transect (151 lakes, 122 taxa) yields a jack-knifed R-squared value of 0.50 and an RMSEP of 9 days. For air temperature the pan-European database displayed greatest skill when reconstructing winter or spring temperatures. This result contrasts with the summer temperatures normally studied when using local elevation gradients. The northern Fennoscandian transect has a remarkably low winter RMSEP of 0.73C. 
10.2307/1552252|A ring-width and light-ring chronology was built from timberline spruce [Picea abies (L.) Karst.] in the eastern Alps in Austria. Comparison of the chronology spanning the period from 1750 to 1997 with a long-term temperature record revealed a close relationship between September and October temperatures and light-ring occurrence. Tracheidogram analysis of radial tracheid diameter and cell-wall thickness of light rings formed in 1912 compared with a reference year confirmed the influence of temperatures of this period on light-ring formation. It is concluded that light rings in timberline spruce are pointers for abnormally low temperatures during the last part of the growing season.
10.2307/1552529|Thermokarst is developing in the boreal forests of Alaska where ice-rich discontinuous permafrost is thawing. Thawing destroys the physical foundation (ice-rich soil) on which boreal forest ecosystems rest causing dramatic changes in the ecosystem. Impacts on the forest depend primarily on the type and amount of ice present in the permafrost and on drainage conditions. At sites generally underlain by ice-rich permafrost, forest ecosystems can be completely destroyed. In the Mentasta Pass area, wet sedge meadows, bogs, thermokarst ponds, and lakes are replacing forests. An upland thermokarst site on the University of Alaska Campus consists of polygonal patterns of troughs and pits caused by thawing ice-wedge polygons. Trees are destroyed in corresponding patterns. In the Tanana Flats, ice-rich permafrost supporting birch forests is thawing rapidly and the forests are being converted to minerotrophic floating mat fens. At this site, an estimated 83% of 2.6<sup>* </sup>10<sup>5</sup> ha was underlain by permafrost a century or more ago. About 42% of this permafrost has been influenced by thermokarst development within the last 1 to 2 centuries. Thaw subsidence at the above sites is typically 1 to 2 m with some values up to 6 m. Much of the discontinuous permafrost in Alaska is extremely warm, usually within 1 or 2C of thawing, and highly susceptible to thermal degradation. Additional warming will result in the formation of new thermokarst.
10.2307/1552275| Major deglaciation on Spitsbergen has occurred as a result of climate warming since the beginning of the 20th century following the end of the Little Ice Age. The areal extent of glaciers has decreased by ca. 18% in Srkappland between 1936 and 1991, and by ca. 44% in the Lindstrmfjellet-Hberget-Hbergnuten ridge region, a mountainous massif of Nordenskildland, between 1936 and 1995. Recession of glaciers has been accompanied by a decrease in thickness up to 50 m for almost all glaciers since 1936. The equilibrium-line altitude has risen by 100 to 200 m in Srkappland and by at least 150 m in central Nordenskildland. Deglaciation in central Nordenskildland is more than twice that in Srkappland during the 20th century, which suggests that central Spitsbergen is more sensitive to global warming than is southern Spitsbergen. Spitsbergen's proximity to maritime air masses is probably a more important control for rate of glacial recession than is elevation above sea level or high latitude. 
4095830| A large, late-melting snowbed and famous landmark was analyzed on a south-facing slope in the Giant (Krkonose/Karkonosze) Mountains, the High Sudetes, Czech Republic. So far, only its maximum snow depth, reportedly between 4 and 20 m, had been merely estimated. Wire probes can be reliably used up to snow depths of 3 m only. To get more realistic data, two digital models using kinematic carrier phase-based GPS measurements were developed: (1) a model for snow surface data, applied at the end of five winter seasons from 2000 to 2004, and (2) a model for the underlying snow free ground surface, applied after the snow melt in August 2000. These two models, overlaid in the GIS environment, have identified snow depths for each of the 111 phytosociological relevs in plots 2 m x 2 m in size. The snow depth maxima recorded in the above given winter seasons were 15.7, 6.1, 13.4, 7.6, and 14.2 m, respectively. To determine the effect of the obtained variables on the vegetation pattern, the relevant snowpack thickness together with snow melting rate, position of the relev, amount of soil skeleton, depth of litter horizon, and depth of the soil profile were used as environmental variables in the Canonical Correspondence Analysis (CCA), which explained 23.1% of the species data variability. The most powerful environmental variables were soil parameters. The vegetation cover significantly decreased as a function of the snow depth. The tiny forb Gnaphalium supinum and the grasses Avenella flexuosa, Deschampsia cespitosa, and Nardus stricta appeared to be the most tolerant species surviving under the deep snow layer and possessing a short vegetation season. Comparison with an earlier study suggested a stabilized pattern of the snow-patch vegetation even after about 50 years. 
40305830|Sediment deposited from turbid meltwater from Hubbard Glacier dominates the benthic environment in Disenchantment Bay, a glacial fjord in southern Alaska. Sedimentation rates during the meltwater season average 22 cm yr at a station 12 km from the glacier. Samples were collected for foraminiferal analyses from multicores and a piston core. Samples from multicores show annual trends in abundance of Elphidium spp. and Textularia earlandi. Lithofacies consist of couplets of laminated mud deposited by meltwater discharge in summer and diamicton beds deposited as ice-rafted debris during winter. Within mud layers, counts of Elphidium spp. and T. earlandi increase upcore until the winter diamicton layer, where they are absent to rare. Evidence for this variation in abundance can be seen at depth in the piston core. High C:N ratios (3090) indicate that carbon flux is from refractory, terrestrial sources rather than labile organic matter. We hypothesize that the pattern of seasonal variation is related to vertical migration of foraminifera toward a preferred sediment depth, then death following reproduction in late summer. Episodic events reduce total abundance, impacting the intra-annual pattern. The high resolution record from an Alaskan glacial fjord can be used to better understand in situ foraminiferal ecology.
20181710|The relative importance of major hydrological processes on thaw season 2003 lakewater balances in the Slave River Delta, NWT, Canada, is characterized using water isotope tracers and total suspended sediment (TSS) analyses. A suite of 41 lakes from three previously recognized biogeographical zones--outer delta, mid-delta, and apex--were sampled immediately following the spring melt, during summer, and in the fall of 2003. Oxygen and hydrogen isotope compositions were evaluated in the context of an isotopic framework calculated from 2003 hydroclimatic data. Our analysis reveals that flooding from the Slave River and Great Slave Lake dominated early spring lakewater balances in outer and most mid-delta lakes, as also indicated by elevated TSS concentrations (&gt;0.01 g L). In contrast, the input of snowmelt was strongest on all apex and some mid-delta lakes. After the spring melt, all delta lakes underwent heavy-isotope enrichment due to evaporation, although lakes flooded by the Slave River and Great Slave Lake during the spring freshet continued to be more depleted isotopically than those dominated by snowmelt input. The isotopic signatures of lakes with direct connections to the Slave River or Great Slave Lake varied throughout the season in response to the nature of the connection. Our findings provide the basis for identifying three groups of lakes based on the major factors that control their water balances: (1) flood-dominated (n = 10), (2) evaporation-dominated (n = 25), and (3) exchange-dominated (n = 6) lakes. Differentiation of the hydrological processes that influence Slave River Delta lakewater balances is essential for ongoing hydroecological and paleohydrological studies, and ultimately, for teasing apart the relative influences of variations in local climate and Slave River hydrology.
40962396|Rapid climate change in arctic environments is leading to a widespread expansion in woody deciduous shrub populations. However, little is known about the reproductive, dispersal, and establishment mechanisms associated with shrub expansion. It is assumed that harsh environmental conditions impose limitations on plant sexual reproduction in the Arctic, such that population survival and expansion is predominately a function of clonal recruitment. We present contrary evidence from microsatellite genetic data suggesting the prevalence of recruitment by seed. Further, we present a conceptual model describing modes of recruitment in relation to the abiotic environment. Climate change may be alleviating abiotic stress so that resources are available for more frequent recruitment by seed. Such changes have widespread implications for ecosystem structure and functioning, including species composition, wildlife habitat, biogeochemical cycling, and surface energy balance.
4095870|A pollination network of 26 pollinator species interacting with 17 plant species from the small Greenlandic island Uummannaq was analyzed for multiple parameters values. Of the insects collected, 77% of all individuals and 77% of all species belonged to Diptera. The ratio of pollinators to plant species was 1.5, which is lower than in other Arctic pollination networks. This might be a double-island effect as Uummannaq is a small island next to Greenland. Connectance was 14.3%, and linkage level of pollinator and plant species averaged 2.4 and 3.7 species links, respectively. The characteristic path length and average clustering coefficient of the 1-mode networks were 1.4 and 0.83, respectively, for the pollinator species and 1.3 and 0.79, respectively, for the plant species. For both pollinator species and plant species, the tail of the degree distribution had the best fit to an exponential model, indicating that the most connected species was constrained in their linking. However, the extremely short path length and high clustering indicated that the networks had small-world behavior, meaning that any disturbance is spread very fast to the entire network and that the networks are error tolerant but vulnerable to attack on the most linked species.
4095934|Specimens of the Arctic sympagic amphipod Gammarus wilkitzkii, which were collected in the ice-covered areas near Spitsbergen, Norway, were infested with protozoan epibionts in densities of 499 to 3346 individuals per amphipod. The epibionts belong to the five ciliate genera: Ephelota, Cryptacineta, Acineta and Podophrya (suctorian ciliates), and Epistylis (peritrich ciliate). In this study we present the first observations of epibionts on ice-associated crustaceans and provide a detailed description of morphological and taxonomical aspects of the different ciliate genera. Cryptacineta has not been found earlier in the marine environment. This ciliate showed the highest density values (215-2571 individuals per amphipod), followed by Ephelota (2-1302 ind./amphipod). The number of individuals of Acineta, Podophrya, and Epistylis did not surpass 240 ind./amphipod. Epibionts colonized all appendages and the entire body surface, but were most numerous on the anterior body part of G. wilkitzkii. The body length of the gammarid and the number of epibionts of Ephelota, Podophrya, and Epistylis were positively correlated. The highest density of epibionts was found on the anterior body parts with the antennae bearing up to 613 individuals. In contrast, the posterior body showed only little burden. The number of epibionts along the caput-telson axis of the amphipod body shows a decrease towards the posterior end of the amphipod. The highest degree of infestation was found on females, followed by juveniles and eventually, males. When grouping the 37 anatomical units (including left and right appendages) to 8 body "regions," the pereiopods, as a whole, showed the highest density (39.25%), followed by the gnathopods (22.29%), and antennulae and antennae. Basibiont got infested with the sessile ciliates in the benthic and pelagic environment during the ice-free season and carried them along back to the sympagic ecosystem when colonizing the newly formed ice. Epibionts are therefore considered as indicators for bentho-sympagic coupling processes.
20181781|We analyzed lichen species composition and biomass in 815 plots on 163 sites across wild reindeer regions in Norway, ranging from ranges with a long history of very low grazing pressure to heavily grazed sites. Reindeer density (1974-2000) and lichen biomass were well correlated for sites with comparable snow cover, altitude and terrain (R = 0.81, P = 0.006, n = 12). Absence of grazing for potentially several centuries has virtually resulted in a monoculture consisting of Cladina stellaris, Flavocetraria nivalis, and Alectoria ochroleuca (Syn. Bryocaulon ochroleuca). Light grazing in terms of 20 to 30% removal of initial lichen cover easily eroded Cladina stellaris from exposed ridges by cratering and trampling by reindeer through the snow, while Flavocetraria nivalis persisted longer. This decline in lichen cover observed along a historic grazing gradient further resulted in increasing cover of bare ground, but less than expected from lichen removal due to gradual colonization of other species, such as mosses (incl. Polytrichum piliferum), crustose and fruticose lichens, dwarf shrubs (Arctostaphylos spp., Empetrum nigrum, Loiseleuria procumbens), and graminoids, particularly rushes (Juncus trifidus). Moderate grazing may thus increase plant diversity on ridges compared to ungrazed lands, and hence strongly influence gradients in biomass, composition and abundance of ridge communities across the landscape.
4095852|Low temperatures, short growing seasons, and strong winds, which constrain the abundance and activity of insect pollinators, characterize alpine ecosystems. In northern hemisphere alpine environments, the reproductive output of several insect-pollinated plants has been reported to be pollen-limited. Using a supplemental hand-pollination experiment, we assessed the magnitude of pollen limitation (PL) in the obligate outcrossing insect-pollinated shrub Chuquiraga oppositifolia in the lower alpine scrub vegetation belt in the central Chilean Andes. We also assessed spatial variation in its reproductive success by comparing seed production among three additional sites. Hand-pollination resulted in a two- to three-fold increase in seed output above natural levels, thus demonstrating PL in this species. Nevertheless, percentage seed output remained low, increasing from 2.0 to 5.7%. Seed weight was reduced by 15% in hand-pollinated plants. Seed output was also low in the three additional sites, but did not differ among them, suggesting that low seed output is a spatially widespread phenomenon in this species. Our results, together with previous research, suggest that both pollinator visitation and abiotic resources (soil nutrients) constrain the reproductive output of this shrub. Longer-term research should unravel potential future vegetative and reproductive costs of current-year enhanced reproductive output and determine if PL is a recurrent phenomenon in the Chilean Andes.
23252817|The aim of this research was to determine how changes in soil moisture and temperature influence ecosystem C fluxes in the context of changing grazing regimes in subalpine grasslands in the Pyrenees. We (i) measured CO 2 fluxes in the field in cattle- and sheep-grazed areas, and (ii) compared responses of CO 2 and CH 4 fluxes from soil turf samples from cattle- and sheep-grazed areas to changes in soil temperature and moisture. The cattle-grazed area showed greater ecosystem respiration and gross ecosystem photosynthesis than the sheep-grazed areas. With respect to the temperature and moisture treatments, the two areas responded in a similar way: Soil moisture was the strongest driver of soil respiration rates; although temperature also increased CO 2 effluxes from the soils, the effects were transient. The greatest effluxes of CO 2 were found in soils incubated at elevated temperature and 80% soil moisture content. Methane fluxes were only influenced by the moisture treatment, with the greatest methane oxidation rates found at 40% soil moisture content. We conclude that regional changes in moisture availability resulting from climate change are likely to be the most important driver of soil respiration and methane fluxes in these grazed subalpine ecosystems.
10.2307/1552530|We have reconstructed from tree-rings the dynamics of mineral frost mounds on the floodplain of a subarctic river (Rivire Boniface, northern Qubec) likely associated with snow precipitation and temperature changes during the past centuries. Due to their peculiar location in the river bed, we have postulated that the inception and decay of frost mounds (thermokarst ponds) were associated with snow-controlled water levels of the river. The periods of establishment, growth, and mortality of spruce around and in two thermokarst ponds on the shore zone were identified. The oldest tree-ring dates show that permafrost mounds formed during a period of water lowering in the 17th century, likely in a long-enduring sequence of low waters initiated around cal AD 1150 (910 yr BP), which persisted for at least 200 yr until the beginning of the 20th century. Two main periods of spruce mortality were identified, in the late 19th century and early 20th century and in the 1950s-1960s, which corresponded to a rising river level probably due to greater snow precipitation. The patterns of spruce establishment and mortality were strikingly similar in the studied sites. The first spruce to establish were all located along the pond's edges and they were also the first ones to die; most of the youngest spruce established later in the central part of each feature, i.e., in the early to mid-1850s to 1910, and died during the 1950s-1960s. The sequence of events reported here suggests an important lowering of the Rivire Boniface during the first part of the Little Ice Age (end of the 16th century-17th century) which was drier and cold. During the second part of the Little Ice Age (mainly 19th century), greater precipitation occurred and climaxed in the 20th century when climate warmed and the river stage reached its maximum level. Changes in snow precipitation were probably more instrumental than temperature changes in the rise and fall of permafrost landforms because of the snowpack's direct influence on the soil thermal regime and river level during snowmelt.
10.2307/1552605|Using several relationships between calving velocity and physical parameters at the glacier's entry to the ocean, estimates are made of the iceberg flux from the Greenland ice sheet. The flux from each major glacier is estimated, leading to total iceberg fluxes of 170-270 Tkg yr<sup>-1</sup>. This figure is rather less than recent estimates of this flux derived from an assumption of equilibrium in the ice sheet mass balance. The iceberg flux is consistent with airborne altimeter measurements.
40305821|The Northern Patagonia Icefield (NPI), covering 3953 km, is the second largest temperate ice body in South America. Despite its importance as a climate change indicator because of its location and size, data on ground-based mass balance and meteorological records for the analysis of glacier (snout) variations are still lacking. The use of multitemporal satellite images to estimate equilibrium line altitude variations could be a surrogate for such analyses. Since late-summer snowlines of temperate glaciers coincide with the equilibrium line, we analyzed five Landsat images spanning 1979-2003 and an ASTER-derived digital elevation model to reveal oscillations in the equilibrium line altitude
1552423|A 1977 tundra fire burned a hillslope where prefire soils and vegetation ranged from poorly drained moist tussock-shrub tundra on the lower slopes to well-drained dwarf shrub tundra on the back slope and very poorly drained wet sedge meadow on the flat crest. We sampled the vegetation on this slope before the fire and at 8 sites following the fire at irregular intervals from 1 yr to 25 yr. During the first decade after the fire, shortterm recovery was dominated by bryophytes, sedges, and grasses from both regrowing sedge tussocks and seedlings. However, during the second and third decade, and by 24 yr after the fire, evergreen (Ledum palustre) and deciduous shrubs (mainly Salix pulchra willow) expanded dramatically so that shrub cover was generally higher than before the fire. Labrador tea has increased by vegetative means on the poorly drained lowest 3 tussock-shrub tundra sites. Upslope on the better-drained and more severely burned tussock-shrub and dwarf shrub tundra sites, willows became established from seed mainly during the first 10 yr after the fire and, based on their relatively large size (0.5-1 m tall) and cover, have grown rapidly during the past 15 to 20 yr. There has been very little or no recovery of Sphagnum moss and fruticose lichens after 24 yr at any site, except for Sphagnum moss in the wet meadow site. The permafrost active layer thickness has diminished to prefire levels at the lower slope tussock-shrub tundra sites but is much greater or degraded completely on the steeper slope, corresponding with the distribution of willow shrub colonization. These changes in tundra vegetation and permafrost following fire suggest that such fires could accelerate the predicted effects of climate warming on ecosystems in the Arctic.
10.2307/1552512| We surveyed three samples of alpine glacier cryoconite for heterotrophic microbial life. All samples contained bacteria, yeasts, and hyphomycetes. Aerobic heterotrophic bacteria were more numerous than the other two groups and were isolated at all four cultivation temperatures (2C, 20C, 37C, 55C). Significantly lower numbers of bacteria were able to grow at 2C than at 20C, while the opposite pattern was observed for yeasts. The majority of 66 selected bacterial isolates, able to grow at 2C, were Gram-negative and could be assigned to two genera (Pseudomonas and Sphingomonas). Among 17 yeast strains, we found three genera (Cryptococcus, Candida, and Rhodotorula). A considerable proportion of microorganisms utilized casein, carboxymethylcellulose (CMC), lignosulfonic acid, starch, tributyrin, or diesel oil at 2C. Significantly fewer microorganisms were able to grow on microcrystalline cellulose or keratin, or on aromatic hydrocarbons (naphthalene, phenanthrene, anthracene, or 4-chlorobiphenyl). The utilization of various carbon sources (CMC, starch, tributyrin, and diesel oil) by 14 selected yeast strains was inhibited at cultivation temperatures above 15C. 
4095935|The 154-year (1850-2004) chronosequence of the Forni Glacier foreland has been studied by sampling ant, centipede, ground beetle, and spider species assemblages. Species numbers increase with terrain age along the chronosequence from 2 to 26 on the oldest soils. Thirty-nine species were collected; species richness and diversity (Shannon's Index) of communities are correlated to the year of soil deglaciation. Shannon Index values increase with sites deglaciated between 1 and 61 years ago; sites deglaciated between 61 and 78 years ago produce similar values, and those deglaciated 78 to 154 years ago show a further increase in diversity. Ground beetles and spiders are found at all sites, while ants and centipedes were associated with mature forest soils. On the glacier surface, pioneer species such as the wolf-spider Pardosa saturatior and the ground beetle Oreonebria castanea permanently inhabit the supraglacial detritus surviving on trophic resources. Wingless ground beetle species are associated with mature soils, especially those with high hydric stability. Open land species typical of primary succession are found in the pioneer and intermediate stages, while community assemblages found on older terrain are linked to forest vegetation structure and dynamics.
10.2307/1552396| This process-geomorphological study analyzes the present sediment budget in a subarctic oceanic periglacial environment in East Iceland. By a combined investigation of slope denudation and streamwork in the Austdalur drainage basin (23 km<sup>2</sup>), located in the mountains of the Icelandic Eastern Fjords (Austfirir), information on the intensity of the present geomorphological processes, the relative importance of the different processes for slope and valley formation, and recent trends of relief development is presented. In annual mass transfer (t m yr<sup>-1</sup>), the fluvial sediment transport in the main channels clearly dominates over slope processes. The fluvial transport of solids is more important than the fluvial transport of dissolved salts. The most important slope process with the highest annual mass transfer is aquatic slope denudation (slope and rill wash), followed by geochemical denudation, ground avalanches, rock- and boulder falls, creep, debris slides and flows, and deflation. By the retreat of rock walls and rock ledges and the continued formation of talus cones located below the rock walls and rock ledges, slope processes cause gradual elimination of knickpoints in the slope long profiles and valley widening. The main channels incise into the bedrock of the trough valley floors. There is only a fluvial mass transfer from the slope systems into the main channels in small tributaries. The incision of the tributaries does not keep up with the incision of the main channels. At present the slope systems and the main channel systems are largely decoupled. Postglacial modification of the glacial relief is minor. Because of the short time since the deglaciation (10,000-12,000 yr), the high resistance of the Miocene and Pliocene plateau basalt layers in the area, and the low intensity of the operating periglacial processes, there has been no adjustment of the larger Pleistocene glacial landforms to the geomorphological processes active in the present periglacial morphoclimate. 
25642099|The functioning of ecosystems is strongly correlated to soil temperature dynamics. Because only a few studies so far have investigated the spatio-temporal variability of alpine soil temperatures, we proceeded to analyze soil temperatures in a heterogeneous alpine landscape by means of a multi-scale approach. We combined vertical soil temperature gradients from surface to 15 cm depth, microspatial variability within small catchments, and altitudinal changes of a continental mountain system. We analyzed differences at single sites and at multiple spatial scales. We found that microtopographic site conditions dominated thermal changes along altitudinal gradients. The adiabatic lapse rate did not show high correlations with local soil temperature gradients. We used isopleth diagrams of soil temperature gradients and corresponding scatterplots of soil temperature gradients between each pair of sites and low alpinemiddle alpine mountain couples to quantify these overlying phenomena. This enabled us to quantify the significance of soil temperature gradients across vertical soil profiles, topography, and altitude in order to facilitate future microclimate extrapolation and modeling in high mountain (alpine) landscapes. Such procedures are crucial for describing expected responses of alpine ecosystems to global climatic change.
20181826|The two native Antarctic vascular plant species, Colobanthus quitensis and Deschampsia antarctica, were sampled from 15 points along a 1480 km latitudinal transect from South Georgia (54S, 36W) through to the Lonie Islands on the western Antarctic Peninsula (67S, 68W). Roots of plants were cleared and stained and fungal structures recorded. The commonest type of fungal association was that formed by dark septate endophytes (DSE): 32% and 27% of the root lengths of C. quitensis and D. antarctica were colonized by hyphae of these fungi, respectively. Hyaline and stained septate hyphae were also common in roots. Coarse and fine arbuscular mycorrhiza (AM) occurred in the roots of both plant species from South Georgia, and fine AM colonization with occasional arbuscules was also sporadically recorded in roots from the South Shetland Islands, suggesting functional associations between higher plants and AM symbionts. Fungal abundances were not associated with soil chemistry, but AM abundance was associated with seasonal surface air temperature, with lower colonization in more southerly, colder habitats. We conclude that DSE are widespread, and that AM fungi are sparse but present and decline in abundance at higher latitudes, in the roots of C. quitensis and D. antarctica.
10.2307/1552277| The Kangerlussuaq margin is well furrowed by icebergs. The margin favors furrow preservation since sedimentation on the continental shelf is low, at least since the last (Flakkerhuk) glaciation and because shelf depths are well below wave base. While furrows are common in the Kangerlussuaq region, the icebergs that created the larger furrows are mostly absent. "Fresh" iceberg furrows are observed only on the bathymetric highs surrounding the 750-m-deep Kangerlussuaq Trough. Bathymetric barriers around the trough prevent icebergs with deep keels from entering the trough. Enormous and weathered (older) furrows are located inside the protected trough, apparently formed at paleocalving ice sheet termini, when the Greenland Ice Sheet extended onto the shelf. In the deeper sections of Kangerlussuaq Trough, Holocene mud is presently burying these older iceberg furrows. Paleocalving ice sheet margins, possibly from Iceland, account for muted furrows found on the upper continental slope of East Greenland. No sediment has been deposited over these hardground sites since 14,750  720 BP. 
41240395|In this first systematic classification of the snowpack in central Svalbard a new additional snow climate is presented. Based on field observations in the 2007-2009 period, 109 snow pits were quantitatively analyzed in terms of temperature gradients, grain shapes, grain sizes, and hardness of every snow layer. Emphasis was given to the occurrence of depth hoar, ice layers, the most observed weak layer-bed surface interfaces. These parameters in combination with meteorological observations define the "High Arctic maritime snow climate" as having a very thin and cold snowpack, a basal layer of depth hoar with winds labs and ice layers on top. The snowpack lasts for 8-10 months of the year, at higher grounds for the whole year. Snow climate classifications are an important part of improving the local avalanche characterization. This is timely, especially for the area around Svalbard's main settlement Longyearbyen, where avalanches represent a natural hazard. Also, climate models for the area predict changing meteorological conditions, especially more solid precipitation, thus a description of the snow climate as it is today is important. This "High Arctic maritime snow climate" characterization is based on the 16.8 km mountainous area around Longyearbyen at 78N, and does not fit any other High Arctic location. Svalbard has in comparison to other High Arctic locations milder climate due to an overall meteorological maritime influence.
1552345| We assessed the impact of human trampling in three different habitats on Marion Island (4650S, 3750E). The habitats were (1) mires with wet, peaty soils and grass- and bryophyte-dominated vegetation; (2) slopes with relatively dry mineral soils, dominated by small ferns and dwarf shrub; and (3) feldmark on dry mineral soils with an open vegetation of cushion dicots and bryophytes. We examined existing walking tracks on the island. Track width (25 to 800 cm) increased with soil moisture content. Trampling reduced vegetation height, total cover, and species richness in mires and feldmark and vegetation height and herb layer cover (but not bryophyte cover or species richness) in slopes. In mires, most species were negatively affected by trampling, but in slopes trampling increased the cover of 6 out of 9 significantly affected species. The total number of species in all trampled plots in mire and feldmark communities was 10% lower, but in slopes 28% higher, than in control plots. The impact of trampling differed between growth forms. Cushion dicot, shrub, and fern covers were reduced, whereas graminoid and pleurocarpous moss covers were unaffected or increased with trampling. Trampling reduced the cover of most bryophyte species, but it did increase the cover of some. In the slope habitat, destruction by trampling of the closed herb canopy allows increased light penetration and makes the habitat more favorable for small plants such as bryophytes. We attribute the differences in how the vegetation of different habitats responds to trampling to differences in the structure of the original vegetation as well as differences in soil characteristics, especially the soil's structural stability under pressure. 
10.2307/1552489| The McMurdo Valleys Mapping Project (VALMAP) contains soils data collected from 473 sites in the McMurdo Dry Valleys (7707.5-7800S; 160-164E), Antarctica. The database includes surface boulder lithology, frequency, and weathering features; observations of patterned ground, permafrost, and ground-ice forms; detailed soil profile descriptions; laboratory characterization; and classification of the soils. Each site was located on 1:50,000 topographic maps from aerial photographs and elevation measurements, digitized, and entered into an ArcInfo Geographic Information System. The sites are arrayed along an ecoclimatic gradient that includes 21 coastal sites (4.4% of total), 109 inland valley floor sites (23%), 196 inland valley side sites (41%), 136 upland valley sites (29%), and 11 plateau fringe sites (2.3% of total). Whereas ice-cemented permafrost was predominant at coastal sites and along the polar plateau, 42% of the sites had dry permafrost in the upper 1 m. Massive ice occurs to a limited extent as ice-wedge polygons, ice-cored drift, and rock glaciers. Sand-wedge casts in upland valleys attest to a recession of the ice-cemented permafrost to greater depths over time. The most strongly developed soils and weathering features are on valley floors and in upland valleys where older deposits and landforms occur. The distribution of anions in soil:water extracts is reflective of air mass movement, with most soils reflecting a coastal source. Seventy percent of the soils examined in the McMurdo Dry Valleys are classified as Anhyorthels reflecting the lack of cryoturbation in the cold desert Antarctic environment. 
23252328|The energy balance of a glacial surface can describe physical melting processes. To expand the understanding of how glaciers in arid regions respond to climate change, the energy budget in the accumulation zone of the Laohugou Glacier No. 12 was measured. Input variables were meteorological data (1 June30 September 2009) from an automatic weather station located on the accumulation zone at 5040 m above sea level (a.s.l.). Radiative fluxes directly measured, and turbulent fluxes calculated using the bulk aerodynamic approach, were involved in the surface energy budget. Net radiation flux was the primary source of the surface energy balance (72%) and was chiefly responsible for glacial melting, followed by sensible heat flux (28%). Melting energy was the main output of surface energy (48%), and was almost as large as the sum of latent heat flux (32%) and subsurface heat flux (20%). The modeled mass balance was -75 mm water equivalent, which compared well with sonic ranging sensor readings. Albedo varied between 0.52 and 0.88 on the glacial surface, and melting was prevented by high albedo. Under the assumption of neutral atmospheric conditions, turbulent fluxes were overestimated, especially the sensible heat flux by 54%; therefore, a stability correction was necessary.
1552313|Snowbanks are characteristic for many alpine areas and add considerably to the great variability of growth conditions in high mountain systems. We studied the long-term (5- to 9-yr) growth response of two alpine forbs, Pedicularis recutita and Cirsium spinosissimum, to the environmental conditions in the center and at the periphery of a snowbank in the Swiss Alps. For that we analyzed the growth increments (annual rings) in the roots or rhizomes of the plants. While for both species there were no considerable size differences (number of shoots) between individuals growing in the center of the snowbank and those at the periphery, the growth patterns differed depending on species, temporal variations in growth conditions, and growth position. There were synchronous fluctuations in the width of the annual growth increments that were more pronounced in C. spinosissimum than in P. recutita and were restricted to plants growing in the center of the snowbank. These were apparently related to interannual variations in climatic conditions. In addition, C. spinosissimum plants growing at the periphery of the snowbank showed initially wide but strongly declining growth increments whereas plants growing in the center of the snowbank showed initially narrower but relatively stable growth increments. These patterns were only weakly reflected in P. recutita. Our results suggest that effects of climatic fluctuations on plant growth can be amplified in snowbanks and that there may be favorable growth conditions initially at the periphery of the snowbank that are compensated for in the center of the snowbank, in the long run, by continuously low-competition growth conditions.
10.2307/1552239| In arctic Alaska, 15% of the total winter snowpack is contained in large drifts. Stratigraphic sections reveal that these can form during as few as five weather events during winter, while comparison of stratigraphy and weather records show that significant deposition (up to 43% of the total drift volume) can occur during a single event of short duration (<72 h). Based on three years of wind, snowfall, and snow transport records, a set of rules was developed for predicting when periods of drift growth would occur. The rules were: 10-m wind speed >5.3 m s<sup>-1</sup> for at least 3 h, wind direction within 30 of the normal to drift trap axis, and recent snowfall available for transport. When used, these rules successfully identified all drift-growth events, plus a few "extra" events that did not contribute substantially to drift growth. The extra events were invariably periods when there was sufficient wind to move snow, but insufficient snow for transport. In arctic Alaska drift size currently appears to be limited by precipitation rather than wind, leading us to speculate that an increase in precipitation could increase drift size and intensify the ecological, hydrological, and climatic impact of drifts on this arctic system. 
41240433|The distribution of alpine tundra in the Adirondack Mountains of New York was investigated through a combination of field mapping and GIS analysis. Alpine tundra vegetation covers 26.3 ha (65 acres). Tundra patches are rare below an elevation of 1350 m although significant differences exist in mean tundra elevation between summits reflecting overall summit morphology. Tundra is generally more abundant, and extends to lower elevations on windward slopes with northerly and northwesterly aspects. Tundra patches on leeward slopes are found at higher elevations and are considerably larger, reflecting increased fragmentation on windward slopes and development of snowbank communities on leeward slopes. At a regional scale, the percentage of high-elevation land covered by tundra decreases from the northwest to southeast across the study area, suggesting that mountains upwind along the prevailing winter wind vector shield downwind summits, underscoring the role of exposure in limiting the upward growth of trees. Because exposure exerts a fundamental control over patch boundaries, shifts in the balance between arboreal and non-arboreal vegetation over time could be expected if changes occur in the frequency of icing events, the severity of winter storms, temperature, cloudiness, or prevailing wind directions.
20181718|On the Beaufort Coastal Plain of northern Alaska, thaw settlement in permafrost soils occurs whenever natural or human disturbances result in an increase in the depth of seasonally thawed soil (the active layer). Knowledge of the potential magnitude of thaw settlement is important for assessing the long-term recovery of disturbed land and for developing rehabilitation plans and performance standards. To address this need, we analyzed thaw strain and thaw depth data from soil cores distributed across the central Beaufort Coastal Plain to evaluate potential thaw settlement at landscape (e.g. terrain units) and regional (e.g. ecodistricts) scales in connection with various oilfield studies during the period 1998-2003. Mean thaw strain values ranged from 1% for meander active channel deposits to 55% for delta inactive overbank deposits, and tended to be highest at 1-2 m below the ground surface. The potential thaw settlement of specific terrain units was evaluated based on thaw strain of soils and the range of changes in active layer depths typically found after disturbance. Mean estimates for potential thaw settlement for an active layer adjustment to 110 cm after disturbance varied from 0 cm in sandy soils with thick active layers associated with meander active channel and overbank deposits to 86 cm in very ice-rich silty soils with thin active layers associated with delta inactive overbank deposits. Potential thaw settlement also varied by region, with values for terrain units tending to be higher in the central Beaufort Coastal Plain (Prudhoe Bay and Kuparuk Oilfield areas) than in the western Beaufort Coastal Plain. The highest estimate for potential thaw settlement was 103 cm for delta inactive overbank deposits on the Colville Delta. The thawing of ice wedges will further contribute to thaw settlement and effect local hydrology and topography following thermokarst.
41416454|Modified environmental conditions are driving phenological changes in ecosystems around the world. Many plants have already responded to warmer temperatures by flowering earlier and sustaining longer periods of growth. Changes in other environmental factors, like precipitation and atmospheric nitrogen (N) deposition, may also influence phenology but have been less studied. Alpine plants may be good predictors of phenological response patterns because environmental changes are amplified in mountain ecosystems and extreme conditions may make alpine plants particularly sensitive to changes in limiting factors like precipitation, temperature, and N. We tested the effects of increased snowpack, temperature, and N on alpine tundra plant phenology, using snow fence, open-top warming chamber, and N fertilization treatments at the Niwot Ridge Long Term Ecological Research (LTER) site. Flowering phenology of three abundant species was recorded during two growing seasons. Treatment responses varied among species and functional types. Forbs responded to warming by flowering earlier and responded to snowpack and N by flowering later; however, when both snow and N were increased simultaneously, phenology was unchanged. Graminoids flowered earlier in response to N addition. Our results demonstrate that changing environmental conditions influence plant phenology, and specifically highlight that N and multiple factor interactions can yield stronger responses than warming alone.
1552167| Knowledge of spatial and altitudinal variations in precipitation in high mountains is integral to quantifying alpine climates and to calibrating interactions between climate and surface processes. To date, however, few meteorological networks exist in alpine settings. A network of 14 meteorological stations was installed across the Annapurna Range in central Nepal in 1999 and expanded in subsequent years to 19 stations. In order to measure snow depths and water equivalents in high-altitude sites, a combination of look-down distance rangers and gamma-ray loggers was installed at 5 sites. The data from this network delineate a strong south-to-north gradient in monsoonal precipitation. Precipitation peaks at 5032 mm yr<sup>-1</sup> at about 3000 m altitude on the southern side, which is also approximately the lowest altitude of winter snow in the area. Annual precipitation decreases to 1100 mm yr<sup>-1</sup> in the rain shadow to the north of the Himalayan crest. Although snow depth and snow water equivalent content are strongly dependent on station altitude, snow depth shows little spatial variation at a given altitude, partly due to the surprisingly low local wind speeds. Based on extrapolation of mean monthly summer lapse rate of air temperature, only snow precipitates above 5883 m. 
20181840|Rock outcrops cover large areas of alpine headwaters and are entrenched by chutes and couloirs, which are controlled by faults in bedrock. These widespread landforms play an important role in delivering sediment to lower basin slopes. High-resolution topographical data from LiDAR surveys allow investigation of morphometric characteristics and sediment transport processes in these features. Using aerial photo interpretation, field surveys, and topographic analyses of LiDAR data, this paper quantifies the morphological characteristics of rocky couloirs and their drainage basins, and the relationship between these features and the structural setting, in a study area in the Dolomites (northeastern Italy). Rock basins are characterized by small sizes (surface area &lt; 0.066 km) and high average basin slopes (up to 2.1 m m). The analysis of contributing area and local slope outlines the difference between these rock basins, and even smaller and steeper rock faces entrenched by very shallow chutes, which were defined as interbasin areas. We consider rocky couloirs and rock basins in the headwaters of the Dolomites to be part of the channel network, since channeled flow occurs in the couloirs during storms. High-intensity rainstorms trigger debris flows as evidenced from local scouring, especially in the lower parts of the couloirs. The longitudinal profiles of the couloirs are overall linear, but the high-resolution data display distinct high-slope and low-slope stretches forming steps, that may function as localized sources and sinks for debris flows. The cross-sectional widths of the couloirs do not appear related to upslope area; this may be due to both structural control on cross-sectional geometry and complex erosion of the couloir by debris flows.
1552376|Many alpine/arctic flowering plant species have presumably evolved the ability to self-pollinate as a reproductive assurance mechanism under harsh abiotic environmental conditions that restrict insect flower visitation. We compared self-pollination, pollen limitation, insect flower visitation, and dichogamy of low- and high-elevation populations of Cerastium alpinum, a species in established alpine communities, and Cerastium cerastoides, a pioneer species in disturbed habitats. Cerastium alpinum has large showy flowers, while C. cerastoides has smaller and paler flowers. The temporal separation of pollen release and stigma receptivity within a flower (dichogamy) was smallest in C. cerastoides, which was also more highly self-compatible. No pollen limitation on seed set occurred in any species, possibly due to their high selfing ability. Despite a substantially higher pollinator visitation to C. alpinum compared to C. cerastoides, the latter had the higher seed set. Pollen limitation, autogamy, and pollinator visitation did not differ between altitudes for either species. Differences in habitat and flower size, color, and development between the species are consistent with their different selfing ability.
4095888|Systematic errors in precipitation measurements are known to affect all types of precipitation gages. These errors are more sensitive for solid precipitation than for rain. In arctic regions, these systematic errors become significantly more pronounced than for other regions due to the relatively slow precipitation rates, low temperatures, high winds, and low annual precipitation amounts that are characteristic of the arctic climate. This study performed the daily adjustments of measured precipitation data for the National Weather Service (NWS) stations at Barrow and Nome, Alaska, over a 7-year study period, from 1995 through 2001. The results of this study indicate that the bias adjustments increase the average monthly gage-measured precipitation by approximately 20%-180% for Barrow and 30%-380% for Nome, with the larger percentages occurring in winter months. The average gage-measured annual precipitation amounts are increased by approximately 70% for Barrow and 130% for Nome. It is expected that these increases will impact climate monitoring, the understanding of the arctic freshwater balance, and the assessment of atmospheric model performance in the Arctic.
25642070|Assisted revegetation is particularly difficult in subarctic and arctic ecosystems where the impact of anthropogenic activities can be extensive and natural plant regeneration is slow. The construction of a military base in the 1950s at KuujjuarapikWhapmagoostui in northern Quebec destroyed most of the vegetation cover. Afterwards, other anthropogenic disturbances linked to the village expansion (housing, ATV traffic, pedestrian trampling) have slowed down the recovery process. To provide residents with low-cost but efficient assisted revegetation techniques, we evaluated the performance (seedling emergence, survival, and biomass production) of three indigenous plant species (Leymus mollis, Lathyrus japonicus, Trisetum spicatum) submitted to different levels of mineral and organic fertilizer additions in both a greenhouse experiment and a field plantation in the village. In the greenhouse experiment, moderate mineral fertilization had positive impacts on seedling emergence and both aboveground and belowground biomass of L. mollis. The magnitude of this impact on biomass was greater when mineral fertilization was combined with organic fertilization. The effects of mineral fertilization were negative on the other two species, especially at higher fertilization levels. However, after two growing seasons, a moderate level of mineral fertilizer in the field plantation had positive effects on the cover and aboveground biomass of all three species. Overall, organic fertilization from the substrate of a nearby marsh did not enhance plant performance in either experiment. Planting seeds of L. mollis or T. spicatum in combination with a moderate level of mineral fertilization at the time of planting provides a low-cost assisted revegetation treatment for subarctic villages.
20181833|Disturbance is likely to affect multiple life stages and may be most critical in seedling germination and establishment through indirectly affecting soil properties. Following disturbance, plants establish from seeds that either exist on the site or that disperse onto the site. Here, we examined the effects of a 1-year-old severe human disturbance (approx. 1 ha) on alpine vegetation recovery in the Andes of central Chile (33S, 60W) at 2800 m a.s.l. during two growing seasons (2006-2007). Particularly, we assessed the effects of soil properties and seed rain on post-disturbance seedling emergence using two sets of denuded slopes of different exposure (south and northwest, respectively) and two appropriate control areas. The disturbed area on the south-facing slope was drier than its respective control, while the opposite was observed on the disturbed area on the northwest-facing slope. The differences in soil water content between both slopes coincided with the results of seedling recruiting. The south-facing slope, with a more humid undisturbed area, showed a greater number of emerging seedlings than the disturbed slope. Conversely, on the northwest-facing slope, the main recruiting of seedlings was observed on the disturbed area, while the undisturbed area showed practically no emergence of new individuals. In addition, our results indicate that seedling recruitment occurred from a persistent seed bank constituted mostly by species with long-lived and deeply viable seeds, though in this particular study, we could not corroborate it empirically. Although long-term studies are desirable to make more definitive conclusions, our results provide the first step to understanding the capacity for vegetation recovery after a severe human disturbance in the Andes of central Chile, where seed banks and soil moisture seem to play a pivotal role.
10.2307/1552590| This study presents rates of geomorphic processes on subantarctic Macquarie Island (5430S, 15555E) over a 3.3-yr period associated with erosion of a mixed sand and peat substrate at a site 180 m above sea level. Erosion pins were used to measure lowering of up to 43 mm yr<sup>-1</sup> in the northern section of the site and accretion of 28 mm yr<sup>-1</sup> in the southern section of the site. The present area of exposed sand and peat was compared with that in 1976 from aerial photography, which revealed the influence of the prevailing wind direction and the slope of the site. A thermoluminescence data of 22,100  2800 yr BP (W2193) from sand and a radiocarbon date from peat of 1530  30 yr BP (-94180) allowed partial reconstruction of environmental conditions at the site during the last 22,000 yr. 
10.2307/1552194|Trampling experiments were conducted in five high-elevation plant communities in the Wind River Mountains. In one experiment (simulating infrequent acute disturbance), plots were trampled once and recovery was followed for 3 yr. In another experiment (simulating chronic disturbance), plots were trampled for three successive years and recovery was followed for one year. Yearly trampling intensities were 0 to 500 passes (up to 800 and 1000 in two communities). Structural responses (reductions in cover and height) were more pronounced than compositional responses. Low levels of trampling caused substantial reductions in cover and height, but rates of change decreased as trampling intensity increased. The ability of different plant communities to tolerate trampling disturbance varied by at least an order of magnitude, suggesting that impacts can be reduced by directing use to more tolerant plant communities. Moreover, tolerance can be gauged on the basis of readily observable plant characteristics. Plant communities with groundcover dominated by chamaephytes (primarily low, woody shrubs) or by erect, caulescent forbs were less resistant than those with groundcovers dominated by turf-forming or caespitose graminoids, or by forbs with matted, caespitose or rosette growth forms. Plant communities with woody, chamaephytic groundcover were less resilient than other plant communities.
41240400|In this study, we used a 4.00-m pit on Belukha glacier in Russia's Altai region and attempted to establish the timing of chemical deposition events by analyzing pollen profiles. As the pollen deposition of each examined taxon on the glacier surfaces followed a distinct seasonal phenology, seasonal layers could be identified over a two-year period. The seasonal layer boundaries reconstructed from the pollen analyses were in close agreement with the in situ observations and indicated that the snow deposition on the glacier originates mainly from summer precipitation. The record of oxygen isotope ratios showed a relatively high mean value of -13.3, which was attributed to the absence of winter depositions. The formate (HCOO) concentration records displayed seasonal variation with the highest emissions occurring in the spring, and a dust event in the spring of 2003 was detected from the Mg, Ca, and dust concentration profiles. Taken together, these results suggest the analysis of pollen profiles in combination with chemical data in snow pits and ice cores may lead to better reconstruction of seasonal variation.
1552310| We performed a spatiotemporal analysis of a network of 21 Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris) ring-width chronologies in northern Fennoscandia by means of chronology statistics and multivariate analyses. Chronologies are located on both sides (western and eastern) of the Scandes Mountains (67N-70N, 15E-29E). Growth relationships with temperature, precipitation, and North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO) indices were calculated for the period 1880-1991. We also assessed their temporal stability. Current July temperature and, to a lesser degree, May precipitation are the main growth limiting factors in the whole area of study. However, Principal Component Analysis (PCA) and mean interseries correlation revealed differences in radial growth between both sides of the Scandes Mountains, attributed to the Oceanic-Continental climatic gradient in the area. The gradient signal is temporally variable and has strengthened during the second half of the 20th century. Northern Fennoscandia Scots pine growth is positively related to early winter NAO indices previous to the growth season and to late spring NAO. NAO/growth relationships are unstable and have dropped in the second half of the 20th century. Moreover, they are noncontinuous through the range of NAO values: for early winter, only positive NAO indices enhance tree growth in the next growing season, while negative NAO does not. For spring, only negative NAO is correlated with radial growth. 
4095825|Active layer thickness was monitored along three ephemeral streams in the Taylor Dry Valley of Antarctica during the 1997-1998 summer season. Five to seven cross sections were established on each stream, and the thickness of the active layer was measured every 1.5 m over intervals ranging from 2 to 30 days. Active layer depths ranged from a minimum of 3 cm in early November to a maximum of 60 cm in late January, and the depth of the active layer increased rapidly as summer temperatures climbed above freezing. While there were significant differences in the thickness of the active layer among the three streams, the timing of rapid thaw was similar for all cross sections. Changes in active layer thickness were responsive to both daily and seasonal changes in air temperature. There was more rapid thaw under the areas with flowing water, suggesting a transfer of heat from meltwater into the underlying sediments, and some evidence of an insulating effect during cold periods. Active layer thickness was not strongly related to modeled differences in incoming solar radiation using 30 m grid cells.
4095854|The aim of this study was to reconstruct population dynamics of barren-ground caribou (Rangifer tarandus groenlandicus) herds from the frequency of trampling scars on tree roots of black spruce {Picea mariana [Mill.] BSP) in the forest-tundra of central Northwest Territories, Canada. Two groups of sites were sampled that roughly corresponded with the migration routes of the Bathurst and Beverly caribou herds. The caribou migrate annually for long distances from the forest to the open tundra in late spring, and return to the forest in the autumn. The scar frequency distribution was determined by careful crossdating and the influence of root age was assessed to account for the increasing underestimation of caribou abundance with the increasing age of the roots. The scar frequency distributions (dated from A.D. 1760 to 2000) from both groups of sites showed similar abundance patterns through time. Caribou numbers were high during the mid-1940s, and 1990s, and were very low during the 1920s, 1950s-1970s, and at the turn of the 21st century. These abundance patterns determined from scar frequencies correlate strongly with data obtained from traditional knowledge of Dogrib elders in the region and animal counts based on aerial photography. The scar frequency distribution developed in this study is the longest proxy record of caribou abundance to date.
10.2307/1552506|Shallow soil cores from 56 localities along the crest of the Colorado Front Range were processed by water flotation and wet sieving, then examined for wood charcoal and charred conifer-needle fragments. Charred particles were largest and most numerous in samples from the subalpine forest. Particle size and abundance decreased abruptly in a narrow zone just above timberline, but showed only slight further decrease at higher elevations. Seventy-one percent of 31 alpine-tundra samples contained megascopic charcoal. Charred particles with geometric mean diameters of 1 to 2 mm were found on rocky summits above 4000 m and in windswept fellfields as much as 1.6 km from the nearest forest outlier. Long-distance eolian transport of charred material is attributed to raging crown fires in the subalpine forest, and to the region's characteristically high wind velocities. Accelerator Mass Spectrometry (AMS) radiocarbon dates for charcoal from archaeological features above tree limit in the Front Range should be attributed to human occupation only if particle diameters exceed 3 mm, or independent age evidence strongly supports a cultural origin.
20181778|How the carbon balance of arctic ecosystems responds to climate warming will depend on the changes in carbon assimilation capacity of tundra plant species. Along with air and soil warming, one of the consequences of warming likely to be important for carbon assimilation of tundra plant species is an expected 40% increase in growing season length. We examined the effects of a lengthened growing season and soil warming on the photosynthetic capacity of seven tundra plant species from four growth forms that comprise &gt;90% of the vascular cover of wet tussock tundra. Maximum photosynthetic capacity of these key species was relatively unchanged by the manipulation that significantly altered growing season length, active layer depth, and soil temperatures. Highest photosynthetic rates were found for the forb, Polygonum bistorta, and the lowest for dwarf evergreen shrubs. Seasonal patterns revealed that plants maintained relatively high light-saturated photosynthetic capacity (
4095914|On Axel Heiberg Island, Nunavut, Canada, a banded vegetation pattern occurred on a hillside where patterned ground and unidirectional abiotic fluxes, such as downslope water flow or wind, were not present. The parent material was the obvious source of the plant pattern, as the soils occurred on five distinct types of alluvial deposits. To examine the observed pattern, plants were inventoried and soils were sampled in July 1999. Twelve vascular species of plants, but no non-vascular species, were present at the site. Neither water, often thought to limit plant distribution in the High Arctic, nor any of the other measured soil variables, predicted plant abundance. The best predictor of plant abundance, based on regression tree analysis, was total soil nitrogen; however, higher plant density was associated with lower nitrogen. The five soil types differed in plant density and soil properties. Even though the sand soil always had soil nutrients equal to or lower than the blocky clay soil, the sand and clay soils had the highest plant density and the blocky clay soil the lowest. Although the vegetation pattern is obvious, the underlying mechanism creating the pattern is not.
4095872|Carbon dioxide (CO
25642096|In mid-February 2006, windstorms in Arizona, Utah, and western Colorado generated a dust cloud that distributed a layer of dust across the surface of the snowpack throughout much of the Colorado Rockies; it remained visible throughout the winter. We compared the chemical composition of snowfall and snowpack collected during and after the dust deposition event with pre-event snow at 17 sites extending from central Colorado into southern Wyoming. The chemistry of dust-event snowfall and the post-event snowpack were compared to long-term wetfall precipitation and snowpack chemistry at the Fraser Experimental Forest (FEF). The pH of the snowpack formed during the dust event was 1.5 units higher, calcium was 10-fold higher, and acid neutralizing capacity (ANC) was 100-fold higher than levels measured in either early or late-season snow. Elevated ANC was attributable to dust-derived increase in carbonate/bicarbonate ions, likely from soluble calcium carbonate inclusions in dust material. The single dust event contributed carbonate/bicarbonate-derived ANC equivalent to the sum of strong acids deposited during the entire winter at FEF. Effects appeared more pronounced at upper elevations and in the sparse forest near treeline, compared to densely forested lower elevation sites. Monthly snowpack solute analysis at FEF has not documented an event of similar magnitude during its 17-year period of record. The solute composition of post-event snow is similar to average Fraser streamwater, however. To assess the effect of dust on the timing and composition of water exported from high-elevation ecosystems, future work should consider both the contributions of eolian deposition on soil development, plant communities, and nutrient and water relations plus the impact of individual deposition events on snowpack chemistry and duration.
10.2307/1552490|Data from passive sediment traps installed at locations throughout the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica provide for an initial assessment of rates of transport of dust (sediment transported in suspension by wind) in these areas. The flux of eolian sediment in these areas is divided into material of sand and silt and clay size. Sites in close proximity to the valley floors tend to be dominated by movement of sand, whereas sites on ice-covered lakes and glaciers are dominated by transport of silt- and clay-sized sediment. Material transported by wind is likely derived from distal fluvial sediments. Rates of dust flux are generally much lower than in other desert environments. Controls on the flux of eolian material in this environment appear to be sediment supply and, to a lesser extent, wind speed.
4095833| Trees have a common high elevation distribution limit at similar soil temperatures across the globe. Here we tested whether low temperature in the root zone alone can induce the well known dwarfing at the low temperature growth limit of trees by using a "natural experiment" with trees growing on low elevation permafrost ground. At the natural high elevation treeline, both air (shoot) and soil (root) temperature are low, while at the montane permafrost site in the Swiss Jura mountains, roots are cold, but not shoots. Soil temperature records confirmed that the low elevation study site resembles thermal conditions typical for the high elevation treeline. The warm air conditions have no ameliorating effect on tree growth. Irrespective of shoot temperatures, the root zone temperature and the associated metabolism appear to determine tree growth at this site. The test revealed a critical role of soil temperature, which by itself is sufficient to explain a growth limit of trees associated with a seasonal mean soil temperature at 10 cm depth of around 6C. 
4095903|The periglacial temperature regime in cool scree slopes located at subalpine altitudes of only 300-600 m a.s.l. in the Czech highlands is described and proved by the occurrence of a relict population of the predatory mite Rhagidia gelida Thorell (Acari, Prostigmata, Rhagidiidae). The mite has a circum-boreal pattern of distribution today, but its disjunct populations have an island-like pattern of distribution in the cool screes in the Czech highlands. R. gelida is univoltine, freezing intolerant, and considered a biological cryoindicator of the periglacial microclimate. As coolness is needed for R. gelida to survive in the cool screes, it is concluded that the scree slope patchy permafrost-like habitats have lasted continuously, perhaps persisting in modified form as paleorefugia, since the Pleistocene.
10.2307/1552390|Pinus albicaulis (whitebark pine) is an important tree species in subalpine forests of the Northern Rocky Mountains. Populations have been declining at unprecedented rates due to the introduction of an exotic pathogen and fire suppression. We initiated this study to evaluate historical trends in Pinus albicaulis abundance along with associated subalpine conifers within a small biogeographically disjunct mountain range. The central objective was to estimate historic trends in subalpine forest composition and structure at the species and community scales. Reconstruction of forest stands reveals an 85% increase in tree volume among all species since the 1870s. Pinus albicaulis has historically dominated most stands associated with Abies bifolia (subalpine fir) and Picea engelmannii (Engelmann spruce) but dominance has shifted to these late-seral species for most of the study area since the early 1990s. We estimate, that since 1753, nearly 50% of the study area has shifted to later successional stages while only 3% has receded to earlier stages. We discuss the implications for Pinus albicaulis and suggest that careful reintroduction of fire can aid in the maintenance of ecological integrity at the community and landscape scales.
24551601|Nutrient recycling occurs in hydrologically isolated cryoconite holes on the glaciers of the McMurdo Dry Valleys, Antarctica. Biogeochemical processes enrich the cryoconite holes with solute and nutrients compared to the source sediment and glacier ice. The position of the glacier within the landscape affects the physical and biogeochemical character of the cryoconite holes, with those found in more biologically productive areas of the valley having higher concentrations of C, N, and P and higher pH. Comprehensive assessment of the quality and quantity of bioavailable C, N, and P shows that the cryoconite holes represent a significant store of nutrient in this depauperate landscape, since the total mass of C and N is similar to that found in the ephemeral streams. The dissolved nutrients within the holes, and a significant proportion of the particulate store, are released to the valley ecosystem via the network of ephemeral streams and perennially ice-covered lakes as a result of hydrological connection with the supraglacial drainage system. In most cases, cryoconite holes are flushed every several years, but during warm periods which occur with near decadal frequency, all holes connect and flush their contents off the glaciers. Simple mass balance modeling shows that an increase in primary productivity observed in Lake Fryxell that followed such a melt event in 2001/2002 can be explained by an influx of nutrients (specifically N) generated in the cryoconite holes. These features are hence an integral part of the Dry Valley ecosystem and should be considered in models of downstream biological processes.
10.2307/1552282| During the growing seasons in 1994 and 1995 flower heliotropism and its effects on floral biology of several plants in the Grossglockner region (Salzburg, Austria) at 2230-2340 m a.s.l. was investigated. Ranunculus montanus, R. alpestris, Pulsatilla alpina, Callianthemum coriandrifolium (Ranunculaceae), and Leucanthemopsis alpina (Asteraceae) all have bowl and disc flowers (or inflorescences) that are heliotropic during periods of direct solar radiation. Temperatures of the air inside the flowers were above those of the ambient air for all five species. The maxima of excess temperature (means of 10 flowers or inflorescences) were between 2.0C (C. coriandrifolium) and 6.2C (P. alpina). Comparative temperature measurements in flowers of R. montanus showed that during sunny or slightly cloudy periods the air within those having uninhibited heliotropic movements was on average 0.7C (in individual cases up to 1.3C) warmer than in flowers fixed to face north. For the self-incompatible R. montanus, heliotropism affected the frequency and residence time of flower visitors: unimpeded heliotropic flowers were more attractive and so were visited longer and more often by insects than those oriented away from the sun. 
40305845|Snowmelt timing is a critical factor for tree growth in high latitudes, but threshold conditions with respect to soil moisture availability and soil temperature for the rootzone processes are not well known. We monitored snowpack thickness, air and soil temperature, and water content in the soil, sapwood, and roots of downy birch (Betula pubescens Roth.) in Finnish Lapland through 1999-2003. An extreme cold event in January 1999 (
23359631|Sulfate and nitrate records from 5 ice cores spread across Svalbard were compared and revealed strong temporal similarities with previously published global estimates of SO 2 and NO x anthropogenic emissions during the 20th century. A significant departure from the early century sulfate and nitrate levels was evident at all drilling sites starting from the mid-1940s. A steady increase was observed in both sulfate and nitrate profiles at most sites until the late 1960s, when the annual concentrations started to increase at a higher rate. This peak activity lasted for about a decade, and was observed to decrease steadily from the early 1980s on, when sulfate levels declined significantly and when nitrate levels finally reached sulfate levels for the first time in 20th century. The timing of these trends in Svalbard with global SO 2 and NO x concentration profiles was best appraised when considering composite concentration profiles of all Svalbard ice cores for sulfate and nitrate, respectively. Composite profiles were also found to provide a convenient mean for distinguishing between the most important world source regions. Based on correlation analysis, the major pollutant sources appeared to be Western Europe and North America for both sulfate and nitrate, followed by Central Europe and former U.S.S.R. in generally similar proportions.
4095855| We examined food items cached by arctic ground squirrels (Spermophilus parryii) from boreal-steppe meadows of southwest Yukon Territory, Canada. Caches recovered from two sites are dominated by fruits and seeds of either northern comandra (Geocaulon lividum) or prickly rose (Rosa acicularis). These two taxa are relatively rare in the local flora at the study sites (Site 1: 32 available taxa, and Site 2:  39 available taxa), suggesting they are selectively cached as preferred items. Cache selectivity may be related to perishability, fruit size/seed abundance, and predation risk. These caches are of significantly different composition than caches from present tundra sites and Pleistocene fossil arctic ground squirrel nests and caches (middens) recovered from central Yukon. These findings suggest that although arctic ground squirrels evolved in open tundra, they can subsist on a variety of cache items and may have the ability to adapt to and select a profitable cache within a variety of boreal and tundra habitats. 
10.2307/1552533|The climatic control on fluvial fluxes of sediments and solutes from arctic terrestrial ecosystems to the hydrographically sensitive and highly productive marine ecosystem are considered to be an important feedback mechanism in relation to the understanding of global change. High temporal resolution data are presented on water discharge, suspended sediment transport, and solute chemistry in the river Zackenbergelven draining a catchment of 512 km<sup>2</sup> in High Arctic Northeast Greenland. Variations of water quality and water discharge in the river are discussed in relation to climate, water balance, and drainage basin dynamics. The temporal variations in water composition in the river can be separated into three characteristic periods. During the early part of the season, snow melt in the lowland areas produces an ion pulse. Later in the season, when the active layer in the permafrost develops, the water quality is mainly influenced by water draining through and from the active layer. In the latest part of the season, when air temperature reaches the annual maximum, and drainage from the lowland areas ceases, the river water mainly originates from glaciers and snow patches on the high-lying plateaus above 1000 m a.s.l. The fluxes of sediments and solutes from the catchment seems to be especially sensitive to even slightly changing climates during the mid period. It is concluded that the river regime is intermediate between the "arctic nival regime" and the "proglacial regime," and it is suggested that the Zackenbergelven drainage basin is representative for Northeast Greenland drainage basins with no connection to the Greenland Ice Sheet in the more continental part of the land fringe outside the ice sheet.
10.2307/1552492|This study presents data on bedload transport rates for the proglacial Skeldal River in northeast Greenland monitored during August 1998. The study adds to a very limited data set from which we can assess bedload transport rates in true Arctic environments. Bedload transport rates were determined using a sediment budget approach based on cross-section resurvey, supplemented by "at-a-point" bedload measurements using a Helley-Smith bedload sampler. Bedload transport rates were low and ranged from 0.02 to 0.04 kg m<sup>-1</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>. These rates fall within the extremes reported for arctic and subarctic environments. Bedload sampling conducted through flood events suggests that there is a broad (but not significant) relationship with discharge. Maximum bedload transport rates derived using a sediment budget approach based on cross-section resurvey were found to be 50% lower than maximum rates measured "at-a-point" using a Helley-Smith bedload sampler during meltwater flood events. Bedload transport rates derived in this study vary both spatially and temporally by up to an order of magnitude. Upstream bedload supply parameters are believed to be more influential than specific stream power in controlling the transport patterns and changes in channel bed elevation observed.
1552572| In polar semidesert communities of northwest Spitsbergen the reproductive potential of keystone vascular plant species, such as Dryas octopetala, is currently being constrained by low summer temperatures, resulting in the infrequent production of viable seeds. This study tests the hypothesis that summer foraging behavior of reindeer (Rangifer tarandus platyrhynchus) may further limit successful seed production due to intense selective grazing pressure on the flowering shoots. Surveys of neighboring coastal tundra areas with contrasting reindeer population densities revealed direct evidence of strong grazing pressure on reproductive shoots of D. octopetala on the Brgger Peninsula and considerably less floral herbivory on the sparsely reindeer-populated Blomstrand island. Recruitment of Dryas on the Brgger Peninsula is therefore being hindered by intense selective grazing of flowering shoots by Svalbard reindeer. This situation is not unique to this area of Svalbard and also extends to other species of flowering plants. 
24551711|The quantification of the relationship between accumulation of snow and vegetation is crucial for understanding the influence of vegetation dynamics. We here present an analysis of the thickness of the snow and hydrological availability in relation to the seven main vegetation types in the High Arctic in Northeast Greenland. We used ground penetrating radar (GPR) for snow thickness measurements across the Zackenberg valley. Measurements were integrated to the physical conditions that support the vegetation distribution. Descriptive statistics and correlations of the distribution of each vegetation type to snow thickness, as well as to external factors that influence the redistribution of snow were performed. We found that although there is wide variability in the snow packing, there is strong correlation between snow thickness and the distribution of certain plant communities in the area. The accumulation of snow and occurrence of vegetation types such as Dryas octopetala heath and Salix arctica snowbed showed more influence by the microtopography than by other vegetation types that showed independence of the terrain conditions.
1552291|Several environmental indicators show that climate changed dramatically at the turn of the 19th century, with global warming throughout the 20th century. Among the most used proxies to evaluate long-term changes in climate are trees located at their northern range limit. Several studies have shown enhanced tree regeneration at treeline caused by recent warming, but no data are available on height growth performance of forest trees at treeline before and during the 20th century warmth. In this study, we examined the long-term growth performance of black spruce (Picea mariana [Mill.] B.S.P.) trees located in a lichen-spruce woodland, near the arctic treeline in eastern Canada. The study woodland is an old-growth stand that has escaped fire approximately during the past two millennia. We performed stem analysis on normally developed trees which grew in the woodland over the last centuries. The sampled trees are ramets from long-lived, self-regenerating black spruce clones that are forming small tree islands within the woodland. The co-occurrence of living and dead tree stems inside clones gives the opportunity to evaluate the growth performance of the same genets through time. Height and radial growth of 60 tree stems from 15 old-growth clones were evaluated for a period spanning the last 400 yr. Sampling included the two tallest living stems and the two tallest dead stems of randomly selected clones. No differences in height and radial growth were found among the 30 living stems nor among the 30 dead stems within clones. Living stems were 2 m taller and radial growth was 1.6 times greater than dead stems. Vertical development of stems was divided into two parts according to position of snow cover. Growth of dead and living stems was similar below the snowpack line. However, significant differences were found for growth above snowpack for the two types of stems. Growth above snow cover for all dead stems occurred between the 17th and 19th centuries. In contrast, growth of living stems above snow cover started during the late 19th century. Our data indicate that stems of the same genotype responded directly to climate change, in conjunction with climatic conditions prevailing at the time when they were protruding above the snowpack. Compared to extant trees, significantly smaller trees grew in the woodland during the Little Ice Age. Potential causal factors of differential growth performance through time are discussed.
4139099|High-resolution chironomid (Insecta: Diptera) stratigraphies were developed for three subalpine lakes in the Sierra Nevada of California to assess whether these lakes have been impacted by recent climate change evident in regional instrumental records for the 19th and 20th centuries. Detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) of the chironomid fauna indicates that the lakes have experienced similar unidirectional change in community composition over the 20th century, with two of the lakes showing particularly sharp gradients of change since the 1970s. Application of a chironomid-based surface water temperature inference model (
4095892|The City and Borough of Juneau, Alaska, has several major avalanche paths located in close proximity to population centers and is routinely affected by avalanche activity. As a result, developing a better understanding of the snowpack conditions that lead to avalanche cycles is of great interest. This study investigates temperature and vapor pressure gradients associated with near-surface faceted crystal formation in the high-latitude maritime snow climate of southeast Alaska. Here we report on two episodes in March and April 2003 in which temperature gradients measured in the upper 25 cm of the snowpack were in excess of
10.2307/1552503|The ablation amount for entire ice cliffs reaches about 20% of that at the whole debris-covered area; the ablation rate at the ice cliff mainly depends on shortwave radiation, which differs widely with the orientation of an ice cliff. Therefore, the distribution of ice cliffs in relation to their orientation was observed on a debris-covered glacier. The south-facing cliffs were small in area because they have low slope angles and tended to be covered with debris. The north-facing cliffs, on the other hand, were large in the studied area and maintain a slope angle larger than the repose angle of debris. They, therefore, are stable. Longwave radiation from the debris surface opposite the ice cliffs was larger on the lower portion of ice cliffs than on the upper portion in every azimuth. This difference in longwave radiation maintained a steep slope angle on ice cliff. Shortwave radiation was stronger at the upper portion of ice cliffs than at the lower portion due to the local shading effect, causing gentle sloping of ice cliffs. This was especially pronounced at cliffs facing to south. Therefore, the dependency of the ice cliff angle in orientation can be explained by the difference in local radiation between the upper and lower portion of the ice cliff.
4139120|Surface microrelief, permafrost table configuration, ground-ice, and soil organic-matter contents are described for three sites near Inuvik, N.W.T., that are characterized by collapsed, poorly developed, and well-developed earth hummocks, respectively. The diameters of collapsed earth hummocks were significantly greater than those of well-developed vegetated hummocks. Hummock relief and interhummock distance increased along the continuum of forms, with the widest spacing and greatest relief measured at the site with well-developed vegetated hummocks. A bowl-shaped permafrost table mirrored the surface relief of most hummocks, but the collapsed hummocks were underlain by a planar or domed permafrost table. Segregated ice lenses parallel to the permafrost table, and small bodies of intrusive ice, were observed beneath the developing and well-developed hummocks. The configuration of the permafrost table and hummock relief, long-term observations of active-layer and hummock change, and hummock response to surface manipulation indicate that formation of a bowl-shaped permafrost table in association with organic accumulation and development of near-surface ground ice thrusts soils inward and upward causing hummock growth, whereas thaw subsidence may cause outward spreading and hummock collapse. Reaction-wood rings in black spruce trees growing on hummocky terrain indicate that tree tilting was associated with active-layer thinning and hummock growth. Cessation of reaction wood coincided with a period of active-layer deepening, degradation of ground ice, and outward spreading of the hummocks. In subarctic forests, hummock dynamics may be driven by ecological change associated with the fire cycle or climate change.
20181713|The future evolution of Unteraargletscher, a large valley glacier in the Swiss Alps, is assessed for the period 2005 to 2050 using a flowline model. Detailed measurements of surface velocity from the last decade allow us to relate ice flux to glacier thickness and width. Mass balance is calculated using a distributed temperature-index model calibrated with ice volume changes derived independently from comparison of repeated digital elevation models. The model was validated for the period 1961 to 2005 and showed good agreement between the simulated and observed evolution of surface geometry. Regional climate scenarios with seasonal resolution were used to investigate the anticipated response of Unteraargletscher to future climate changes. Three mass balance scenarios were defined, corresponding to 2.5%, 50%, and 97.5% quantiles of a statistical analysis of 16 different climate model results. We present a forecast of the future extent of Unteraargletscher in the next five decades and analyze relevant parameters with respect to the past. The model predicts a retreat of the glacier terminus of 800-1025 m by 2035, and of 1250-2300 m by 2050. The debris coverage of the glacier tongue reduces the retreat rate by a factor of three. The thinning rate increased by 50-183% by 2050 depending on the scenario applied, compared to the period 1997 to 2005.
23359389|Plant waxes (e.g. long-chain n-alkanes) in ice cores are a promising paleovegetation proxy. However, much work needs to be done to assess how n-alkanes are transported from source areas to, and incorporated into, glacial archives. In this paper we present analyses of n-alkanes in seasonal snow and assess the information on source vegetation. n-Alkanes with carbon numbers C 18 to C 43 were extracted from snow samples collected at two sites in Hokkaido, northern Japan, during winter 20092010. Molecular distributions revealed that the majority of the n-alkanes originated from higher vegetation (ca. 65%), rather than anthropogenic sources. The distribution characteristics confirmed that the n-alkane signal had a wide regional origin, rather than a local source. We determined stable carbon and hydrogen isotopic compositions for the C 27 n-alkane. The  13 C of the C 27 (- 28.2 to - 33.0) was more representative of C 3 than C 4 vegetation, while the D of the C 27 (- 169.9 to - 223.1) indicated growth latitudes more northerly than Hokkaido. The n-alkanes in the snow preserve information about the source vegetation type (photosynthetic group, growth site), confirming that if deposited with seasonal snows that firnify to form glacial ice, they have potential to record broad, regional vegetation changes over time.
10.2307/1552592| Animals can exert a very strong impact on erosion and sediment transport in the alpine. Although the alpine is recognized for its abundance of animals, animal-soil erosion interactions have been poorly studied. Animals exert a direct influence through their burrowing and digging for food and also indirectly by opening the ground to climatic and geomorphic influences, e.g. rain splash, needle ice, and wind erosion. It is this synergy that is important for alpine erosion. Because the alpine zone is subject to freezing, frost action, and snow melt, exposed sediments and/or the availability of drainage through burrows can have a marked effect on sediment transport and slopes. On the steeper, less stable alpine slopes, the effects of loading can cause failure that produces arcuate slip scars, the exposed faces of which can also be exploited by geomorphic processes. In an attempt to study the effect of animals in the alpine zone, measurements of burrowing and digging based on quadrats (5 m  5 m) along several transects were made in the alpine zone of the Rocky Mountains of Canada. Results indicated an average of 0.0243 m<sup>3</sup> 25 m<sup>-2</sup> sediment displaced due to digging by rodents and a conservative estimation of sediment removal by rodents varying between 600 and 0.6408 m<sup>3</sup> km<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>. Grizzly bears exerted the greatest erosional impact with as much as 0.4958 m<sup>3</sup> 25 m<sup>-2</sup> being measured. Observations (and limited measurements) relating to the impact of animals on the landscape were also obtained from Lesotho and Tibet. These preliminary findings are presented in an attempt to exemplify the various and interrelated effects of animals, climate and geomorphic process for the alpine. It is suggested that significantly more studies are urgently needed as the situation may be exacerbated by climatic warming and/or by the expansion of pastoralism resulting from attempts at sustainable development in developing nations. The impact of animals is an unquantified factor in many development studies, in geomorphic studies in polar or high altitude environments, and in management plans for national parks or the exploitation of natural resources (e.g. through logging). 
1552374| The extent of the Last Glacial Maximum (LGM) and the timing of deglaciation around the Northwest Peninsula of Iceland are poorly understood. To provide information on these issues, we report sedimentological, foraminiferal, isotopic, and chronological data from marine piston cores B997-322PC, -323PC, -326PC1, and -326PC2 from a transect along Reykjafjardall/Hnaflall, a large trough that extends from the north Iceland coast toward the shelf break, ca. 66.8N and 20W. Cores B997-322PC, -323PC, and -326PC1 recovered diamictons (stiff, pebbly muds) overlain by fine-grained, postglacial muds, with intermittent occurrences of iceberg-rafted clasts and volcanic shards. No glacial constructional features (moraines) were noted on the seismic profiles. In the outemost cores (B997-322PC and 323PC) the diamictons contained small but persistent numbers of foraminifera which gave dates between 25 and 44 ka B.P.; foraminifera are absent in the diamicton at the base of core B997-326PC1. <sup>14</sup>C dates immediately above the diamictons have ages of ca. 13 ka B.P., which we take to represent the date of deglaciation of Hnaflall and the withdrawal of the ice margin to the adjacent Strandir coast. Foraminifera are used to construct a bio- and isotope stratigraphy of cores B997-322PC and 323PC. In the diamictons, the fauna is dominated by cold-water benthic foraminifera including Elphidium excavatum and Cassidulina reniforme; Cassidulina neoteretis is also a persistent component. In B997-322PC and -323PC the deglacial sequence is interrupted by an interval of IRD deposition, a dramatic reduction in foraminiferal numbers, and heavy 18O values; we equate this interval with the Younger Dryas cold event. Alternative working hypotheses are advanced for the origin of the diamictons and their importance to mapping the LGM ice extent. The 12-ky hiatus between the diamictons and the overlying marine muds indicates that the sequence is not conformable. The diamictons probably represent glacial-marine sediments overrun by late Weichselian ice streaming down the trough. The absence of a thick, deglacial sequence of glacial-marine sediments indicates a dramatic retreat of the ice cap to the present coast by  13 ka B.P. 
23252816|Soil bacterial communities play a determining role in snow-covered ecosystems' response to global warming because of their role in nutrient recycling. However, little is known about how changes in snow-cover dynamics could affect bacterial community assembly in the short or long term. We examined the phylogenetic structure of soil bacterial communities sampled seasonally from early snowmelt (ESM) and late snowmelt locations (LSM) in temperate alpine tundra. Most of the variation in phylogenetic structure (i.e. -diversity) was temporal rather than spatial and most observed deviations from random community assembly were towards phylogenetic clustering. Indeed, we observed phylogenetic clustering of Acidobacteria, Actinobacteria, and -Proteobacteria during late winter in ESM locations, and a phylogenetic clustering of -,-Proteobacteria, and Bacteroidetes during autumn in ESM and LSM locations probably linked to the onset of plant senescence and biomass decomposition. Interestingly, Acidobacteria were clustered in all LSM samples. Our study provides evidence of a high seasonal turnover of the phylogenetic structure of bacterial communities in alpine tundra soils, suggesting that climate-induced changes in snow cover can significantly alter the functioning of cold ecosystems through their filtering effects on soil bacteria communities.
40801691|The Czech Republic's Giant Mountains are a unique locality for studying snow algae because representatives of both significant genera, Chlamydomonas and Chloromonas (Chlorophyta), are regularly found there and are capable of completing their life cycle in several weeks. Physical and chemical environmental characteristics of two sites were measured in June 2008 and the photochemical processes of the snow algae were studied using variable chlorophyll fluorescence techniques. Correlations between the environmental conditions and the rapid light curve parameters were evaluated. The environment was characterized by stable snow temperature (T snow ; -0.6 to -0.3 C) but variable air temperature (T air ; 4.3 to 15.3 C), photosynthetically active radiation (PAR; maximum of approximately 2000 umol m- s-), and ultraviolet radiation (UVR; 0.135 to 2.27 mW cm-).The snow chemical composition at both experimental sites was similar, regardless of whether snow algae were present or not, and the nutrient concentrations resembled mesotrophic to eutrophic water. Only concentration of P-PO- was significantly higher in the presence of algae. Vegetative and mating cells of Chloromonas cf. nivalis were observed on the snow surface down to a depth of 6 cm. The maximum quantum yield in a range from 0.479 to 0.624 indicated only minor or no stress conditions. While the relative electron transfer rate (142 to 241) and the initial slope (0.287 to 0.505 m- s- ) were negatively related to T air , PAR, and UVR, the saturation irradiance values were very stable (350 to 489 umol m- s-).Various strategies of acclimation to high PAR and/or UVR at different stages of the life cycle are proposed.
25642075|Ecological factors determining the growth of arctic shrubs remain poorly understood, thereby obscuring the current predictions about climate change effects. I conducted a study on the Yamal Peninsula, West Siberia, to find out which factors determine the growth and height of upright willows (Salix glauca and S. lanata). I sampled willow thickets at different slope positions at 13 sites along a 300-km-long north-south transect. The measurements included the height of willow shrubs and the length and diameter of shoots. The length and diameter of willow shoots increased southwards and with increasing distance from the sea. At the top of the slope and in areas with shallow thaw, the height and growth of willow were low compared to other slope positions and to areas with deep thaw. An increasing level of reindeer (Rangifer tarandus) grazing intensity was associated with decreased height and growth of willow and also associated with reduced foraging activity of willow grouse (Lagopus lagopus). The results show that even though increasing summer warmth is likely to enhance willow growth, there are other factors such as distance from the sea that also affect the growth and height of willow. The results suggest that reindeer grazing may locally counteract the effects of climate change.
4095907|Tidewater glaciers have coalesced to advance through Icy Bay, Alaska, three times during the past 3800 yr. Radiocarbon ages show that the first of these expansions was underway by 3750 cal yr B.P. and culminated at the outer coast between 3505 and 3245 cal yr B.P. Subsequent recession and readvance brought the ice margin back to the outer coast by 1525 cal yr B.P. (cal A.D. 425) where it remained for about 650 yr before retreating. Treering cross-dates of glacially killed trees show that the most recent ice advance was underway through the inner bay by the A.D. 1640s and reached into the outer bay in the 1810s. Historical data support ice expansion through the outer bay in the early 19th century and show a late 19th century maximum prior to 20th century retreat. These results are a significant revision and extension of previous studies of the Holocene glacial history of Icy Bay. Average advance rates for the most recent expansion were typical of modern tidewater glaciers in the inner bay but much faster in the outer bay; shallow water here may have been important to this latter phase of unusually rapid advance.
10.2307/1552395|To ascertain the climatic controls on sediment transport to Lake Sophia, Cornwallis Island, Nunavut, Canada, we made detailed hydrological and meteorological measurements in the Sophia River watershed through the 1994 melt season. Streamflow and suspended sediment transport are limited, on an annual time scale, by the supply of snow and sediment in the watershed. Suspended sediment yield from the watershed was only 0.46 t km<sup>-2</sup>, which is lower than any previously published yield for a stream in the High Arctic. Snowmelt runoff accounted for 88% of the annual suspended sediment load, whereas 6 and 9% were transported in response to a slushflow event and summer rainfall, respectively. These measurements provide no direct evidence that modern-day sediment delivery to Lake Sophia is related to fluctuations in air temperature, which has implications for the paleoenvironmental signal preserved in Lake Sophia's laminated sediments. We suggest that on-site sediment transport studies are necessary to establish the relationships among geology, geography, climate, and hydrology unique to each watershed-lake system and need to be an integral part of any calibration attempt. Additional years of data are needed however to define the interannual variability of streamflow and sediment transport in response to climate.
10.2307/1552511| We studied the late Holocene foreland and adjacent unglaciated terrain of a small cirque glacier system in north Iceland to explore the relationship between soil/surface age, vegetation and soil evolution, and C isotope signatures of respired CO<sub>2</sub>. Field-based sampling of respired CO<sub>2</sub> from vegetation/soil monoliths across the chronosequence was used as the basis for an analysis of the <sup>12</sup>C: <sup>13</sup>C: <sup>14</sup>C atom ratios of CO<sub>2</sub> using Isotope Ratio Mass Spectrometry (IRMS) and Accelerator Mass Spectrometry (AMS). Residual soil organic matter (SOM) fractions (humic and humin) were also <sup>14</sup>C from each of the surfaces, vegetation described, and soil C and N contents analyzed. Our major conclusions are (1) that ecosystem respiration in this mid-alpine environment is strongly dominated by "young" C and is not related to the <sup>14</sup>C age of residual SOM fractions; (2) 13C values of respired CO<sub>2</sub>, by contrast, do vary both with age of surface and with absolute respiration rate, but there is no clear indication of any effects mediated by plant species and functional type and/or the degree of reworking of SOM by decomposer organisms; and (3) the <sup>14</sup>C dating of residual SOM fractions, together with the soil profile characteristics (including tephra deposits) and vegetation cover, both suggest some radical disturbance in soil development and SOM formation at Site 1 (the oldest surface studied here), and no clear signs of classical succession when comparing Sites 1 to 3. Finally, in the light of these observations, the familiar concept of chronosequences, and the predictable processes of ecosystem development that they often imply, are challenged in a mid-alpine tundra setting where recent climate change and anthropogenic influences (e.g., grazing pressure) are superimposed upon time as an ecological factor. 
1552293| Increasing production of artificial snow in ski resorts is controversially discussed, but only few investigations have been carried out systematically to specify the environmental impacts. We measured snow depth and density from groomed ski pistes (runs) with compacted snow and their effects on ground temperatures and timing of snowmelt. We analyzed groomed pistes with and without artificial snow (10 each) as well as adjacent ungroomed off-piste control plots beside the piste. On pistes with natural snow, the thin and compacted snow cover led to severe and long lasting seasonal soil frost. On pistes with artificial snow, soil frost occurred less frequently because of increased insulation due to the greater snow depth. However, due to the greater snow mass, the beginning of the snowfree season was delayed by more than 2 wk. Average winter ground temperatures under a continuous snow cover were decreased by approximately 1C on both piste types compared with off-piste control plots. The results suggest that the heat balance of alpine soils is changed by both piste types, either by an extensive heat loss on pistes with natural snow or by prolonged snow cover on pistes with artificial snow. 
4139076|Mycorrhizal symbiosis is critical to plant establishment and survival, influences plant community structure and function, and could be particularly important in harsh environments such as the alpine tundra. An examination of 53 vascular plant species in 21 families from alpine areas of the Beartooth Plateau (Rocky Mountains) revealed most were mycorrhizal (68%) and four distinct types of symbioses were present. They differ in fungal groups involved, plant taxa, physiology, ecology, morphology, and resource acquisition. Betula, Dryas, Salix, and Polygonum viviparum consistently form ectomycorrhizae (ECT) with basidiomycete fungi. Phyllodoce, Kalmia, and Vaccinium (Ericaceae) form ericoid mycorrhizae with ascomycete fungi, and Arctostaphylos an arbutoid type with basidiomycetes. Eight families (18 species) had only arbuscular mycorrhizae (AM) of glomalean fungi: Apiaceae, Asteraceae, Campanulaceae, Fabaceae, Hydrophyllaceae, Onagraceae, Poaceae, Ranunculaceae. Nonmycorrhizal (NM) families were Brassicaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Crassulaceae, Cyperaceae, Gentianaceae, and Juncaceae. Split families included Polygonaceae (NM/AM/ECT), Portulacaceae (NM/AM), Rosaceae (AM/ECT), and Scrophulariaceae (NM/AM). This is the first report of mycorrhizae for 25 alpine plant species, and most others are new reports for the Rocky Mountains. The distribution of mycorrhizal types among plant families is reasonably consistent across the arctic-alpine biome (reviewed here) with exceptions. The patchy distribution of mycorrhizal types associated with large-scale perennial vegetation mosaics suggests microbial functioning is not uniform across tundra landscapes.
1552169| Image data from the years 1959/1960 and 1999/2000 reveal a 2.4% decrease in the surface area of the Devon Ice Cap, Nunavut, over the last 40 yr. This has resulted primarily from extensive retreat of tidewater glacier margins on the eastern side of the ice cap, and shrinkage of its near-stagnant southwestern arm. Thinning of the ice cap has also increased bedrock exposure in the ice cap interior. However, since 1960 the northwestern margin of the ice cap has advanced slightly. Volume loss associated with these changes was estimated at -67  12 km<sup>3</sup> as calculated from two independent techniques. A digital elevation model (DEM) of the ice cap surface was used to delineate interior ice divides allowing patterns of change to be investigated at the drainage basin scale. Strong correlation between the hypsometric characteristics of drainage basins and the observed changes in ice-cap geometry suggests that these changes reflect interbasin differences in the inherent sensitivity of glacier mass balance to recent climate forcing. Response time calculations indicate that most of the ice cap is responding to recent climate warming, whereas the northwestern region is likely still responding to cooler conditions that prevailed during the Little Ice Age (LIA). 
4139128|The vegetation composition of four contiguous permanent plots was analyzed during 37 of 42 years between 1959 and 2001 to evaluate successional processes following the cessation of human trampling in alpine tundra. The plots were established adjacent to the Rock Cut parking lot at 3658 m elevation along Trail Ridge Road in Rocky Mountain National Park, Colorado. Due to limitations in the original study design, the lack of true replication required that the plots be treated individually when subject to indirect ordination analysis to follow trends in overall plant composition and cover. The three most abundant species in the study plots were Artemisia scopulorum, Acomastylis rossii, and Kobresia myosuroides. At the beginning of the study in 1959, total cover ranged from 20 to 55% in the four plots. By 1961, three of the four plots achieved total canopy cover values of at least 100%. Vascular plant species richness (number of taxa per plot) averaged 20 in 1959, but by 1967 had nearly doubled to 37. During the first several years, rates of seedling emergence were high among most taxa with the notable exceptions of K myosuroides and A. rossii. However, likely due to desiccation and needle ice, seedling mortality was high. K myosuroides spread exclusively from remnant tufts, as did three species of cushion plants which survived the trampling. The overall decline in plant cover during the last two decades of this study, particularly for K myosuroides, indicates that long-term unassisted regeneration of severely degraded alpine tundra sites will take more than a century. While there have been periods of plant colonization and spread, climate factors such as a series of heavy snow years, and unchecked soil erosion from trails, can limit plant establishment and stop the recovery process, or push the recovery back by several decades. The negative influence of soil erosion, and quite possibly additional trampling, over a significant portion of the study plot points to the critical importance of using extreme care when establishing long-term monitoring plots, particularly in high-use areas.
10.2307/1552398| Glaciar Upsala, which calves into a lake on the eastern side of the Hielo Patagnico Sur, South America, has significantly retreated by 5 km during the last 20 yr. The glacier near the terminus has thinned by about 33 m from 1990 to 1993. Bathymetric surveys made in 1998 at the proglacial lake revealed the existence of bedrock rises spreading out from exposed islands in the western part of the lake. Between 1978 and 1990, the western half of the glacier terminus was located at the bedrock rises, which suggests that the front fluctuations were strongly controlled by the bed topography. During 1990-93, the glacier terminus was located upstream from the bedrock rises, and it is considered to have been floating after estimation of the buoyancy. Significantly large extending strain rate of 0.22 a<sup>-1</sup> was deduced from the continuity consideration in 1990-93. These results are discussed with those obtained at Columbia Glacier, Alaska. 
10.2307/1552484|A computer model simulating snowmelt evolution and the spatial snowmelt pattern using an energy balance approach over an alpine terrain was developed. With a digital elevation model (DEM), surface characteristics information and meteorological data as input, all radiation balance components, turbulent fluxes, precipitation, and finally snowmelt were modeled on a daily basis. Special emphasis was given to snow redistribution. The model was applied to an area of 35 km<sup>2</sup> in the Schilthorn Massif (Bernese Oberland, Switzerland) for 1996-97. The model calculations are compared with a snowmelt evolution map, which was produced by combining seven scenes of aerial photographs taken in the Bernese Alps during the melting season 1997 (March-September). Both the temporal comparison of the snowmelt evolution and the spatial comparison of simulated and observed snowmelt patterns show a good accordance: at any of the compared dates, spatial coincidence is equal to or better than 78%. It can therefore be concluded that the model supplies a quite realistic reproduction of the energy exchange processes taking place at the ground snow-cover/atmosphere interface during winter and spring.
4139096|In the subarctic environment, shortage of nitrogen is common and may have immediate effects on tree survival via lowered photosynthetic capacity in cold periods. Yet, despite the critical role of nitrogen, the subarctic tree mountain birch (Betula pubescens ssp. czerepanovii (Orlova)
10.2307/1552222|Dramatic retreat of ice shelves in Antarctica in recent years, linked to climatic warming, is well documented. In contrast, the ice shelves of the Russian Arctic remain largely unstudied. A time-series analysis of the largest ice shelf in the Russian High Arctic, the Matusevich Ice Shelf, Severnaya Zemlya, was undertaken for the period 1931 to 1994 using georeferenced Landsat satellite imagery and published maps. The positions of three major ice margins in 1931, 1955, 1962, 1973, 1985, 1988, and 1994 are compared. The floating margin of the ice shelf underwent at least two cycles of retreat followed by periods of advance between 1931 and 1994. These periodic calving events produce tabular icebergs up to several kilometers in length. This process is typical of floating ice shelves in Antarctica and Greenland, whereas grounded ice margins in, for example, Svalbard, produce smaller icebergs much more frequently. There is little evidence that these calving events are related to climate change. Landsat imagery is also used to track the movement of 50 icebergs identified in 1985 imagery of Matusevich Fjord. Iceberg release from the fjord between 1985 and 1994 was extremely slow, with 48 of the icebergs observed in 1985 still trapped in the fjord in 1994. The icebergs from Matusevich Ice Shelf remain in the fjord for many years, probably due to either grounding on submarine moraines or trapping by shore-fast sea ice. Much of the sediment load of the trapped icebergs may be melted out and deposited beneath the sea-ice cover of Matusevich Fjord, and little iceberg-rafted debris of heterogeneous grain size will be transported to the Laptev Sea.
4095860|Glacial mapping combined with cosmogenic exposure dating provides the first detailed assessment of the late Pleistocene glacial history in the northeastern Brooks Range, Alaska. Former ice limits were identified in the Okpilak, Jago, Aichillik, Egaksrak, and Kongakut River valleys. Relative-weathering data support our correlations with the well-studied glacial sequence of the central Brooks Range. Of the 16 boulders from four moraines analyzed for
1552187| This paper examines the behavior of perennial saline springs and their icings at Expedition Fiord in the Canadian High Arctic during the winter months when temperatures are below the eutectic point of the solution and during the early spring when temperatures are still below freezing but above the eutectic point. The spring outflow begins to freeze when it cools from the discharge temperature which is between -3.5C and +6C. As ice forms it remains mixed with the brine forming a salty, icy, slush which lines the sides of the flow channel. Networks of pipes and tunnels also allow the brine to flow under and through the icing before being frozen at the icing perimeter. In late winter complete freezing occurs several hundred meters from the springs' outlets. There appears to be incomplete fractionation of salt during the freezing process and the bulk ice contains 30 to 285 ppt salt. The icing reaches its maximum extent in late winter just before temperatures rise above the eutectic point. In April 2002 the icing had dimensions of 300 m by 700 m, an average thickness of 0.5 m and a total mass of approximately 2  10<sup>8</sup> kg. This icing mass is consistent with the flow from the springs during the previous 6 mo. 
10.2307/1552521|I conducted an ecological land survey near Hazen Bay, on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta of Alaska during 1994-1998 in order to assess potential effects of sea-level rise on coastal ecosystems in this region. Independent classification of three land-scape components grouped ecological characteristics of the area into 10 geomorphic units (e.g., tidal flats, abandoned floodplain cover deposits), 9 surface forms (e.g., levees, basins), and 18 plant associations (e.g., Carex rariflora-Salix fuscescens). I then used hierarchical associations among these landscape components to derive an ecosystem classification at three levels of organization that included 10 ecosections (based on geomorphology), 11 ecoseries (based on surface forms and geomorphology), and 27 ecotypes (primarily based on vegetation). The nature and distribution of ecosystems at all levels showed a strong influence from geomorphic processes. The active floodplain, with frequent flooding and sedimentation, had brackish ecotypes that were dominated by graminoids and forbs. The inactive floodplain, where flooding and sedimentation were infrequent, had slightly brackish ecotypes with a wide diversity of species and growth forms. In contrast, the abandoned floodplain, which lacked flooding and sediment deposition, but was strongly affected by permafrost aggradation, had ecotypes that were dominated by evergreen shrubs, mosses, and lichens that were intolerant to salts, but tolerated acidic, nutrient-poor conditions. Ecotypes with similar vegetation generally had similar environmental properties, including surface elevation, soil morphology, sedimentation, organic matter accumulation, thaw depths, water depths, pH, and electrical conductivity. When similar ecotypes were aggregated into ecosections based on geomorphic similarities, differences in ecological properties increased.
20181806|The depth and density of the Antarctic firn layer is modeled, using a combination of regional climate model output and a steady-state firn densification model. The modeled near-surface climate (temperature, wind speed, and accumulation) and the depth of two critical density levels (550 kg m and 830 kg m) agree well with climate and firn density observations selected from &gt;50 Antarctic coring sites (r = 0.90-0.99, p &lt; 0.0001). The wide range of near-surface climate conditions in Antarctica forces a strong spatial variability in the depth and density of the Antarctic firn pack. In the calm, dry, and very cold interior, densification is slow and the firn-layer thickness exceeds 100 m and the firn age at pore close-off 2000 years. In the windier, wetter, and milder coastal zone, densification is more rapid and the firn layer shallower, typically 40-60 m, and younger, typically &lt;50 years.
4095937|We provide an index of successional status for arctic macrolichen communities based on a synthesis of literature reports. We amassed research from the past 50 years that studied lichen communities following disturbance, such as fire or grazing. Species scores were derived from these reports depending on when a particular macrolichen species appeared following disturbance. Weighted averaging of these data with a community matrix can create a successional score for each sample unit of interest. These scores can be used as a surrogate for community age estimates that are otherwise difficult to obtain from tundra environments above treeline. We test this approach using an example data set of macrolichen communities collected from the Bering Land Bridge National Preserve, Alaska. We found that our successional scores represented roughly 17 and 19% of the community variation, depending on whether the community data set was binary or quantitative. Abundance data tended to yield successional scores that were slightly higher (older) than those derived from a presence-absence data set. We recommend use of our successional metric for lichen communities throughout the arctic tundra to infer successional status of an area.
23359633|Mountain forests are recognized as an effective biological protection measure against snow avalanches. To investigate how forests decelerate snow avalanches, we analyzed two data sets from the European Alps. The first data set contained 43 small to medium avalanches which released in forests and either stopped in forested terrain within 50 to 400 m or ran through forests and stopped in unforested terrain with a maximum runout distance of 700 m. The second data set consisted of 44 medium to large avalanches (360 to 1800 m in runout distance) which all stopped within forests, but started above treeline. Statistical dependencies between predictor variables on forest conditions, terrain features and avalanche characteristics (60 in total), and the response variable avalanche runout distance were investigated. Clear differences between avalanches that released in forests and avalanches that released above forests were observed. Forest structural parameters, in particular the starting zone stem density of trees with small diameters (115 cm), had a significant effect on runout distances of small to medium avalanches, which released in evergreen coniferous and mixed forests (r s = -0.3; p = 0.015). Beyond a threshold of 200 m this effect was negligible for runout distances of avalanches which were still in motion. In contrast, forest structure did not affect runout distances of medium to large avalanches, which started above treeline, but forests in general were still able to slow avalanche speeds and limit avalanche runout. Furthermore, runout distance was significantly affected by avalanche size characteristics for medium to large avalanches, while avalanche size was less important in determining the runout distance of small avalanches, which released in forest openings. These results emphasize that it is important to treat these two cases differently in protection forest as well as natural hazard management.
23359626|Each year, over 1000 climbers attempt an ascent of Mt. McKinley via the West Buttress, located on the 77-km-long Kahiltna Glacier in Denali National Park and Preserve, Alaska. Climbers generate over two metric tons of human waste annually, the majority of which is disposed of in crevasses. To assess potential health impacts of this management practice, we conducted field studies and a laboratory experiment to document the persistence of fecal bacteria in a variety of glacial microclimates. Low concentrations of fecal bacteria found in water samples collected over two melt seasons from the Kahiltna River support the argument that bacteria can survive in a glacial environment for an extended period of time. We documented Kahiltna Glacier surface velocities and used a simple flow model to predict the time and place that human waste will emerge in the ablation zone. Based on surface velocities we predict that waste buried in major camps will emerge at the glacier surface in as little as 71 years after traveling 28 km downstream. Our results show fecal microorganisms are persistent in a glacial environment, these pathogens pose a minor threat to human health, and buried human waste can be expected to emerge at the glacier surface within decades.
1552378|In studying the response of alpine glaciers to climate warming, the study of debris-covered glaciers is important in order to demonstrate that a negative feedback exists in the temperature-ablation relationship that is introduced by the increase in debris cover. In this paper, variations in the Belvedere Glacier tongue volume and thickness were quantified through a comparison of large-scale maps for 1957 and 1991. A volume increase of 22.7 million m<sup>3</sup> was revealed, and there was a mean increase of 15 m in thickness. Thickening was greatest above 1830 m, and thinning occurred at the glacier front (1830-1770 m). The glacier terminus advanced only slightly. This particular evolution of the Belvedere tongue has been attributed to positive balances of the glacier created by favorable climatic conditions (increase in winter precipitation between the early 1970s and mid-1980s and lower summer temperatures in the 1960s and 1970s). After the mid-1980s, reduced precipitation and a simultaneous increase in temperatures led to a slight retreat of the glacier front in the early 1990s. However, these climatic conditions were not sufficient to bring about a significant reduction of the thickness of the glacier, partly owing to the debric cover, which reduced the role of ablation.
4095841|Surge-type glaciers experience cyclic flow instabilities characterized by alternating periods of slow and fast flow. The geographical distribution of surge-type glaciers has been shown to be distinctly non-random in that they are clustered in some regions yet are completely absent from others. In order to identify factors that influence glacier surging, a number of environmental and glacial attributes were examined for an area in the Karakoram Himalaya, Central Asia. A new GIS-based glacier inventory was produced using a combination of ASTER and Landsat remotely sensed images and paper maps. A total of 150 glaciers were digitized, with 19 of these (12.6%) being classified as of surge-type. Attribute data for 10 glacial and environmental attributes were recorded either during the digitization phase or extracted automatically from the GIS. Simple data visualization techniques revealed a positive correlation between glacier surging and glacier length, area, perimeter size, average width, debris cover, and orientation. The use of univariate logit regression analysis showed that length, area, perimeter, average width, and the heaviest debris cover class showed significant correlation with surging. Multivariate logit regression techniques were employed to show that length, area, average width, and debris cover were all multicollinear, with the strongest statistically modeled relationship using the variable perimeter size. The significance of glacier perimeter on surging may be explained by an increased availability of avalanche-fed snow and debris material which may act as a mass balance proxy. The findings that glacier size (in particular length and perimeter) is most strongly related to surging are consistent with the findings of studies in a number of different regions.
4095822|To understand how ice masses in the Russian High Arctic respond to climate change, the processes that influence their current mass balance must be evaluated. A mass balance model was coupled with an ice-flow model to determine the influence of the present climate regime on the dynamics of the Vavilov Ice Cap, October Revolution Island, Severnaya Zemlya. Model results show that the bulk of the ice cap is flowing relatively slowly, at a velocity of around
40801690|Changes in Arapaho Glacier, Front Range, Colorado, are determined using historical maps, aerial photography, and field surveys using ground penetrating radar (GPR) and Global Positioning System data. Arapaho Glacier lost 52% of its area during the 20th century, decreasing from 0.34 to 0.16 km Between 1900 and 1999 glacial area loss rates increased from an average of 1500 m yr- to 2400 m yr-.Average glacial thinning between 1900 and 1960 was 0.76 m yr- , but slowed to 0.10 m yr- between 1960 and 2005. Its maximum thickness is approximately 15 m. If recent trends in area loss continue, Arapaho Glacier may disappear in as few as 65 years. However, the decline in thinning rate suggests that the glacier is retreating into a corner of its upper cirque in which increased inputs of snow from direct precipitation and avalanching, and decreased insolation will greatly slow its rate of retreat. This may be generally true for many temperate-latitude cirque glaciers.
40801765|Variability in the vascular plant species composition of four stages of primary succession was investigated on 39 glacier forelands in the Jotunheim and Jostedalsbreen regions of south-central Norway. The relative frequencies of species were recorded in the pioneer zone adjacent to the glacier snout, in vegetation on terrain ages of c. 70 years and c. 250 years, and in mature vegetation outside the foreland (approximately 10,000 years since dglaciation). Sorensen dissimilarity, non-metric multidimensional scaling, and cluster analysis were used to compare the relative variability in species composition of these four stages and to identify patterns of succession within four altitudinal belts. Indicator species analysis identified characteristic species within each stage. Variation partitioning was used to quantify the relative influence of altitude and continentality on species composition. Variability increased between pioneer and later successional stages at all but the highest altitudes, which showed no significant difference in variability between stages. The results suggest that up to an altitude of around 1600 m succession on glacier forelands follows a divergent trajectory: above this altitude little successional change occurs. Rate of successional change also varies with altitude: below about 1000 m, in the sub-alpine belt, the transition from pioneer vegetation to birch woodland occurs within 70 years; above about 1600 m in the high-alpine belt, herbaceous pioneer vegetation can persist indefinitely; at intermediate altitudes, the dwarf-shrub and snowbed vegetation types of the low-and mid-alpine belts develop within c. 250 years. The explanatory power of altitude and continentality on compositional variation and the relative importance of altitude increased with successional stage.
4139077| A study of shoot populations of Carex curvula subspecies (Carex curvula ssp. rosae and C. curvula ssp. curvula) compared predictions from a 3-year observation period with renewed observations after 10 years. The study sites were located in the Dolomites (Mount Latemar), Italy, at 2390-2580 m a.s.l. The first observation period (1990-1992) produced findings on shoot numbers in different plots at five sites. These shoot numbers allowed the finite rates of population increase  (characterizing the dynamic state of the populations) to be calculated. The values of  varied modestly within and among populations. The longterm rates of population increase remained close to the equilibrium value of 1.0. The spatial pattern was calculated by means of the patchiness index and patch occupancy. The smaller the plot population, the higher the patchiness and the lower the proportion of occupied patches. To some extent, patchiness can serve as a measure of a population's dynamic state. A correlation between the structural measures (patchiness, patch occupancy) and the rate of population increase  showed that strongly aggregated populations were small and also decreasing in size. The extinction risks for the next 50 years were found to be very low for populations on the pioneer grassland stand whereas most other populations will decrease and probably reach critical thresholds. 
10.2307/1552284|Image analysis software was used to obtain various measures of thalli in crustose lichen communities. Lichens growing on flat-faced quartzite boulders in two glacier forefields were photographed and the images were transferred to a computer. Barren rock was digitally removed using Adobe Photoshop and Idrisi geographic information system (GIS) software was used to measure thallus size, perimeter, compactness, and total lichenized area. Replicate analyses show that the technique produces reproducible results that allow a user to distinguish very small differences in lichen coverage and obtain other quantitative measures of a lichen population. The technique is suitable for use with smooth, evenly illuminated surfaces where there are clear color differences between the various lichens and the substrate is a uniform color. Excellent results can be obtained using a 35 mm film camera, inexpensive flash units, a film or print scanner and DOS based versions of Idrisi that permit batch processing of images. The technique can be used to examine lichen colonization patterns and explore new approaches in lichenometric dating.
4095942|Reindeer, Rangifer tarandus, live in subarctic and alpine environments with spatially and temporally heterogeneous resource distribution. In this study, we used a hierarchical approach to test whether reindeer responded to spatial heterogeneity during the plant growing season (divided into three distinct periods) in a mountainous subarctic environment in northern Sweden. A reindeer herd in northern Sweden was surveyed using radio-telemetry (8 female reindeer) and the selection of feeding habitats by observing individuals/groups (135 observations) using laser range-finding binoculars. Reindeer selected feeding areas (evaluated at 5-km grid size), as well as feeding habitats (evaluated at 0.5- and 1-km grid size) during spring, in response to high terrain ruggedness and habitat heterogeneity. Reindeer switched during summer to select against terrain ruggedness and habitat heterogeneity at the level of feeding habitats, while preferring southward facing habitats. During autumn, a broader spectrum of feeding habitats was used. We conclude that reindeer seem to adopt a hierarchical strategy in agreement with general foraging theory, and are capable of responding to seasonal changes in resource distribution occurring across spatial scales. Furthermore, our results support the idea that spatial heterogeneity is an important factor to large-sized herbivores at high and intermediate levels of habitat selection. Conservation of large continuous and undeveloped landscapes is an important management goal, as they provide a wide range of habitats necessary for animals such as reindeer that use large territories.
4095900|Range limits of temperate high-altitude plants may be controlled by tradeoffs between physically severe but uncrowded conditions, versus mild but crowded conditions. Because up-slope migration of lowland species may accompany global warming and earlier snowmelt, I tested whether crowding by neighbors vs. timing of snowmelt limit Potentilla diversifolia to later-melting sites in the Rocky Mountains (U.S.A.). I transplanted individuals from two altitudes to experimental plots within and below the species' range limit, and experimentally altered snowmelt timing and the density of neighboring vegetation. In contrast to theoretical predictions for biotic control of lower range limits, higher temperatures and drier soils contributed to markedly reduced survivorship and reproduction below the native-range regardless of treatment. Neighbor removal only marginally increased performance both within and below the native-range, suggesting that interactions with neighboring vegetation are much less important for distribution than abiotic factors. Populations from the subalpine zone had longer growth intervals and grew larger than those from the alpine tundra in their native sites, but did not outperform alpine tundra populations when grown below the species' range. Although earlier snowmelt enhances growth, phenotypic plasticity may enable P. diversifolia to persist in later-melting tundra sites while higher temperatures and drought restrict it from much of the subalpine zone.
41240417|In exploring geographical distribution of mountain altitudinal belts (e.g., snowline, timber line, etc.), many unitary or dibasic fitting models have been developed to depict the relationship between altitudinal belts' elevation and longitude or latitude, or both. However, most of these models involve small scales and could not be applied to other regions, while those established for the northern hemisphere or the whole globe, are of very low precision. The reason is that these models neglect one of the most important factors controlling the distribution of altitudinal beltsmass elevation effect (massenerhebungseffect, short as MEE in the following text). This concept (MEE) was introduced more than 100 years ago by A. de Quervain to account for the observed tendency for temperature-related parameters such as tree line and snowline to occur at higher elevations in the central Alps than on their outer margins. Although it has been widely observed and its effect on the elevation of mountain vegetation belts recognized, this phenomenon has not been quantitatively studied. We compiled 143 snowline descriptions from literature covering the Tibetan Plateau and its surrounding areas. Snowline elevation is related to longitude, latitude, and mountain base elevation (MBE), to construct a multivariate linear regression equation. These three factors could explain 83.5% of snowline elevation's variation in the Tibetan plateau and its surrounding areas. Longitude, latitude, and MBE (representing MEE to some extent) contribute 16.14%, 51.64%, and 32.22%, respectively, to the variability of snowline elevation. North of latitude 32  N, the three factors' contribution amounts to 18.72%, 44.27%, and 37.01%, respectively; to the south, their contribution is 28.12%, 15.37%, and 56.51%, respectively. A nonlinear model was also constructed, but it only enhances the ability slightly in fitting of snowline's distribution. Our analysis reveals that latitude and MBE are significant controlling factors of snowline elevation. Longitude, which stands for precipitation to a great extent, has limited impact on snowline's distribution. MEE should be further studied, or directly quantified so that it can be adequately incorporated into the development of spatial models for altitudinal belts, whereby the precision of such models could be greatly enhanced.
1552297|Carbon dioxide fluxes in a dry subarctic heath were examined after 10 and 11 yr of experimental manipulations of temperature, light, and nutrients. The aim was to investigate how growing season carbon (C) balance was affected by the major climatic factors that are expected to change in the future. Carbon flux was measured in closed chambers as uptake through gross ecosystem production (GP), release through ecosystem respiration (ER), and as net ecosystem production (NEP). Diurnal NEP through a day with clear skies at peak growing season was consistently negative through all treatments the first year of measurement, and day-time NEP varied around zero at eight days across the growing season the second year, implying that a net release of C from the ecosystem to the atmosphere may take place during the growing season. Our results suggest that respiration was the main determinant of C balance, and that variations in light levels and temperature could alter the balance between C uptake and C loss. Fertilization strongly enhanced both ER and GP whereas temperature enhancement changed neither ER nor GP. Shading decreased both ER and GP. After harvest of the aboveground plant biomass, the belowground respiration was 72 to 93% of the ER before harvest. The significant treatment effects on belowground respiration after harvest were similar to the effects on ER before harvest. These results suggest that the ER were mainly from belowground respiration, and that the treatments affected the belowground respiration more than the respiration above ground.
10.2307/1552205|We investigated the spatial characteristics of sedimentary inclusions and elucidated processes controlling their spatial and temporal variability in the fast ice cover of the shallow-marine environment of Elson Lagoon near Barrow, Alaska. This was accomplished by examining the frazil ice layer of sea-ice cores representing the 1998, 1999, and 2000 fall freeze-up periods and comparing the results with a sediment resuspension model. Sediments occur exclusively as aggregates of clay to fine-silt sized particles that were confined to brine inclusions in the frazil ice. The average cross-sectional area of these aggregates is positively correlated with sediment concentration of the frazil ice (R<sup>2</sup> = 0.82, P < 0.01). The minimum distance between neighboring aggregates (nearest-neighbor distance) is negatively correlated with sediment concentration (R<sup>2</sup> = 0.78, P < 0.01). However, little correlation exists between the number of aggregates and sediment concentration. Sediment concentrations ranged from 24 to 1470 mg L<sup>-1</sup> and sediment loads ranged from 2 g m<sup>-2</sup> to 384 g m<sup>-2</sup>, with 1998 and 2000 sediment loads being one to two orders of magnitude smaller than 1999 sediment loads. Similarly, the potential for bottom-sediment resuspension was greater in 1999 than in 1998 and 2000 by more than a factor of two. Resuspension potential is controlled spatially by the local bathymetry and interannually by wind velocity and fetch. At submeter scales, increases in bottom sediment resuspension result in greater sea-ice sediment concentrations, larger aggregates, and smaller nearest-neighbor distances.
10.2307/1552628| This paper examines the potential to reverse bed degradation trends in the Drme River (southeast France), a prealpine gravel-bed stream, by assessing coarse sediment supply in tributary subbasins. Two approaches are developed. First, a Principal Component Analysis was performed on 24 subwatersheds to characterize the most productive ones. Second, fieldwork and aerial photographs provide detailed assessment for two mountain streams, one characterized by abundant bed-load (the Esconavette Creek), the other characterized by 30 yr of inactivity (the Barnavette Creek). Active tributaries (with developed active gravel bars) have been discriminated according to variables describing watershed sediment storage and production potential. Variables describing human intervention on erosion and vegetation cover appear to exert secondary influences on geomorphic activity in a context of general geomorphic stabilization. Declining activity associates features such as bed incision, channel narrowing, and vegetation development in riparian buffer strips in the two mountain streams studied. They are more frequent on the Barnavette Creek, the inactivity of which is partly explained by smaller lateral inputs from valley-filling. 
40305854|Active denudation processes occurring on slopes in north and northwestern Iceland have contributed to the buildup of large colluvial cones. These processes have been active since around 10,000  C yr BP when the ice sheet retreated during the last deglaciation. Stratigraphic records provide information of the kind of sedimentary transfer processes that have been active on slopes through time. Vertical sections in colluvial cones in north and northwestern Iceland exhibit a characteristic stratigraphy with successions of material from mass-movements interbedded with soil horizons occurring throughout the Holocene, under periglacial conditions of varying intensity. The alternating organic and minerogenic units are indicators of phases of slope activity and stability. The dating of the deposits is possible with tephrochronology and  dating. The quantitative analysis of sediment on colluvial cones shows the relative importance of aggradation due to slope processes vs. soil formation during the Holocene. Increasing accumulation rates have been observed over historical time since at least A. D. 1104. The clastic deposits observed in north and northwestern Iceland are thought to provide information on extreme events during the Holocene, as the occurrence of mass-wasting release cannot be clearly related to Holocene climatic trends.
10.2307/1552444|We conducted two experiments to determine the activity of and factors which control periphyton during winter in Stevensville Brook, Vermont. The first experiment during winter/spring 1994 examined the effect of a 300 to 450% difference in light and doubling of flow (low and high light, slow and fast flow) on periphyton chlorophyll a (chl a) and ash-free dry mass (AFDM) from stream rocks and artificial substrata. A second experiment was performed to determine whether periphyton was nitrogen or phosphorus limited. In addition, stream water was sampled during fall/winter 1994/95 for nitrate (NO<sub>3</sub>), ammonia (NH<sub>4</sub>), soluble reactive phosphorus (SRP), and total phosphorus (TP) to determine the availability of nutrients in Stevensville Brook. Increases of up to 250% for AFDM and 600% for chl a during the first study indicated robust activity throughout the winter despite low temperatures and light. Flow had a negative effect and sampling date was found to have a significant effect on periphyton biomass (chl a and AFDM) while light was found to influence increases in AFDM on clay tiles only. Water analyses showed that SRP was less than 0.001 mg L<sup>-1</sup>, NH<sub>4</sub> and TP were low and often undetectable, and NO<sub>3</sub> remained at about 0.20 mg L<sup>-1</sup>. Results from the nutrient enrichment experiment showed a significant response of chl a to P but not N and no response of AFDM to enrichment with either N or P. In Stevensville Brook during winter, the algal community, as represented by the chl a concentration, is predominantly controlled by phosphorus concentrations and is influenced to a lesser extent by flow; the periphyton community as a whole, represented by AFDM, is controlled mostly by stream flow and light.
1552640| GIS-based data sets were used to analyze the structure of the forest line at the landscape level in the lowlands of the Usa River Basin, in northeast European Russia. Vegetation zones in the area range from taiga in the south to forest-tundra and tundra in the north. We constructed logistic regression models to predict forest location at spatial scales varying from 1  1 km to 25  25 km grid cells. Forest location was explained by July mean temperature, ground temperature (permafrost), yearly minimum temperature, and a Topographic Wetness Index (soil moisture conditions). According to the models, the forest line follows the +13.9C mean July temperature isoline, whereas in other parts of the Arctic it usually is located between +10 to +12C. It is hypothesized that the anomalously high temperature isoline for the forest line in Northeast European Russia is due to the inability of local ecotypes of spruce to grow on permafrost terrain. Observed patterns depend on spatial scale, as the relative significance of the explanatory variables varies between models implemented at different scales. Developed models indicate that with climate warming of 3C by the end of the 21st century temperature would not limit forest advance anywhere in our study area. 
4095910|Environmental factors associated with deep chlorophyll maximum (DCM) layers were examined in five lakes of the McMurdo Dry Valleys, Antarctica, to test the hypothesis that DCM are more closely associated with resource limitations than water density. Because data could not be transformed to meet the assumption of normal distribution, distance matrices were constructed from vectors of observed chlorophyll-a (CHL), photosynthetic active radiation intensity (PAR), soluble reactive phosphorous (SRP), dissolved inorganic nitrogen (DIN), dissolved oxygen (DO), water density (DEN), and incremental change in water density/depth (DEL). Multiple regression analyses then were based on permutation evaluations of the relationships between distance matrices (partial Mantel analyses). Results indicated that resource availability (PAR and DIN) was most frequently related to chlorophyll-a, although DEN and DEL often were significant within individual lakes. Hence, resource relationships were strongest across lakes and seasons whereas density relationships also were important within individual lakes. Moreover, DCM appeared sensitive to threshold levels of DEN and PAR, suggesting that controls may exist as both discrete (threshold) and continuous functions of both resource availability and water density.
1552432| We quantitatively investigated a snow algal community on Tyndall Glacier of the Southern Patagonia Icefield, Chile, at an elevation from 300 to 1500 m a.s.l. We observed 7 species of snow and ice algae (Chlorophyta and cyanobacteria) on the glacier. These species were Mesotaenium (M.) berggrenii, Cylindrocystis (Cyl.) brbissonii, Ancylonema sp., Closterium sp., Chloromonas sp., Oscillatoriaceae cyanobacterium, and an unknown alga. The spatial distribution of these algae differed among the species. M. berggrenii, Cyl. brbissonii, Ancylonema sp., and Closterium sp. appeared mainly in the lower-elevation area (370-770 m a.s.l.), the unknown alga in the higher-elevation area (900-1500 m a.s.l.), and Chloromonas sp. and Oscillatoriaceae cyanobacterium in the middle part of the glacier. The mean cell concentration and total cell volume biomass ranged from 0 to 9.2  10<sup>4</sup> (mean: 1.8  10<sup>4</sup>) cells mL<sup>-1</sup>, from 0 to 327 (mean: 63) L m<sup>-2</sup>, respectively. The cell volume biomass generally decreased with altitude. The community structure showed that M. berggrenii was dominant in the ice area (65-100% of total cell volume) and lower snow area (50-70%) and that the unknown alga was dominant in the higher snow area (100%). The Simpson's species diversity index was significantly different among the study sites but was generally low (less than 1.9) at all sites. The cell volume biomass and diversity index are relatively smaller on the Patagonian glacier than those in algal communities on Alaskan and Himalayan glaciers. Lower nutrient levels in precipitation are likely to cause the smaller algal biomass on the glacier. 
4095932|Severe road-making disturbance of a New Zealand high-alpine cushionfield initiated a secondary succession which has been assessed against the adjacent undisturbed community with permanent transects over 24 yrs. The succession has recently (yrs 11-24) accelerated as areas of bare soil-stone pavement continue to be colonized. Total plant cover has increased on the disturbed sites over this period (from 36 to 48%) and is now within the range of that in the intact cushionfield (48-59%), while the early dominant graminoids, particularly Poa colensoi, are now declining as other species establish. Floristic richness in the recovering system (33 species) now exceeds that of the intact cushionfield (21-27 species) with establishment of nine apparently seral species plus several mainly cushion species characteristic of the undisturbed cushionfield. Transition probabilities among seven recognized cover states for the most recent period (1986-1999) further clarify the succession by showing the "other species" category increasing in importance at the expense of the other six states. This contrasts with the relative stability of the intact cushionfield where autotransitions predominate over the same period. The severe high-alpine environment rather than physical differences between the disturbed and undisturbed sites appears to be limiting the rate of succession toward the undisturbed state. Despite establishment of several characteristic cushionfield species, the still minor role of its dominant, Dracophyllum muscoides (1% vs. 26-32% cover), indicates that the succession remains far from complete. Among the various succession models, autosuccession is untenable given the establishment of nine apparently seral species; only the inhibition and intermediate disturbance hypotheses could be entertained with the results to date.
20181834|The formation of many arctic wetlands is associated with the occurrence of polygon-patterned permafrost. Existing scenarios to describe and explain surface landforms in arctic wetlands (low-center and high-center polygons and polygon ponds) invoke competing hypotheses: a cyclic succession (the thaw-lake hypothesis) or a linear succession (terrestrialization). Both hypotheses infer the predictable development of polygon-patterned wetlands over millennia. However, very few studies have applied paleoecological techniques to reconstruct long-term succession in tundra wetlands and thereby test the validity of existing hypotheses. This paper uses the paleoecological record of diatoms to investigate long-term development of individual polygons in a High Arctic wetland. Two landform processes were examined: (1) the millennial-scale development of a polygon-pond, and (2) the transition from low-center to erosive high-center polygons. Diatom assemblages were quantified from habitats associated with contrasting landforms in the present-day landscape, and used as an analog to reconstruct past transitions between polygon types. On the basis of this evidence, the paleoecological record does not support either of the existing models describing the predictable succession of polygon landforms in an arctic wetland. Our results indicate a need for greater paleoecological understanding, in combination with in situ observations in present-day geomorphology, in order to identify patterns of polygon wetland development and elucidate the long-term drivers of these landform transitions.
23252331|New Zealand treeline species have low frost tolerance compared to their northern hemisphere counterparts, and appear susceptible to out-of-season frosts. However, foliage from high altitude trees is rarely directly measured. This study compares seasonal frost tolerance of mature treeline trees with local temperatures to assess whether frost affects their performance. Photosystem efficiency and seasonal frost tolerance (temperatures causing 10% and 50% foliage mortality, LT 10 and LT 50 , respectively) were measured on foliage from four native and one exotic species across the treeline ecotone. For all species, photosystem efficiency and frost tolerance were lower in spring and summer than in autumn. Frost tolerance changed with altitude only for exotic Pinus contorta in spring. Spring frosts regularly exceeded LT 10 for all species. In all seasons over the last 20 years, the minimum temperature experienced was at least 4 C warmer than the LT 50 ; however, east of the Main Divide, a 1-in-40 year extreme minimum temperature in summer reached LT 50 levels. This study suggests frosts may cause some foliar damage, especially in spring, but the effects of frosts on mature trees are unlikely to control the position of the New Zealand treeline.
23252327|Within alpine environments the interactions of air temperature, solar irradiance, wind, surface albedo, microtopography, and biotic traits all influence patterns of soil and plant canopy temperatures. The resulting mosaic of surface temperatures has a profound impact on ecosystem processes, plant survival, and ecophysiological performance. Previous studies have documented large and persistent variations in microhabitat temperatures over mesoscale alpine terrains. We have used a novel mobile system to examine changes in soil and plant canopy surface temperatures at spatial scales of centimeters and temporal scales of minutes in an alpine fellfield habitat in the White Mountains of California. In the middle of a summer day, the mean surface temperature differences between points 2, 5, and 10 cm apart were 2.9, 5.4, and 9.0 C, respectively, and extreme differences of 18 C or more were found over distances of a few centimeters. These thermal patterns are due not only to substrate material but also to biotic conditions of plant canopy architecture and ecophysiological traits of individual species. The magnitude of temperature variation at these fine scales is greater than the range of warming scenarios in Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) projections, suggesting that these habitats offer the capacity of significant thermal heterogeneity for plant survival.
20181769|Nonsorted circles are relatively barren patterned-ground features common in most arctic tundra regions. We studied how vegetation changes on nonsorted circles might affect cryogenic processes, which is of relevance as arctic vegetation responds to climate change. Twenty-eight circles at a moist nonacidic tundra site in northern Alaska received one of four treatments: (a) vegetation removal; (b) vegetation removal and sedge transplants; (c) vegetation removal and moss transplants; or (d) no manipulation. We monitored soil-surface temperatures, thaw depth, frost heave, and soil-surface instability as indicators of cryogenic processes for three years. Vegetation removal led to 1.5 C (22.3%) warmer summer soil-surface temperatures, 4.8 cm (6.2%) deeper mean thaw depth, 3.5 cm (26.2%) greater frost heave and a drastic increase in an index of soil instability when compared to the control. In contrast, moss additions lowered soil-surface temperatures by 2.8 C (41.8%) in the summer, delayed freezing by almost two weeks and thawing by one week, decreased mean thaw depth by 10.3 cm (14.9%), and decreased frost heave by 6.6 cm (52.4%) when compared to the control. The sedge treatment had intermediate effects on thaw and heave. This study indicates that increases in plant cover and particularly moss cover on nonsorted circles due to a warming climate would decrease the heat flux between the atmosphere and the mineral soil and result in shallower thaw and less frost heave, leading to regional reductions in the activities of nonsorted circles.
20181821|This study uses geomorphological, dendrochronological, and archival research to investigate the pattern, chronology, and sedimentology of debris-flow deposits in two reaches of the Zailiiskiy Alatau range of the Tien Shan mountains, Kazakhstan. Steep and narrow low-order tributary valleys in this environment promote rapid coarse sediment transfer to trunk streams and, in wider trunk valley reaches, locally result in development of debris-flow assemblages and terraced sequences of coarse-grained fluvial sediments. Since the mid-19th century the region has experienced 23 documented large-scale debris flows, including 14 in the study area, and these coincide with a period of climate warming. The majority of recorded events are attributed to the failure of moraine-dammed lakes, while the remainder were triggered by intense summer rainstorms. Landform-sediment assemblages investigated here have extended the documentary record by identifying at least 6 major debris-flow assemblages dating respectively from sometime before the early 17th century, ca. 1607-1633, ca. 1702-1728, ca. 1725-1751, ca. 1769-1795, and the mid-late 18th century. The geomorphological record of debris flows spanning the 17th to 19th centuries indicates therefore that high-magnitude events occurred also during the cooler climatic conditions of the Little Ice Age, although it is suggested that these events may have coincided with short-lived phases of glacier retreat. Debris flows in this environment may be considered as an important component of the paraglacial response to glacier recession, and this has clear implications for future patterns of valley floor development and its interaction with human activity.
41416435|Directly measured growth rates of two lichens (Pseudephebe minuscula and Rhizocarpon sections Rhizocarpon and Superficiale) from Svalbard made over a two-decade interval (1984-2007) are presented. Growth rates were determined by measuring the change in area of the lichen thalli from digital images and converting area to diameter. Pseudephebe diameter growth rates ranged from 0.2 to 1.5 mm yr and Rhizocarpon grew 0.05 to 0.30 mm yr. Growth rates of both are a function of thalli sizegrowth rates increase with increasing thallus size up to 70 mm diameter for Pseudephebe and 30 mm diameter for Rhizocarpon. While these directly measured growth rate results are consistent with other recent directly measured lichen growth studies, they are not consistent with indirectly determined age-size curves that show a negative correlation between size and growth rate (i.e., rapid "great growth" followed by slower "linear growth"). We explore several reasons to explain the apparent discrepancy between directly measured and indirectly determined growth rates, including climate change, increased nutrient fluxes, and population sampling differences between the two methods. We argue that indirectly determined growth curves, which integrate the effects of changing growing conditions over time, remain the best basis for lichenometric dating.
41240423|Arctic regions hold considerable reservoirs of soil organic carbon. However, most of this carbon is in a potential labile state, and expected changes in temperature and water availability could strongly affect the carbon balance of tundra ecosystems. Plant community composition and soil carbon are closely tied to microtopography and position relative to the water table. We evaluated CO fluxes and moss contribution to ecosystem photosynthesis in response to fine-scale topography across a drained lake bed in Barrow, Alaska, during two contrasting growing seasons. CO exchange was assessed through static chamber measurements in three vegetation classes distinguished by plant dominance and topographic position within lowcentered polygons. Gross primary production (GPP) and ecosystem respiration (ER) were the lowest under high soil moisture conditions in 2006. ER responded more strongly to wet conditions, resulting in a larger summer sink in 2006 than in 2005 (64 vs. 17g CO m, respectively). Microsites responded differently to contrasting weather conditions. Low elevation microsites presented a strong reduction in ER as a result of increased water availability. A maximum of 48% of daytime GPP and 33% of seasonal daytime GPP was contributed by moss on average across microtopographic positions. The interaction between fine-scale microtopography and variation in temperature and water availability can result in considerable differences in CO sink activity of the polygonal tundra.
4095877|Recovery of tall alpine herbfields from livestock grazing and drought were examined using 30, 0.6 X 0.9 m permanent quadrats photographed in 1959, 1964, 1968, 1978, and 2001 in Kosciuszko National Park, southeastern Australia. Cover attributes were assessed using a 130-point grid superimposed over each slide/photograph. For the 18 permanent quadrats near Mount Gungartan, where grazing ceased in 1958, there was a pattern of increasing vegetation cover. Bare areas were initially colonized by herbs, with native grasses, the lateral expansion of existing shrubs, and other herb species eventually replacing the colonizing herbs. For the 12 quadrats near Mount Kosciuszko, where grazing ceased 15 years before the survey, vegetation cover was high (around 94%) in all surveys except at the end of a long drought. The drought caused an increase in litter at both locations as graminoids died back. Graminoid cover recovered relatively rapidly and had reached pre-drought levels by 1978 and remained high. Herb cover was dynamic after the initial recovery from grazing, with a trend for reduced herb cover after 1964. The pattern of recovery from these two types of landscape level disturbances differed due to the different responses of the major life forms to bare ground, litter, and existing vegetation cover. The study also highlights the benefits of existing long-term monitoring programs.
10.2307/1552406|In the forest-alpine ecotone at Stillberg (Dischmatal/Switzerland) the morphology of humus forms and the spatial variability of organic layer properties were investigated. At northeast-exposed gully sites mulls with high acidity in the A-horizon occur. They were classified after the Canadian classification of humus forms as Rhizomulls. Mors occur on ridges and on their east- and north-exposed aspects. They can be differentiated by the ratio between the thickness of the F-horizon and the combined thickness of the F- and H-horizon. The relative thickness of the F-horizon increases significantly in the order: east aspects < ridges < north aspect. The humus forms of the east aspects and the ridges were classified as Humimors and those of the north aspects as Hemimors. The Canadian classification was suitable to describe the properties of the horizons and to classify the humus forms. The results of a grid sampling at the study sites and the computation of nonergodic correlograms show that the spatial variability of organic-layer thickness, bulk density, and moisture is high (CV around 50%), with a pronounced small-scale heterogeneity (range usually below 2 m and more than 50% variability occurs within 0.3 m). Only 33% of the variance of organic-layer thickness were explained by site and vegetation structure, but in spite of the low percentage both proved to be a significant factor. In the forest-alpine tundra ecotone about 30 to 35 soil samples per site are needed for a reliable estimation of the mean of the organic-layer thickness.
10.2307/1552449|Degree of soil development increases with age of parent materials in the zone of confluence of continental and alpine piedmont glaciers east of Glacier National Park, Montana. Surficial deposits are assigned to three, possibly four, glacial events on the basis geomorphic and pedologic evidence. Based on over 100 profiles examined, soils in late Wisconsin till and outwash are typically Cryoborolls and Cryochrepts with 0- to 62-cm-thick, brown cambic (Bw) horizons and 50+-cm-thick calcic (Bk) horizons with Stage II to II+ carbonate morphology. Soils in late Illinoian or early Wisconsin sediments are Argiborolls or Argic Cryoborolls with 34- to 92-cm-thick, dark yellowish brown argillic (Bt) horizons and those in Illinoian sediments are strongly developed Paleudolls with 51- to 54-cm-thick, yellowish red argillic horizons. Soils on Number 1 and 2 Bench remnants (considered Pliocene to early Pleistocene in age) are very strongly developed Paleudolls with about 2.5-m-thick, leached, yellowish red argillic horizons. Properties which best reflect relative soil age include thickness of argillic horizon, depth of leaching, depth of oxidation, Harden profile index, Harden rubification index, and clay accumulation index.
10.2307/1552258|This paper examines the influence of increased precipitation levels and grazing on the demographics of Microtus richardsoni. Water voles were trapped and marked during the summers of 1990, 1991, and 1992 along four headwater watersheds of the Clark's Fork of the Yellowstone River in Wyoming and Montana. The summer of 1992 had more than double the precipitation of either 1990 or 1991. During the wet summer of 1992, capture success was significantly greater, as was the proportion of young voles captured. In 1992, several factors contributed to increased water vole populations. There were significantly more indications of male reproductive activity. Class I water voles (13-49 g) of both sexes showed signs of reproductive activity indicating they were reaching sexual maturity at smaller body mass. Significantly more embryos/trap-killed female were found. In 1995, the water vole was listed as a sensitive species because it is rare and requires specific alpine riparian habitat that is declining and may be damaged by poor grazing practices. Capture success was significantly greater, and there were significantly more young water voles in ungrazed drainages. Measured indicators of reproductive activity did not vary significantly between grazed and ungrazed drainages. Grazing might affect survival of young water voles and should be studied further.
1552368|Ice flow speeds were measured at Glaciar Soler in northern Patagonia during the middle of the melt season (November-December) in 1998 and compared to data from 1985. In 1998 the surface flow speed was greater at all survey points, yet the ice was about 40 m thinner; the greater melt rate in 1998 probably explains these differences because of the effect of melt rate on basal sliding speed. Multiday variations in surface speed were well correlated with daily variations in surface water input, which is the sum of melt rate and rainfall. Although the basal sliding speeds vary from place to place, we obtained similar linear relationships between basal sliding speed and surface water input. This result indicates the possibility of taking account of basal sliding as a function of surface water input.
20181774|Seasonal variations in ablation and surface velocity were investigated on the lower part of Fox Glacier, South Westland, New Zealand. A large variation between summer and winter ablation was recorded, with daily averages of 129 mm d and 22 mm d, respectively. Variations in measured climatic variables were found to account for 90% of variation in ablation during both summer and winter seasons, with significant increases in ablation occurring in conjunction with heavy rainfall events. Surface velocity also showed seasonality, averaging 0.87 m d during summer and 0.64 m d in winter, a reduction of 26%. It is thought that the general reduction in velocity during winter can be attributed to a decrease in the supply of surface meltwater to the subglacial zone. Short-term velocity peaks appeared to coincide with heavy rainfall events, with surface velocity responses typically occurring within 24 hours of each rainfall event. During winter, moderate rainfall events (100 mm over 24 hours) created a surface velocity response up to 44% greater than the prevailing velocity. Though difficult to deconvolve, magnitudes of surface velocity response to rainfall inputs appear linked to time lags between rainfall events and subglacial drainage efficiency and water storage. The longer-term dynamics of Fox Glacier appear linked to fluctuations in the Southern Oscillation Index (SOI), with positive mass balances of Southern Alps' glaciers appearing to mirror negative SOI (El Nio) conditions. Given the calculated response time of 9.1 years for Fox Glacier, the current terminus advance may be linked to mass gains reported in the mid-1990s, with current mass balance gains perhaps leading to terminus advances 9 years hence.
10.2307/1552413| The roles of chemical and mechanical weathering in permafrost regions were assessed, by measuring stream discharge and major, trace, and rare earth elements (REE) of suspended matter (SPM), river-bed sediments (RBS), and water in two lithologically different catchments in the High Arctic at Zackenberg, Northeast Greenland. The drainage basin contains sedimentary and crystalline rocks. In streams draining the sedimentary rock area, SPM and total dissolved solutes (TDS) are high with maximum values of 2500 mg L<sup>-1</sup> and 105 S cm<sup>-1</sup>, respectively. Variation of both relates to changes in vegetation and morphology. Mineral fractionation during transport and soil-forming processes in the sedimentary portion of the study area lead to characteristic chemical profiles for the SPM and RBS. Streams draining the crystalline rock area have low SPM (18 mg L<sup>-1</sup>) and TDS (14 S cm<sup>-1</sup>) as a result of poor soil development and a lack of vegetation. Mechanical denudation exceeds chemical denudation by an order of magnitude for the entire catchment. Because the REE distributions of the crystalline differ from those in the sedimentary SPM differ, it is possible to quantify source rock contributions to the main outflow using a mixing calculation. A mass balance comparing the SPM in the main outflow with the tributaries, using the REEs as "fingerprints," indicates that about 90% of the sedimentary basin suspended matter is redeposited before reaching the outflow, at least over the period of observation. Taking this redeposition into account, the rate of chemical denudation (100 kg km<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>) exceeds mechanical denudation (70 kg km<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>) in the sedimentary drainage basin. 
40305860|In this study, we created a database of 633 species collected from alpine meadows on the eastern Qinghai-Tibet Plateau, and considered the correlation of interspecific seed germinability variation with ecological, life-history, and phylogenetic background. We found that taxonomic membership accounted for the majority of the weighted germination index (WGI) variation (71%). The strong taxonomic effect suggests that WGI variation within taxonomic membership is constrained, and a large proportion of WGI variation is explained by life-history traits also correlated with taxonomic membership. The overlap does not negate the adaptive significance of the relationship between these life-history traits and germinability. In addition, the altitudes and habitats when considered first had no significant effect on seed germinability variation, but we found that there were significant interactions between altitudes (or habitats) and some phylogenetic groups. Although their interactions were all less than the main effects of phylogenetic groups, they could explain that the effect of phylogenetic constraint on seed germination was also impacted by environmental factors. Thus, we could not exclude the effect of longtime selection by environmental factors on seed germination, and we think interspecific seed germinability variation was affected by phylogenetic, life-history, and ecological factors together.
23359387|Deciduous plants in the Arctic are increasing in abundance due to warming trends, and this increase will likely contribute to changes in regional carbon dynamics. One of the dominant deciduous-shrub genera, Salix, is highly susceptible to leaf galls, but the influence of arthropod herbivores on plant-level carbon uptake in the Arctic remains poorly studied. We examined the impacts of galling by two eriophyoid mites on a suite of ecophysiological traits in leaves of two species of willows (Salix pulchra Cham. and Salix glauca L.) in Alaskan arctic tundra. Galled leaves showed significant declines in maximum photosynthetic capacity (A max ), photosystem II efficiency (F V /F M ), stomatal conductance (g s ), and instantaneous water-use efficiency (WUE) in S. pulchra leaves and in A max and F V /F M of S. glauca leaves. Neighboring gall-free leaves on the same shoot as galled leaves had higher A max and g s than nearby controls suggesting compensatory responses. Gall-infested tissue had significantly higher concentrations of glucose and fructose compared to gall-free leaves, suggesting a possible preference for these metabolites. Alternatively, this variation in metabolite concentrations in the area of wounding may be associated with the production of defense compounds. To unravel the specific variation in metabolic concentrations related to gall infestation, additional studies are needed. Our findings do suggest that galling mitesubiquitous but poorly examined in the tundrahave significant impacts on photosynthetic processes that are likely to affect whole-plant functioning in arctic willows.
1552299|Arctic foxes are evaluated as seed dispersal vectors for Greenlandic plant species through a feeding experiment with subsequent scat analysis and germination test. Seeds of 22 common species with different morphology were tested. Passage time ranged between 4 and 48 h. No significant differences were detected in passage time for seeds with different morphology. Cerastium alpinum and Stellaria longipes had higher germination after passage through the fox's digestive tract when compared to controls. Sibbaldia procumbens, Oxyria digyna, and Silene acaulis were favored by passage when shorter than 10 h. Salix glauca ssp. callicarpaea, Veronica alpina, Gnaphalium norvegicum, Papaver radicatum, Ranunculus hyperboreus, Chamaenerion latifolium, Luzula parviflora, and bulbils of Polygonum viviparum and Saxifraga cernua were inhibited by passage, whereas the remaining species had germination percentage too low to allow for evaluation. Species with adaptations to wind dispersal seemed particularly vulnerable to gut passage. Arctic foxes are able to provide long-distance dispersal of seeds lacking morphological adaptations to dispersal, but for most species seeds need to be defecated within 12 h to remain viable.
20181734|Sediment cores were retrieved from 12 lakes in the southern Uinta Mountains ranging in elevation from 2960 to 3475 m. Organic content was determined by loss-on-ignition (LOI) at 1-cm intervals (n = 2850), corresponding to 20 to 100 yrs per sample. This data set was used to explore relationships between watershed variables and LOI records. Average LOI values are strongly correlated with lake elevation, elevation of the watershed, extent of late-lying snow and bare rock in the watershed, and the area of upstream lakes. Average LOI values are not significantly correlated with lake depth, or with lake or watershed area. The 12 LOI records can be visually divided into 3 groups with contrasting patterns: Steady, Trending, and Rising. Steady lakes have the lowest average LOI values, and are located in watersheds with the highest maximum elevations and the largest area of upstream lakes and late-lying snow. The most significant determinant on average LOI and LOI pattern is hydrologic through-flow as revealed by the configuration and number of inlets and outlets. The repetition of Steady, Trending, and Rising LOI patterns in different parts of the range, combined with contrasting LOI patterns in adjacent lakes, suggests that watershed characteristics strongly influence organic sedimentation.
1552166|Mycorrhizal symbiosis is generally advantageous for plants in nutrient-poor soils, but this advantage may be low in arcto-alpine conditions. While the relative coverage of nonmycorrhizal plant species has been found to increase along an altitudinal gradient, the within-species patterns of mycorrhizal colonization in arctic and alpine plants are not well known, and different results have been obtained in relation to altitude. We investigated arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) and dark-septate endophytic (DSE) root colonization in six subarctic herbaceous plants Ranunculus glacialis L., Saxifraga aizoides L., Sibbaldia procumbens L., Solidago virgaurea L., Trientalis europaea L., and Viola biflora L. along an altitudinal gradient (0-1400 m a.s.l.) at Mt. Paras, North Norway. We did not find any consistent decline in the different types of fungus colonization along the entire gradient. There was no statistically significant shift in coarse AM or DSE colonization with altitude. However, fine endophyte type AM colonization showed a statistically significant, positive relationship with altitude. These results suggest that root colonization of any particular mycorrhizal species may yield different gradient patterns with altitude than the relative coverages of mycorrhizal and nonmycorrhizal plant taxa. Because of its positive association with altitude, fine endophyte colonization may have a specific role in the nutrition of arctic and alpine plants.
20181805|We used the chamber method to measure growing season ecosystem carbon exchange and ecosystem respiration in Finnish alpine tundra. The average ecosystem respiration in the sites was 0.8-0.9 mol m s and the daytime net ecosystem exchange (NEE) was around -0.4 to -0.5 mol m s. There were no detectable differences in cuvette-based net ecosystem exchange or ecosystem respiration between grazed fell areas and long term reindeer exclosure. Further analysis showed that net carbon exchange as well as ecosystem respiration were significantly correlated with the dwarf shrub cover, while the proportion of lichen cover (Cladina sp.) was not correlated with ecosystem carbon exchange. Clipping experiments showed that about half of the measured ecosystem respiration was heterotrophic. Plots that had been protected from reindeer grazing had almost two times higher above-ground plant biomass than grazed plots. The reason for this was 86% lower lichen biomass on the grazed side of the fell, while the biomass of Ericaceous dwarf shrubs did not differ even though there were changes in species composition. Surprisingly, the proportion of bare ground did not differ due to grazing pressure, but the reduction in biomass lead to a less stratified vegetation cover.
40801756|Analysis of satellite images of Kasatochi volcano and field studies in 2008 and 2009 have shown that within about one year of the 7-8 August 2008 eruption, significant geomorphic changes associated with surface and coastal erosion have occurred. Gully erosion has removed 300,000 to 600,000 m of mostly fine-grained volcanic sediment from the flanks of the volcano and much of this has reached the ocean. Sediment yield estimates from two representative drainage basins on the south and west flanks of the volcano, with drainage areas of 0.7 and 0.5 km, are about 10 m km yr and are comparable to sediment yields documented at other volcanoes affected by recent eruptive activity. Estimates of the retreat of coastal cliffs also made from analysis of satellite images indicate average annual erosion rates of 80 to 140 m yr. If such rates persist it could take 3-5 years for wave erosion to reach the pre-eruption coastline, which was extended seaward about 400 m by the accumulation of erupted volcanic material. As of 13 September 2009, the date of the most recent satellite image of the island, the total volume of material eroded by wave action was about 10 m. We did not investigate the distribution of volcanic sediment in the near shore ocean around Kasatochi Island, but it appears that erosion and sediment dispersal in the nearshore environment will be greatest during large storms when the combination of high waves and rainfall runoff are most likely to coincide.
1552436| Subantarctic Marion island (46S) is a shield volcano of basal "gray" lavas and younger "black" lava outflows. Rock weathering rates, as determined by annual mass loss from small clasts (<400 g), was measured over a 3-yr period at 4 sites on the island on an altitudinal transect from the coast toward the interior. Mass loss from gray lava clasts was found to be 0.02% near sea level, increasing to 0.10% yr<sup>-1</sup> at 730 m a.s.l. Black lava clasts yielded mean losses of up to 0.72% at the sites, although no altitudinal trend in mass loss was evident. In the sea-spray zone, gray and black lava clasts monitored over 1 yr had mean losses of 0.30% and 0.41%, respectively. Weathering rates are marginally inflated by the annual weighing procedure, which has been determined to contribute approximately 0.01% to the measured gray lava clast mass losses, and 0.07% to the black lavas. Since none of the clasts showed visual signs of fracturing or flaking, mass loss appears to be on a granular scale at most, and material removal is probably assisted by rainwash. Extrapolated values suggest that black lava clasts can weather completely within 200 yr and gray lava clasts within approximately 1000 yr at high altitudes. These data have implications for the lifespan of periglacial landforms constituting small clasts, particularly those formed in the early Holocene. 
10.2307/1552215| Net ecosystem exchange (NEE) of carbon dioxide was measured at treeline forest and fen tundra sites near Churchill, Canada during three consecutive growing seasons (1997-1999). Although both sites demonstrated a net uptake of CO<sub>2</sub> in each of the years, there was considerable variation in the flux between sites and between years. Mean daily NEE at the forest varied from -1.5 (0.25 SD) g CO<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup> in 1997 to -7.3 (0.39) g CO<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup> in 1999. The fen mean daily NEE varied from -1.1 (0.36) g CO<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup> in 1997 to -3.1 (0.50) g CO<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup> in 1998. Integrated over the 65-d measurement period the forest was a net sink of -100, -313, and -478 g CO<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup> in 1997, 1998, and 1999, respectively, and the fen net sink was -73, -202, and -38 g CO<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup>, respectively. Interannual variations in the fen NEE were closely related to water table draw-down (soil wetness), the forest NEE was unaffected by water table change. The forest seasonally cumulative NEE was closely associated with timing of snowmelt and accumulated heat content prior to leaf-out. Earlier snowmelt and greater heat accumulation produced a larger growing season sink. It is likely these events also influenced the fen NEE, but the relationship is complicated by water table effects. These results suggest that carbon dioxide exchange varies considerably across the northern treeline, and that there may be an important biospheric feedback between climate warming, treeline advance, and carbon cycling. 
1552333| The McMurdo Dry Valleys is the largest of the ice-free areas in Antarctica. Precipitation events in excess of 1 cm of snow accumulation are rare. During the winter, snow is transported by strong katabatic winds blowing from the polar plateau, and deposited into the lee of topographic features (e.g., stream channels and other topographic depressions). At the start of the austral summer (early October), as much as 10% of the valley soils may be covered by distributed snow patches. Because liquid water is the primary driver of biological, physical, and chemical processes in this polar desert, quantifying fluxes of water from snow patches is important to understanding the influence of hydrology on soil biology and nutrient cycling. During the austral summer of 1999-2000, four snow patches that had developed during the previous winter in Taylor Valley were studied. We measured snow-patch area, depth, and snow water equivalent, as well as subnivian (under snow) and nearby exposed (control) soil temperature, light intensity, soil moisture, invertebrate abundance, soil organic matter content, and 95-d labile pools of C and N. Subnivian soils differed from exposed soils being as much as 26.8C colder than exposed soils; average soil moisture ranging from 6.9 to 13.6% compared to 0.4% in exposed soils; soil invertebrate populations exceeding 7900 individuals kg<sup>-1</sup> dry soil versus less than 1200 individuals kg<sup>-1</sup> dry soil in exposed soils; and soil invertebrate species richness values greater than 2 taxa, compared to 1.3 taxa in exposed soils. The results of this study show that these seasonal, sparse snow patches may be an important source of moisture and control habitat of soil ecosystems in this extreme environment. 
4139125|Breeding penguins are the major source of nutrients for terrestrial ecosystems in the Maritime Antarctic. The impact of penguin rookeries on vegetation patterns and diversity was examined by descriptive and quantitative methods along a transect from penguin rookeries to areas distant from penguin impact. Several vegetation zones related to varying degrees of rookery impact have been recognized: (1) areas under the immediate influence of fresh penguin guano and trampling support little or no vegetation; (2) the adjacent zone is covered with nitrophilous green algae, locally also cyanobacteria; (3) the next zone is dominated by the Antarctic hair-grass; (4) further on, a zone dominated by mosses is formed; (5) finally, the zone least affected by penguin impact is dominated by lichens. With increasing distance from penguin rookeries, vegetation zones become less distinct and more complex; along consecutive zones vegetation richness and diversity increase and dominance decreases. Change in species composition is gradual with a broad overlap of species distributions, and the distinct zones are the result of differences in life-forms and growth-forms of the dominant species. This ecological gradient, comprising a few species and being relatively simple, offers unique opportunities to study hypotheses concerning ecological processes and patterns.
10.2307/1552463|Lacustrine sedimentary processes are identified on an intra-annual scale at proglacial Bear Lake, Devon Island. Stage recorders, recording thermistors, sediment traps, and underflow monitoring equipment were deployed during the 1999 melt season. Episodic proximal turbidity currents were measured as positive near-bottom temperature anomalies and currents. The timing of individual positive temperature anomalies was clearly associated with diurnal peaks of discharge into the lake. During the period of 23 to 25 July, continuous underflow occurred, which preceded a large discharge event by about 24 h. Sediment traps placed throughout the lake recorded sediment accumulation rates from 16 June to 4 August. An extremely large precipitation event occurred on 29 June, when coarse, carbonate-rich sediment was deposited in front of a secondary tributary by spatially limited turbidity currents. A niveo-eolian deposit was observed on the lake ice, and sediment traps were deployed under this area. Mass accumulation rates in these traps locally overwhelmed fluvially generated sedimentation. This sediment was dominantly sand, which quickly melted through the lake ice and hastened the date of localized break-up.
41240444|Substantial climate warming is predicted for high latitude regions and may have large impacts on tundra communities. As part of the International Tundra Experiment, this study characterized plant responses to natural and experimental variations in temperature at a subarctic, alpine tundra site. Non-destructive measures of plant reproduction and growth were monitored annually for four target species (Dryas octopetala, Lupinus arcticus, Polygonum viviparwn, and Salix rctica) from 1999 to 2008. Plants were exposed to 8 years of an experimental warming treatment using open-topped chambers (OTCs). Temperatures in OTCs tended to be warmer at midday but cooler at night, with little net daily warming. OTCs had relatively little effect on plant responses, except for positive effects on reproductive characteristics of D. octopetala and P. viviparum. All target species except L. arcticus showed significant annual variations in vegetative and reproductive characteristics. Nondestructive measures used to monitor plant performance were significantly related to actual growth and reproductive output in most cases. Plant community composition did not show experimental effects nor were there consistent trends in composition over the 10 years of the study. Results of the study highlight individualistic species responses and the resilience of the plant community to observed temperature variations at this site.
41240435|In situ observations show increases in shrub cover in different arctic regions in recent decades and have been cited to explain the increases in arctic vegetation productivity revealed by satellite remote sensing. A widespread increase in shrub cover, particularly tall shrub cover, is likely to profoundly alter the tundra biome because of its influence on biogeochemical cycling and feedbacks to climate. To monitor changes in shrub cover, aid field studies, and inform ecosystem models, we mapped shrub cover across the North Slope of Alaska. First, images from the IKONOS and SPOT satellite sensors were used to detect tall (>1 m) and short shrub presence at high resolution (<5 m grid cells) in different parts of the domain. The resulting maps were then used to train a Random Forest regression algorithm that mapped total and tall shrub cover, expressed as a percent of the total surface area, at 30 m resolution from a mosaic of Landsat scenes. The final shrub cover maps correspond well with field measurements (r = 0.7, root mean square error = 17%, N = 24) and compared well with the existing vegetation type maps of the study area and a gridded temperature data set not used in the map generation.
10.2307/1552453|This report presents empirical data for variations of floral traits and "femaleness" (dry-weight allocation to the female organs) under a simulated environmental amelioration by using open-top chambers (OTCs) in a hermaphrodite alpine dwarf shrub Sieversia pentapetala (L.) Greene, in the Tateyama Range, central Japan. The results showed that gynoecium, peduncle, and flower weight in OTC-manipulated shoots were significantly heavier than those in controls. As a result, "femaleness" showed a significantly higher value in the OTC-manipulated shoots as compared to the controls. Moreover, gynoecium weight was significantly positively correlated with leaf mass (per flowering shoot), while androecium weight was not, suggesting a higher resource requirement for reproduction through the female function. Thus, it was experimentally demonstrated that the gender of S. pentapetala flowers changed from male-biased to female-biased as leaf mass increased under less stressful conditions.
4095881|Climate-driven northern limits of cold-hardy conifers, Norway spruce (Picea abies (L.) Karst.) and Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris L.), reach latitude
40305862|Seedling establishment is an important factor dictating the altitudinal limits of treeline species. Factors which affect seedling mortality and survival, however, have yet to be fully characterized, especially for deciduous treeline species. Here we describe microsite characteristics of successfully established Betula litwinowii seedlings at the alpine-treeline ecotone. Possible harmful effects of sky exposure on seedling physiology (i. e. photoinhibition of photosynthesis) were also examined, as well as possible facilitative effects of co-occurring Rhododendron caucasicum shrubs on northern slopes and microtopographical depressions (mainly watercourses) in ridgetop meadows. On northern slopes, seedling density was highest in newly exposed soils, with 90% of the youngest seedlings (< 2 cm) occurring in patches of rocky, bare, or moss-covered soils within the Rhododendron thicket. R. caucasicum was not a significant source of shade for B. litwinowii, as most seedlings were established 0.25-0.5 m away from the nearest shrub, and shade cover generated by R. caucasicum was observed in only 1% of seedlings at midday. On ridgetops, density of B. litwinowii was sixfold higher inside microtopographical depressions compared to outside. Sky exposure of seedlings within depressions was similar to northern slopes, ranging from 50% to 87%. Across all microsites, seedlings were most abundant under 70-87% sky exposure. This preference for open microsites, combined with the observation that sustained photoinhibition of photosynthesis
41240432|Numerous small alpine glaciers occupy the high elevation regions of the central and southern Sierra Nevada, California. An inventory based on 1:24,000 topographic maps revealed 1719 glaciers and perennial snowfields for a total area of 39.15  0.13 km. The number of 'true' glaciers, versus non-moving ice, is estimated to be 122 covering 14.89  0.08 km or 38% of the ice-covered area. Historic photographs, geologic evidence, and field mapping were used to determine the magnitude of area change over the past century at 14 glaciers. The area change between 1903 and 2004 ranged from 31% to  78%, averaging 55%. Based on these values rough estimates of volume change suggest an ice volume loss from 1903 (1.09 km) to 2004 (0.43 km) of 0.66 km (0.59 km water). Rapid retreat occurred over the first half of the 20th century beginning in the 1920s and continued through the 1960s after which recession ceased by the early 1980s and some glaciers advanced. Since the late 1980s glaciers resumed retreat with a rapid acceleration starting in the early 2000s. The relatively uniform timing of area changes in the study glaciers is a response to regional climate whereas the magnitude of change is influenced by local topographic effects. Area changes correlate significantly with changes in summer and winter air temperatures. Warmer winter temperatures warm the snowpack lengthening the summer melt season. Spring air temperatures and precipitation may also play an important role. The occurrence of spring snowfall can delay the onset of melt due to the increased surface albedo. Examining the influence of topographic variables we only found headwall height at the top of the glacier to show an influence on glacier change. Higher headwalls shadow the glacier from solar radiation reducing melt and enhancing snow accumulation via avalanching. If the glaciers continue to shrink at current (1972-2004) rates, most will disappear in 50-250 years.
4095889| Age structure, tree characteristics, and environmental data were used to analyze the status of the birch treeline in three regions along the Scandes Mountains from 6210'N to 6950'N. Aspect and estimated relative radiation explained most of the treeline altitude across studied regions, but not all variation. Main tree establishment occurred during the 1940s in the southern and northernmost regions, and during the 1960s in the middle region. Age distribution patterns at 2 m (tree size), however, showed stable or possibly progressive treelines in the southern and middle regions but recent recession in the north. Growth rates varied through time and between regions, with an apparent decrease in the north since the 1940s. Weak negative correlations between altitude and age in the south indicate recent changes favoring tree growth or increased turnover at higher, more exposed altitudes. Although Scandinavian treelines are expected to advance in response to climate warming, this was not evident as a general pattern for all regions. Seasonally different climate patterns, browsing, and abrasion are mechanisms involved in this. These regionally different patterns have to be taken into account in predictions of future responses to avoid overestimation of, e.g., ecosystem change, carbon uptake capacity, and feedbacks to climate systems. 
10.2307/1552203|In conifers growing at high latitudes and altitudes, the maximum density of tree rings is closely related to climate but is difficult and very expensive to measure. Here we compare maximum density with reflectance results obtained from Pinus sylvestris trees from northern Finland. Red, green, and blue reflectance spectra were obtained using a flatbed scanner and ultraviolet and infrared by scanning monochrome photographs at those wavelengths. A region-growing algorithm used to delimit the latewood of each ring automatically excludes resin ducts and cracks, and the minimum, mean, and maximum reflectance within the region were recorded. Blue minimum reflectance is most closely correlated with maximum density in both raw (r = -0.98) and detrended (r = -0.95) data, and as wavelength increases the correlation declines. The technique is probably most sensitive to lignin content, since the light energy absorbed by lignin declines as wavelength increases. Reliable results are obtained even from very thin (<0.1 mm) latewood rings and the use of a scanner, rather than a microscope-mounted system, allows viewing magnification to be changed without altering reflectance values. The simple chemical pretreatment routinely applied to X-ray samples is sufficient to remove the color difference between heartwood and sap wood in the blue band.
40305842|This study examined levels of predation (% flower heads with insects and/or damage) and number of Tephritidae (seed-fly) in flower heads of 29 species of Australian alpine Asteraceae. Pre-dispersal seed predation was common among the Asteraceae, with all but four species with some flower heads containing Tephritidae. Levels of predation within species were also high, with most flower heads damaged in just under half of the species, and > 90% of flower heads damaged in five species. Three species had flower heads containing Tephritis bushi (Diptera: Tephritidae, sp. nov.) while 23 species had flower heads containing Tephritis poenia (Diptera: Tephritidae (Walter)). Among species levels of all predation and number of Tephritidae per flower head were positively correlated with the diameter of the flower head, but not the color or type of flower head. The expected positive association between predispersal seed predation and altitude and the negative association between predation and flowering time were uncommon among populations of 10 species tested. These results indicate that pre-dispersal seed predation is likely to be an important factor in the reproductive ecology of alpine Asteraceae, with species with larger diameter flower heads having higher levels of predation and more Tephritidae per flower head.
4095917|Human use of arctic and alpine environments can result in damage to the natural vegetation and soils. Restoration of the damage can have limited success due to the severity of the environment, which restricts plant germination and growth and increases the potential for soil erosion. In this study, we evaluated the success of restoration of a closed track in the alpine area around continental Australia's highest mountain, Mount Kosciuszko. Vegetation and soils along a 4 km walking track (that was closed and rehabilitated more than 15 yr ago) were compared with the adjacent undisturbed vegetation and soils. There was limited success in restoration with clear differences in soil nutrients, extent of vegetation cover, plant species composition, and height of vegetation between the track and adjacent natural vegetation sampled using 1 m
10.2307/1552486| As part of the study on carbon cycling in a deglaciated area in the High Arctic, Ny-lesund, Svalbard (79N), we examined the effects of abiotic factors on the net photosynthesis and dark respiration rates of the dominant moss Sanionia uncinata (Hedw.) Loeske. The rates of net photosynthesis (Pn) and dark respiration (R) were measured using an open-flow gas exchange system with an infrared gas analyzer in the snow-free season of 2000. High photosynthetic activities were observed only in rainy days or soon after rainfall, when moss water content was high. Under a sufficiently humid condition, Pn determined at near light saturation was almost constant over a wide temperature range from 7 to 23C, while R increased with temperature with a Q<sub>10</sub> value of 3.0. Based on the relationships between abiotic factors and the CO<sub>2</sub> exchange rate, we estimated the net primary production (NPP) of the moss in the snow-free season using the meteorological data obtained over 6 yr (1995-2000). The mean, minimum, and maximum values of NPP for the 6-yr period were 17, 1, and 30 g dry wt. m<sup>-2</sup> snow-free season<sup>-1</sup>, respectively. It was suggested that NPP of the moss in this area varied widely between years depending primarily on water availability. 
20181822|We investigated relationships between an evergreen dwarf shrub Vaccinium vitisidaea and infection frequency of its annual specific pathogenic fungus Exobasidium splendidum, and environmental conditions in six boreal and subarctic populations in Finland during 1998-2002. The aim was to explore how environmental factors and plant characteristics influence the infection frequency of the rare pathogen in nature. Climate data, soil organic matter, and plant characteristics were recorded along with annual demographic observations on V. vitis-idaea ramet dormancy, growth, flowering and fungal infection. Infection frequency of E. splendidum in V. vitis-idaea populations varied between 0 and 4.8% and increased with decreasing temperatures. Along with low air temperature, high concentration of NH, low concentration of P, high cover of bare ground, and high density of V. vitis-idaea were positively associated with the frequency of E. splendidum in V. vitis-idaea populations. Diseased ramets were at greatest risk of being reinfected by the fungus. The results indicate that both environmental factors and plant characteristics can constrain the distribution of the rare pathogen. Although an observational study of this kind does not allow us unequivocally to identify causality underpinning complex plant-pathogen-environment relationships, we can speculate that a further decrease in the frequency of E. splendidum infections will occur under climate warming.
10.2307/1552469|Postdispersal seed predation in alpine communities has received surprisingly little attention. We evaluate the magnitude of seed predation by ants and avian granivores in the perennial herb Sisyrinchium arenarium through a field experiment at two different elevations (2700 and 2000 m) in the central Chilean Andes. A total of 96 pots, containing 50 seeds each, were placed at each elevation and randomly assigned to one of four treatments: control, bird exclusion, ant exclusion, and total exclusion (wind control). We also compare the activity of ants and avian granivores at the two elevations. Mean percentage seed removal by wind was 23 and 21% at 2700 and 2000 m elevation, respectively. Overall, after subtracting seed loss by wind, seed removal by granivores was low at both sites (2-14%), although it was significantly greater at the higher elevation (2700 m). This was concordant with the greater activity of ants and granivorous birds there. Seed removal by ants was greater than by birds at the higher site (14 vs. 4%, respectively), but did not differ at the lower elevation (3 vs. 2%, respectively). Results contrast with those reported for central Chilean mediterranean-type climate shrublands at lower elevations where avian and rodent granivory is important, while that by ants is low. Future studies considering plant species with different seed characteristics (e.g., size, shape, energetic value) and taxonomic affiliation will be necessary to assess the general importance of this ecological process in the central Chilean Andes and alpine areas in general.
10.2307/1552525|Seedling recruitment and establishment were studied on the moraines of a glacier foreland in the central Alps in Austria. Permanent plots were established on moraines that had been ice-free for 25 and 40 yr. Comparisons were made between vegetated and bare-ground plots on each moraine over three growing seasons (1996-98). On half of the plots seeds of glacier foreland species were sown and their germination rates followed. Wide annual fluctuations in seedling recruitment were noted over the 3 study years. In the numbers of seedlings no significant differences between the sites were noted. Species composition of the seedlings showed a significant correlation with the vegetation of the sites. Seedling recruitment on the vegetated plots was greater than on the bare-ground plots. Established plants and stones represented safe sites for seedling recruitment. On the older moraine established plants had a negative effect on the survival of seedlings. After two winters seedling survival rates ranged from 0 to 40%. In most cases greater numbers of seedlings were found on the seeded than on the unseeded plots. The seeding experiment showed that seeds of late successional species are able to become established on younger moraines.
20181750|Observations at the Shiquanhe and Gaize meteorological stations provide data for analysis of O and D variations in precipitation for the Ngari (Ali) region, western Tibetan Plateau. Temperature controls O in precipitation in this area. O in precipitation positively correlates with air temperature at the Shiquanhe and Gaize stations, especially for precipitation weighted monthly mean O. The O -- T correlation gradually strengthens from south to north across the western Tibetan Plateau and adjacent regions, with gradual weakening of southwest monsoon activity. The strongest correlation is found at Hetian. There is a poor correlation between O and air temperature in the south at New Delhi because the moisture derives predominantly from the Indian Ocean in summer. The Ngari region exhibits a close relation between D and O in precipitation samples, similar to stations in adjacent regions and the global meteoric water line. The summer seasonal averaged deuterium excess (d) values increase gradually from south to north across western Tibetan and adjacent areas, resulting from southwest monsoon activity gradually weakening to the north.
41240442|The diversity and distribution of aquatic benthic invertebrate communities of 17 lakes and 3 shallow ponds near Iqaluit and Rankin Inlet, Nunavut, Canada, were examined to assess patterns with respect to environmental gradients. Macroinvertebrates were collected using 500 m mesh D-nets, and collected specimens were identified and enumerated; a total of 40 taxa were identified. Multivariate analyses (Redundancy Analysis) of relative abundance (%) data identified habitat (dominant substrate type), water chemistry, nutrients, and food/productivity (total phosphorus, total nitrogen, sulfate, dissolved oxygen, chlorophyll a), physical characteristics (maximum depth), catchment-related properties (lake elevation), and climate-related properties as significant environmental gradients influencing community composition. Ecosystem-scale lake characteristics had the greatest influence on benthic communities, followed by substrate type; however, there were substantive amounts of community variation influenced by the interaction between lake characteristics, substrate type, and regional differences. A number of environmental variables may have been significant due to differences in their values when comparing Rankin Inlet region sites versus Iqaluit region sites. The results agree with other studies indicating that benthic invertebrate communities are influenced by environmental gradients acting at different scales ranging from local, within-lake scales to large, regional scales.
10.2307/1552474|Previous studies have shown that the growth of freshwater grasses and sedges eaten by breeding colonies of Snow Geese responds weakly to nitrogen additions, and also is poorly able to compensate within the same season for tissues lost to geese. These results contrast with the rapid responses to grazing and fertilization that have been observed in salt-marsh species. A possible explanation is that the mosses prominent in freshwater wetlands rapidly sequester added nitrogen, preventing access by forage species to the fecal inputs provided by foraging geese. To investigate this hypothesis, I added ecologically realistic amounts of ammonium and nitrate labelled with 15N to the surface and rooting zone of experimental plots in freshwater wetland vegetation at two Snow Goose colonies. Results indicate that the presence of mosses did not prevent forage species from rapidly taking up ammonium and nitrate added either at or below the moss surface. Nonetheless, most of the added 15N was absorbed by the moss layer; consequently, mosses tend to divert nitrogen away from forage species and into long-lasting peat. In the long term, this may reduce the ability of freshwater forage plants to recover from damage by increasing populations of Snow Geese.
10.2307/1552557|Anthropogenic stress and fish introduction generally are thought to have eliminated vulnerable and sensitive zooplankton species from many alpine lakes, creating impoverished communities. To investigate this hypothesis we resampled lakes studied in the early 20th century and compared past and present zooplankton composition and taxa richness. We also studied how human induced changes may influence genetic diversity of present-day populations of the widespread cladoceran, Daphnia. Resampling did not show a drastic overall change in planktonic crustacean composition. Taxa richness significantly decreased with increasing lake altitude, but no other environmental factor correlated with richness. Large zooplankton taxa were found in lakes both with and without fish. Therefore we conclude that the presence of fish can be excluded as the general factor explaining the occurrence or absence of large zooplankton in alpine lakes. Levels of chlorophyll a and POC best distinguished lakes with Daphnia from lakes without Daphnia. In 8 out of 12 lakes sexual Daphnia were more abundant than asexual individuals. Clonal diversity ranged from 0.01 to 1.3 but was not related to the proportion of sexual individuals. The ability to create resting stages may be an essential factor for the maintenance of genetic diversity and the long-term persistence of Daphnia and other zooplankton taxa.
41416451|Physical, chemical and thermal properties of five pedons in the Uinta Mountains of northeastern Utah were studied to determine how soils and microclimates vary across the ecotone between subalpine forest and dry meadow. All five profiles have developed in the same parent materials, from base upward: basal till, glaciofluvial sediment, and coarse supraglacial debris with infilled eolian silt. Temperatures were measured at the soil surface and at depths of 10 and 50 cm for 420 days. Meadow soils (Typic Humicryepts) are warmer, have Bw horizons, and contain more Ca, organic carbon, and clay in the A horizon. Forest soils (Inceptic Haplocryalfs) have Bt horizons, higher B/A horizon clay ratios, are more acidic, and contain more exchangeable Mg and total exchangeable cations than meadow soils. Although subzero temperatures were never recorded at the surface of the forest soil in the summers of 1998 and 1999, those at the surface of the meadow soil fell below 0C on ~35% of the nights. Mean 4:00 a.m. temperatures in the meadow during the summer are significantly colder than those in the forest (2.2C vs. 5.2C). The meadow formed following an initial forest clearing event, possibly fire or an insect infestation. Since that time, forest encroachment has been slow because seedling establishment in the meadow is inhibited by a combination of frequent summer freezing events, moisture stresses resulting from textural discontinuities between soil parent materials, and competition between tree seedlings and meadow vegetation.
4095908|The biogeochemical cycling of organic carbon (OC) has important implications for aquatic system ecology because the abundance and molecular characteristics of OC influence contaminant transport and bioavailability, and determine its suitability as a substrate for microbial metabolism. There have been few studies of OC cycling in glacier systems and questions remain regarding the abundance, provenance, and biogeochemical transformations of OC in these environments. To address these questions, the abundance and fluorescence characteristics of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) were investigated at John Evan Glacier and Outre Glacier, Canada, and Victoria Upper Glacier, Antarctica. These systems are characterized by different thermal and hydrological regimes, and have different potential DOC sources. Where possible, samples of supraglacial runoff, glacier ice and basal ice, and subglacial meltwater were collected. The DOC concentration in each sample was measured (high-temperature combustion and non-dispersive IR detection), and emission and/or synchronous fluorescence spectroscopy were used to characterize the DOC from each environment. DOC exists in detectable quantities (0.06-46.6 ppm) in all of these glacier systems. The fluorescence characteristics of DOC vary between glaciers, between environments at the same glacier, and over time within a single environment. These result suggest that quality of available OC and glacier hydrological flow routing influence the characteristics of DOC, and that microbial cycling of OC may be active in glacier systems.
4095898|Poa annua, the only alien plant species recorded on subantarctic Heard Island, considerably expanded its range and abundance along three transects in tundra-like vegetation on the island in the period 1987-2000. This expansion was strongly associated with increased seal disturbance, which also favored Callitriche antarctica and damaged Pringlea antiscorbutica, leading to a decrease in mean vegetation height. Expansions of Azorella selago and Poa cookii were independent of the expansion of P. annua, relating to colonization of moraines. There was no evidence of displacement of other taxa by Poa annua in areas undisturbed by seals.
10.2307/1552232|Micromorphological analyses were carried out on a selection of thin-sectioned intervals of Deep Freeze 1985 cores from Marguerite Bay, Antarctic Peninsula, to test previous interpretations with respect to the local Quaternary glacial history. Results show that both deformed, and pristine glacimarine deposits are preserved in the sedimentary record. Many of the deformational features that were recognized with the aid of the microscope were previously unidentified. Interpretations in this study are based on certain combinations of planar and circular microstructures. Some associations are clearly associated with the process of subglacial shearing, others with gravity-driven sediment movements or coring imperfections. The number of mass movement deposits identified in the record is significantly higher than in previous studies. Subglacially deformed sediments were found in cores from the southwest part of the bay. This thin section study supports scenarios suggesting the presence of grounded ice on the Marguerite Bay continental shelf during the Last Glacial Maximum.
1552296|Modern chironomid assemblages consisting of 68 taxa were extracted from the sediments of 39 lakes in southwest Yukon and northern British Columbia, Canada. Important factors accounting for the distribution of the chironomid taxa include sediment organic matter (LOI; weight-loss-on-ignition), total phosphorus, bottom water temperature, and lake alkalinity. The results show the importance of organic matter, which is associated with water depth and lake productivity, in affecting chironomid community composition. Tanytarsus sp. C, Tanytarsus pallidicornis type, Allo/Mesopsectrocladius, Polypedilum, and Procladius were associated with lakes having high LOI values and shallow lake depths, while Paratanytarsus, Sergentia, and Corynocera oliveri type were more prevalent in deeper lakes with more minerogenic sediments. Surprisingly, Chironomus was most abundant in deeper lakes with low LOI values, which might be partially explained by low oxygen levels. Contrary to some findings, Tanytarsus lugens group was common in shallow, productive lakes in this region.
20181819|Shallow seismic refraction (SSR) and ground penetrating radar (GPR) are non-invasive geophysical techniques that enhance studies of the shallow subsurface deposits which control many geomorphic and biogeochemical processes. These techniques permit measuring the thickness and material properties of these deposits in sensitive alpine areas without using extensive pits and trenches that can impact current biogeospheric processes or distort them for future research. Application of GPR and SSR along 1.5 km of geophysical lines shows that layers of fine to coarse, blocky deposits of periglacial origin underlie alpine slopes in the vicinity of Niwot Ridge, Colorado Front Range. Interpretation of geophysical and drilling data shows that depth to bedrock ranges from 4 to &gt; 10 m and is not simply related to local slope. Our measurements suggest that ice lenses form seasonally beneath solifluction lobes; ice was not present in adjacent areas. Ice lenses are associated with local ponded water and saturated sediments that result from topographic focusing and low-permeability layers beneath active periglacial features. Geophysical interpretations are mainly consistent with data derived from nearby drill cores and corroborate the utility of GPR in combination with SSR for collecting subsurface data required by different landscape models in sensitive alpine environments.
1552373| Populations of the only two flowering plants native to the Antarctic have recently increased in number and size possibly due to climate warming. We have undertaken a preliminary study of the population genetics of one of these species by surveying variation in amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLP) within the Antarctic Hairgrass, Deschampsia antarctica. Populations of D. antarctica from two widely separated regions of the maritime Antarctic, namely Signy Island in the north and Lonie Islands 1350 km farther south, were characterized by low genetic diversity (only 15.95% of total genetic variation found within populations). Populations from the northern and southern maritime Antarctic were genetically distinct from each other (F<sub>CT</sub> = 37.10%), and low levels of historical gene flow occurred among them (Nm = 0.05). This genetic structure suggests that new populations of D. antarctica are founded by one or few individuals, which mainly reproduce by self-fertilization and/or vegetative propagation. Vegetative reproduction and selfing are, therefore, likely to have been key factors in the establishment of D. antarctica at new sites in the Antarctic during recent years. 
10.2307/1552610|Subantarctic Macquarie Island has substantial areas of feldmark on its plateau above 200 m altitude. Samples of the substrate (5.5 cm in depth) from bare areas of feldmark contained viable propagules of bryophyte species found at adjacent and distant sites on the island. In laboratory conditions propagules of 15 bryophyte taxa germinated, allowing interpretation of reasons for bare patches in feldmark: bryophytes were successful at colonizing stable ground but when surface movement was present, burial and/or damage of propagules and young plants prevented colonization. Spherical moss polsters found in cryoturbatic areas in feldmark, however, represent a growth form that can tolerate surface movement. A conceptual model illustrating processes associated with colonization dynamics of bryophytes on feldmark terraces is presented. Ten of the 15 germinated taxa were nonlocal taxa which currently grow in plant communities at lower and hence warmer altitudes on Macquarie Island. The presence of viable propagules of these taxa provide an immediate and constant potential for dramatic vegetation change with climate change.
40305829|The results of two simulations of hourly ablation, from late July to September 2002, at a site on the Place Glacier are described. First, ablation is modeled from a data set collected at the glacier site; second, from a data set collected off-glacier at a site below the glacier tongue. The glacier data set simulations, based as they are on global and reflected short-wave radiation measurements, a net long-wave radiation model and the bulk turbulent heat transfer approach, provides a reasonably good simulation of cumulative ablation, amounting to almost 1.2 m during the experimental period, mostly due to melting out of the preceding winter snowpack. Average melt component flux densities due to net short-wave radiation, net longwave radiation, sensible heat and latent heat due to moisture exchange are 93.1, -22.6, 14.4 and 3.91 W m, respectively, during this time. The glacier site data are also used to fit a snow albedo model to albedo measurements for old and new snow cover. The albedo model is then used in the second simulation, which is based on global radiation measurements, a similar net long-wave radiation model, and a heat transfer approach in which turbulent mixing due to katabatic and geostrophic flow is parameterized from the off-glacier temperature data. The second simulation scheme performs best if the katabatic component of the parameterization scheme is suppressed because the wind regime at the glacier site appears to be intermittent, but the scheme itself is based upon the idea of a continuously flowing glacier wind.
20181751|High-resolution soil moisture, temperature, and precipitation data from the northern part of the Tibetan Plateau provide the basis for analyzing the cycling of water between the land surface and atmosphere. Data analyzed come from the Intensive Observation Period (IOP) of the GEWEX (Global Energy and Water Cycle Experiment) Asian Monsoon Experiment (GAME) on the Tibetan Plateau (GAME-Tibet). Observations from July to August 1998 show that evaporation from flat land surfaces was 177 mm on the south side of the Tanggula Mountains, and 73 mm on the north side. These represent about 73% and 58%, respectively, of the precipitation in the same period. Evaporation not only transports considerable water but also considerable energy from the land surface to the atmosphere, which can slow the rising of soil temperatures. Differences in the evaporation between the south and north sides of Tanggula Mountains is mainly caused by differences in precipitation.
20181759|Holocene changes in terrestrial provenance and processes of sediment transport and deposition are tracked along a fjord-to-shelf transect adjacent to Vestfirdir, Iceland, using the magnetic properties of marine sediments. Magnetic susceptibility (MS) profiles of 10 cores (gravity and piston) were obtained onboard using a Bartington MS loop. Remanent magnetizations were measured at 1-cm intervals from u-channel samples taken from six cores on a cryogenic magnetometer. Between six and nine alternating field demagnetization steps were used to isolate the characteristic magnetization directions. The chronologies of the cores used in this study were determined from AMS C dates on mollusks and foraminifera and constrained by the regional occurrence of the 10,200  60 cal yr. BP Saksunarvatn tephra. Correlative fluctuations in magnetic concentration are noted between the fjord and shelf sites, though these fluctuations are partially masked by regional variations in carbonate content. The onset of Neoglaciation is interpreted by changes in magnetic properties including an increase in mass magnetic susceptibility that began approximately 3000 cal yr. BP. The maximum angular deviation and the median destructive field (generally &lt;20 mT) suggest that the natural remanent magnetization is carried by a coarse ferrimagnetite mineralogy, likely magnetite or titano-magnetite. Reproducible paleomagnetic inclination values are observed in several records, including a nearly vertical inclination around 8000 cal yr. BP, suggesting that the magnetic pole may have been proximal to Iceland, followed by an interval of much shallower inclination (6000-7000 cal yr. BP).
1552349|Pollen, a regular component of tropical ice cores, has been shown to have great potential as a sensitive paleoenvironmental proxy in ice-core research. However, questions remain as to the modern dispersal and depositional patterns of pollen on high-alpine tropical ice caps. This information is vital to the accurate interpretation of the environmental reconstructions being derived from fossil pollen. In this study, 11 surface snow samples were collected around the caldera rim at the summit of Mt. Parinacota along the Bolivian-Chilean border. Results show that pollen concentration and assemblage are uniform in samples taken from the southwestern quadrant and the entire eastern half of the mountain. However, the pollen signatures are significantly different in the northwestern quadrant, probably due to long-distance transport of xerophytic Compositae shrub pollen from the prevailing winds. The sections of the mountain not directly impacted by the prevailing northwesterlies reflect a more locally influenced pollen assemblage dominated by grasses. These results are consistent with previous findings from the Quelccaya Ice Cap and confirm the importance of the prevailing winds in the dispersal and deposition of pollen on these high-alpine tropical ice caps.
23359625|We use butterfly data from an arid subtropical elevation gradient to test temperate-zone hypotheses regarding altitude effects on diversity and phenology. Specifically, species richness is predicted to peak at mid-altitude on arid-zone mountains with opposite temperature and precipitation gradients, and phenological windows of activity are expected to be more synchronized, shorter, and later with altitude. A transect on the Pacific slope of the Andes in northern Chile (23S, 24005000 m a.s.l.) was observed fortnightly between October 2008 and June 2009. The 13 species observed showed high altitudinal and temporal turnover, dividing the transect into three entomofaunal zones that follow well-documented altitudinal vegetation belts. Species richness peaked at mid-altitude in the Puna shrub belt, the zone with highest plant productivity and diversity, supporting McCain's water-temperature hypothesis. Community-level predictions about phenology were not met: instead, the flight period began earlier at high altitude, presumably due to earlier water availability, and neither synchronization nor duration of flight periods varied consistently with altitude. At the species level, relationships between butterfly phenology and altitude were variable, suggesting no direct effect of altitude but rather complex effects of changing environmental conditions that vary according to individual species' ecological requirements, host plant use, and lifecycle.
23252811|Tree-limit ribbons, isolated ribbons of trees growing above, but close to the alpine tree limit, have been described previously only for North America. Here, we describe such ribbons from the Snowy Mountains, Australia. Spread of trees above the treeline on lee slopes is generally as ribbons perpendicular to the prevailing wind, with snowdrifts accumulating downwind suppressing seedling establishment. The ribbons exhibit long-term stability, with estimated stem ages of snowgum (Eucalyptus pauciflora subsp. niphophila) up to 500 years, and the lignotubers considerably older. Windblown branches containing viable seed may allow initial establishment of trees above treeline leading to the formation of ribbons. Seedling establishment uphill of the highest ribbons is rare because snowgum has no inherent seed dispersal mechanism, depending on gravity for dispersal. However, seedling establishment immediately downslope of the highest ribbons, normally suppressed by snowdrifts, is more common and appears to have occurred mainly post-1970. Whether seedlings that established under snowdrifts post-1970 will remain as krummholz or proceed to full tree status will depend on the future snow regime and the persistence of regular snowdrifts. However, there are trees that have established below ribbons but outside the influence of snowdrifts, that exist now as younger ribbons, in clumps, or as individuals, in areas that previously did not support trees.
41240407|Ecosystem respiration is important because it is the small imbalances between CO uptake via photosynthesis and CO release by ecosystem respiration that determine the effect of the biosphere on atmospheric CO. For subalpine grasslands with mild winters we do not know the size of under-snow respiration relative to the total annual ecosystem respiration. This study determines the contribution of respiration through snow to total annual respiration, and models annual ecosystem respiration based on relationships with soil temperature and water content. Measurements were made monthly for two years in an unmanaged subalpine grassland in the Snowy Mountains of Australia. The vegetation is sparse (aboveground mass = 355605 g m, belowground mass = 570-1010 g m) and dominated by native perennial C3 grasses and sedges. Ecosystem respiration was positively related to temperature, and there was some evidence that ecosystem respiration was more temperature sensitive at temperatures between 0 and 2 C than at warmer temperatures. Annual ecosystem respiration was 12.1 Mg C ha yr in 2007/2008 and 10.5 Mg C ha yr in 2008/2009. Maximum daily rates of ecosystem respiration of mol CO m s occurred during summer, while minimum rates occurred under snow cover and were 0.2 to 0.9 mol CO m s. The duration of permanent snow cover was 60-68 days (equivalent to 16-18% of the year) and ecosystem respiration under snow was 4.1 to 4.3% of annual ecosystem respiration, which is smaller than the 10-50% commonly reported from studies in areas with longer snow-covered periods.
1552304| A complex sequence of sawtooth moraines occurs on the proglacial foreland at Lambatungnajkull, southeast Iceland. These features reflect the pattern of deglaciation of a highly crevassed ice margin. The whole sequence documents a period of overall glacier recession exceeding 450 m. Dates have been interpolated for the formation of these moraines through the examination of aerial photographs and the application of lichenometry. The moraines formed annually between AD 1932 and 1950. Retreat rates were greatest between 1933 and 1939 and slowest between 1942 and 1944, as reflected by the spacing of annual moraine ridges. Differences in glacier recession rate from year to year are related to variations in mean summer air temperature. A rise in mean summer temperature of 1C results in a retreat rate of 30 m yr<sup>-1</sup>. It is shown that annual moraine spacings are a suitable geomorphological proxy for annual net glacier balance and a potentially valuable source of paleoclimatic information. 
41416448|Low temperature is considered the main limiting factor for plant growth and nutrient supply at high elevations. It has been repeatedly reported that an increase in foliar nutrient contents occurs with elevation which is interpreted as the plants' inability to use the absorbed resources for growth. However, although large data sets from various mountainous regions are available, data from elevations exceeding 5000 m elevation are rare, leaving uncertainties on the relevance of these patterns under extreme alpine conditions. To fill this gap, we examined foliar macronutrients (N, P, K, Ca, Mg) content in Poa attenuata and Waldheimia tridactylites along an elevation gradient of 1600 m in Ladakh, northwestern Himalaya. Species showed rather similar response: N, Ca, and Mg concentration decreased with elevation. However, P concentration decreased with elevation in Poa but slightly increased in Waldheimia; K concentration was related to elevation in Poa only (positively). The surprising decreases of N, and/or N/P and N/K ratios towards higher elevation suggest that nitrogen uptake decreased with elevation and it may limit plant growth. Our results suggest that plants growing at very high elevations tend to be limited by a combination of lower nutrient uptake, possibly because of poorly developed soils, and scarcity of water.
4095940|Large populations of the threadleaf water-crowfoot, Ranunculus trichophyllus, were discovered in several high-altitude lakes in the Himalayas of Nepal in which the species did not occur as recently as 1987. One of the study lakes, at 4760 m, is the highest altitude from which an aquatic angiosperm has been reported. A canonical discriminant analysis suggests that the key environmental factors differing between vegetated and non-vegetated lakes among a chain of five interconnected water bodies are length of the ice-free season, conductivity, non-volatile suspended solids, and bicarbonate. We believe, however, that an increased length of the ice-free season is likely the controlling factor in the recent invasion by Ranunculus trichophyllus. Its range expansion is likely a signal of a warming alpine climate in our study area.
4095873|This paper deals with the floristic structure and plant-community composition in relation to environmental gradients in the Tso Kar basin, an
1552315| Paleoecological analyses were carried out from two sediment cores from lake sites at the alpine treeline on Pyhkero mountain, the northernmost peak of an isolated mountain range, Pallastunturi-Ounastunturi, south of the polar forestline in western Finnish Lapland. Plant macrofossils, supported by pollen data, show presence of pine (Pinus sylvestris) and birch (Betula pubescens) on the top of the mountain from 9500 cal yr BP (birch) and 8300 cal yr BP (pine) up to 2000 cal yr BP (pine) and 1500 cal yr BP (birch). However, the major floristic elements of the modern alpine vegetation, as evidenced by plant macrofossils of a number of typical alpine taxa, including Salix cf. polaris, show persistence through the warmer periods of the Holocene, and indicate that the scattered pine-birch forest never completely replaced the low-alpine plant communities. The current low-alpine vegetation on the mountain top has therefore long continuity from the time of regional deglaciation. Dispersal of these alpine species took place primarily during the deglaciation phase and it is unnecessary to invoke dispersal of the arctic-alpine plants from the arctic regions of Fennoscandia during the mid- or late-Holocene to explain the origin of the alpine flora of the mountain range. 
20181707|Alpine treeline ecotones can be gradual transitions, abrupt boundaries, or patchy mosaics, and these different patterns may indicate important processes and dynamic properties. We present observed spatial patterns of a wide range of tropical treelines and try to explain these patterns. Treelines were studied at seven sites in the tropical and subtropical Andes (Argentina, Bolivia, Ecuador, and Venezuela) and on a Hawaiian volcano (Haleakala, Maui). Treeline vegetation structure was described using transects perpendicular to the treeline, and air and soil temperatures were measured above and below the forest boundary. Temperature fluctuations were much larger and the average temperature was higher in alpine vegetation than in forest. Most treelines were abrupt, with surprisingly similar patterns across a wide geographical range. This abruptness could result from positive feedback processes mediated by the differences in microclimate between forest and pramo. Our data is not conclusive about the relative importance of microclimate as opposed to fire in mediating such feedbacks. However, our extensive set of comparable data from different sites in a large geographical region is an important step toward a better understanding of the nature and dynamics of tropical alpine treelines.
40962400|Because of the contrastive differences in environment and species composition, climatic amelioration may affect alpine vegetation differently between fellfield and snowbed communities. To test this prediction, the effects of warming on plant growth and vegetation structure were studied in two fellfield and two snowbed communities in northern Japan over 7 years using open-top-chambers (OTCs). OTCs increased the temperature by 1.1-1.8 C, but the effects on snowmelt time and soil moisture were small. Vegetation height and canopy volume increased substantially at both fellfield sites as a result of the use of OTCs. Deciduous shrubs increased substantially at the lower fellfield and graminoids increased at the upper fellfield. In contrast, the responses of snowbed plants to OTCs were not significant. Because snowbed plants are snow-covered until mid-summer, climatic amelioration during the snow-free period may influence plant growth only slightly if the snow-free period does not change. Species richness and diversity were not changed by OTCs at any of the sites, indicating that the effect of warming alone may not be strong enough to change the species composition and diversity over several years. These results indicate significant variation in the response among alpine communities to warming.
24551613|The widespread expansion of shrubs into arctic and alpine regions has frequently been linked to climatic warming, but herbivory can play a role in addition to, or in interaction with, climate. Willow (Salix spp.) shrubs are important constituents of alpine ecosystems, influencing community structure and providing habitat and forage for many species. We investigate the impact of browsing by domestic sheep (Ovis aries), the dominant herbivore in Norwegian mountains, on Salix stem density, height, and radial growth. We used a field experiment, replicated along an elevational gradient, with manipulated densities of sheep (no sheep, low density, and high density at 0, 25, and 80 sheep km2). We found that Salix shoot density and radial growth were greatest at high sheep density but only at low elevations, indicating that competition from field-layer vegetation at lower sheep densities reduced Salix performance. At higher elevations Salix shoot density and radial growth were lower at high sheep density than at low sheep density and in the absence of sheep. Thus at high elevations sheep browsing is likely to slow the expansion of Salix shrubs, whilst the removal of browsing is likely to constrain Salix expansion at lower elevations.
4095831|Low temperatures and the short growing season in high altitude snow patches in temperate mountains constrain life cycles and reproduction of snowbed species. This leads to a highly adapted timing of sexual reproduction. Winter precipitation and temperature, the main factors determining growing season length, are predicted to change with global warming. To understand their impacts on plant phenology, we studied the responses of seven alpine vascular plant species during 2001. Temperature had a clear impact on phenological patterns. The start of the reproductive development was not directly linked with the date of snowmelt, but rather with the cumulative energy input. In addition, photoperiodism may also contribute to the control of plant development through an increasing temporal adjustment of phenology until flowering.
10.2307/1552619| We investigated the effect of clipping on a natural stand of Carex aquatilis var. stans in Sverdrup Pass (79N), Ellesmere Island. We clipped plants up to four times each growing season for 4 yr to a height of 1.5 cm above the moss canopy to simulate natural grazing. Cumulative biomass production above 1.5 cm showed exact compensation of lost tissue after clipping and cumulative nitrogen accumulation above 1.5 cm increased significantly in the frequently clipped plots. The concentration of nitrogen in rhizomes did not decrease in heavily clipped plots, even at the end of four seasons of clipping. Nitrogen losses from plants as a result of clipping were apparently overcompensated by increased uptake of nitrogen. We concluded that the plants had the capacity to compensate for the loss of clipped tissue by producing new growth. 
10.2307/1552213|A simulated transport corridor research site established in a permafrost-affected upland black spruce forest in 1984 was burned by a wildfire in 1995. A data set consisting of four mid-winter snow surveys conducted prior to the fire was supplemented by two postfire surveys (including a new, unburned forest control). Mean daily winter winds increased significantly on the cleared rights-of-way/simulated pipeline trench (ROW/trench). Increased winds were attributed to postfire reductions in stem density and surface roughness, which offered less resistance to the wind. Maximum winter winds were not significantly greater at 1.5 m on the postfire ROW/trench where the postfire modification of the forest reduced funnelling and acceleration of winds along the cleared ROW/trench. ROW/trench snowpack depth increased and water equivalence declined after the fire, except in leading-edge forest sites where the reverse occurred. Depth and water equivalence changes resulted from the altered wind regime, where reduction in effective wind erosion on ROW/trench locations left more snow in these areas and reduced the amount available for deposition in leading-edge forest sites. The postfire snowpack was generally less dense on the anthropogenic disturbances, and with greater insulation potential, less heat loss should occur through the snowpack. The postfire forest snowpack was unchanged in comparison to prefire characteristics which suggests that thaw season conditions have the greatest effect on active layer thickening and surface subsidence following wildfire.
10.2307/1552443| Spatial identifcation and description of ecological boundaries is fundamental to better understanding of treeline dynamics. Ecological boundaries across two contrasting subalpine Pinus uncinata forest-alpine grassland ecotones were delineated within the Central Pyrenees (Ordesa and Tess sites). Boundaries were delineated using an edge detection algorithm for two-dimensional data (lattice-wombling). Tree density, size-structure, growth-form, and estimated age were used to reveal spatial location of boundaries for several size and growth-form tree classes. Overlap statistics were applied to quantify spatial relationships among boundaries determined for different sets of variables. The most significant and consistent boundaries were those for structural variables at the Ordesa site. At this site, the sequential disposition of bigger and unistemmed trees descending across the ecotone produced boundaries for size-structure and growth-form variables. These boundaries were located along an ordered spatial pattern (altitudinal diagonal). At the Tess site, there were few consistent boundaries, most of which were developed along the slope. Overlap statistics showed that boundaries at the Ordesa site were more spatially related than were those at the Tess site. This result held when any set of variables was considered. The studied ecotones describe sharp (Ordesa site) and gradual (Tess site) structural changes in tree populations, related to situations similar to the ecotone and ecocline concepts, respectively. The possible environmental driving factors producing these patterns are the strong winds and reduced snow cover at higher altitudes at the Ordesa site, and snow avalanches at the Tess site. Boundary detection through time in permanent plots might be a better tool for monitoring climate-change impact in the forest--alpine grassland ecotone than the subjective location of treelines. 
24551611|Understanding the patterns in species distribution and abundance along environmental gradients is a keystone in field ecological study. Because the Antarctic terrestrial communities are simple, they provide a suitable opportunity for studying species distribution patterns in relation to environmental gradients. We applied diverse geostatistic methods and classical statistic descriptors to analyze the spatial patterns of several variables, such as Deschampsia antarctica abundance, moss cover, topography, and soil physical and chemical properties. Directional semivariograms and kriged maps showed that strong anisotropy in a topographic variable was reflected in the soil variables. Especially, soil texture and moss cover were correlated with elevation, and electric conductivity and Na+ were influenced by the distance from the shoreline. Furthermore, the heavy snowfall in 2009 evidently affected the survival of the grass. A short growing period and waterlogging induced by heavy snowfall may limit survival of D. antarctica and the amount of snowfall can be a important factor limiting the grass expansion.
20181764|Deposition of atmospheric nitrogen from urban and agricultural sources has caused surface water nitrate concentrations to increase in the Front Range of the Colorado Rocky Mountains. To investigate the effects of sustained increases in nitrate concentrations on phytoplankton dynamics in an alpine lake, we conducted nutrient enrichment experiments in mesocosms amended with nitrate, phosphate, and phosphate plus nitrate on four dates in July and August 2002. During this period, phytoplankton species composition shifted as diatoms decreased in abundance. Phytoplankton chlorophyll a increased in the phosphate and phosphate plus nitrate enrichments, but did not increase in the nitrate only enrichments. Analysis of the phytoplankton community using Principal Component Analysis showed that 34% of the variance was accounted for by the primary axis, which was associated with different time periods, and 21% of the variance was explained by the secondary axis, which was assoicated with treatments. The response to phosphorus enrichment was taxon-specific, and the two chlorophyte species which became more abundant, Chlamydomonas sp. and Scenedesmus sp., were strongly weighted on the secondary axis. These results indicate that the productivity of this phytoplankton community is phosphorus-limited throughout the summer. Therefore, additional inputs of nitrogen are not expected to directly alter the productivity of the phytoplankton community.
1552568| Balsam poplar (Populus balsamifera) groves occur north of the Brooks Range and treeline in arctic Alaska in a region of continuous permafrost and tundra vegetation. A poplar grove near the Ivishak River (6906N, 14753W) that we studied in detail contains 11 clones within 350 m of the river. Individual clones range from 600 to 4500 m<sup>2</sup> in size and 90 to 200 yr in age. Poplar trees are larger in diameter in clones within 100 m of the river and less dense in clones away from the river. Unique soil thermal, moisture, and nutrient conditions may limit the expansion of poplar groves to only a few hundred meters from the river channel, including a "thaw bulb," or depression in the permafrost table; lithologic discontinuities that concentrate moisture in the rooting zone; and accumulation of Ca-enriched precipitates from aufeis deposits. We prepared a map showing the distribution of poplar groves on the North Slope from published reports, satellite images, topographic maps, and observations of a bush pilot. The groves occur within an area bounded by 68-69N and 142-154W. A preliminary model explaining the origin and distribution of balsam poplar groves was developed from the case study; unpublished data; and a review of the geologic, hydrologic, and ecologic literature. The groves preferentially occur in areas where there is a sharp change in relief from the Brooks Range to the Arctic Foothills, extensive river braiding accompanied by geothermal springs and aufeis deposits, and a regional groundwater flow system enriched in Ca that may be controlled by faulting. 
10.2307/1552274| Pollen, plant macrofossil, loss-on-ignition and radiocarbon analyses of a 1.4-m section in thermokarst topography from Faddeyevskiy Island (7520N, 14350E, 30 m elevation) provides new information on Late Pleistocene interstadial environmental history of this high Arctic region. Conventional radiocarbon dates (25,700  1000, 32,780  500, 35,200  650 yr BP) and two AMS dates (29,950  660 and 42,990  1280 yr BP) indicate that the deposits accumulated during the Kargian (Boutellier) interval. Numerous mammoth (Mammuthus primigenius) remains that have been collected in vicinity of the site in this study were radio-carbon dated to 36,700-18,500 yr BP. Rare bison (Bison priscus) bones were dated to 32,200  600 and 33,100  320 yr BP. Poaceae, Cyperaceae, and Artemisia pollen dominate the spectra with some Ranunculaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Rosaceae, and Asteraceae. The pollen spectra reflect steppe-like (tundra-steppe) vegetation, which was dominant on the exposed shelf of the Arctic Ocean. Numerous Carex macrofossils suggest that the summer climate was at least 2C warmer than today. The productivity of the local vegetation during the Kargian interstadial was high enough to feed the population of grazing mammals. 
10.2307/1552473|Long-term fertilization studies in several arctic ecosystems have demonstrated dramatic responses of plant community structure with concomitant changes in ecosystem properties. Although these results are well documented in moist tussock and wet sedge tundra, dry heath tundra has been less studied. In an Alaskan dry heath arctic tundra, we conducted a biomass harvest of plants that received additional nitrogen (N, 10 g m-2 yr-1) and/or phosphorus (P, 5 g m-2 yr-1) or reduced light (50% of ambient) for 8 yr. We expected responses to be similar to those of other arctic tundra communities with increased biomass resulting from added nutrients and species responding individualistically to generate the community-level response. However, total vascular biomass did not change in the dry heath tundra in response to any treatment, although individual species and functional group biomass differed from controls. Aboveground productivity, estimated using new apical growth, significantly increased in the N and N + P plots caused by significantly greater abundance of a tussock-forming grass, Hierochloe alpina. The lowest species richness was recorded in the N alone plots, where a deciduous shrub, Betula nana, had its greatest biomass, and richness also declined in N + P plots. Plots that received P alone had similar biomass and species richness to controls, although shrubs decreased in abundance. The shade treatment caused minor biomass differences, marginally less new apical growth, and slightly lower species richness compared to control plots. These results were similar to several ongoing studies in Alaskan moist tussock and wet sedge tundras where aboveground productivity increased in response to added N and/or P but biomass response lagged. This shift in the dry heath tundra from an evergreen shrub to a grass dominated system in the N and N + P plots may cause profound ecosystem function changes as woody biomass capable of long-term carbon storage is lost.
4139079|Tree-ring chronologies for tamarack (Larix laricina (Du Roi) K. Koch) growing in four stand types covering a dry-to-wet gradient were developed to investigate the association between radial growth and climate as well as evidence of larch sawfly (Pristiphora erichsonii Hartig) herbivory near Churchill, subarctic Manitoba. The chronologies, produced using both living and subfossil material, were well replicated for the period 1800 to 2000. Our results indicated that climate explained more than 60% of the growth variation in tamarack with temperature from May to July of the growing season being most important. This was unusual considering that other studies showed a weak radial growth-climate association in tamarack because of signal contamination due to severe larch sawfly defoliation. Potential outbreak episodes were investigated by looking at pointer years and by contrasting the variance within the tamarack tree-ring series with that observed in climate and in nonhost species. A weak correspondence was observed among pale latewood rings, growth suppression period, and incomplete rings. Comparison of host and nonhost chronologies revealed synchronized growth suppression periods in tamarack during 1818-1824, 1857-1864, 1891-1892, 1903-1912, and 1959-1964, with seldom more than 25% of the trees being affected. The 20th-century suppressions corresponded to known outbreaks identified in Manitoba. However, they also corresponded to periods of little residues in the climate model suggesting that they may be due to short-term changes in site hydrology. This study stresses the difficulties to use dendrochronology to identify what may be low severity or "subepidemic" defoliation events. It also stresses the potential differences in the larch sawfly dynamics between the boreal forest and the forest-tundra. Further studies using an extended network of chronologies will be needed to decipher the short-term impacts of climate from those of low severity defoliation episodes.
1552307| Soil organic matter distributions, reservoirs, and mineralization rates in tundra soils are important factors for understanding biogeochemical carbon cycling. This study focuses on spatial trends and environmental controls of soil carbon distribution and microbial soil respiration in 4 tundra vegetation communities in an arctic valley in NE-Greenland (74N), including Dryas and Cassiope heaths, Salix snow bed, and fen vegetation. Measured total soil organic carbon in the upper 50 cm averaged (SD) 11.0  1.5 kg C m<sup>-2</sup> with spatial variations strongly affected by vegetation, hydrology, and buried organic layers. Observed soil CO<sub>2</sub> concentrations and effluxes were simulated with a steady-state diffusion model using laboratory measured CO<sub>2</sub> productions as input. Simulated CO<sub>2</sub> profiles and CO<sub>2</sub> effluxes (up to 3 mol CO<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>) agreed with field observations and revealed the importance of both vegetation- and depth-specific CO<sub>2</sub> production and CO<sub>2</sub> diffusion for understanding the spatial variation in near-surface soil CO<sub>2</sub> gas dynamics. These results confirm that molecular diffusion dominates gas transport in the studied soils; but also that the complexity of CO<sub>2</sub> production/transport coupled to soil heterogeneity (in particular the litter layer) complicates the application of soil-diffusion models to estimate seasonal trends of soil gas effluxes. 
1552637| Nation-wide surveys of the accumulation of 10 heavy metals in mosses were carried out in Finland in 1985, 1990, 1995, and 2000. Separate investigations were carried out, on the basis of these surveys, into the atmospheric deposition of Hg, Cd, and Pb beyond the Arctic Circle in northern Finland. These metals are readily distributed in the form of long-range transboundary pollution, and particular concern has been raised about the transport and accumulation of these metals into Arctic areas. The Hg, Cd, and Pb concentrations in mosses in northern Finland were low. There was a clear decrease in Cd and Pb concentrations during the period 1985-2000. The Pb concentration decreased, on the average, from 8 to 2 g g<sup>-1</sup>, and the Cd concentration from 0.3 to 0.1 g g<sup>-1</sup>. Hg concentrations, which were analyzed in 1995 and 2000, decreased only slightly from 0.037 to 0.031 g g<sup>-1</sup>. The slight decrease in Hg concentrations in northern Finland appears to reflect the decreasing Hg emissions and the high mobility of this metal. Factors leading to the decrease in Pb and Cd concentrations in mosses in northern Finland include a decrease in local emissions and a decrease in transboundary air pollution. The past two decades have been characterized by decreases in heavy metal emissions of throughout Europe. The greatest reductions have been in Pb emissions, due to the introduction of unleaded fuels. 
10.2307/1552223| Sediment cores around Antarctica provide a unique opportunity to cross check and supplement the climatic information recorded in ice cores. Suitable high-resolution data, however, have not been available until now from East Antarctica. We present results from the longest continuous postglacial marine sediment succession (1290 cm) ever obtained from an East Antarctic basin. Twenty-one radiocarbon dates show a consistent age to depth correlation over the last 9400 calibrated years BP (cal. yr BP). For this time interval distinct changes in the silicified ice-related biotic species assemblages, accumulation rates of organic carbon, 13C values, and C/N ratios were detected. We demonstrate that these sediment signatures can be used as climate proxies. Our results indicate significant Holocene climatic variability with a climatic optimum between 3500 and 2500 cal. yr BP. This was followed by an abrupt and dramatic cooling that took place within less than 200 yr. Corroborating the results of other researchers we hypothesize that this climatic optimum and its termination was a circumantarctic event which would appear to be out of phase with a proposed global temperature trend (maximum) during the Holocene. 
1552292|A calibrated Rhizocarpon spp. lichen growth curve spanning the last 680 yr was developed for the Bella Coola and Mount Waddington areas, southern Coast Mountains of British Columbia (Canada). It is based on 18 control surfaces whose ages were determined using radiocarbon dates, tree-ring dated moraines, and ice front positions derived from historical air photographs. Population distribution statistics were used to assess the validity of each control lichen measurement. The relationship is characterized by logarithmic growth during the first 100 yr following surface stabilization, and is described as linear for the successive 600 yr. Application of the curve at Tiedemann Glacier revealed evidence for six periods of late-Neoglacial moraine formation in ca. AD 620, 925, 1118, 1392, 1575, and 1621. The study confirms the importance of incorporating a multisite approach and a lichen population dynamic assessment. Large samples sizes and replication are also noted as necessary in order to adequately assess any dating errors.
20181768|Lichen regeneration timelines are needed to establish sound fire management guidelines for caribou (Rangifer tarandus) winter range. Paired burned and unburned permanent vegetative cover transects were established after 1981, 1977, and 1972 tundra fires in northwestern Alaska to document regrowth of tundra vegetation including caribou forage lichens in the wintering range of Alaska's largest caribou herd. Following fire, lichen had recovered very little compared to unburned transects (1% cover vs. 15% cover) after 14 years. After 24 or 25 years, lichen cover in the burns remained low (3-4%), whether or not caribou were present during the recovery period. In addition, lichen cover on unburned transects at one study site had decreased from 14% to 6%. Shrub cover was higher on the burned plots than the unburned plots. Cover of cottongrass (Eriophorum vaginatum) initially increased following the fire and tussocks quickly became more vigorous than on paired unburned transects, remaining so for more than 14 years. Persistent changes in vegetation following fire likely reflect the cumulative impacts of seasonal caribou use and favorable growing conditions (warmer soils, longer growing season) for rooted vascular species during the recovery period. The actual recovery of forage lichens after fire on our study sites is slower than predictions based on ideal growth potential.
20181766|The bogong moth migrates annually to the mountains of southeastern Australia in spring, to estivate at alpine altitudes, before returning to the plains in autumn to breed. Although occurring at low densities in the plains as larvae, when they estivate gregariously densities reach high levels, so that any chemicals carried by them are concentrated. One such chemical is arsenic, which is concentrated to phytotoxic levels in the soils surrounding estivation sites. Vegetation may recover as arsenic is made unavailable by time or by fire. This may be a cyclical process that has occurred many times in the past. Bogong moths are an important food for birds and small mammals, and arsenic has been found in the food chain, although bird deaths and population declines in small mammals cannot be positively ascribed to arsenic. Genetic studies and studies looking at the chemical form of the arsenic have so far been unable to confirm the source of the arsenic; however, interception of moths on their spring migration confirms that the source is away from the mountains.
4139083|The mapping of air temperature in the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau is of practical importance because the meteorological stations are sparse and unevenly distributed in the region. The spatial interpolation methods of inverse distance weight, ordinary kriging, ordinary cokriging, and a combined method were used to estimate the spatial distribution of the 1961-1990 January mean air temperature in the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau. The combined method is a combination of ordinary kriging and correction of altitude effect by using lapse rate of air temperature. Comparison of results showed that the problem of mapping air temperature in the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau cannot be resolved by the simple geometric interpolation method as the inverse distance weight. Ordinary kriging can manifest some spatial pattern but the performance was not improved too much. Cokriging to a certain extent was an improvement of kriging but due to the limited altitude information included in the co-variable, the interpolation results were also not in agreement with the actual situation. The combined method was superior to the other methods. The interpolation result from it was reasonable, proved by both the subjective analysis and by many previous works. The comparison of the four methods leads to the conclusion that for regions with sparse meteorological stations, such as the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau, stochastic interpolation methods must be combined with the altitude-effect correction for estimating the spatial distribution of climatic variables.
4095845| In autumn 1997, a 2.2 km-long, 4 m-high snow fence was constructed east of the coastal village of Barrow, Alaska. A large drift develops each winter on the downwind side of the fence, and a smaller drift forms upwind. To monitor the thermal impact on ice-rich permafrost, nine monitoring sites were installed near the fence in 1999 to measure soil temperature at 5, 30, and 50 cm; an additional three sites were located in the undisturbed tundra as a control. Maximum thaw and snow depth were measured annually. The results of the 6-yr study indicates that soil temperatures beneath the drift are 2 to 14C warmer than the control in winter due to the insulting effects of the snow. Since the drift persists 4 to 8 wk after snow has disappeared from the undisturbed tundra, soil thaw is delayed and soil temperatures in summer are 2 to 3C cooler than the control. The mean soil temperature over the 6-yr period of record has warmed 2 to 5C, and the upper permafrost has thawed. The ground surface has experienced 10 to 20 cm of thaw subsidence in many places, and widespread thermokarst is apparent where snow meltwater ponds. Both direct soil warming and the indirect effects of ponding contribute to local permafrost destabilization. 
4139093|Cushion plants are one of the most common growth forms in alpine habitats. Their low stature, dense canopy, and compact form allow them to decouple their microclimate from the surrounding environment, mitigating the effect of low temperatures and drought, enhancing the survival of other species. In this study, we evaluated the modifications on soil temperature and moisture over an entire growing season by two cushion species (Laretia acaulis and Azorella monantha) in alpine communities located at two different elevations in the central Chilean Andes. Additionally, we performed seedling survival experiments with two native herbaceous species (Hordeum comosum and Erigeron andicola) and the non-native forb Cerastium arvense to assess if seedling survival is higher within cushions than outside them. Our results indicated that cushions ameliorated extreme low and high substrate temperatures, improved soil moisture, and enhanced seedling survival of the three herbaceous plant species evaluated. Our results suggest that microclimatic modifications associated with cushion plants could be important for the establishment and survival of other plant species, both native and non-native, in the high alpine communities of central Chile.
4095827|The hydrologic system of the coastal McMurdo Dry Valleys, Antarctica, is defined by snow accumulation, glacier melt, stream flow, and retention in closed-basin, ice-covered lakes. During the austral summers from 1993-1996 and 1999-2000 to 2002-2003, fresh snow, snow pits, glacier ice, stream water, and lake waters were sampled for the stable isotopes deuterium (D) and
41416424|Alpine plant communities are sensitive to global climate change, which has been predicted to cause increases in woody vegetation, possibly at the expense of herbs. We studied a community in western Maine, comparing the frequency and abundance of alpine plants in 2009 with frequency and abundance recorded in 1976. During the 33 years between surveys, the most common tree became more frequent, and as a result, the frequency of trees as a functional group increased. Shrubs did not become more frequent but did become more abundant, driven by the increasing abundance of two Vaccinium species. Several species provided evidence of strong affinities for the north or south slope of the mountain, but in most cases such evidence was apparent in a species' frequency or its abundance, not both, indicating that different forces regulate dispersal and vegetative growth of alpine plants, which could have implications for understanding responses to changing environmental conditions. Total species richness of the community increased, with the addition of several lower montane herbs. The changes are consistent with predictions and with observations made in tundra communities elsewhere.
4095916|We used retrospective analysis of the widespread evergreen dwarf-shrub, Cassiope tetragona, to reconstruct average summer air temperature for Alexandra Fiord, Ellesmere Island, Canada. Retrospective analysis is a technique based on dendrochronological methods. In this study, chronologies are based on the morphological characteristics of the plant stems. Two growth and two reproduction chronologies, ranging from 80 to 118 years long, were developed from each of two populations at the High Arctic site. We used multiple regression models to develop a 100-year-long (1895-1994) reconstruction of July-September average air temperature that explained 45% of the climatic variance in the instrumental record. The reconstruction revealed an increase in summer temperature from ~1905 to the early 1960s, a cooling trend from the mid-1960 to the 1970s, and an increase in temperature after 1980. These historical temperature patterns correspond well with those from other climate proxies from sites on Ellesmere and Devon Islands. As well, the similarity between our model and an arctic-wide proxy temperature time series suggests that the Cassiope-based reconstruction contains a large-scale temperature signal. There is great potential for the development of proxy climate data using Cassiope tetragona from sites throughout the Arctic.
40801689|The Cariboo Mountains form the northern extension of the Columbia Mountains, spanning a distance of about 300 km in central British Columbia Canada. Cool air temperatures, abundant snowfall, and strong winds (especially above treeline and along exposed ridges) would suggest frequent and intense blowing snow events. The occurrence of intense blowing snow episodes is confirmed by automated wind and snow depth measurements at several sites in the area. Simulations conducted with a numerical model forced by meteorological observations recorded from 2006 to 2009 reveal a high frequency of blowing snow episodes at three high-elevation sites in the Cariboo Mountains. This process is especially prominent on the exposed ridge of Browntop Mountain (elevation of 2031 m a. s. l.) where snow transport by wind is calculated to occur as much as two-thirds of the time during some winter months.Simulated blowing snow fluxes remain high at this site with monthly transport and sublimation rates reaching 5301 Mg m- and 31 mm snow water equivalent (SWE), respectively. Blowing snow is also shown to be a dominant process in snow accumulation at the upper Castle Creek Glacier site (elevation of 2105 m a. s. l.), with strong winds generating sharp declines in snow depth and the erosion of more than 200 cm of snow depth during two successive winters. The results presented in this study suggest that blowing snow contributes significantly to snow accumulation and the mass balance of glaciers in BC's Cariboo Mountains.
20181772|Soils of the McMurdo Dry Valleys are among the most extreme terrestrial environments, hosting low-diversity food webs of microbes, protozoa, and metazoan invertebrates. Distribution of soil invertebrates, particularly nematodes, is related to the highly variable soil geochemistry of the valleys. Bull Pass is a glacially carved area within the McMurdo Dry Valleys where a broad range of geochemical conditions occurs along a continuous soil gradient. This site provides the opportunity to investigate how soil geochemistry controls nematode distribution on a local scale, and to establish correlations that may also be relevant at regional scales. At Bull Pass, two nematode species were present, with the dominant Scottnema lindsayae occurring in &gt;30% of the samples. There were significant negative correlations between live nematode abundance and soil nitrate concentration and salinity, consistent with experiments showing strong salinity effects on nematode survival. A logistic regression model based on data sets from across the McMurdo Dry Valleys showed a strong negative relationship between soil salinity and the probability of live nematodes occurring. Soil chemistry and nematode distribution from the Bull Pass transect are compared with model results and suggest that the larger-scale distribution of nematodes across the McMurdo Dry Valleys may be reflected in the smaller-scale chemical and biological gradients at Bull Pass.
40305825|As with glaciers, long-lasting snowpatches have measurable features that are likely to be affected by a warming climate. Changes in these snowpatches are important as they often affect the down-slope thermal regime, water supply, nutrients, soil development, and vegetation. Australia's longest-lasting snowpatches, occurring in the Snowy Mountains, are formed during northwesterly winds, being deposited on southeasterly slopes where they are protected from insolation. Longevity of snowpatches is determined by winter snow and summer temperatures, with 155 days variation in the date of thaw among years. Snowpatches generally occurred in the same locations annually, but differences in direction of the winds during deposition affected snowpatch formation, accumulating aspect, and spatial melt patterns among years. Date of thaw of snowpatches was related to the general snowpack that has declined significantly over the past 54 years. Snowpatches previously multi-year in duration, melted in 2006 in the same year that they formed. Australian snowpatches have already declined with the resultant loss of specialized vegetation. Trends in reducing amount of snow and earlier thaw cast doubt on the long-term future of these snowpatches and their specialized plant communities.
10.2307/1552625|Paleolimnological analyses of two lakes located near the northern treeline in the central part of the Canadian Northwest Territories document a history of abrupt postglacial climatic and limnological changes. A diatom-based transfer function, based on weighted-averaging partial least squares regression (WA-PLS) techniques, was used to give quantitative estimates of past trends in lakewater dissolved organic carbon (DOC), a limnological variable strongly aligned with catchment vegetation and soils. The diatom record from the sediment cores provides evidence for profound limnologic change during the mid-Holocene, corresponding to maximum forest-tundra development between 5000 and 3000 <sup>14</sup>C yr BP in both Queen's and Toronto lakes, with a diatom-inferred relative change in lakewater DOC of up to 5.8 mg L<sup>-1</sup> between the mid-Holocene and the present-day. Comparison of the diatom-inferred environmental changes with other proxy data (pollen, stable isotopes) from the same lakes provides strong evidence for an episode of climatic amelioration and lake responses to the associated vegetational changes (from tundra to forest-tundra) at sites near the central Canadian treeline. This study illustrates the usefulness of diatoms as quantitative indicators of past climate-related environmental change in northern treeline regions, and implies that aquatic ecosystems at high latitudes might respond with extreme sensitivity to climate warming.
1552365|We tested the hypothesis that foliar nitrogen and phosphorus concentrations are correlated with estimates of soil nutrient supply, a common assumption in studies of plant nutrient relations. This hypothesis was tested in an alpine ecosystem characterized by a wide range of soil nutrient availabilities using 3 herbaceous plants with widespread distributions. Rates of soil N and P supply were estimated using ion exchange resin bags deployed during the first half of the growing season, when the majority of plant nutrient uptake occurs. Measurements were made at 3 to 5 landscape positions (vegetation types) at 3 sites: a valley bottom that was glaciated until 12,000 yr ago and 2 ridgetop sites, 1 with deposits of Tertiary age and 1 that was not glaciated during the Pleistocene. Foliar N and P concentrations generally were not correlated with rates of soil N and P supply. We present several hypotheses to explain the lack of a correlation between soil N and P supply and foliar N and P concentrations, most notably the probable buffering between soil nutrient supply and foliar nutrient concentrations by belowground nutrient storage in plants and the use of organic N by plants. Foliar N:P ratios reflected the specific nutrient limitation of production for 1 of the 3 study species. Rates of soil N supply were associated with landscape position, indicating that microclimatic and/or plant species effects were the most important controls over spatial variation in N supply. Rates of P supply differed significantly among valley and ridge locations, but not with landscape position. Soil age and eolian deposition of dust probably differ between these collection sites and may explain the differences in soil P supply. These results suggest that caution should be used in estimating soil fertility and specific nutrient limitations of growth based on foliar nutrient concentrations in herbaceous communities.
1552437|Snowmelt infiltration into alpine soils can be severely reduced and even impeded by soil frost. In order to learn more about the true nature of infiltration pathways into alpine soils, dye tracer experiments were set up at 2 locations in southern Switzerland: at Hannigalp (2100 m) and at Gd St Bernard. Over the course of two winters (2000-2001 and 2001-2002) we excavated vertical soil profiles during snowmelt to examine the distribution of a dye tracer (Brilliant Blue FCF) that had been applied on the surface of a 7-m<sup>2</sup> plot at the beginning of the winter. Soil conditions varied between the winters, with the soils remaining unfrozen during the first and a significant frozen layer forming during the second. With this method the dominant infiltration processes at these 2 sites were identified. During the first winter the water infiltration at Hannigalp showed a pronounced preferential behavior, whereas at Gd St Bernard we found a more homogeneous front-like infiltration. During the second winter the impeding impact of the frozen soil was clearly seen at the Hannigalp site--however, only in the first stage of the snowmelt. More decisive for the formation of lateral surface runoff was the buildup of an ice layer on the soil surface due to melting and refreezing. Cold-chamber experiments, in which intact soil columns were irrigated with a dye tracer and a fluorescent tracer solution, confirmed our in situ observations with regard to heterogeneity and soil frost effect on the infiltration pattern. Our study showed that both tracers can be applied to frozen soil in the laboratory, whereas at the remote alpine locations only the dye tracer method was applicable.
41240426|Mosses are a major component of the tundra flora in the Canadian Arctic, yet their use in arctic contaminant research is lacking. Biomonitoring of atmospheric heavy metal deposition using mosses has been extensively employed in Europe, providing a higher sampling density than precipitation monitoring. Temporal, spatial, and habitat gradients of concentrations and enrichment factors of As, Cd, Cr, Cu, Ni, Zn, and Pb (and its stable isotopes) in mosses from Ellesmere Island are examined. Anthropogenically influenced concentrations of As, Cr, Cu, Ni, and Zn in samples collected in 2007 were observed. Concentrations of heavy metals in hydric taxa were larger than those observed in xeric or mesic taxa, though non-significant. Generally, heavy metal concentrations decreased from 1983 to 2007 in a single high arctic locality, though non-significant. Pb-isotope ratios were radiogenic and characteristic of the High Arctic Islands. Trends in high arctic moss data corresponded with environmental proxies such as glacial ice cores, lake sediments, and atmospheric aerosols illustrating the usefulness of bryophytes as biomonitors. This paper outlines the utility of using mosses as biomonitors of heavy metal depositions in the Canadian High Arctic.
4139092|Avalanche records are important for land-use planning and risk management in mountainous areas. Written records on dates, disturbed area, and pressure patterns of past snow avalanches are scarce. Tree rings can be used to complement written records on past avalanche activity. We conducted two case studies at documented avalanche tracks in the Swiss Alps to determine the most valuable dendroecological indicators for reconstructing past avalanche events. Both tracks were impacted by avalanche events in 1951 and 1999, the two most exceptional avalanche years in recent Swiss history. The difference in tree age among the track, border, run-out, and control sectors was a valuable indicator of the area impacted by past avalanches, but not a useful tool to establish dates of avalanche occurrences. Comparisons of reaction wood formation, changes in stem eccentricity, and presence of traumatic resin canals among sectors showed significantly larger values of these indicators after the 1999 event in the track areas, and in minor degree in the border areas. Abrupt growth changes following the 1999 event were identified in most disturbed trees. Growth releases were commonly accompanied by the formation of reaction wood. Tree-ring evidences for the 1951 avalanche event were limited mainly due to the removal of debris by local communities. The intensity of avalanche events was difficult to determine using tree-ring indicators. Although dates and areas impacted by documented avalanche events were sometimes assessed using single indicators, more precise reconstructions result from the combined use of several dendroecological indicators.
1552348|Numerous exposures of Pleistocene sediments occur in the Noatak basin, which extends for 130 km along the Noatak River in northwestern Alaska. Nk-37, an extensive bluff exposure near the west end of the basin, contains a record of at least three glacial advances separated by interglacial and interstadial deposits. An ancient river-cut bluff and associated debris apron is exposed in profile through the central part of Nk-37. The debris apron contains a rich biotic record and represents part of an interglaciation that is probably assignable to marine-isotope stage 5. Pollen spectra from the lower part of the debris apron closely resemble modern samples taken from the Noatak floodplain in spruce gallery forest, and macrofossils of spruce are also present at this level. Fossil bark beetles and carpenter ants occur higher in the debris apron. Mutual Climatic Range (MCR) estimates from the fossil beetles suggest temperatures similar to or warmer than today. Together, these fossils indicate the presence of an interglacial spruce forest in the western part of the Noatak Basin, which lies about 80 km upstream of the modern limit of spruce forest.
10.2307/1552233| This paper presents the results of a lichenometric and dendrochronological study of the recent retreat history of Glaciar Nef, an eastern outlet glacier of the Hielo Patagnico Norte. A 600-yr tree regeneration time, based on maximum tree age in the ancient forest, suggests that the forest-clad lateral moraines in the valley, southeast of the 19th century terminal moraine system, were formed some time before A.D. 1370. Dating estimates suggest that retreat from a 19th century maximum began around 1863, a decade or two earlier than the date established for other glaciers in the region, with glacier thinning near the ice front averaging 1.11 m yr<sup>-1</sup> between 1863-1881. After 1884, retreat seems to have slowed, with glacier thinning averaging 0.09 m yr<sup>-1</sup>. Lichen and tree dating suggests that the glacier had retreated approximately 500 m by 1938; this estimate is supported by an aerial photograph showing a proglacial lake just beginning to form in 1944. Recent glacier movements around the Hielo Patagnico Norte are discussed and it is concluded that the general trend of glacier retreat around the icefield, beginning in the 1860s to 1870s, is consistent with Northern Hemisphere trends. 
41240437|Previous research has indicated that modeling evapotranspiration (ET) in the Arctic Coastal Plain is challenging due to unique ecosystem conditions which include mosses, permafrost, and standing dead vegetation. A new version of the commonly used Biome-BGC (Biogeochemical Cycles) model (Arctic Biome-BGC) was developed that included: (1) a water storage and vertical drainage/infiltration routine that accounts for permafrost and mosses, (2) a modified representation of energy available at the surface which includes ground heat flux and simulates interception of incoming radiation by standing dead vegetation, and (3) a background evaporation routine that allows for moss and open water evaporation. In this study we investigated the sensitivity of model predictions to variations in parameter values, and to provide a conceptual validation of Arctic Biome-BGC. Using the generalized sensitivity analysis methodology, 13 parameters were evaluated. Results indicate that the model was sensitive to 8 of the 13 parameters. Seven of these parameters were introduced in the development of Arctic Biome-BGC and related to both energy reaching the ground surface and the amount of water stored within the soil and moss layers. The remaining sensitive parameter modulates the rate of snowmelt. These results validate the conceptual modifications included in the Arctic Biome-BGC model for estimating ET.
10.2307/1552546|Thermokarst lakes, a characteristic landscape element of the Arctic, are rarely found outside arctic situations. Here, a 30-yr photogrammetric monitoring series of a thermokarst lake in the Gruben area, Swiss Alps, is presented. The lake, situated in an environment of dead-ice remains and creeping permafrost, reached a final size of ca. 10,000 m<sup>2</sup> in area and 50,000 m<sup>3</sup> in volume before it had to be drained artificially in 1995. Starting in the mid-1960s it grew with radial rates of ca. 1.5 to 5 m yr<sup>-1</sup>. Nonlinear coupling of lake diameter and energy turnover led to accelerated area growth. The development of the lake was presumably driven by thermal convection of water. By a dynamic model of lake growth, we show that a change in climate conditions and/or the lake bottom topography could have significantly influenced the observed lake growth. The effective energy turnover used for ice-melt and subsequent lake growth was estimated to be in the order 10<sup>0</sup> to 10<sup>1</sup> W m<sup>-2</sup>.
10.2307/1552231|We here describe glacial geomorphology that sheds light on ice-dynamic conditions during the Noble Inlet advance, a glacial event involving northward ice flow across Hudson Strait and large-magnitude meltwater drainage across Meta Incognita Peninsula at around 8.9 to 8.4 <sup>14</sup>C kyr BP. Through airphoto interpretation and field inspection of key sites we mapped the glacial geomorphology of interior Meta Incognita Peninsula, the postulated terminal zone for northward expansion of ice from Quebec-Labrador during the Noble Inlet advance. A 170-km-long zone of glaciofluvial canyons, washing zones and boulder deltas was traced from Shaftesbury Inlet to Henderson Inlet. This zone reflects initial drainage across Meta Incognita Peninsula at >520 m elevation, followed by ice marginal drainage at progressively lower levels along the southern slope of the peninsula. The ice marginal outline required to explain the glaciofluvial zone is compatible with northward-trending striae previously reported from the southern coast of Meta Incognita Peninsula. A very large flux of meltwater across Meta Incognita Peninsula probably occurred because eastward supraglacial drainage on ice in Hudson Strait was temporarily impeded and steered northward by a raised ice surface level in outer Hudson Strait, induced by an enhanced outflow of ice from Ungava Bay.
4095930|The breeding system and floral development were compared in mid-range (West Greenland) and marginal (North Iceland) populations of Campanula uniflora, a widespread high arctic species which is rare in large parts of its range. Seed set and germination were compared among outcrossed, passively and actively selfed, and control flowers. There were no significant differences in seed set or seed quality among treatments or populations. Seed viability was high and germination rapid following
20181842|Environmental change, caused by nitrogen deposition and temperature increase, is predicted to affect allocation to carbon-based secondary compounds (CBSCs) in plants, due to changes in their internal carbon resources. The CBSCs are considered important for plant resistance to biotic and abiotic environmental stresses, such as herbivory, pathogen attacks, and UV radiation. To determine how allocation to putative defense compounds is affected by N deposition and increased temperature, we analyzed the composition of CBSCs in leaves of three arctic-alpine plant species: Bistorta vivipara, Dryas octopetala, and Salix reticulata after 5 years of warming (by open-top chambers) and experimental nutrient addition in an alpine Dryas heath in southern Norway. The dry weight of leaves increased after nutrient addition and warming combined with nutrient addition in all three species, while the weight of D. octopetala leaves also increased with warming alone. Individual chemical compounds or compound groups reacted to the treatments to different degrees and in different directions in the three species. The total concentration of CBSCs changed significantly only in S. reticulata, where it decreased in plots with nutrient addition combined with warming. Shading caused by taller vegetation in these plots might have bigger effects on the CBSC concentration than the direct changes in nutrient availability and temperature. Dryas octopetala had the highest concentration of CBSCs among the three species and was least affected by the treatments. Our results show that increased N availability and temperature influenced the level of carbon-based defense in some alpine plants but not others, indicating species-specific C-allocation responses to environmental change. Consequently, environmental changes may differentially affect defense abilities of alpine plant species, which could possibly contribute to future changes in interspecific competitive relationships and subsequently species composition of alpine plant communities.
23252329|Suspended sediment concentration and transport is modeled for the Mittivakkat Glacier located on Ammassalik Island, South-East Greenland, using a numerical sediment model based on lumped-elements. Empirical equations calculate sediment erosion and deposition within a constant idealized glacier drainage system. The sediment model is forced by observations and an energy balance model based on meteorological observations that provide a simulated Surface Melt and liquid Precipitation available for supra-, en-, sub-, and proglacial flow processes after vertical percolation and potential storage within the snowpack (henceforth SMP) from the glacier surface which is available for subglacial erosion, glaciofluvial transport, and deposition within the drainage system. The idealized drainage system is constrained following the descriptions and conclusions from previous work. A model simulation run for summer 2005 shows that the cumulative modeled suspended sediment transport lies within 3% when compared with observations. Model results show that the temporal changes in the calculated suspended sediment concentrations vary over the melt season in some agreement with measured field data for the summer of 2005. Forcing the sediment model gives a correlation coefficient of 0.89 using observed proglacial meltwater discharge values and the correlation coefficient is 0.63 using modeled supraglacial meltwater runoff. The sediment model successfully captures the observed concentration and transport of suspended sediment which indicates a sufficient sediment reservoir available for transport through the idealized drainage system.
1552375| The formation of calcium phosphate rock coating and its influence in geomorphic processes were investigated on the Yalour Islands (Antarctica). amples of coating on the metamorphosed andesitic rock are composed of a 25 m-thick, white, shiny, relatively hard layer of hydroxylapatite (Hp) with traces of calcite and quartz. Scanning electron micrographs, X-ray diffractograms, Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) spectra, and in situ analysis of the chemical composition of the coatings suggest that the calcium phosphate coating is formed mainly through the decomposition of penguin excrement from nearby penguin rookeries and subsequent precipitation of Hp in micropits on the surface of the rock from solutions containing high amounts of calcium and phosphorus. These coatings undergo abiotic and biotic weathering processes that lead to the accumulation of secondary Hp as "flakes" and infillings in microcracks. The coatings give the dark, metamorphosed andesitic rock a shiny, light-colored surface. The coatings can decrease the permeability and increase the albedo of the rock, thereby limiting moisture infiltration (into the rock) and changing the rock's temperature. Based on theoretical estimates, a change of albedo from 0.2 to 0.3 significantly decreases the radiative heating of the rock during the summer months. These changes to rock properties will influence geomorphic processes such as freeze-thaw, thus affecting rock weathering and hence the evolution of the local landscape. 
1552309| In eastern Canada, snow avalanches are a common phenomenon, but their occurrences remain poorly documented. In the last 30 yr, they were responsible for deaths and damage to property and forests in avalanche-prone areas in northern and eastern Qubec. This study provides tree-ring--based avalanche chronologies for three scree slope stands in the northern Gasp Peninsula (Qubec). Tree-ring records indicated that high-magnitude avalanches occurred seven times during the period from 1860 to 1997, i.e., in 1871, 1898, 1952, 1956, 1966, 1977, and 1996, with 5- to 15-yr return intervals for the period between 1939 and 1997. High-magnitude avalanches occurred during snowy winters, with total snowfall well above average (330 cm). According to the size of past runout zones established from damaged trees at the main study stand, snow avalanches were greater in 1956 and 1966 than in 1996. The 1996 avalanche area was about 16,600 m<sup>2</sup> of which 60% (10,000 m<sup>2</sup>) was covered with mature trees. It caused a 200-m recession of the tree line. Causal factors of snow avalanches including weather conditions and stand characteristics were also examined. 
4095835|Higher plant species richness has been proposed to increase the resilience of plant communities to disturbance. The purpose of this study was to test whether this is true for reindeer grazed arctic tundra vegetation. Plant biomass, plant community structure, and species richness were measured along four fences that separated areas grazed by reindeer from ungrazed areas in northern Norway. I found a negative relationship between plant species richness and the change in species richness and biomass due to grazing. These results indicate diversity did not confer greater resilience to increased reindeer grazing intensity. No support for higher grazing pressure in diverse habitats were recorded, thus, these results suggest lower resilience to grazing in species-rich arctic tundra vegetation.
4139113|Construction of ski runs has a very heavy impact on alpine ecosystems since it results in total destruction of the existing vegetation and profound alteration of the soil. Restoration work must thus set out to develop a protective plant cover immediately and promote re-establishment of a functional plant-soil system in the long term. The aims of the present study, conducted at the Monterosa ski resort (Val d'Ayas, Aosta, Italy) were to evaluate (1) how disturbance related to ski run construction at high altitude (2200-2600 m a.s.l.) has affected vegetation and soil properties compared to undisturbed sites, and (2) how vegetation and soil properties change in machine-graded ski runs with increasing time after hydroseeding. Herbaceous cover and specific composition, root density, physico-chemical soil properties, and aggregate stability were evaluated to determine the vegetation and soil dynamics of four runs constructed above timberline and hydroseeded 4, 6, 10, and 12 years ago, respectively, and of the adjacent undisturbed alpine pasture as control. The seeded species had quickly formed a cover that was still high even after 10 years. However, cover values were always extremely low for wild species, and this could be related to their strategies and to altered soil properties (higher pH, organic matter impoverishment, and loss of both fine particles and aggregates). The study indicated that more has to be done to conserve or restore physico-chemical soil properties as a decisive factor in establishing a self-sustaining native plant community.
4139123|We measured thalli diameters of the lichen Rhizocarpon subgenus Rhizocarpon on 48 individual lobes of 18 rock glaciers and rock glacier complexes in the Elk Mountains and Sawatch Range of central Colorado. Cumulative probability distribution and K-means clustering analyses were used to separate lichen thalli measurements into statistically distinct groups, each interpreted as representing a discrete episode of rock glacier activity driven by an interval of cooler climate. Lichen ages for these episodes were assigned using a growth curve developed for Rhizocarpon geographicum in the nearby Front Range. An early Neoglacial episode, ca. 3080 yr BP, is correlative to other glacial and periglacial activity in the southern Rocky Mountains and surrounding areas and broadly corresponds to an interval of climatic deterioration evident in several other proxies of Holocene climate. The younger two episodes, ca. 2070 and 1150 yr BP, are also coeval with regional (Audubon) glacial and periglacial activity but are thus far not widely recognized in other climate proxies.
1552565| This paper presents data on physical conditions and carbon transport in a typical northeast Greenland fjord along with predictions of expected changes in the area due to climate change. The fjord has an average depth of 100 m; the maximum depth is 360 m, and a sill at a depth of 45 m is found at its entrance. Sea ice covers the fjord from early October to late July. The freshwater input to the fjord, occurring from June to September, is 1063  10<sup>6</sup> m<sup>3</sup> from the catchment area (3109 km<sup>2</sup>) and 440  10<sup>6</sup> m<sup>3</sup> from melting of sea ice. During the ice-free period this buoyancy input and mixing by wind and tides results in an estuarine circulation in which lighter low-salinity water is moved seaward above denser water from the Greenland Sea. The tidal amplitude is 0.8 to 1.5 m, and the transport of tides from the outer parts of the fjord to the inner parts is delayed less than 15 min due to low friction in the fjord system. During the ice-free period, a net carbon input of 15-50 t C d<sup>-1</sup> occurs in the outer region of the fjord due to transport from land and the adjacent Greenland Sea. A regional atmosphere-ocean model predicts a temperature increase of 6-8C at the end of this century (2071-2100) that will lead to increase in freshwater runoff, thinning of the sea ice, and an increase in ice-free conditions from 2.5 mo to 4.7-5.3 mo in Young Sound. The increased freshwater input will greatly enhance the estuarine circulation and nutrient input to the fjord and is expected to increase biological productivity. 
41240421|Surface fluxes are important boundary conditions for climatological modeling and the Asian monsoon system. The recent availability of high-resolution, multi-band imagery from the ASTER (Advanced Space-borne Thermal Emission and Reflection radiometer) sensor has enabled us to estimate surface fluxes to bridge the gap between local-scale flux measurements using micrometeorological instruments and regional scale land-atmosphere exchanges of water and heat fluxes that are fundamental for the understanding of the water cycle in the Asian monsoon system. A Surface Energy Balance System (SEBS) method based on ASTER data and field observations has been proposed and tested in this paper for deriving net radiation flux (R <sub>n</sub> ), soil heat flux (G <sub>o</sub> ), sensible heat flux (H), and latent heat flux (E) over a heterogeneous land surface. As a case study, the methodology was applied to an experimental area at NamCo, located at the central Tibetan Plateau, China. The ASTER data of 11 June 2006, 29 October 2007, and 25 February 2008 was used in this paper for the NamCo area case. To validate the proposed methodology, the ground-measured land surface heat fluxes (net radiation flux (R <sub>n</sub> ), soil heat flux (G <sub>o</sub> ), sensible heat flux (H), and latent heat flux (E)) were compared to the ASTER derived values. The results show that the derived land surface heat fluxes in different months over the study area are in good accordance with the land surface status. The tendency is basically to maintain consistency. It is therefore concluded that the proposed methodology is successful for the retrieval of land surface heat fluxes using the ASTER data and filed observations over the study area.
20181733|We examine instrumental meteorological records to compare recent precipitation regimes in the eastern and western Uinta Mountains region of Utah. The comparison demonstrates that, although the summer monsoon contributes a higher proportion of annual precipitation in the east, the two regions are significantly correlated in terms of precipitation variations including summer precipitation. Major droughts, such as the 1930s Dustbowl event, the 1976-1977 event, and the 1987-1989 event, are largely typified by strong decreases in winter precipitation, although deficits can extend into summer. Droughts generally impact the entire region when they occur. Unlike the Southwest and the Pacific Northwest, year-to-year precipitation variability in the Uinta Mountains region does not appear correlated with the El Nio-Southern Oscillation or the Pacific Decadal Oscillation. However, severe prolonged droughts such as the 1976-1977 and 1986-1987 events are related to decreases in eastern Pacific Ocean sea surface temperatures. We extend the record of hydroclimatic variability for the Uinta Mountains by using tree-ring chronologies from Pinus edulis (two-needle pinyon) to reconstruct the summer Palmer Drought Severity Index (PDSI) back to A.D. 1405. The analysis demonstrates that extreme droughts (PDSI &lt; -4) and extended multiannual to multidecadal arid periods (PDSI &lt; 0 to &lt; -2) are a recurrent feature of the Uinta hydroclimatic regime. Extreme droughts of PDSI &lt; -4 typically occur two to five times per century, with an annual probability of occurrence of 4.4%. In the context of prolonged severe droughts, the 20th century enjoyed relatively moist conditions compared to the 17th, 18th, and 19th centuries. The most prominent of these earlier arid periods was an apparent 'mega-drought' between ca. A.D. 1625 and 1670 that is evident in prolonged depression of PDSI values in the Uinta Mountains region, decreased discharge of the Ashley River, and decreased precipitation in the adjacent Uinta Basin. There was a general depression of the Pacific Decadal Oscillation during this time, suggesting some linkage between conditions in the Pacific Ocean and prolonged aridity. Wavelet analysis demonstrates the presence of multidecadal variability in aridity, but the frequency and power of long-term modes of variability are inconsistent over the past 600 years.
20181796|Hourly temperature and humidity observations were obtained over 16 months from loggers ranging in elevation from 1890 to 5800 m a.s.l. up the southwestern slope of Kilimanjaro, Tanzania. The vertical gradient in mean air temperature is non-linear, with the treeline weakening the gradient and the snow-ice line enhancing it. On average, moisture availability (both relative humidity and absolute vapor pressure) decreases with elevation, but the seasonal and diurnal variability in relative humidity (RH) is enhanced toward the mountain summit. The strong diurnal cycle in humidity is shown to be an outcome of strong upslope moisture transport during the day, counterbalanced by downslope transport and drying at night. Cooling on the lower slopes during the months of June and July weakens the lapse rates and consequently convective activity. This is borne out by the reduction in cloud amounts (using a surrogate threshold of RH &gt; 95%), toward the summit during these months. The lower slopes of Kilimanjaro are observed to be a major moisture source for the summit region, and implications of this for the mass balance of the summit glaciers are discussed.
1552324| Gradients of humidity on tropical high mountains are reflected by shifts of vegetation belts and changes in species composition and vegetation structure on the wind- and leeward sides. The superpramo flora and vegetation were studied on opposite sides (west and east) of two Ecuadorian mountains, Chimborazo and Antisana. Zonal vegetation was studied in vegetation samples set out in a semirandom way, and the data were complemented by species occurring in azonal habitats. Ordination and clustering techniques were used to analyze the vegetation samples, while two different measures of the floristic similarity (index of quantitative floristic similarity and comparison of the observed and expected numbers of species shared between the mountain pairs) were employed to evaluate the floristic relationships between the study sites. The superpramo belt occurs asymmetrically, with regard to altitude, on the two mountains, being generally lower on the eastern side. Slopes with corresponding aspects between the mountains were more similar than were the opposite slopes of each mountain. The observed floristic pattern is interpreted in the context of the precipitation gradient leading to a rain-shadow on the western side of the mountains. The occurrence of the desert-like area, the so-called Arenal Grande, and the unique pramo vegetation on the western side of Chimborazo is discussed. 
41240446|At a high mountain lake in catchments of mica schist and gneiss rock in the European Alps, substantial increases in solute concentrations of sulfate, magnesium, calcium, silica, manganese, and nickel were observed over the past two decades. We hypothesized that microbial interactions with rock in the catchment of the lake might play an important role. We studied the chemolithotrophic activities resulting in the production of metal mobilizing metabolites (mineral acids). The potential of nitrifying and sulfur-oxidizing cultures derived from rock to mobilize elements from this rock when augmented with ammonium and thiosulfate was investigated in a 35 day laboratory study. Bacterial species prevailing in the indigenous nitrifying and sulfur-oxidizing mixed cultures were determined by 16S rRNA gene sequence based analysis. The average mineralogical composition of the rock sample was quartz (50%), feldspar (27%), muscovite (15%), chlorite (6%), and dolomite (2%). The increase of each soluble element in the presence of cultures relative to the conditions without microbes was related to the total element in the rock sample (leaching efficiency in percent). After 35 days, leaching efficiency was 7% (Ca), 2.4% (Mg), and 6.3% (Mn) in the presence of the nitrifying culture. In the presence of the sulfuroxidizing culture, leaching efficiency was 13% (Ca), 5.7% (Mg), 5.4% (Mn), 1.3% (Zn), 0.2% (Fe), and 0.1% (Al). The results suggest that under conditions of abundant substrate availability, chemolithotrophic activity on catchment rock can contribute to the increase in soluble Ca, Mg, and Mn in lake water.
1552163|The growth, longevity, and decay of mineral-cored palsas at an altitudinal treeline site in the southern Yukon all appear to be significantly affected by the activities of beaver (Castor canadensis). The palsas are composed of stratified, fine-grained, organic-rich, frost-susceptible deposits, which are interpreted as originating from sedimentation in beaver ponds. Peat development, which is a precondition for mound formation, takes place in the adjacent wetland, in part due to poor drainage because of dams. Palsa degradation over the past 55 yr preferentially followed flooding due to dam construction. Drainage of ponds by dam breach was succeeded by mound formation in aggrading permafrost. Unlike previous studies, therefore, it is impossible to infer a clear climate signal from palsa dynamics at this location.
23359386|Cryosolic soils store large amounts of carbon (C) because soil organic matter (SOM) decomposition is slower than plant growth. The response of arctic SOM to climate change is likely to depend not only on temperature, but also upon complex interactions between soil properties and SOM chemistry. We hypothesized that organic surface soils (>17% carbon) have more labile SOM than mineral surface soils (<17% carbon). Furthermore, we hypothesized that high arctic soils have more labile SOM than soils from the Low Arctic and subarctic. This study was conducted in 3 arctic ecosystems: subarctic (Churchill, Manitoba; n = 138), Low Arctic (Daring Lake, Northwest Territories; n = 60), and High Arctic (Truelove Lowlands, Nunavut; n = 54). The 010 cm depth of several different Cryosolic soils was sampled. The results from density fractionation and solid-state 13 C cross polarization and magic angle spinning (CPMAS) nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy showed that organic surface soils contained relatively more labile C than mineral surface soils. Organic soils contained about 13% more O-Alkyl-C and 30% less Aromatic-C than mineral soils. Furthermore, for Churchill, Daring Lake, and Truelove organic soils, 53, 73, and 20% of the C was included in the light fraction of SOM [LF (LF < 1.55 g mL -1 )], whereas 24, 19, and 14% of the C was included in the LF of mineral soils, respectively. Organic surface soils of subarctic and low arctic sites contained relatively more labile C than the high arctic site. Results showed that the subarctic and low arctic sites store about 15% more O-alkyl-C and 35% less Aromatic-C than high arctic organic soils (P < 0.001).
41416432|Trees in the southern Siberian Mountains forest-tundra ecotone have considerably increased their radial and apical growth increments during the last few decades. This leads to the widespread vertical transformation of mat and prostrate krummholz forms of larch (Larix sibirica Ledeb) and Siberian pine {Pinus sibirica Du Tour). An analysis of the radial growth increments showed that these transformations began in the mid-1980s. Larch showed a greater resistance to the harsh alpine environment and attained a vertical growth form in areas where Siberian pine is still krummholz. Upper larch treeline is 10 m higher than Siberian pine treeline. Observed apical and radial growth increment increases were correlated with CO concentration (r = 0.83-0.87), summer temperatures (r = 0.55-0.64), and "cold period" (i.e. September-May) air temperatures (r = 0.36-0.37). Positive correlation between growth increments and winter precipitation was attributed to snow cover protection for trees during wintertime.
20181839|We examined the relationship between plant community diversity (species richness, evenness) and stability in an alpine Dryas octopetala heath exposed to four years of warming (open top chambers) and nutrient addition at Finse, southern Norway. Furthermore, we examined if different functional types responded differently to the interaction between environmental change and initial community diversity. We used the temporal change in species composition, calculated as the sum of change in sample scores in detrended correspondence analyses, as a measure of variability (opposite of stability). Under ambient conditions, a high initial species richness was associated with less stability of the total species composition. Under experimental warming, initial high species richness and evenness were associated with a more stable subsequent vascular species composition. Vascular stability decreased, however, with higher species richness under nutrient addition. When warming and nutrient addition were combined, high initial evenness was associated with more stable bryophyte composition, whereas high species richness was associated with reduced lichen stability. Thus, the degree and direction of the diversity-stability relationship depended on the type of environmental perturbation, the responding functional type, and on the diversity parameter used. The large variation in diversity-stability relationships is likely an outcome of complex species interactions and environmental factors influencing community diversity.
1552173|Freezing processes were monitored at five sites within the Wolf Creek basin, Yukon, Canada during the winter of 1998-1999. Ground temperatures were measured using thermocouples in hillslopes that had frost status ranging from permanent to seasonal. The timing of freezing and ground thermal regimes varied among the five sites and was controlled by (1) the variation in surface soil temperature, (2) frost status (seasonal vs. permanent), (3) moisture content of the active layer, (4) properties of the soil profile, and (5) the presence/absence of subsurface drainage. On slopes with permafrost, cooling was rapid and two-sided freezing closed the active layer several months after the onset of freezing. On a slope with seasonal frost only, dry soil conditions allowed frost to penetrate to depth. In contrast, a slope with seasonal frost that had continuous drainage, frost depths were shallow due to heat advected from flowing water. A simple one-dimensional conduction model with latent heat was used to simulate freezing processes. Model performance varied among the slopes, and results indicate that (1) conduction is the predominant heat transfer mechanism during freezing, (2) latent heat is the principal factor controlling frost front descent, and (3) lateral flow significantly retards frost penetration because of heat advection. This information is valuable in assessing spatial variability within tile-based models and in predicting freezing, which defines an effective end-of-season on lateral hydrological processes.
10.2307/1552392|Surficial sediment from 31 lakes along a transect spanning treeline in northeast Siberia was analyzed for midge remains in order to assess the modern distribution of midges relative to treeline. Taxa distinct to tundra, forest-tundra, and forest areas were identified. Abiskomyia, Parakiefferiella nigra, and Hydrobaenus/Oliveridia were found predominantly in tundra lakes, whereas Zalutschia zalutschicola and Microtendipes were restricted to forest-tundra or forest lakes. A sharp delineation exists at the tundra/forest-tundra transition zone with respect to the genus Corynocera. Corynocera oliveri was found chiefly in tundra lakes whereas C. ambigua was found solely in forested areas. Thirty-two environmental variables describing the physical, chemical, and limnological characteristics of the lakes in the transect were measured. Redundancy analysis (RDA) revealed that statistically significant relationships exist between chironomid distributions and six of the measured environmental variables (particulate organic carbon, particulate organic nitrogen, iron, zinc, lake depth, and Secchi depth), but not surface lake-water temperature. Canonical variate analysis (CVA) demonstrated that chlorophyll a, lake depth, pH, and strontium maximized separation of tundra, forest-tundra, and forest lakes from one another. These results illustrate the importance of treeline as an ecological boundary for the distribution of chironomids. The abrupt changes in distribution that occur at treeline for specific chironomid taxa suggest that subfossil chironomid analysis may be used to infer past changes in the position of treeline.
20181714|Glacier fluctuations constitute an important indicator for climate change, both current and past. Glacier mass balance measurements are made to correctly reflect the state of the glacier. Very few studies have been made to study the representability of each point measurement to the average mass balance of a particular glacier, an exercise that requires a large number of measurements. Such studies are rare due to the practical constraints and costs involved in collecting data. On Storglaciren, Sweden, a very dense system of measurements of both distributed winter (100 points km) and summer (15 points km) balance allows a spatial analysis of the mass balance components. The results show that local summer balance values are strongly correlated to the average summer balance value of the glacier. Local winter balance values are also generally well correlated to the average winter balance value, but small areas on the glacier exhibit no corelation. These areas correspond to winderoded areas of low accumulation on the glacier. The local net balance values are also well correlated to the average net balance value, indicating that the effect of the summer balance is strong and, at least partly, counter-balancing the spatial inhomogeneities in the local spatial winter balance values. These results show that detailed knowledge of both mass balance components and their spatial variability may be necessary to safely use a sparse system of measurements points. On Storglaciren, this is especially true for winter balance measurements since the spatial snow distribution is highly variable and not necessarily representative of the glacier average at each measurement point. The results strictly apply to Storglaciren but similar effects should be present on most glaciers in a similar setting; the results thus serve as an example of conditions that can be expected on a typical mid-latitude to subarctic glacier.
41416443|Spiders and beetles were pitfall-trapped in the foreland of the receding Hardangerjokulen glacier in central south Norway. At each of six sampling sites, ages 3 to 205 years, twenty traps covered the local variation in moisture and plant communities. Thirty-three spider species and forty beetle species were collected. The species composition was correlated to time since glaciation and vegetation cover. A characteristic pioneer community of spiders and mainly predatory beetles had several open-ground species, and some species or genera were common to forelands in Svalbard or the Alps. While the number of spider species increased relatively constant with age, the number of beetle species seemed to level off after about 80 years. Half of the beetle species were Staphylinidae, and contrary to Carabidae, most of these were rather late colonizers. Most herbivore beetles colonized after more than 40 years, but the moss-eating Byrrhidae species Simplocaria metallica and also certain Chironomidae larvae developed in pioneer moss colonies after 4 years.The large Collembola Bourletiella hortensis, a potential prey, fed on in-blown moss fragments after 3 years. In the present foreland, chlorophyll-based food chains may start very early. Two pioneer Amara species (Carabidae) could probably feed partly on seeds, either in-blown or produced by scattered pioneer grasses.
20181731|The Provo River drainage in the western end of the Uinta Mountains was glaciated repeatedly during the Pleistocene, and glacial deposits from the Smiths Fork and Blacks Fork glaciations (Pinedale and Bull Lake equivalents, respectively) are well preserved throughout the area. Reconstruction of the Smiths Fork ice extent based on air photo analysis and field mapping reveals that the broad upland surfaces in the Provo River drainage were covered by an ice field from which distributary glaciers emanated. This ice field also covered parts of the Weber and Bear River drainages to the north and the North Fork Duchesne drainage to the east. Equilibrium line altitudes for glaciers in the Provo River drainage were 2900 m a.s.l., consistent with previous studies which recognized a dramatic decrease in equilibrium line altitudes toward the western end of the range. End moraine sequences and hypsometric differences between glaciers in the Provo River drainage suggest that ice retreat rates likely differed considerably among the glaciers, reflecting variable dynamic responses to a similar climate forcing during deglaciation.
4139115|In 2003 a partial bison skull was recovered by Ashley National Forest archaeologists from an elevation of 3840 m (12,600 ft) above mean sea level on Gilbert Peak in the Uinta Mountains of Utah. The skull consists of a portion of the frontal, occipital region, and horn cores including horn sheaths. Through the analysis of the individual cones of the horn sheath, a record of the animal's dietary and migration patterns were obtained. While high-altitude bison remains have been discussed in the scientific literature periodically, they have not gone beyond the descriptive. In addition to descriptive and metric analysis of the skull, radiometric assay and stable isotope analyses were applied. The radiocarbon age of the specimen is $150\pm40$ yr BP (cal. $textsc{a.d.}$ 1725-1778). Metric analysis of the skull indicates it was an older adult male, which compares well with Bison bison athabascae (wood bison) in size and is larger than either Bison bison bison (plains bison) specimens or other high-altitude bison. However, it is probable this individual represents a member of the species Bison bison bison, but phenotypic characteristics (e.g., large horn size) may be the result of gene flow. More definitive taxonomic placement of the Gilbert Peak bison may not be resolved without genetic analysis.
10.2307/1552508|Using sequential aerial photography, we identified changes in the spatial distribution of subalpine fir (Abies lasiocarpa) habitat at the alpine treeline ecotone. Six 40-ha study sites in the McDonald Creek drainage of Glacier National Park contained subalpine fir forests that graded into alpine tundra. Over a 46-yr period, altitudinal changes in the location of alpine treeline ecotone were not observed. However, over this 46-yr period the area of krummholz, patch-forest, and continuous canopy forest increased by 3.4%, and tree density increased within existing patches of krummholz and patch-forest. Change in subalpine fir vegetation patterns within 100 m of trails was also compared to areas without trails. Within 100 m of trails, the number of small, discrete krummholz stands increased compared to areas without trails, but there was no significant change in total krummholz area. We used historical terrestrial photography to expand the period (to 70 yr) considered. This photography supported the conclusions that a more abrupt ecotone transition developed from forest to tundra at alpine treeline, that tree density within forested areas increased, and that krummholz became fragmented along trails. This local assessment of fine-grained change in the alpine treeline ecotone provides a comparative base for looking at ecotone change in other mountain regions throughout the world.
24551607|Shrub expansion has been observed widely in tundra areas across the Arctic. This phenomenon has been partially attributed to increasing temperatures over the past century. However, relationships among shrub expansion, grazing, and human disturbance have been studied little. SW Greenland is a subarctic to low-arctic region with a long and complex land-use history and only modest temperature increases over the past 50 years (0.2 C decade1), but changes in shrub cover have not previously been studied in this region. We compiled historical photographs of vegetation in SW Greenland (18981974) and repeated the photos in 2010 and 2011. Sixty-four photo pairs were cropped into 133 smaller units and classified by aspect, substrate stability, muskoxen grazing, and human disturbance. The photo material was evaluated by 22 experts with respect to changes in shrub cover, revealing a general increase across the whole data set, and in a subset including only undisturbed sites. Shrub cover increased most on E and SE slopes, in sites with stable substrate, and in areas characterized by human disturbance and without muskoxen grazing. The general shrub cover increase could be caused mainly by changed land-use intensity, but effects of the moderately increased temperatures cannot be ruled out.
41416444|Our knowledge of stem secondary growth of arctic shrubs (a key component of tundra net primary production, NPP) is very limited. Here, we investigated the impact of the physical elements of the environment on shrub secondary growth by comparing annual growth rates of model species from similar habitats at contrasting altitude, microtopography, latitude, geographical location, and soil type, in both the sub-and High Arctic. We found that secondary growth has a modest sensitivity to the environment but with large differences among species. For example, the evergreen Cassiope tetragona is affected by altitude, microtopography, and latitude, whereas the evergreen Empetrum hermaphroditum has rather constant secondary growth in all environments. Deciduous species seem to be most affected by microtopography. Furthermore, the impact of the environment on secondary growth differed from the impact on primary growth (stem apical growth, stem length, and apical growth of stem plus leaves), in some cases even with opposite responses. Thus caution should be taken when estimating the impact of the environment on shrub growth from apical growth only. Integration of our data set with the (very limited) previously published information on secondary growth provides an overview of its contribution to NPP and annual growth rates for 9 arctic species at 18 sites in Sweden, Greenland, Svalbard, Alaska, and the Alps.
41416425|A review of published literature and satellite imagery from the late 1960s onwards has revealed 90 surge-type glaciers in the Karakoram mountains, of which 50 have not previously been described in detail. These glaciers were identified by a number of surface features indicative of surge-type behavior such as looped moraines, rapid terminus advance, Strandlines and rapid changes in surface crevassing. These observations indicate that surge-type behavior is more common and widespread than previously believed on Karakoram glaciers. There is strong spatial clustering of the surge-type glaciers, and a doubling in the number of new surges in the 14 years after 1990 (26 surges) than in the 14 years before 1990 (13 surges). This is coincident with a period of increased precipitation and positive glacier mass balance in this region, and supports previous studies which have found that mass balance has an important control on the frequency of glacier surging.
4095864| The modifications of humus characteristics as a result of the establishment and the increasing cover of Rhododendron ferrugineum L. (Ericaceae) in a subalpine meadow were studied in three sites in the northwestern French Alps corresponding to a west-east transect between wet and dry Alps ("Chane de Belledonne," "Massif du Taillefer," "Brian onnais"). The physical and chemical parameters of humus and biological parameters were studied during the successive studies. As opposed to other Ericaceae heathlands on siliceous soils (Vaccinium sp., Erica sp., Calluna vulgaris), with an increasing Rhododendron cover, the humus structure changed while some other parameters remain stable or increased. The development of Rhododendron populations on calcareous soils (Brian onnais) with maintenance of a calcareous humus has never been checked before. The modifications of the Rhododendron environment under its canopy led to an improvement in its growth conditions (positive feedback). 
10.2307/1552407|In the antarctic summer of 1996, permafrost-affected cold soils close to the Australian Casey Station in the Windmill Islands region (Wilkes Land) were investigated to determine in what way the thermal and nutrient regimes in the antarctic soils are related to microbial biomass and vegetation patterns. The soils are characterized by a high content of coarse mineral particles and total organic carbon (TOC) and a low C/N ratio (mean 11). Despite the low pH values (mean 4.0) the soils are rich in nutrients due to an input from seabirds (existing or abandoned nesting sites) and an eolian distribution of fine-grained soil material in the landscape. Vegetation influences TOC storage and the cation exchange capacity in the uppermost soil horizons, whereas total N and most nutrient levels are not affected by the vegetation, but by seabird droppings. The present nutrient level does not affect plant adaptation, because the K, Mg, and P contents are often extraordinarily high. This suggests that nutrient supply is not a limiting factor, whereas microclimate effects, such as moisture availability and ground-level wind speed, have a primary influence on plant growth. Soil-surface temperature measurements indicate a strong variability in microclimate due to small-scale variations in geomorphological surface features. Bacteria are found in all soil horizons, but not algae and yeast. Soil microbial counts are weakly correlated to the C/N ratios and soil surface temperatures. High TOC and clay contents probably improve the soil water-holding capacity and TOC contributes to the microbial food supply. The investigated microbial parameters are weakly correlated to the present vegetation carpet, the lowest counts are found in the soils with scattered or no vegetation cover.
20181798|We investigated the seasonal variation in pools of water available to mature trees growing at high elevation in a tropical environment. The study focused on the dominant tree species (Pinus hartwegii) at about 3800 m a.s.l. on Nevado de Colima, Mexico, where climate is typical of the North American Monsoon System. Stable isotope ratios of hydrogen and oxygen in water extracted from soil, xylem, and leaves were measured through a cycle of two dry and two wet seasons in 2003-2004. Isotopic ratios were also measured in accumulated precipitation, a few single precipitation events, and in spring water over the two-year period. Based on evidence from water, stable isotopes in soil, and xylem samples, trees utilized water from relatively shallow soil depths, which are representative of current conditions, rather than tapping groundwater, which is more representative of long-term trends. While the stable isotope signature in environmental waters showed a slightly different pattern before and during the monsoon, the more pronounced differences in leaf water isotopes between the two seasons, due to drought stress, will lead to a clear seasonal isotopic signal in tree ring cellulose. This study represents a unique snapshot of water cycling in a tropical treeline ecosystem, where our understanding of ecohydrological pathways is limited. This type of analysis is also useful for proper calibration of stable isotopic signals in tree ring records.
40305824|On the western Tibetan Plateau the endangered Tibetan antelope, Pantholops hodgsonii, has traditionally been hunted for subsistence. Although several hunting techniques are used, a common one that leaves evidence on the landscape is the use of earth or stone diversionary barriers, or drive-lines, with hiding depressions used for shooting. Within the western Chang Tang Nature Reserve on the northwestern Tibetan Plateau we located 45 examples of these generally funnel-shaped trap systems near the northern limits of human habitation in Gertse and Rutok counties, Ngari Prefecture, Tibet Autonomous Region, China. The more recently maintained drive-lines were located farther to the north, and many of the southern ones we observed had, according to locals, not been used in many years, as hunting activity apparently has moved northward. Increasing human population and settlement of northern areas, new pastoral land-tenure arrangements and associated fencing, as well as modern techniques for hunting antelope and increased markets for their fine wool are all changing the human-wildlife dynamic at the northern edge of human habitation in the Chang Tang. Such new developments are likely to result soon in a relegation of the nomadic pastoralists' old hunting practices to a tradition of the past.
4139112|The Churchill area has many examples of gravel-dominated, human-induced disturbances such as gravel pits and pads. These disturbances have occurred in a geographically small area with high biological diversity and detract from the aesthetics of this tourist destination. Eight treatments consisting of combinations of peat moss, seeding, fertilizer, snow fencing, and microrelief alteration were installed to improve the growth conditions on three gravel pits and two gravel pads ranging from predominantly tundra to predominantly boreal forest ecosystems. Plant-related assessments of the treatments (density, frequency, and cover) were made after the first and second growing seasons. Twenty-six species of plants were considered to be successful colonizers by at least one of the following criteria: >2% cover, >20% frequency, or >10 stems m. Androsace septentrionalis L., Carex L. spp., and Dryas integrifolia Vahl were the only taxa to meet all three criteria in both years. Differences related to the sites (i.e., seed bank, seed source, and substrate conditions) were greater than treatment differences. At three of the sites, seeded treatments had significantly more seedlings than the non-seeded treatments. These three sites were species-poor prior to revegetation testing and were dominated by the seeded species. The other two sites were dominated by species from the seed bank or from seed rain. Total seedling density on seeded plots increased by 17% compared to the controls while cover did not increase appreciably in the short term. Six native species were tested and three (Anemone multifida Poir., Hedysarum mackenzei Richards., and Linum lewisii Pursh) considered suitable for future use, adding to those tested by Firlotte (1998) in the Churchill region. It was determined that seed bank and potential for seed rain had a major influence on the success of seeding as opposed to substrate improvements alone.
24551604|The 73 km2 large Hardangerjkulen glacier in alpine, south Norway is receding. By using sticky and fallout traps, we studied the aerial transport of invertebrates in a foreland with a well-documented succession of mites, springtails, spiders, and beetles. Since mosses are pioneer plants and also food for certain pioneer invertebrates, airborne fragments of mosses were also included in the study. Sampling on 3- to 6-year-old ground revealed aerial transport of several species of mites and springtails. During 4 weeks, the fallout of microarthropods was calculated at around 1000 specimens per m2. This number may depend strongly on local variations in climate and must be treated with care. Besides typical pioneer species, some species assumed to depend on older soil were also trapped. This indicates that the ability to survive is more limiting than the ability to disperse. A few spiders assumed to have the capability for "aerial ballooning" were trapped. Moss fragments, including bulbil diaspores, were common in both trap types. Diptera were sometimes taken numerously, and in sticky traps mainly in those facing away from the glacier. Most aerial transport occurred below 0.5 m height, and the presence of sand grains in sticky traps up to this level illustrated the mechanical force of wind transport. We conclude that aerial transport helps colonization of several non-flying pioneer organisms like mites, springtails, aphids, and mosses.
4095938|Changes in the amount of soil organic carbon (SOC) stored in arctic soils may influence the global carbon cycle and be an important feedback mechanism to global climate changes. In order to estimate the carbon stock and accumulation rates at Flakkerhuk on Disko Island in West Greenland, an 1800-ha study area was divided into land cover types using a satellite image. Total SOC was estimated to be on average
20181792|We provide a map of lower and central Taylor Valley, Antarctica, that shows deposits from Taylor Glacier, local alpine glaciers, and grounded ice in the Ross Embayment. From our electronic database, which includes 153 sites from the coast 50 km upvalley to Pearse Valley, we show the distribution of permafrost type and soil subgroups according to Soil Taxonomy. Soils in eastern Taylor Valley are of late Pleistocene age, cryoturbated due to the presence of ground ice or ice-cemented permafrost within 70 cm of the surface, and classified as Glacic and Typic Haploturbels. In central Taylor Valley, soils are dominantly Typic Anhyorthels of mid-Pleistocene age that have dry-frozen permafrost within the upper 70 cm. Salt-enriched soils (Salic Anhyorthels and Petrosalic Anhyorthels) are of limited extent in Taylor Valley and occur primarily on drifts of early Pleistocene and Pliocene age. Soils are less developed in Taylor Valley than in nearby Wright Valley, because of lesser salt input from atmospheric deposition and salt weathering. Ice-cemented permafrost is ubiquitous on Ross Sea, pre-Ross Sea, and Bonney drifts that occur within 28 km of the McMurdo coast. In contrast, dry-frozen permafrost is prevalent on older (115 ky) surfaces to the west.
25642097|Studying intraspecific spatiotemporal variation in vital rates among populations over a range of environmental conditions is essential to reveal intrinsic and extrinsic factors affecting population dynamics. Mammal populations living at higher elevations often have higher adult survival, shorter breeding seasons, and lower reproductive output per season that at lower elevations. We studied dynamics of a Eurasian red squirrel (Sciurus vulgaris) population in high-elevation, mountain pine (Pinus mugo) forest with extreme winters, in the Central Italian Alps, and compared vital rates with populations in more productive habitats at lower elevations. Average density was 0.14  0.07 squirrels ha (range 0.070.30 ha), and numbers typically increased in summer-autumn as a result of seasonal reproduction and immigration. Mean persistence time was only 12.5 months, and there was a nearly complete population turnover in only two years. Local survival and recruitment rate were correlated with seasonal population growth rate, and partial effect of survival explained 80% of variation in growth rate. While reproductive rate in mountain pine habitat was more similar than in more productive habitats at lower elevations, density and autumnwinter survival were much lower. Thus, red squirrels did not show the adaptations observed in several other mammal species, but might invest heavily in early reproduction to compensate for short life expectancy.
4095901|Three major rainfall events have caused considerable damage in the Valais region (Swiss Alps) since 1987. Substantial debris flows originating from periglacial environments were recorded during the August 1987 and September 1993 rainfall events, whereas no debris flows occurred in October 2000. This paper aims at putting these large-area events and the apparent increase in debris-flow frequency into a wider context by reconstructing the past debris-flow activity in the Ritigraben torrent (Mattertal, Valais) with dendrogeomorphological methods. Tree-ring analysis allowed the reconstruction of 53 events, going back to the year 1605. Previously, only 10 debris flows had been known for the torrent, and these were limited to the period between 1922 and 2002. Results further show that the apparently above-average concentration of events since 1987 was mainly caused by insufficient and short archival data. In fact, debris flows occurred even more frequently in the nineteenth century than they do today. The spatial distribution of injured trees in particular years further indicates that significant events, like the one in 1993, always occurred in the torrent. Finally, reconstructed event years were compared with archival data on flooding in neighboring catchments. The comparisons prove that large-area events like those in 1987, 1993, or 2000 have at least been as common in the past as they are today.
40801762|Kasatochi volcano, an island volcano in the Aleutian chain, erupted on 7-8 August 2008. The resulting ash and pyroclastic flows blanketed the island, covering terrestrial habitats. We surveyed the marine environment surrounding Kasatochi Island in June and July of 2009 to document changes in abundance or distribution of nutrients, fish, and marine birds near the island when compared to patterns observed on earlier surveys conducted in 1996 and 2003. Analysis of SeaWiFS satellite imagery indicated that a large chlorophyll- anomaly may have been the result of ash fertilization during the eruption. We found no evidence of continuing marine fertilization from terrestrial runoff 10 months after the eruption. At-sea surveys in June 2009 established that the most common species of seabirds at Kasatochi prior to the eruption, namely crested auklets (Aethia cristatella) and least auklets (Aethia pusilld) had returned to Kasatochi in relatively high numbers. Densities from more extensive surveys in July 2009 were compared with pre-eruption densities around Kasatochi and neighboring Ulak and Koniuji islands, but we found no evidence of an eruption effect. Crested and least auklet populations were not significantly reduced by the initial explosion and they returned to attempt breeding in 2009, even though nesting habitat had been rendered unusable. Maps of pre-and post-eruption seabird distribution anomalies indicated considerable variation, but we found no evidence that observed distributions were affected by the 2008 eruption.
41240447|Coastal erosion rates locally exceeding 30 m y have been documented along Alaska's Beaufort Sea coastline, and a number of studies suggest that these erosion rates have accelerated as a result of climate change. However, a lack of direct observational evidence has limited our progress in quantifying the specific processes that connect climate change to coastal erosion rates in the Arctic. In particular, while longer ice-free periods are likely to lead to both warmer surface waters and longer fetch, the relative roles of thermal and mechanical (wave) erosion in driving coastal retreat have not been comprehensively quantified. We focus on a permafrost coastline in the northern National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska (NPR-A), where coastal erosion rates have averaged 10-15 m y over two years of direct monitoring. We take advantage of these extraordinary rates of coastal erosion to observe and quantify coastal erosion directly via time-lapse photography in combination with meteorological observations. Our observations indicate that the erosion of these bluffs is largely thermally driven, but that surface winds play a crucial role in exposing the frozen bluffs to the radiatively warmed seawater that drives melting of interstitial ice. To first order, erosion in this setting can be modeled using formulations developed to describe iceberg deterioration in the open ocean. These simple models provide a conceptual framework for evaluating how climate-induced changes in thermal and wave energy might influence future erosion rates in this setting.
10.2307/1552468|The vascular and bryophyte floras of subantarctic Heard Island were classified using cluster analysis into six vegetation communities: Open Cushion Carpet, Mossy Feldmark, Wet Mixed Herbfield, Coastal Biotic Vegetation, Saltspray Vegetation, and Closed Cushion Carpet. Multidimensional scaling indicated that the vegetation communities were not well delineated but were continua. Discriminant analysis and a classification tree identified altitude, wind, peat depth, bryophyte cover and extent of bare ground, and particle size as discriminating variables. The combination of small area, glaciation, and harsh climate has resulted in reduced vegetation variety in comparison to those subantarctic islands north of the Antarctic Polar Front Zone. Some of the functional groups and vegetation communities found on warmer subantarctic islands are not present on Heard Island, notably ferns and sedges and fernbrakes and extensive mires, respectively.
20181761|This study was part of the International Tundra Experiment (ITEX) and examined the effects of increased winter snow depth and decreased growing season length on the phenology of four arctic plant species (Betula nana, Salix pulchra, Eriophorum vaginatum, and Vaccinium vitis-idaea) and seasonal nitrogen availability in arctic snowbed communities. Increased snow depth had a large effect on the temporal pattern of first date snow-free in spring, bud break, and flowering, but did not affect the rate of plant development. By contrast, snow depth had a large qualitative effect on N mineralization in deep snow zones, causing a shift in the timing and amount of N mineralized compared to ambient snow zones. Nitrogen mineralization in deep snow zones occurred mainly overwinter, whereas N mineralization in ambient snow zones occurred mainly in spring. Concentrations of soil dissolved organic nitrogen (DON) were approximately 5 times greater than concentrations of inorganic nitrogen (DIN) and did not vary significantly over the season. Projected increases in the depth and duration of snow cover in arctic plant communities will likely have minor effects on the rate of plant phenological development, but potentially large effects on patterns of N cycling.
20181779|The combined effects of multiple ecological stressors determine the net impact of global change on environmentally sensitive alpine and polar environments. For example, climate warming and nitrogen deposition both increasingly affect ecosystems at high elevations. We hypothesized that the net impact of warming and nitrogen on alpine plankton differs between consumers and producers because of the greater environmental sensitivity of higher trophic levels. Also, we expected that habitat conditions would mediate the responses of plankton to these two stressors as sediments function as ecological buffers against environmental change. These hypotheses were tested in a growth chamber by applying temperature (8 vs. 15C) and nitrogen (200 vs. 1000 g N L) treatments to a planktonic alpine community in the presence and absence of sediments obtained from Pipit Lake, Banff National Park, Alberta. A significant nitrogen-temperature interaction affected phytoplankton abundance because the positive effect of fertilization depended on warming. Warming also amplified the effect of nitrogen on herbivores while suppressing the fecundity of omnivores. The presence of sediments suppressed the positive effect of warming on herbivores, but stimulated omnivores. The observed prevalence of non-additive effects highlights the strong potential for global change causing future ecological surprises in alpine environments.
20181823|Snow properties such as snow density will likely change in a warmer climate. Changes in depth and extent of snow cover have been shown to affect soil nutrient dynamics and plant growth; however, effects of a changed snow density have so far not been explicitly tested. We altered snow properties (especially depth and density according to those found on ski runs) and investigated effects on soil temperatures, soil nitrogen mineralization, plant phenology, and productivity. A denser, thinner snow cover led to reduced soil insulation and lower soil temperatures, which consequently increased net N mineralization. A denser snow cover furthermore resulted in a delay in plant phenology of up to five weeks after melt-out. The results suggest that changes in snow density, which have been largely neglected in the global change discussion until now, can cause significant changes in soil and vegetation processes.
1552343|We assayed the amount and distribution of genetic variability in the clonal polyploid plant Carex scopulorum var. scopulorum. We used 5 polymorphic protein loci to sample 7 populations on the tundra in Rocky Mountain National Park, Colorado, U.S.A. Carex has levels of variability comparable to those found in nonclonal species. In the loci studied, transmission is disomic, as in diploid species. Of 148 tillers tested, 59.5% had different 5-locus genotypes. The distributions of genotypes fit Hardy-Weinberg expectations at 4 loci in most populations. These results suggest that there is significant cross-pollination and establishment by seed in this tundra plant. There were significant differences in allele frequencies between adjacent populations occupying wet versus moist environments at alcohol dehydrogenase, an enzyme known to be relevant to metabolism under oxygen-limiting conditions. There was no relationship between geographic distance and genetic distance at the scale we studied.
20181843|Considerable spatial variability in snow properties exists within apparently uniform slopes, often resulting from microscale weather patterns determined by local terrain. Since it is costly to establish abundant weather stations in a region, local lapse rates may offer an alternative for predicting snowpack characteristics. For two Castle Mountain Resort weather stations, we present the 2003-2004 winter season weather and snow profile data and the 1999-2004 winter season lapse rates. A third site was sampled for small-scale spatial variability. Layer thickness, stratigraphy, temperature gradients, crusts, wind drift layers, stability, and settlement were compared between the sites and correlated with temperature, wind, and lapse rates. Average yearly snowfall was 470 cm at the Base and 740 cm at the Upper station. Average daily maximum and minimum temperature lapse rates are -6.1C km and -5.7C km when inversions are removed. Inversions occur mostly at night, adversely affecting lapse rate averages. Lapse rate modes are unaffected and most often -6.3C km. Snowpack spatial variability is 25% of layer thickness and is controlled by wind and topography. Layer settlement is primarily related to initial snow thickness and wind drift. Snowpacks stabilize with age, unless rain crusts are present, which are important low-force failure horizons.
10.2307/1552196|Small plots (0.25 to 1.0 m<sup>2</sup>) denuded 13 and 31 yr previously were studied to investigate vegetation recovery at the alpine site of the Long-Term Ecological Research network. Recovery was slow, probably due to poor seedling survival. Covers of vascular plants and lichens were much lower on denuded plots than on controls except in late-melting snowbanks where natural disturbance by pocket gophers may have selected for disturbance-adapted species. Moister communities generally regained cover faster than drier communities. Vegetative expansion from plot edges provided most cover, although some colonizers originated from seed. Kobresia myosuroides, previously unknown to reproduce sexually in the Southern Rocky Mountains, occasionally colonized by seed. Essentially all vascular species acted as both colonizers and components of mature vegetation, and the vast majority of species are present in similar relative frequencies in control and disturbed plots. Previously studied alpine sites show either a similar lack of differentiation of early- and late-successional species or higher relative abundance of grasses in disturbed sites. In contrast to vegetation recovery in most temperate ecosystems, in these small plots on Niwot Ridge sequential replacement of species after disturbance does not occur.
10.2307/1552442|An 861-yr Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii [Mirb.] Franco) tree-ring chronology has been recently developed for the Salmon River Valley, Challis National Forest, Idaho. Its potential for climatic reconstruction is investigated using monthly instrumental records of precipitation, temperature, and Palmer Drought Severity Index from 1895 to 1995. The temporal stability of climate-tree growth relationships is analyzed by means of evolutionary (backward and forward) and moving response functions. When precipitation and temperature are used as predictors, the strongest (and temporally stable) signal is a negative response to July temperature. Another relevant signal, albeit less temporally consistent, is a positive response to May precipitation. When the Palmer Drought Severity Index is used as an integrated predictor to highlight response to summer moisture stress, the strength of the association with tree growth increases in recent decades. This information can be used to maximize the reliability of dendroclimatic reconstructions, and has important implications for expanding the range of recent studies on altered climate-tree growth relationships during the 20th century.
1552563| The aim of this study is to assess the performance of diatom, chironomid, and pollen transfer functions for inferences of July air temperature during the Holocene using sediments from four alpine lakes in an area with low human impact in northern Sweden. The study demonstrates that diatom, chironomid, and pollen assemblages in the sediment cores contain climate information so that present-day temperature at each lake can be inferred with reasonable confidence for most proxies. Most proxy records from the sites consistently infer a long-term decreasing trend in July air temperature from ca. 6000 cal yr BP until the present. However, there are also large variations in the temporal patterns of the inferred temperatures during some periods, especially before 7000 cal yr BP, when there are also nonsynchronous changes in loss-on-ignition in the four lakes. This variability indicates that local conditions in the catchments (influence of snowfields, soil-forming processes) had a large impact on the organism assemblages in the early Holocene. Long-distance transport of pollen into high alpine lakes makes temperature inferences from pollen transfer functions unreliable. Due to the uncertainties of the methods, predictive errors of the transfer functions, and variability caused by local catchment/lake characteristics, only long-term trends in climate can be inferred. High-resolution studies using diatoms, chironomids, and pollen for climate reconstruction are probably not meaningful during periods with small changes in climate (<1C). Future research should concentrate on low-resolution, multiproxy, and multilake studies to further understand the relationship between the proxies and climate. 
25642091|We focused on the mediating role of slope aspect and spatial pattern on upper treeline ecotonal dynamics at multiple spatial scales in the Southern Rocky Mountains to infer process interactions and gauge the importance of feedbacks in determining the potential response of upper treeline to climate change on contrasting south- and north-facing slopes. Dendroecological techniques were used to reconstruct tree establishment within the upper treeline ecotone and Ripley's K was used for spatial pattern analysis. Tree age was determined by using age to coring-height corrections, and the influence of slope aspect was quantitatively assessed at multiple spatial scales using Mann-Whitney U-Tests. Widespread tree establishment occurred within the treeline ecotone on both south- and north-facing slopes during the 20th century, but tree ages above timberline are significantly younger on north-facing slopes at all spatial scales (local, landscape, and regional). The spatial pattern of tree establishment above timberline was predominantly random, except for significant clustering on south-facing slopes in the Sangre de Cristo Mountains. The aspect mediation of tree age and spatial pattern suggest that the importance of feedbacks may vary according to slope aspect and that both of these environmental factors should be considered when assessing possible treeline response to climate change.
41240396|Antarctic ice-free areas contain lakes and ponds that have interesting limnological features and are of wide global significance as early warning indicators of climatic and environmental change. However, most limnological and paleolimnological studies in continental Antarctica are limited to certain regions. There are several ice-free areas in Victoria Land that have not yet been studied well. There is therefore a need to extend limnological studies in space and time to understand how different geological and climatic features affect the composition and biological activity of freshwater communities. With the aim of contributing to a better limnological characterization of Victoria Land, this paper reports data on sedimentary pigments (used to identify the main algal taxa) obtained through a methodology that is more sensitive and selective than that of previous studies. Analyses were extended to 48 water bodies in ice-free areas with differing lithology, latitude, and altitude, and with different morphometry and physical, chemical, and biological characteristics in order to identify environmental factors affecting the distribution and composition of freshwater autotrophic communities. A wider knowledge of lakes in a limnologically important region of Antarctica was obtained. Cyanophyta was found to be the most important algal group, followed by Chlorophyta and Bacillariophyta, whereas latitude and altitude are the main factors affecting pigment distribution.
20181784|New Zealand high-altitude tree limits are formed either abruptly by evergreen Nothofagus or by low forest of more frost-tolerant small trees reaching similar maximum altitudes. Whereas most tree limits are contiguous with low-growing alpine vegetation, in New Zealand a belt dominated by tussock grasses intervenes that is vulnerable to invasion by hardy introduced trees and seems ecologically equivalent to fire-maintained high-altitude tropical grasslands. New Zealand tree limits coincide with warmer growing-season temperatures than other tree limits, including deciduous Nothofagus in the southern Andes. They also correlate with coldest-month mean temperatures around 0C, in accordance with the limits of broadleaved evergreen trees globally, unlike north temperate subalpine trees that withstand extreme winter cold. Adverse environments lead to krummholz that in temperate regions can form an attenuated belt above the forest limit, but in New Zealand Nothofagus krummholz develops only at or below the forest limit, in accordance with absence of Nothofagus seedlings beyond a few meters above the forest limit. The relatively low altitudes attained by New Zealand trees are related to isolation and the recent uplift of high mountains, and the differentiation between Nothofagus forest and low forest reflects historical and geological events.
10.2307/1552389| We compared nitrogen (N) acquisition by alpine and arctic tundra plants during snowmelt, and assessed its significance relative to season-long N demand. We then related plant responses in alpine and arctic tundra to soil and air temperature. Parallel experiments were conducted in an alpine moist meadow at Niwot Ridge, Colorado, and in arctic dry heath and moist tussock tundra near Toolik Lake, Alaska. We added 99%-enriched <sup>15</sup>NH<sub>4</sub><sup>15</sup>NO<sub>3</sub> (0.5 g N m<sup>-2</sup>) to the snowpack, and traced the fate of the <sup>15</sup>N into plants and soil by harvesting samples before snowmelt ended. All alpine and arctic plants acquired N during snowmelt. However, alpine plants acquired 100 times more N than arctic plants. Using data from published studies, we estimated season-long N demand for the vascular plant species. In the alpine tundra, N uptake during snowmelt constituted over 12% of season-long uptake for a graminoid species, and averaged 7.4% for perennial forbs. In contrast, N uptake during snowmelt by arctic plants averaged less than 0.1% of season-long N uptake. Soil temperatures were similar in these systems during snowmelt, averaging -0.4C in the arctic and -0.5C in the alpine tundra. However, arctic plants experienced lower winter soil temperatures than alpine plants. Winter soil surface temperatures averaged -7.75C in arctic and -2.43C in alpine tundra systems, and the lowest weekly mean temperature was -14.5C in the arctic and -6.14C in the alpine systems. Thus, differences in plant N uptake are likely due to winter conditions, rather than conditions that occurred during uptake. In conclusion, plant acquisition of N resources during snowmelt is important in alpine systems. 
10.2307/1552202|Climate-sensitive trees are valuable for reconstructing past climates, but they also can be used to assess the impacts of environmental change, such as global warming, on forest ecosystems. Growth variability and growth responses to climate of a Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) tree-ring width chronology, from the treeline in the central Scandinavian Mountains, were studied throughout the 20th century. Summer temperatures, especially in July, were the most influential climate factor for tree growth. Correlation analyses in three 30-yr periods showed that growth responses to climate varied through time, being particularly low in 1931 to 1960. Nevertheless, tree growth around 1950 was the highest for 320 yr, implying optimal growth conditions. This growth increase appears to be a response to increased summer temperatures, a lengthening of the growing season, and a temporal change in the atmospheric circulation pattern. Despite a continuation of seemingly favorable growth conditions in the latter half of the 20th century, pine growth decreased after the 1950s. It appears that high-altitude pine experienced stress that surpassed the positive effect of improved growth season climate. Since pine growth decline coincided with an unprecedented strong and positive period of wintertime North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO), a measure of strength of westerly winds bringing mild and moist air masses over Scandinavia, it is proposed that milder and wetter winters caused growth stress, and hence reduced growth, in high-altitude central Sweden.
4139098|To date glacial and periglacial landforms, lichenometry is a valuable method but, to improve efficiency, the estimated surface dates derived from traditional methods need to be more accurate. In other words, the statistical uncertainty associated with inferred dates has to be reduced. How to perform such a reduction is the main question that we will address in this paper. An interdisciplinary approach (lichenometry and statistics) allows reduction in the main sources of uncertainty: lichen diameters and their associated ages. Around 2600 lichen measurements collected on moraines from the Charquini glacier in Bolivia (Cordillera Real) are used to illustrate the advantages of our approach over past studies. As for any statistical estimation procedure, the error analysis in lichenometry is directly linked to the type of observations and the statistical model used to represent accurately these data. The attribute of lichenometry studies is that the measurements are not averages but maxima; only the largest lichen diameters provide information about the surface ages. To take this characteristic into account, we propose a novel statistical way to model maximum lichen diameters. Our model, based on the extreme value theory, allows us to compute small confidence intervals for the inferred surface ages. In addition, it offers three other advantages: (1) a global statistical model, as all our data (dated surfaces and all lichen maximum diameters) are represented with a unique function; (2) a mathematical framework within which the maximum lichen distribution is derived from a statistical theory; and (3) flexibility, as different types of growing curves can be investigated.
10.2307/1552211|Dark-colored material (cryoconite) covering Himalayan glaciers has been reported to greatly accelerate glacier-melting by reducing surface albedo. Structure, formation, and the darkening process of the cryoconite on a Himalayan glacier were analyzed. The cryoconite was revealed to be a stromatolite-like algal mat, a product of microbial activity on the glacier. The granular algal mat contains filamentous blue-green algae (cyanobacteria) and bacteria, and grows on the ice by trapping mineral and organic particles. This structure seems to enable high algal production in nutrient poor glacial meltwater by gathering and keeping nutrient rich particles inside. The dark coloration of the mats promotes melt-hole formation on the ice (cryoconite holes), providing a semistagnant aquatic habitat for various algae and animals in the glacier. Optical and chemical analyses of the cryoconite strongly suggests that their high light- absorbency (dark coloration) is mainly due to dark-colored humic substances, residues from bacterial decomposition of the algal products and other organic matter. Our results strongly suggest that biological activity on the glacier substantially affects the albedo of the glacier surface. The structure of the algal mat seems to be important in the glacier ecosystem and biological process affecting glacier albedo.
41240425|Recent studies have revealed positive and negative trends in the radial growth of treeline white spruce (Picea glauca) as temperatures have warmed in recent decades. Investigators have speculated that negative growth trends reflect the increasing importance of temperature-induced drought stress, yet direct observations of drought-induced stomatal closure have not been made in white spruce near the Arctic treeline. In this study, we measured needle gas exchange, a variety of needle traits, and branch growth in contrasting growing seasons on a riverside terrace near the Arctic treeline in Noatak National Preserve, northwest Alaska. Needle gas exchange was limited by cold soils (<7 C), nighttime frosts, large vapor pressure deficits (VPD) and/or low soil water contents during the majority of our midday measurements. Near optimal conditions for needle gas exchange were consistently found in late August, when soils were relatively warm, air temperatures were moderate, and the VPD was relatively small. Defoliation during a two-year bud moth infestation (Zeiraphera spp.) substantially reduced branch growth, obscured potential relationships between needle gas exchange and growth, and revealed the importance of whole canopy gas exchange measurements. Results of our study show there is a very narrow window of environmental conditions for near optimal needle gas exchange in white spruce near the Arctic treeline. Although we identified many abiotic constraints on needle gas exchange, a single biological factor likely had the greatest effect on annual branch growth.
10.2307/1552195| The effects of trampling on alpine pasture vegetation were analyzed in four regions of the Austrian Alps: one in the Radstdter Tauern mountains (Central Alps) and one on the Rax plateau near Vienna, on predominantly calcareous substrates, and two in the Central Alps on siliceous substrates. Species composition, vertical and horizontal structure, and biomass were investigated, as well as diaspore communities of heavily disturbed vegetation (on trails) and adjacent undisturbed (natural and seminatural) vegetation. Results show that species resistant to trampling (e.g., Poa supina) are more frequent in disturbed than in seminatural vegetation, and that they reproduce under trampling pressure and can store more than 20,000 germinable seeds/m<sup>2</sup> in the uppermost 5 cm of soil. Some species (e.g., Deschampsia cespitosa) show hardly any negative effects on abundance and/or diaspore bank, whereas aboveground biomass and vegetative growth of the single ramet can be reduced by trampling. Because of the presence of species like Poa supina, some trails store a larger diaspore community than the adjacent vegetation. However, most of the species investigated, including some endemic or threatened species of the Eastern Alps, are neither able to germinate nor to establish themselves on trampled sites. There is no evidence that they develop a sufficiently persistent and evenly distributed diaspore bank for a possible regeneration in the future. 
10.2307/1552405|Natural climatic treelines are relatively discrete boundaries in the landscape established at a certain elevation within an otherwise continuous gradient of environmental change. By studying tree rings along elevational transects at and below the upper treeline in the European Alps, we (1) determine whether radial stem growth declines abruptly or gradually, and (2) test climatic influences on trees near treeline by investigating transects for climatically different historical periods. While tree height decreases gradually toward the treeline, there is no such general trend for radial tree growth. We found rather abrupt changes which imply threshold effects of temperature which moved upslope in a wave-like manner as temperatures increased over the past 150 yr. Currently radial tree growth at treeline in the Alps is the same magnitude as at several hundred meters below current treeline. Over short intervals, tree-ring width is more dependent on interannual climatic variability than on altitudinal distance to treeline. We conclude that (1) the elevational response of tree-rings includes a threshold component (a minimal seasonal temperature) and that (2) radial growth is more strongly correlated with year to year variation in climate than with treeline elevation as such. Our data indicate that the current treeline position reflects influences of past climates and not the current climate.
24551713|Winter desiccation and mortality of coniferous foliage are important determinants of carbon balance in trees and thus can influence the location of the subarctic treeline ecotone. The purpose of this study was (i) to assess variation in winter desiccation and viability of first-year conifer needles at several heights and orientations along tree boles across the forest-tundra ecotone near Churchill, Manitoba, from 2008 to 2010, and (ii) determine if there is a noticeable influence of needle health on ongoing treeline advance in the area. Growing season air temperatures around Churchill were significantly cooler in 2009, resulting in the development of significantly shorter needles during 2010. Minimum epidermal conductance (gmin) varied little with height on the tree or orientation to the prevailing wind direction. The highest values of gmin occurred in 2010, when temperatures during the previous June (t  1) were 2.9 C cooler than normal, and the lowest gmin occurred during 2009 when June (t  1) was 1.2 C warmer than normal. There were few correlations between needle viability and water content, and little consistency among years. However, significant correlations occurred during all 3 yr in northwest-facing needles at treeline, which suggests that treeline trees could be the most susceptible to water loss and dieback, relative to forest and tundra stems. Despite the occurrence of some winter desiccation, death of coniferous foliage (<10%) and sapling mortality (417%) was low, and rapid height growth of live saplings suggests passage through the wind-blown snow abrasion zone does not significantly impede wood production. Ostensibly winter desiccation and foliage mortality does not significantly influence sapling height growth and treeline dynamics around Churchill.
10.2307/1552216| High-altitude grasslands in the north Andes (pramos) are subject to frequent fires that are usually set by farmers to support traditional cattle-raising systems. Apparently, this practice has caused dramatic changes in the structure and composition of native vegetation, but the mechanisms, magnitude, and direction of these changes still need to be documented for a broader range of conditions. This paper describes the differences in selected soil properties, ground cover, grass tussock structure, and populations of giant Andean rosettes (Espeletia pycnophylla) in four pramo sites in northwestern Ecuador, characterized by contrasting patterns of burning and grazing. The only differences between the soil properties of the sites were the higher pH in the least disturbed site, and the high concentration of P in the more recently burned site. Along the sequence of least impacted to most impacted sites, we observed a decrease in grass tussock cover, and an increase in the amount of bare ground and number of fragments per tussock. In the most undisturbed site tussock coverage was extremely low due to the dominance of shrubs. The density of giant Andean rosettes was higher in the sites with intermediate disturbance regimes, while the mortality of adult stem rosettes was significantly higher at the more recently burned site. The significance of these differences is discussed in the context of the regeneration of pramo vegetation after burning and grazing disturbance. 
10.2307/1552509| Betula ermanii (Japanese mountain birch), a dominant tree species of the subalpine and subarctic treeline ecotones in East Asia, was investigated with respect to frost hardiness, bud phenology, and woody-tissue respiration above and below snow at the treeline on Mt. Fuji, Japan. On the Pacific-facing south slope, the minimum air temperature regime at 2450 m altitude is not harmful to the viability of previous year's shoots and emerging leaves. Betula ermanii will approach its upper distribution limit where the risk of spring frost damage in immature tissues interferes with the need for a minimum length of the growing season. In the cold Pacific winter climate of Japan, susceptibility of bursting buds and dehardened shoots to frost down to -7C late in May is a major determinant for the species' altitudinal distribution limit at 2800 m altitude. It is concluded that two periods of minimum temperature affect the upper distribution of a deciduous broad-leaved tree species in temperate climates: (1) periods of subzero temperature which determine the occurrence of spring frost damage and affect the beginning of the growing season and (2) cool periods during the growing season that affect development and ripening of overwintering plant compartments. 
4095941|Terminus fluctuations of five glaciers and the correspondence of these fluctuations to temperature and precipitation patterns were assessed at Oregon's Mount Hood over the period 1901-2001. Historical photographs, descriptions, and climate data, combined with contemporary GPS measurements and GIS analysis, revealed that each glacier experienced overall retreat, ranging from -62 m at the Newton dark Glacier to -1102 m at the Ladd Glacier. Within this overall trend, Mount Hood's glaciers experienced two periods each of retreat and advance. Glaciers retreated between 1901 and 1946 in response to rising temperatures and declining precipitation. A mid-century cool, wet period led to glacier advances. Glaciers retreated from the late 1970s to the mid-1990s as a result of rising temperatures and generally declining precipitation. High precipitation in the late 1990s caused slight advances in 2000 and 2001. The general correspondence of Mount Hood's glacier terminus fluctuations with glaciers in Washington and Oregon suggests that regional, decadal-scale weather and climate events, driven by the Pacific Decadal Oscillation, play a key role in shaping atmosphere-cryosphere interactions in Pacific Northwest mountains. Deviations from the general glacier fluctuation pattern may arise from local differences in glacier aspect, altitude, size, and steepness as well as volcanic and geothermal activity, topography, and debris cover.
10.2307/1552552| The effect of many environmental stressors can be mediated by dissolved organic matter (DOM) properties. In this study, DOM from four high mountain lakes (two surrounded by meadows and two located on rocky terrain) was optically characterized and its photoreactivity was experimentally evaluated. To evaluate DOM photoreactivity, photobleaching rates of absorptivity, and fluorescence and their effects on DOM spectral properties were analyzed. Dissolved organic carbon (DOC) concentration ranged from 37 to 69 M, absorptivity at 320 nm (a<sub>320</sub>) from 0.60 to 3.09 m<sup>-1</sup>, and fluorescence from 1.30 to 5.70 QSU. Photobleaching of absorptivity was significant only at 320 nm (a<sub>320</sub>) resulting in half lives that varied from 2.6 to 6.7 d. Photobleaching of a<sub>320</sub> was significantly higher for DOM from lakes located on rocky terrain than for DOM from lakes surrounded by meadows. Photobleaching of fluorescence emission at 450 nm (F<sub>450</sub>) was significant only for three lakes and their half lives varied from 4.1 to 6.3 d. No significant differences were observed among the lakes studied. The changes over sunlight exposure of spectral slopes (S<sub>UV</sub>, ratios of absorptivity at 250 nm to 365 nm (a<sub>250</sub>: a<sub>365</sub>) and ratios of fluorescence emission at 450 nm to 500 nm (F<sub>450</sub>: F<sub>500</sub> did not show consistent trends with alternate increases and decreases. Lakes surrounded by meadows showed higher DOC concentrations, higher absorptivities, and lower a<sub>320</sub> photobleaching coefficients, suggesting that these lakes could be less vulnerable to UVR than lakes located on rocky terrain. 
10.2307/1552199|Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) were extracted from samples of eight different sites of sandy soils in Iceland. Eleven species of AMF were identified directly from original soil samples or trap culture using the host plant Allium porrum. Six AMF species were successfully subcultured in pots with the host plant Plantago lanceolata. Species from four genera of the order Glomerales (Acaulospora, Entrophospora, Glomus, and Scutellospora) were identified. The AMF species identified from subcultured pots included Glomus hoi, G. clarum, and a species of Scutellospora resembling S. dipurpurascens. Three other, as yet unidentified, species of Glomus were also isolated. AMF root colonization was estimated on Leymus arenarius (lymegrass), the main dune-building grass in Iceland during the growing season. Total AMF root colonization did not depend upon the season. However, percentage root colonization of arbuscules was significantly highest in July, indicating the highest peak of functional AMF activity. This survey of AMF is the first conducted in Iceland. The importance of this work is discussed in relation to occurrence of AMF species in polar regions and in relation to sand dune reclamation.
10.2307/1552384| Most coniferous trees are capable of photosynthesis throughout the year, but low temperatures and frozen soil limit winter photosynthesis in many regions. In eastern hemlock (Tsuga canadensis L.) in central Massachusetts, U.S.A., midday light saturated photosynthesis (P<sub>max</sub>) in autumn was limited by subfreezing temperatures during the previous one to two nights. In autumn, minimum air temperature (T<sub>min</sub>) during the previous 24 h had a strong effect on midday P<sub>max</sub> only if T<sub>min</sub> was below -2C. P<sub>max</sub> averaged about 5 mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup> after T<sub>min</sub> near -2C, but fell to about 1 mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup> after a T<sub>min</sub> of -8C. Maximum measured P<sub>max</sub> in winter was about 2.5 mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup> after a T<sub>min</sub> of 7C in mid-March, and P<sub>max</sub> in winter was more strongly related to average T<sub>min</sub> during the previous week than to the T<sub>min</sub> just prior to measurement. However, no major mid-winter thaws, with several successive above-freezing minimum temperatures, occurred during this study. A model of annual carbon exchange for the hemlock forest showed that daily eco-system carbon exchange in December through March was very sensitive to variation between -5 and 2C in average daily T<sub>min</sub> during the past 2 d. Fewer autumn frosts and prolonged winter thaws could increase annual photosynthesis and carbon storage in eastern hemlock forests in the northeastern United States. 
1552160| Megafossil wood remnants (trunks and roots) of mountain birch (Betula pubescens ssp. tortuosa) were retrieved from the alpine tundra of the southern Swedish Scandes (the Sylarna Mountains). The samples have recently become exposed by rapid recession of glaciers and snow patches at three sites located 630 to 350 m higher than the present-day birch tree-limit and 350 to 80 m higher than the early Holocene pine limit. Radiocarbon dating yielded ages ranging between 8700 and 6200 B.P. (9700-7000 cal B.P.). This is the first direct evidence of past tree growth at such high elevations in the Scandes, relative to the modern tree-limit. The overall situation with uniquely high tree-limits and absence of glaciers suggests a climate with generally drier and warmer summers than during any later part (secular-millennial scale) of the Holocene. Corrected for glacioisostatic land-uplift, summers around 8700 B.P. may have been about 3C warmer than at present. This inference is compatible with the Milankovitch model of orbital climate forcing during the course of the Holocene, implying a gradually increasing maritime climate (less seasonal), with a heavier snowpack. As a consequence, alpine snowfields started to develop over the period 8700-6200 B.P., causing demise and burial of the highest metapopulations of mountain birch. At lower elevations, where snow accumulation had previously been suboptimal for birch, this species could now benefit from a deeper and more persistent snow cover. Since about 7000 B.P., a distinct mountain birch belt has been a characteristic feature in this part of the Scandes. The exposure of mountain birch megafossils relates to substantial 20th-century warming, reaching a peak in the past few years. Evidently, this is an exceptional occurrence in the context of several past millennia. 
4139074| A 10-yr (1993-2003) geodetic survey was conducted at the Besiberris rock glacier, a tongue-shaped, glacigenic rock glacier, located in the eastern-central Spanish Pyrenees (4235'48"N, 049'20"E). Displacement measurements were made on three traverse lines across the rock glacier. Surface horizontal velocity increases from the head to the toe sectors (average values: traverse line A = 8.72 cm yr; line B = 10.65 cm yr; line C = 13.35 cm yr). Velocities are greater at the axis of the rock glacier compared to its lateral margins. In terms of vertical movement, the rock glacier has shown clear thinning of an ice-core. In all three traverse lines, surface lowering has been detected (average values: line A = 5.00 cm yr; line B = 7.10 cm yr; line C = 5.27 cm yr). This general lowering is interpreted as the adjustment of the rock glacier to the climatic amelioration (higher temperature, drier conditions, and reduced snowfall) observed in the Pyrenean region since the end of the Little Ice Age and accentuated in the last few decades. 
41240427|For the 2004-2006 growing seasons, we trapped a total of 6980 spiders (5066 adults, 1914 immatures) using pitfall traps at the Arctic Long Term Experimental Research (LTER) site in Toolik Lake, Alaska. We found 10 families and 51 putative species, with 45 completely identified, in two distinct habitats: Moist Acidic Tundra (MAT) and Dry Heath (DH) Tundra. We captured spiders belonging to the following families (number of species captured): Araneidae (1), Clubionidae (1), Dictynidae (1), Gnaphosidae (4), Linyphiidae (26), Lycosidae (11), Philodromidae (2), Salticidae (1), Theridiidae (1), and Thomisidae (3). Statistical comparisons of families captured at MAT and DH Tundra indicate that the habitats have significantly different spider communities (Chi Square Test: p < 0.0001, and Fisher's Exact Test: p = 0.0018). This finding is further supported by differences in similarity, diversity, evenness, and species richness between the two habitats. In this report, we present eight new state records and five extensions of previously described ranges for spider species. The following species are new state records for Alaska: Emblyna borealis (O. P.-Cambridge 1877), Horcotes strandi (Sytschevskaja 1935), Mecynargus montcola (Holm 1943), Mecynargus tungusicus (Eskov 1981), Metopobactrus prominulus (O. P. -Cambridge 1872), Poeciloneta theridiformis Emerton 1911, and Poeciloneta vakkhanka (Tanasevitch 1989). The following five species have been reported previously in Alaska, but not near Toolik Lake: Hypsosinga groenlandica Simon 1889, Gnaphosa borea Kulczyn'ski 1908, Gnaphosa microps Holm 1939, Haplodrassus hiemalis (Emerton 1909), and Islandiana cristata Eskov 1987. Pairwise similarity indices were calculated across 13 other arctic and subarctic spider communities and statistical tests show that all sites are dissimilar (p = 0.25). These results fit the general pattern of both the patchiness and habitat specificity of arctic spider fauna.
4095947| Meteorological records from about 30 British Navy ships that overwintered in the Canadian Arctic islands between 1818 and 1859 are the earliest detailed baseline of direct historical data in this region against which modern and future climate trends can be assessed. We describe the types of meteorological instruments and the observational methods employed aboard these ships. For measuring air temperatures, both mercurial and spirit thermometers were used. Observations of atmospheric pressure were made using marine and aneroid barometers. Wind direction and speed were also logged. The Royal Navy's ordered and disciplined daily regime was well-suited to regular scientific observations. Individual instruments on most Navy ships were calibrated against established Royal Observatory standards before and after expeditions. Many recording officers commented on the relative unreliability of spirit thermometers below the freezing point of mercury. Little contemporary written evidence exists regarding absolute accuracy or precision of meteorological instruments taken to the Arctic, but some calibration data are available to assess typical instrument errors between 32 and -38F (0 and -39C). Our comparison of minimum daily temperatures from four overwintering ships in 1853 and 1854 shows very high correlation coefficients. The mutual consistency of these records implies good instrumental precision. Although the absolute accuracy of temperatures recorded below the freezing point of mercury is in doubt, those above this point are relatively accurate. Guidance on the preferred methods of observing and recording were codified in, for example, the Admiralty's Manual of Scientific Enquiry (Herschel, 1851). Meteorological registers were regarded as official documents that were, as far as possible, required to be complete and no attempt was to be made to fill in missing data. The need to screen or cover instruments from both solar and terrestrial radiation was also recognized from the earliest expeditions. It was not until the 1850s that standardizing the exposure of thermometers was resolved through the introduction of louvered screens. This unique set of ships' meteorological registers presents opportunities to investigate a variety of meteorological parameters for the Canadian High Arctic in the 19th century, allowing quantitative assessment of change relative to contemporary climate. 
40305837|Plant species' requirements at seed and seedling stages are critical in determining their distributions. Proximity to adult plants, as well as the presence of litter or rocks on the soil surface can influence seedling success. By comparing the microsite characteristics of points occupied by naturally occurring seedlings to the characteristics of unoccupied points in fellfleld and dry, moist, and wet meadow alpine plant communities on Niwot Ridge, Colorado, U.S.A., this study addresses the following questions: Are seedlings more likely to be near an adult plant or in litter than are unoccupied points? Does the proximity of seedlings to adult plants vary among communities? In the fellfield community, are seedlings more likely to be located next to a rock than are unoccupied points? I found that seedlings were farther from adult plants than were unoccupied points in the wet meadow, a community with dense vegetation cover and wet soils. Contrary to expectation, I also found that seedlings were farther from adult plants than were unoccupied points in the fellfield, the driest, most barren community. Seedlings were not more likely than unoccupied points to be located in areas of litter buildup, and fellfield seedlings did not occur disproportionately within the protection of a rock. This study suggests that competition between adult plants and seedlings may be taking place both in highly productive and in very unproductive alpine plant communities.
4095933|The colonization of the underside of rocks normally requires that the material is sufficiently translucent to allow the penetration of photosynthetically active radiation. We examined the underside of 950 opaque rocks in sixteen locations in the Arctic for hypolithic colonization by photosynthetic microorganisms. Greater than 90% of rocks were colonized. The mean width of the bands of colonization was
4095895|We surveyed 14 ponds in 1999 and 28 ponds in 2000 to better understand the basic limnology of alpine ponds and to predict how the planktonic and epipelic (sediment-living) algal communities may respond to nutrient deposition and climate change. Based on nitrogen to phosphorus ratios, nitrogen limitation is likely common in these alpine ponds, which makes them particularly susceptible to current increases in atmospheric N deposition. Regression and redundancy analysis (RDA) showed phytoplankton abundance and community composition was best explained by total phosphorus (TP), pH, and conductivity. Epipelon abundance was best explained by nitrite plus nitrate and community composition was best explained by TP and dissolved organic carbon (DOC) in addition to nitrite plus nitrate. Some of these chemical variables, DOC, pH, and conductivity, have been linked to climate in alpine ponds and lakes and in low elevation lakes, which suggests alpine ponds may be sensitive to climate change. However, because we found interannual variability in the environmental-algal relationships, several years of study may be required in order to make realistic predictions on how algal communities will respond to increasing nutrient deposition and climate change.
10.2307/1552201| Effects of different winter soil temperature on summertime growth rate of individual seedlings of mountain birch (Betula pubescens ssp. czerepanovii) were evaluated in an outdoor pot experiment in subarctic Sweden. The hypothesis tested was that low winter soil temperature could decrease growing-season nutrient uptake capacity and growth rate by injury of the root system; further, the root damage should stimulate growth of replacement roots, which should be reflected by increased summertime biomass allocation to roots. Mountain birch seedlings were exposed to two soil temperatures during wintertime by manipulation of snow depth that accumulated on top of the pots. Minimum soil temperature (hourly recordings) during winter was -1.7C in the "protected" treatment (deep snow cover) and -10.5C in the "exposed" treatment (thin snow cover). The treatments simulated the soil temperature conditions of a local mountain birch forest and heath site, respectively. During June and July, the relative growth rate (R<sub>G</sub>) and nitrogen accumulation rate (R<sub>N</sub>) in the exposed treatment were lower compared to the protected treatment. In addition, the seedlings of the exposed treatment allocated a greater proportion of biomass to roots compared to the protected treatment. Thus, leaf growth was reduced in the exposed compared to the protected treatment. We concluded that lower winter temperature in soils can result in stronger root injury that stimulates the growth of replacement roots and reduces nutrient uptake capacity and growth rate during summer. In concert with other possible factors causing root disruption during winter, e.g., frequent freeze-thaw cycles, the mechanism identified here might be important for survival of tree seedlings in subarctic and alpine areas, especially near treelines. The implications are discussed specifically for mountain birch seedling growth and survival in treeless subarctic heath sites and above treelines in northern Europe. 
41240419|Burrowing mammals often have considerable geomorphological impacts, and their tunneling activities may decrease the stability of landforms. We document the spatial distribution of Norwegian lemming burrows in a subarctic alpine meadow to determine the preferred locations for burrow entrances and to examine the potential for burrowing to decrease the stability of periglacial landforms at the site. Burrow entrances were disproportionately common into the base and sides of landforms (> 68% of burrows), probably reflecting the lower energetic cost of moving soil horizontally, rather than vertically, out of burrows. Most burrow entrances (> 60%) were also located under large rocks, which probably improve burrow stability by providing a firm ceiling to the entrance. Field observations show that these burrows are relatively stable, as only 3% were associated with any signs of increased erosion or landform instability. Therefore, in contrast to some previous studies, and despite burrowing being concentrated on landforms, we suggest that these rodents have little direct impact on landform integrity at this site.
10.2307/1552523|The occurrence of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) was examined in tall alpine herbfields (Celmisia-Poa alliance) in Kosciuszko National Park, Australia. Relatively undisturbed areas and areas which had been successfully, and unsuccessfully, rehabilitated in the 1960s and 1970s following severe loss of vegetation and soil erosion were sampled. Most common plant species in undisturbed areas were colonized by AMF, often with greater than 50% of root length colonized. Colonization by AMF of the dominant species, Poa fawcettiae, was substantially lower in areas that had failed to re-establish vegetation or a soil profile following rehabilitation, and in areas that had been successfully rehabilitated, but had again started to degrade in the 1990s. This lower colonization may be attributed to a number of factors. These include toxic effects from Zn released from galvanized wire used in the rehabilitation work and the loss of the organic horizon resulting in reduced AMF inoculum levels, extreme soil temperatures and low soil water. The study indicated that AMF might need to be considered when planning the rehabilitation of degraded areas of herbfields in Kosciuszko National Park.
1552346| We compared ecophysiological characteristics of plant species that dominate during different stages of succession in fallow fields of a traditional agroecosystem in the Venezuelan High Andes. For each species we determined during the dry and wet seasons the photosynthetic light response and photosynthesis rate at light saturation (A<sub>max</sub>), specific leaf area (SLA), stomatal conductance at light saturation (g<sub>max</sub>), midday water potential (), and intrinsic water use efficiency (WUE<sub>i</sub>, photosynthesis rate per unit of stomatal conductance). The species studied were the forbs Rumex acetosella (early succession dominant) and Lupinus meridanus (intermediate stages), the shrubs Acaena elongata and Baccharis prunifola (late succession), the giant rosette Espeletia schultzii, and the shrub Hypericum laricifolium (mature ecosystem dominant). Clear ecophysiological trends were identified: early and intermediate successional species had higher A<sub>max</sub>, g<sub>max</sub>, and SLA but lower WUE<sub>i</sub>. E. schultzii maintained a high water potential during the dry season and, together with B. prunifolia, was the only species with no significant differences in A<sub>max</sub> between seasons. The results indicate that traits generally linked to fast growth (high A<sub>max</sub> and SLA) are associated with dominance during early succession, while traits linked with drought resistance (e.g., high WUE<sub>i</sub> and thick xeromorphic leaves) are associated with dominance during late succession in this tropical mountain environment. 
1552334|Microtus richardsoni, the water vole, was listed as a sensitive species in Region 2 of the USDA Forest Service in 1994. Historical records indicate water voles were found in the Big Horn Mountains, but little was known about their current status. The purpose of this study was to locate water voles in the Big Horn Mountains of Wyoming, develop a habitat profile, and evaluate the extent to which livestock grazing affects them. Accessible creeks with habitat requirements for water voles were surveyed. Water voles were not captured below 2440 m. Grazed and ungrazed sites occupied by water voles were matched and analyzed for percent plant cover, dry weight biomass, riparian classification, mean stream depth, channel type, elevation, precipitation, and temperature. Capture success was significantly greater in ungrazed areas. Percent cover by ferns and thallophytes was significantly greater in areas where water voles were more abundant, and bare ground was significantly greater at grazed locations. Water voles were most abundant on Rosgen B or E streams with a willow/wet Carex riparian class that is found on relatively undisturbed sites with stable, well-developed soils and bank structure. In the Big Horn Mountains, water vole captures were low in comparison to the Beartooth Mountains and synergistic effects of grazing and drying might negatively impact this species.
20181785|Several members of the vascular plant genus Saussurea, which are found at elevations exceeding 5000 m, have dense layers of woolly trichomes on their leaves, bracts, and inflorescences, the function of which is not fully understood. Here we explore the thermal benefits of pubescence in Saussurea medusa, both in situ in the Chinese Hengduan Mountains and under controlled conditions. Mean daytime inflorescence temperature was 5.9 K above air temperature. Pubescence removal revealed that most of this warming is not related to pubescence but to radiant warming of the compact inflorescence itself (4.1 K warming in shaved plants, i.e. 1.8 K less). The effect of pubescence on nighttime radiative cooling was negligible. Our data indicated that the functional role of pubescence in these high-elevation plants cannot be attributed solely to producing warming tissues, but may also include other functions such as water repellency and reflection of short peaks of high radiation. These other functions must be specific to a small group of species, given that most other high elevation taxa do not exhibit this woolly character.
10.2307/1552236|Zooplankton communities of 17 subarctic ponds with differing catchment areas and habitat types in northern Finland were surveyed during the open water season from June to August. Ponds were located along a gradient that changes from a mountain birch woodland to a treeless tundra. In all sites, cladoceran abundance dominated that of copepods although there was a consistent pattern of increasing relative abundance of copepods toward the most barren ponds. Species richness declined with increasing altitude but diversity remained constant. Zooplankton communities within the same habitat type were similar. Temporal variation in species abundance showed a coherent temperature driven pattern along the whole altitudinal transect.
1552335|Changes in diatom assemblage composition since preindustrial times were analyzed in a landscape paleolimnological study of 50 lakes and also in a more detailed analysis of a dated sediment core from Slipper Lake in the Canadian central arctic treeline region. The most apparent taxonomic shift was toward a higher relative abundance of the planktonic Cyclotella stelligera complex and a lower relative abundance of benthic Fragilaria taxa (F. pinnata, F. construens var. venter, F. construens, and F. brevistriata) in the modern versus the older sediments. Diatom assemblage composition in Slipper Lake recorded a marked change in the top 5.0 cm (ca. mid-1800s) of the core with a clear shift to a more planktonic diatom assemblage characterized by higher percentages of the Cyclotella stelligera complex. Possible causative factors, such as recent anthropogenic acidification, nutrient enrichment, or atmospheric deposition of contaminants, do not appear sufficient to explain these species changes. Instead, these recent assemblage shifts are consistent with limnological changes occurring with climatic warming, such as a shorter duration of ice cover, a longer growing season, and/or stronger thermal stratification patterns.
40801759|On 11 June 2008 the first author spent 10.66 h on Kasatochi Island and collected 396 terrestrial arthropod specimens estimated to represent a minimum of 58 species. Among these are included the first Alaskan records of the fly genus Lestremia and the ghost moth Sthenopis quadriguttatus (Grote). Also found were a new species of salpingid beetle in the genus Aegialites and sawfly in the genus Pseudodineura. On 10 and 12 August 2009, one year after an eruption that buried the island in ash, the first author spent 15 h sampling terrestrial arthropods. Specimens were also collected on 12-14 June 2009 by other team members. An estimated 17 post-eruption species were documented by the collection of 210 specimens. Evidence of breeding was seen in 4-9 species. Pitfall traps run from 14 June to 10 August 2009 flooded, capturing no arthropods. Fallout collectors representing 1 m, run during the same period, had four flies and no seeds. The majority of species recovered post-eruption were probably survivors or their offspring, some of which had commenced breeding on rotting kelp and bird carcasses. Of significance as the first post-eruption evidence of multi-trophic level interaction, a fly predator on kelp flies, Scathophaga, and an ichneumonid endoparasite of flies, Phygadeuon, were also present. No phytophagous or fungivorous species were found. Supporting the heterotrophs-first hypothesis of Hodkinson et al. (2002), the current terrestrial ecosystem of Kasatochi is necromassbased rather than plant-based.
23252325|We reconstructed the former ice cap of the Wind River Range, Wyoming, using a glaciological model with scaled modern temperature and precipitation inputs to examine probable climate during the local Last Glacial Maximum (LGM) (or Pinedale glaciation). A key result is that temperature anomalies of - 10 C, - 8.5 C, - 6.5 C, and - 5 C must compensate respective precipitation values of 50%, 100%, 200%, and 300% that of modern in order for the maximum glacier system to attain equilibrium. In further sensitivity tests, we find that ice-cap area and volume shrink by 75% under a climate forcing 50% modern and 50% LGM. The glacier system disappears altogether in 100 years when subjected to sustained modern conditions. Our results are consistent with other interpretations of western U.S. LGM climate, and demonstrate that the Wind River Ice Cap could have disintegrated rapidly during the first phase of the termination. In future work we will simulate glacier-climate evolution as constrained by emerging 10 Be moraine chronologies.
41240408|Weather and climatic conditions over the Himalaya regions are of great interest to the scientific community at large. The objective of this study is to present spatial and temporal variations of air temperatures and relative humidity on the north slope of Mt. Qomolangma. Both hourly air temperatures and relative humidity were measured at seven automatic weather stations (AWS) from 5207 to 7028 m a.s.l. from May 2007 through September 2008. Long-term (1959-2007) air temperature and precipitation data were obtained from Dingri Meteorological Station. The preliminary results show that the elevational gradient of mean annual air temperature is non-linear, which decreases from 0.2 C at an elevation of 5207 m to -4.4 C at 5792 m, and -5.4 C at 5955 m. The maxima are 14.6, 9.1, and 18.6 C, and the minima are -24.2,  28.8, and -29.3 C at the three elevations, respectively. The relative humidity does not change significantly with increasing elevation except over glacier ice, but the mixing ratio decreases due to the decrease in air temperature. The mean diurnal ranges of air temperature and relative humidity decrease with increasing elevation. The daily maximum air temperature occurs significantly later at the high-elevation site than that at the low elevation site because the air temperature at the high-elevation site is affected to a large extent by downward mixing of warm air near the ablation zone of the glacier during daytime. The air moisture content reflects the pronounced alternation of the wet and dry seasons, and the highest water vapor content is associated with the southwesterly Indian monsoon. The mean annual surface air temperature-elevation gradient is 0.72  0.01 C (100 m), and also shows a pronounced seasonal signature. Mean annual air temperatures have increased by about 0.62 C per decade over the last 49 years in this region; the greatest warming trend is observed in winter, the smallest in summer. Warmer conditions have been observed since the mid-1980s. Additional studies have shown a reduction in precipitation in the 1960s that resulted in a decrease in net snow accumulation. Therefore, accelerated retreat of the Rongbuk Glacier since the 1980s may be caused by rising air temperature and the decreased precipitation.
1552576| We investigated the seasonal snow cover at six islands of Franz Josef Land in July 1995. Samples were chemically analyzed for major ions, pH, conductivity, fluoride, acetate, formate, and methane sulfonate. The chemical composition of the snow cover was dominated by sodium and chloride, which contributed up to 70% of the ion balance. Mean nitrate concentration was about 2 eq L<sup>-1</sup>, and non-sea-salt sulfate ranged from 5 to 19 eq L<sup>-1</sup>. Ion concentrations revealed a high local and seasonal variability, with peak concentrations attributed to spring and summer snow. We also found a high local variability for the water equivalent of the snow cover, with values between 14 and 118 cm, reflecting the strong influence of wind drift and redistribution of snow. The fractionation of ions during snowmelt was followed by sampling the snow cover at Salisbury Island at three stages of the snowmelt. 
40801757|The 7-8 August 2008 eruption of Kasatochi Island volcano blanketed the island in newly generated pyroclastic deposits and deposited ash into the ocean and onto nearby islands. Concentrations of water soluble Fe, Cu, and Zn determined from a 1: 20 deionized water leachate of the ash were sufficient to provide short-term fertilization of the surface ocean. The 2008 pyroclastic deposits were thicker in concavities at bases of steeper slopes and thinner on steep slopes and ridge crests. By summer 2009, secondary erosion had exposed the pre-eruption soils along gulley walls and in gully bottoms on the southern and eastern slopes, respectively. Topographic and microtopographic position altered the depositional patterns of the pyroclastic flows and resulted in pre-eruption soils being buried by as little as 1 m of ash. The different erosion patterns gave rise to three surfaces on which future ecosystems will likely develop: largely pre-eruptive soils; fresh pyroclastic deposits influenced by shallowly buried, pre-eruptive soil; and thick (> 1 m) pyroclastic deposits. As expected, the chemical composition differed between the pyroclastic deposits and the pre-eruptive soils. Pre-eruptive soils hold stocks of C and N important for establishing biota that are lacking in the fresh pyroclastic deposits. The pyroclastic deposits are a source for P and K but have negligible nutrient holding capacity, making these elements vulnerable to leaching loss. Consequently, the preeruption soils may also represent an important long-term P and K source.
23252326|Recreational activities in alpine areas have been increasing in recent decades, creating the need to improve our understanding of the impacts of these activities and how they are best managed. We explored impacts of recreational trail use on dry alpine meadows in the northern Canadian Rockies of Alberta. Data collected in 142 plots (0.5 m  1 m) were used to compare plant community metrics among (1) a recreational trail, (2) intact tundra meadows (undisturbed), and (3) sparsely vegetated gravel steps formed by frost disturbance (naturally disturbed). As compared to undisturbed tundra, trails had substantially lower cover of vascular plants (4% vs. 35%), lichen (0% vs. 10%), and cryptogamic crust (0% vs. 4%); trails also had lower species richness (7 vs. 11 species per plot), but greater soil compaction (2.75 vs. 1.25 kg cm -2 ). Trails differed from natural gravel steps, which had three times more biotic cover and different composition. This highlights the difference in effects of human and natural disturbance. Positive feedback effects of trampling in tundra ecosystems may lead to altered environmental conditions, including decreased infiltration capacity and nutrient cycles in soils, and more extreme temperatures at the soil surface. These feedbacks could inhibit regeneration of abandoned trails.
4095922| Nine late Miocene glacier advances are identified in the Lago Cardiel region (49S, 7215'W in southern South America), a region that until now has been assumed to be unglaciated. Several dating results indicate a minimum age of 6.4 Ma for four advances of the Monte San Lorenzo lobe terminating east of Lago Cardiel and 6.6 Ma for the three oldest glaciations of the San Martn lobe terminating south of this lake. Two further advances have a minimum age of 5.4 Ma. Eleven to 14 m.y. old basaltic lava, which partly covers Patagonian Gravel, indicates the maximum age of these advances. The two oldest terminal moraines of the San Martn glacier are only modestly incised into the Patagonian Gravel suggesting an age of 9 to 10.5 Ma. These age estimates are especially accurate for both meseta glaciations of the San Lorenzo lobe. These glaciers were about 240 km long during their Miocene maximum, which is four times their length during the Last Glacial Maximum. Hence, the late Miocene glacier advances require colder and/or more humid conditions that were considerably longer lasting than the Pleistocene glaciations. Due to glacial meltwater, Lago Cardiel was significantly larger and served as a regional catchment area during these early glaciations in southern South America. The erratic boulders of the southeastern lake terraces at more than 350 m above modern lake level may be attributed to the oldest late Miocene moraine or outwash plain. 
4095861|Stone fences and blinds built by prehistoric hunters to gather and ambush elk and bighorn sheep above timberline in the Colorado Front Range are similar in concept and function to structures built by the Copper Inuit and their predecessors for hunting caribou near Bathurst Inlet, in the Central Canadian Arctic. Four principal differences exist: (1) Circular blinds and continuous rock walls are more numerous in the Front Range than in the Arctic, where arcuate breastworks and lines of widely spaced cairns predominate. Differences in prey-species behavior are the most probable explanation. (2) Stone house foundations, meat-drying facilities, meat caches, kayak-storage racks, and fox and wolf traps occur near drive sites along caribou migration routes in the Bathurst Inlet region. The structures imply long-term habitation made possible by a plentiful meat supply. Comparable structures are absent above timberline in the Front Range because people retreated to warmer environments in winter, and because steep terrain and deep snow discouraged return visits to high-altitude caches. (3) The technique was adopted much earlier in Colorado than in the Central Canadian Arctic. The oldest Front Range drive systems were constructed while the Laurentide Ice Sheet still covered the Bathurst Inlet landscape. (4) Pedestrian game-drive hunting was abandoned in the Front Range soon after arrival of the horse (ca. a.d. 1700), but remained an integral part of Copper Inuit subsistence until the mid twentieth century. The rich ethnographic and oral history record of communal hunting in the Arctic is invaluable for interpreting the Colorado structures.
1552317| Variations of the diatom distribution in a lake sediment core of Lake Lama, Central Siberia, were used to reconstruct paleotemperatures during the Holocene. The changes of the diatom assemblages revealed a strong association to climatic changes during this period. A transfer function based on weighted averaging partial least squares regression (WA-PLS), derived from a calibration dataset from northwestern Finnish Lapland, was used to infer July air temperatures for the area around Lake Lama. The prediction accuracy of the diatom-temperature model was 0.89C. The analysis of the modern vs. core assemblages showed the suitability of the model for the lake sediment core. The reconstruction yielded a rapid increase in temperature at the beginning of the early Holocene. There was a period between 8000 and 6500 cal. yr BP with slightly higher temperatures, which were assigned to the Holocene thermal optimum (Hypsithermal), followed by a short and distinct temperature decrease. The period between 4000 and 2800 cal. yr BP again revealed higher temperatures. The inferred temperatures are consistent in their trends with a pollen-based paleotemperature reconstruction of the same core. The range of the diatom-based temperatures was 1.6C, which is low compared to that of the pollen-based temperatures. This discrepancy may be explained by over- and underestimation of temperatures at the edges of the temperature range by our diatom-based model, and by the large size of this water body which could have moderated the response of diatoms to the temperature signal. The inferred temperature trends from the diatom assemblages at Lake Lama show the potential of aquatic organisms for paleoclimatic reconstructions. This is one of the very few quantitative paleoclimate reconstructions in arctic Russia. Previous research was limited mainly due to the lack of available calibration datasets. Our results also imply that, although this lack might be a drawback, an ecologically sound and reliable reconstruction is still possible and needs to be carried out in other parts of the arctic regions in order to obtain a more detailed knowledge about past regional climate and environmental changes. 
41416447|Natural water level fluctuations (WLFs) are an inherent characteristic of Mediterranean inland waters, which are projected to be amplified by global climate change. La Caldera (Sierra Nevada National Park, Spain) is an oligotrophic high mountain lake (3050 m a.s.l) that has experienced large fluctuations in water volume (13-100%) during the past 20 years due to irregular annual precipitation patterns (371-1816 mm). Because of the lake's cold and dilute abiotic environment, it is likely susceptible to projected increases in global temperature and represents an ideal sentinel of global change. We analyze the effect of WLFs on water quality and on plankton community in La Caldera to better understand the potential effects of recurrent droughts (3 droughts in a 20-year period) on lake ecology. We have found significantly positive effects of WLFs on total phosphorus (TP) concentrations.There was extreme variability in TP concentrations during three recurrent droughts (1995, 1999, and 2005) reflecting sediment resuspension. However, the data also suggest that this was not the only source of phosphorus. Extremely high P-enriched atmospheric dust inputs could have maintained the abnormally high TP in-lake concentrations measured during 2005. The data indicate that recurrent droughts have reduced lake resistance to TP changes but have increased lake resistance to total nitrogen (TN) changes, which supports the idea that a P-enriched atmospheric dust inputs during 2005. An increase in dissolved inorganic nitrogen (DIN): TP mass ratio after 2005 was observed, revealing a higher ecosystem homeostasis of this ratio.
4095862|Earth hummocks constitute the most common surface structures of Arctic regions. In hummock tundra ecosystems, small mounds of earth alternate with depressions, the so-called interhummock areas. This study aimed at elucidating how differences in microtopography and associated variations in abiotic and biotic factors control biogeochemical cycles in hummock tundra soils. We assessed N pools and N transformation rates in hummocks and interhummock areas in the southern tundra subzone and along a soil-moisture gradient in the typical tundra subzone of the Taymyr Peninsula, Siberia, Russia. On a regional scale, N pools and transformation rates were positively related to latitude and therefore to temperature. Generally, wetter or waterlogged soil conditions tended to decrease gross mineralization rates and soil microbial N at least in interhummock areas. In contrast, at small spatial scales, soil microclimatic conditions were not the main determinant of the observed nitrogen cycling pattern. We found higher N pools and N gross mineralization rates at interhummock areas (wetter and cooler) compared to the hummocks (warmer and drier). The observed differences in N cycling between microsites of hummock tundra may be the consequence of different plant-cover and variable substrate inputs resulting from differences in microrelief.
4095880|We investigated the response of an alpine lichen heath plant community to an increase in soil nutrient and water availability. A 5-yr experiment-including additions of calcium, phosphorus, nitrogen, and nitrogen + phosphorus as well as irrigation-was conducted in northwestern Caucasus, Russia, at 2800 m above sea level. Number of plants and generative shoots per species were counted annually. The plant-community composition started to change during the second year of treatments. Plant density and flowering of the community is co-limited by nitrogen and phosphorus. Irrigation and calcium additions caused minimal changes. The total number of forb plants per square meter was not influenced by treatments, whereas the total number of graminoid plants slightly increased in response to P treatment and strongly increased in response to N + P treatment. Forbs responded to N and N + P treatments by an increase in the number of generative shoots. Individual species differed in their response to treatments. Only clonal species responded to experimental treatments, except for one annual nonclonal species, which increased its abundance in response to irrigation. Biodiversity estimated by the Shannon-Wiener index decreased under N + P treatment. Species number was not affected by any of the treatments.
1552344|Both land use and expected climate change will probably cause range shifts of tree and shrub species in the European Alps. Attempts to predict the magnitude and direction of these processes will produce reliable results only if they consider both abiotic habitat conditions and biotic interactions. In this study we analyze recruitment patterns of Pinus mugo Turra in different grassland communities of the Northern Calcareous Alps, Austria. Pinus mugo is the most important invader of abandoned subalpine pastures in the area and the predominant woody plant at the current timberline. Results indicate strong dependence of colonization success on propagule pressure and differential invasibility of grassland types but only a marginal impact of local-scale site conditions, at least within the species' current altitudinal distribution limits. Because the grassland matrix at and above the current treeline is dominated by a particularly invasible grassland type, a possible climate change--driven upward movement of Pinus mugo shrublands may take place quite rapidly. In contrast, encroachment on abandoned subalpine pastures is frequently delayed by competition with vigorous grassland canopies.
10.2307/1552548| Here we provide baseline information on water isotopes and nutrient concentrations for channelized streams and wetlands from a pramo ecosystem in Antisana Ecological Reserve, Ecuador. Water samples were collected from wetland areas and compared to the nearby Rio Tumiguina. Stream water samples were also collected downstream from glacial source areas for 7 km (Rio Tumiguina) and 10 km (Rio Antisana). Water samples from the gauging station on the Rio Tumiguina (n = 4) and nearby wetlands (n = 4) showed significant differences for some nutrients and little difference for other nutrients. Nitrate (NO<sub>3</sub>-N) concentrations were below 14 g L<sup>-1</sup> (1 mol L<sup>-1</sup>) at both sites and not significantly different. Concentrations of ammonium (NH<sub>4</sub>-N) in both stream water and wetlands were much higher than NO<sub>3</sub>-N concentrations. For example, NH<sub>4</sub>-N concentrations in stream water of 195 g L<sup>-1</sup> (14 mol L<sup>-1</sup>) were 17 times that of NO<sub>3</sub>-N concentrations. In contrast to NO<sub>3</sub>-N and NH<sub>4</sub>-N, there was a significant difference (P < 0.001) between concentrations of soluble reactive phosphate (SRP), with concentrations of SRP in the Rio Tumiguina of about 263 g L<sup>-1</sup> (8.2 mol L<sup>-1</sup>) and below detection limits in wetlands. Dissolved organic carbon (DOC) concentrations in the Rio Tumiguina of 0.4 mg L<sup>-1</sup> were quite low compared to the 23 mg L<sup>-1</sup> of DOC from the pramo wetlands. At both stream transects, the 18O values decreased from glacial signatures of about - 17 near the glacial terminus to - 13 at distances of 7 to 10 km. Nitrate concentrations were at or below detection limits at all sampling sites. Ammonium concentrations were higher than NO<sub>3</sub>-N concentrations in all samples. Concentrations of dissolved organic phosphorus (DOP) were almost as high as dissolved organic carbon (DOC) near the glacial outlets. Concentrations of dissolved organic nitrogen (DON) and DOC were near detection limits near the glacial outlets and then increased downstream. 
1552300|We analyzed attributes of tree encroachment on montane meadows and subalpine grasslands on the North Rim of Grand Canyon National Park. Species composition, age, density, height, diameter, condition class, and patterns of tree establishment were examined on belt transects at 12 meadow sites. Of the 3481 live and dead trees sampled, 52% of all trees were Populus tremuloides, 20% were Picea spp., 11% were Abies lasiocarpa, 10% were Abies concolor, and 7% were Pinus ponderosa. Tree densities averaged 4703 trees ha<sup>-1</sup>. Sixty-two percent of the trees sampled were less than 20 yr of age, although some species established in the early and mid-1800s. Ninety-one percent of all trees, however, established after the mid-1930s, with the greatest establishment occurring after the early 1970s. Of this 91%, Populus tremuloides composed the majority (90%) of recent tree recruitment, with a mean establishment date of 1983-1984. A general pattern of progressively younger trees from the closed forest toward the meadow interiors was detected for some species, and together with little evidence of historical tree occurrence (e.g., large standing dead, downed logs, etc.) on the transects, indicated that trees had been encroaching on these meadows since the 1800s. These trends suggest a loss of important meadow habitat and landscape biodiversity within Grand Canyon National Park during the past century.
20181760|A field experiment was conducted in the Front Range of the Colorado Rocky Mountains to test the hypothesis that lichen age-size curves differ in shape because an inherently sigmoidal growth pattern is interrupted at different stages in its development by a linear growth phase. Large, circular thalli of three morphologically dissimilar species were studied on smooth rock surfaces. Thallus interiors were removed with a knife and wire brush, creating curved wedges of lichen tissue. Distances from reference marks to the unmodified outer margins of the thalli were measured at various wedge widths. Measurements were repeated after 2-16 years, depending upon species. As predicted by the hypothesis, radial growth of Xanthoparmelia coloradoensis and Lecanora novomexicana accelerated with increasing wedge width, becoming linear at average rates of 2.01 and 0.12 mm yr, respectively. Radial growth of Rhizocarpon superficiale accelerated to a maximum average rate of 0.016 mm yr, then slowed, defining a more complete sigmoidal curve. This species showed no evidence of a linear growth phase, either because none exists or because the wedges were too narrow to detect it. The margins of R. superficiale thalli alternately advance and retreat due to changes in moisture availability and differences in photosynthate production within outer rings of areolate tissue. Hypothalli and areolae grow independently of each other over the short term, though their long-term growth rates must necessarily be similar. The data suggest that areolate crustose lichens are fundamentally different from foliose and placodioid lichens, and that inferences based on one group should not necessarily be extrapolated to another.
10.2307/1552255|The effects of temperature and "natural disturbance" on growth, seed production, and population density in the facultative hemiparasitic annual Euphrasia frigida (Scrophulariaceae) were examined in the middle alpine zone at Finse, southwest Norway. Experimentally elevated temperature increased growth and seed production significantly. Higher temperatures resulted in a small decrease in population densities during three seasons. The degree of "natural disturbance" did not influence growth and seed production, but population density was highest at intermediate disturbance levels. Thus, while temperature influenced the performance of E. frigida, disturbance affected the population dynamics. The effects of temperature on growth and reproduction may also be indirect on hemiparasites, through improved conditions for the host plants under elevated temperatures. It is hypothesized that the predicted global warming will result in increased seed output from E. frigida plants in the middle alpine zone. Population densities, however, are likely to decrease under elevated temperatures, due to lower disturbance levels by frost heave and increased vegetation cover.
1552364|A selective review of lichenometry as used to date Holocene moraines in five diverse regions of Alaska and in southeastern Kamchatka suggests that growth curves for this North Pacific area may be improved by attention to several factors. These included lichen identification, control point number and distribution, radiocarbon calibration, alternative curve models, and compatibility of lichen growth rate with climate. Support for control points presented for Kamchatka and published for Alaska areas will benefit from supplementary control at and beyond the break from the great growth curve segments of the last centuries. With regard to alternative--linear, logarithmic, and composite curve--models drawn for the published lichenometric data, the composite (logarithmic and linear composite models) appear the best fit for the Brooks Range and Wrangell--St. Elias areas of slow growth and continental interior climates. Calibration of <sup>14</sup>C ages make minor changes in well-controlled curves, but differences may be marked where a single age supports the long-term portion of growth curves. Lichen subgenus Rhizocarpon section Geographicum and section Alpicola should, and usually can be, differentiated in North Pacific areas. Nevertheless, growth curves that may represent both yellow-green Rhizocarpons (e.g., central Brooks Range and southeastern Kamchatka) appear to allow derivation of reasonable surface dating where the taxa distribution is similar to that of the curves. Chronologies of glaciation based on lichenometry of moraines over the last millennium in these two areas across the Bering Sea are strikingly similar to each other and to more precisely dated tree-ring-based glacial chronologies in southern Alaska.
20181777|In order to follow the uptake and allocation of N in different plant functional types and microbes in two tundra ecosystems differing in nutrient availability, we performed a N-labeling experiment with three N forms and followed the partitioning of N label among plants, microorganisms and soil organic matter. At both sites the deciduous dwarf shrub Betula nana and the evergreen Empetrum hermaphroditum absorbed added N at rates in the order: NH &gt; NO &gt; glycine, in contrast to the graminoid Carex species which took up added N at rates in the order NO &gt; NH &gt; glycine. Carex transported a high proportion of N to aboveground parts, whereas the dwarf shrubs allocated most N to underground storage. Enhanced C in Betula nana roots represents the first field evidence of uptake of intact glycine by this important circumpolar plant. Plant and microbial uptake of label was complementary as plants took up more inorganic than organic N, while microbes preferred organic N. Microbes initially took up a large part of the added label, but over the following four weeks microbial N decreased by 50% and most N was recovered in soil organic matter, while a smaller but slowly increasing proportion was retained in plant biomass.
10.2307/1552618|Niwot Ridge is populated by moving patches of trees that form islands of woody vegetation in a habitat dominated by graminoids. This study determined the amounts and distribution of soil phosphorus (P) in relation to tree islands. As tree islands retreat to leeward, we hypothesize that the colonized soils would become both depleted in organic P (Po) and would possess more geochemically bound P than in the adjacent tundra. A modified Hedley sequential fractionation indicated that the individual soil P fractions, along with the sums of these fractions, did not differ significantly between tundra, windward, and leeward sites. Overall, soil P appears to be distributed in almost equal portions between geochemical and biological forms. The lack of significant change of soil P concentrations and distribution in response to tree island passage on Niwot Ridge is likely due to the lack of recent glaciation as well as a long history of infrequent perturbances.
23252335|Increases in air temperature have occurred in most parts of the Arctic in recent decades. Corresponding changes in permafrost and the active layer have resulted in decreases in ground-bearing capacity, which may not have been anticipated at the time of construction in permafrost regions. Permafrost model was coupled with empirically derived solutions adopted from Soviet and Russian construction standards and regulations to estimate the bearing capacity of foundations under rapidly changing climatic conditions, in a variety of geographic and geologic settings. Changes in bearing capacity over the last 40 years were computed for large population and industrial centers within different physiographic and climatic conditions of the Russian Arctic. The largest decreases were found in city of Nadym, where the bearing capacity has decreased by more than 40%. A smaller, but considerable decrease of approximately 20% was estimated for Yakutsk and Salekhard. Spatial model results at a regional scale depict diverse patterns of changes in permafrost-bearing capacity in Northwest Siberia and the North Slope of Alaska. The most pronounced decreases in bearing capacity (more than 20%) are estimated for the southern part of permafrost zone where deformations of engineering structures can potentially be attributed to climate-induced permafrost warming.
41416455|The importance of fog precipitation in the alpine hydrological processes of Pinus pumila canopy was evaluated on Mt. Tateyama, central Japan. We observed rain and fog precipitation, throughfall, and wind direction and velocity at Jodo-daira (36.566N, 137.606E, 2840 m a.s.l.) for 3 years. During the snow-free period (August and September), mean monthly rain and fog precipitation was 0.45 mm h and 0.14 mm h, respectively. The mean rainfall interception by P. pumila canopy was about 48%, which is higher than that of other forest canopies at lower altitudes. During rainfall, the dense canopy intercepts rain and the water evaporates from the needle surfaces. On the other hand, the canopy captured fog precipitation even in the absence of rainfall. The amount of throughfall increased with increasing fog deposition. Using O and D analysis, the mean contribution of fog water to the throughfall was estimated at approximately 35%, consistent with the result from direct measurement. These results indicate that P. pumila should have a significant influence on the local hydrological processes of the high mountain ecosystem. The large contribution of fog precipitation can be attributed to the high wind velocity and humidity of the Japan Alps.
25642071|During the last millennium, climatic fluctuations occurred in the Arctic that presumably affected ecosystems and people. Paleoclimatologists recognize that the impacts of these fluctuations were not consistent across space or time; however, archaeologists often cite climatic fluctuations as an impetus for Thule migration and more recent regionalization across the Arctic. An interdisciplinary International Polar Year project is examining possible correlations between climate and cultural changes on Melville Peninsula. To better evaluate the role climate played in cultural change on Melville Peninsula and to place emerging data in context, we present here new syntheses of paleoclimatic and archaeological data from adjacent regions to determine how the data sets articulate. A comparison of high-resolution paleoclimatic records suggests dissimilarities in climatic histories across this transitional area, with Little Ice Age cooling possibly occurring 12 centuries earlier west of Melville Peninsula than to the east. Although paleoclimates in the Baffin region to the east may have been more variable, the maritime climate may have contributed to a resource-rich environment, resulting in continuous human occupation. The more stable, and possibly cooler, continental climate to the west of Melville Peninsula could explain the relatively fewer Thule sites. This area, however, was relatively densely used throughout the coldest part of the past millennium and the historic period, likely owing to technological specialization and access to European material culture.
20181737|The dominant mechanisms of soil formation on a sequence of Smiths Fork, Blacks Fork, and Pre-Blacks Fork moraines in West Fork of Beaver Creek, Uinta Mountains, Utah, (equivalent to Pinedale, Bull Lake, and Pre-Bull Lake moraines of the Wind River Range, respectively) are clay translocation (argilluviation), increasing soil redness (rubification), and the accumulation of organic matter (melanization) and silt-sized particles. The quantity of clay-sized particles and degree of soil redness increase with soil age, but clay accumulation may plateau in the oldest soils. In contrast, the quantity of accumulated organic matter and abundance of silt-sized particles do not appear to correlate to soil age. The Smiths Fork moraine, interpreted to be MIS-2 in age, has two crests that have distinctly different amounts of clast weathering and soil development. The outer Smiths Fork crest displays weathering that is more comparable to that of the Blacks Fork moraine than to the inner Smiths Fork crest. This weathering contrast is related to an age difference between the two crests, but a precise chronology of the Smiths Fork moraines cannot be determined from these data.
41240434|Melilotus albus (white sweetclover) has invaded Alaskan glacial river floodplains. We measured cover and density of plant species and environmental variables along transects perpendicular to the Nenana, Matanuska, and Stikine Rivers to study interactions between M. albus and other plant species and to characterize the environment where it establishes. Melilotus albus was a pioneer species on recently disturbed sites and did not persist into closed canopy forests. The relationships between M. albus cover and density and other species were site-specific. Melilotus albus was negatively correlated with native species Elaeagnus commutata at the Nenana River, but not at the Matanuska River. Melilotus albus was positively correlated with the exotic species Crpis tectorum and Taraxacum officinale at the Matanuska River and T. officinale on the upper Stikine River. However, the high density of M. albus at a lower Stikine River site was negatively correlated with T. officinale and several native species including Lathy rus japonicus var. maritimus and Salix alaxensis. Glacial river floodplains in Alaska are highly disturbed and are corridors for exotic plant species movement. Melilotus albus at moderate to low densities may facilitate establishment of exotic species, but at high densities can reduce the cover and density of both exotic and native species.
10.2307/1552240|Light plays a significant role in determining composition of alpine communities. A series of 3-yr experiments to assess four alpine communities' responses to a severe reduction in insolation regime (95% reduction for the whole, first, or second half of the growing season) were carried out on Mount Malaya Khatipara, Karachaevo-Cherkessia Republic, northwestern Caucasus, Russia. The snowbed community developing under the deepest snow had the highest proportion of shade-tolerant species among the four communities. In contrast, the alpine lichen heath developing under little, or no snow accumulation was the most susceptible to shading. The heath lost over 70% of species after 3 yr of the all-season shading. The intermediate grassland and meadow lost ca. 50%, while the snowbed lost only 18%. Members of Cyperaceae family and evergreens Vaccinium vitis-idaea and Gentiana pyrenaica were the most shade-tolerant species, while most other species showed little tolerance of shading, particularly when shaded for the whole growing season. Two ephemeroid species increased their shoot numbers when shaded during the second half of the growing season. Generative shoots of all species showed greater relative decrease than the vegetative shoots of the same species. Snowbed species showed the most varied response. This is consistent with earlier findings of opportunistic character of snowbed flora. The snowbed species will be most adaptable to any possible future shifts in vegetation composition under climate change.
20181791|Climate change could cause alpine treelines to shift in altitude or to change their spatial pattern, but little is known about the drivers of treeline dynamics and patterning. The position and patterns of tropical alpine treelines are generally attributed to land use, especially burning. Species interactions, in particular facilitation through shading, may also be important for treeline patterning and dynamics. We studied how fire in alpine vegetation and shade dependence of trees may affect the position and spatial pattern of tropical alpine treelines and their response to climatic warming, using a spatial minimal model of tree growth at treeline. Neighboring trees provided shade and protection from fire. The positive feedback that resulted from these neighbor interactions strongly affected the emergent treelines and always reduced the distance and speed of treeline advance after a temperature increase. Our model demonstrated that next to fire, shade dependence of trees can also lead to abrupt treelines and relatively low treeline positions. This implies that these patterns do not necessarily indicate human disturbance. Strong abruptness of a treeline may indicate that it will respond slowly to climatic changes.
10.2307/1552198|Plant species defined as strongly thermophilous in Svalbard are rare and may be threatened by extinction due to suppressed sexual reproduction, small population sizes, genetic depauperation, and human activity. We examined isozyme diversity in three of these species--Betula nana, Vaccinium uliginosum, and Campanula rotundifolia--in Svalbard. Twenty-five to 60 ramets from each of two to three (sub)populations of each species were analyzed for eight enzyme systems. In B. nana, genetic diversity was low within sampling plots (D: 0.00-0.49) and intermediate within populations (mean D = 0.70, mean H<sub>ep</sub> = 0.119). Genetic diversity at the species level (H<sub>es</sub>) was 0.141, and the differentiation among populations (F<sub>ST</sub> = 0.193) was higher than the average for other species with similar life traits. In V. uliginosum, no variation was observed within plots, and genetic diversity within populations was low (mean D = 0.29, mean H<sub>ep</sub> = 0.082). Genetic diversity at the species level was also low (H<sub>es</sub> = 0.152), and the differentiation among populations (F<sub>ST</sub> = 0.493) was much higher than in most other species studied. The only Svalbard population of C. rotundifolia has 2n = 34 and is traditionally considered as diploid, but the observed enzyme banding patterns suggest polyploidy. In this species, genotypic diversity was low within plots (D: 0.00-0.33), intermediate within subpopulations (mean D = 0.74), and all multilocus phenotypes were local. The present populations of all three species in Svalbard are probably fragmented relics of larger populations in the postglacial warm period. On the basis of the observed distribution of genetic diversity and population sizes, we propose to conserve all Svalbard populations of V. uliginosum and C. rotundifolia, and at least one population of B. nana.
10.2307/1552237|Individually mapped plants of Euphrasia frigida, a hemiparasitic annual, were followed for one growing season at a subarctic site in northern Sweden. The strongest factor influencing seed-set was the date when the seedling stage ended, i.e., when plants produced their first noncotyledonous leaves, probably equalling date of attachment to a host. The advantage for early-developing plants was large even with just a 5-d difference in development. A positive effect was caused by presence of the perennial legume Astragalus alpinus, both on seedling development and plant performance, whereas the total cover of nonleguminous herbs or graminoids had no influence on the performance of E. frigida.
10.2307/1552408| Polar desert ecosystems, which dominate the landscape throughout much of the High Arctic, are environmentally stressed and limited in their development. Scattered intermittently over these landscapes are areas of cryptogamic crust development that are associated with increased vascular plant abundance. Since nutrient limitation, especially nitrogen, is significant in these ecosystems, I wished to examine the role of these cryptogamic crusts in the supply of fixed nitrogen and the constraints to that fixation. Nitrogen fixation rates (as measured by acetylene reduction) were highest in sites with a well-developed cryptogamic crust, lowest in sites with only bare mineral soil, and intermediate in sites with a partially developed crust. Highest rates of acetylene reduction (i.e., nitrogen fixation) were seen within a few days of snowmelt (late June to early July) and declined as the season progressed, until near the end of the growing season (1-5 August) when rates were approximately 50% of early season rates. Late season precipitation events restored acetylene reduction rates to near original levels. In manipulative experiments, acetylene reduction rates dropped dramatically as crust moisture content declined and rates increased as soil surface temperature increased to 24C. A significant finding was that acetylene reduction at 3C was 40% of that found at 12 to 13C. Thus, there is a potential for nitrogen accumulation even during the colder periods of the growing season. As calculations show, the quantity of nitrogen fixed by these cryptogamic crusts was adequate to support the nitrogen needs of the mosses and vascular plants of these developing ecosystems. 
10.2307/1552254|Tundra ecosystems appear to recover slowly from disturbance, but little long-term data concerning plant diversity has been available. We examined recovery of tundra vegetation in Alaska, U.S.A., 23 yr after fire and 24 yr after bulldozing. Primary productivity, depth of thaw, and vascular plant diversity were compared between disturbed and undisturbed tundra to determine whether recovery was complete. Productivity, species richness, and diversity did not differ between burned and unburned plots. Depth of thaw, however, remained greater in burned relative to unburned plots. In contrast, depth of thaw was the only characteristic that did not differ between bulldozed and control plots. Productivity and species richness were greater in bulldozed plots, but diversity was less than control plots. The differences between the two disturbances suggest that, ultimately, recovery depends more on the impact of disturbance on vegetation than changes in the abiotic environment. Vegetative propagules persisted in the soil after fire, but not bulldozing. Therefore, recolonization after fire included plants from the seed bank and vegetative propagules. Vegetation on bladed plots was dominated only by seed bank species. Thus, more than two decades after disturbance, recovery of tundra vegetation appeared to be a function of the nature of the disturbance.
24551629|On forested paths, dendrogeomorphology has been demonstrated to represent a powerful tool to reconstruct past activity of avalanches, an indispensable step in avalanche hazard assessment. Several quantitative and qualitative approaches have been shown to yield reasonable event chronologies but the question of the completeness of tree-ring records remains debatable. Here, we present an alternative semi-quantitative approach for the determination of past snow avalanche events. The approach relies on the assessment of the number and position of disturbed trees within avalanche paths as well as on the intensity of reactions in trees. In order to demonstrate that no bias was induced by the dendrogeomorphic expert, we carry out a statistical evaluation (Classification and Regression Trees, or CART) of the approach. Results point to the consistency and replicability of the procedure and to the fact that the approach is not restricted to the identification of high-magnitude avalanches. Evaluation of the semi-quantitative approach is illustrated on a well-documented path in Chamonix, French Alps. For the period 19052010, comparison between the avalanche years recorded in a substantial database (Enqute Permanente sur les Avalanches, or EPA) and those defined with dendrogeomorphic techniques shows that the avalanche record reconstructed from tree-ring series contains 38% of the observed events.
10.2307/1552276| In four expeditions to the northwest coast of Spitsbergen (1995-1998) we have searched for yearly stationary snow algal fields and found them mostly near bird colonies on steep snow slopes. In this report, a hypothesis about the redispersion of snow algae on steep snow slopes typical for this coast region is given. Two points are of importance: first, motile cells are restricted to a small part of the snowfield near the drop edge on the top, and second, resting cells from previous year deep under the snow play a subordinate role. Resting cells dispersed onto snowfields located higher in the mountains are of special importance for next years algal blooming. In the early summer, meltwater streams concentrate cells of these fields in the upper part of the snow slope below the drop edge. Algal proliferation begins here and locally cell concentration can be very high (about >2  10<sup>6</sup> cells ml<sup>-1</sup>) and color the ice clumps deep green. The cell distribution in these wet snow/ice crystals is not uniform. Later in the season as the ground ice is exposed another bloom may form from the previous year's resting cells. Field samples of green, light yellow/red, and orange-red cells derived from the same location are analyzed by light and transmission electron microscopy. 
40305836|A method for long-term simulation of snow avalanches is developed, based on coupling statistical interpretation of triggering snowfall process and regional avalanche data. The case study area is the Alta Valtellina region, in the northern Italian Alps. Therein, a 21-year-long series of daily snowfall data from 21 snow stations is used to calibrate a daily point snowfall statistical model. Then, a data set including 68 avalanche events from six historical avalanche sites are used to evaluate regionally valid features of avalanche release probability, geometry, and runout. These findings are then used to set up a model for the occurrence of avalanches. One particular case study site is considered, the Vallecetta mountain, of interest because of the considerable number of avalanche events occurring there. Long-term simulation of daily snowfall is performed, which is then fed into a model of snow avalanche occurrence. Snow avalanche simulations are then carried out, resulting in synthetic statistics of avalanche geometry, volume, and runout for a return period of 300 years. These are compared with regionally observed statistics in the considered area, resulting in acceptable agreement. The proposed model allows long-term simulations of avalanche occurrences for evaluation of snow avalanche volume and runout, usable for ecological and geomorphologic purposes. Integration with an avalanche dynamics model would provide long-term avalanche hazard assessment for land use planning purposes.
40305827|We studied effects of oil and gas exploration, using the most recent seismic exploration technologies, on tundra plant communities and soils in four vegetation types in the Low Arctic of western Canada, two to three years post-disturbance. For all four vegetation types, seismic lines had less vascular plant cover and more bare ground than adjacent "reference" tundra. For the two upland tundra vegetation types, mosses and lichens were less abundant on seismic lines than in reference plots. There were no apparent differences in organic layer thickness between seismic lines and reference areas, but active layer depth (at the time of sampling) was significantly greater on seismic lines for the upland tundra and one of the wetland vegetation types. Diversity and richness were lower, and community composition was different, on seismic lines (as compared to reference plots) in upland tundra vegetation types but not in wetland types. The results suggest that (1) upland vegetation types are less resistant to seismic disturbance, (2) active layer depth increases following seismic disturbance, and (3) impacts from modern seismic techniques in upland tundra are similar to, or somewhat greater than, the initial impacts observed from the earliest phases of winter exploration ~ 30 years ago.
4095851|Over the course of the last century, the
4139072|The acclimation response of the chloroplast was studied in the green marine microalga Koliella antarctica exposed to a simulated austral night of 90 d. On the basis of the micro-and submicroscopic aspects observed, the photosynthetic pigment patterns monitored spectrophotometrically, and the course of the assembly of the PSII chlorophyll-protein complexes evaluated microspectrofluorimetrically in vivo on single living cells, it was established that the alga tolerates the stress of light absence when cultured in the laboratory. During the treatment, the organism undergoes substantial structural and functional reorganization of the plastid, resulting in the formation of a chlorochromoplast-like structure, suitable for the storage, in different times and in specialized structures, of the products coming from the breakdown of the pre-existing plastid constituents. On the whole, the dark acclimation occurs in two different steps: a first acclimation, quickly realized, during the first 6 d and maintained up to 20 d of darkness, and a second acclimation period, starting from the 21st day, maintained up to the end of the experiment.
10.2307/1552263| Profiles along sounding lines and maps are presented of the glacier surface, bottom topography, and ice thickness of Mittivakkat Gletscher. The maps are the result of the use of monopulse radio-echo sounding of ice thickness in about 450 points along profiles across the glacier. The position of most points was surveyed using a theodolith together with Electrooptic Distance Measurement. The Mittivakkat Gletscher consists of several accumulation basins which combine into a single ice tongue. There is a marked relief underneath the glacier, and it is possible to identify two major subglacial depressions, which probably strongly influence the subglacial drainage of water from the glacier. The bottom topography is reflected in the surface topography and in the position of crevassed areas. The following data were extracted: area: 17.6 km<sup>2</sup>; volume: 2024  10<sup>6</sup> m<sup>3</sup>; ice thickness, H<sub>mean</sub>: 115 m; ice thickness, H<sub>max</sub>: 245 m. 
40305847|The timing of germination is a critical life-history trait for annual plants because it coordinates development from seedling to reproduction with the growing season. Arctic/alpine annuals are subject to the constraints of an especially brief growing season in which temperature both acts as a germination cue and limits growth. The evolution of phenotypic plasticity in response to temperature is thus expected, measured as norms of reaction. Strong selection in combination with differences among habitats in appropriate temperature cues leads to the expectation of population divergence in norms of reaction. Their form may be complex; no a priori mathematical distribution can be assumed. Here, we use nonparametric smoothing (Loess) to detail norms of reaction of germination to temperature, and find significant genetic divergence among six widely distributed arctic and alpine populations of the annual Koenigia islandica from Norway, the U. S. A., and Canada. Germination plasticity is discussed in relation to temperature regimes recorded under field conditions; however, any adaptive inference based on lab observations must be interpreted cautiously. The present results indicate strong population differentiation in plasticity, and highlight the necessity to consider evolved differences in life-history traits when evaluating the vulnerability of arctic and alpine species to a changing climate.
41240414|Increasing global annual temperature leads to massive loss of ice cover worldwide. Consequently, glaciers retreat and ice-covered areas become exposed. We report on a study from the Mittivakkat Gletscher forefield in Southeast Greenland with special focus on methanotrophy in relation to exposure time to the atmosphere. The Mittivakkat Gletscher has receded since the end of the Little Ice Age (LIA; about AD 1850) and has left behind a series of deposits of decreasing age concurrently with its recession. Soil samples from this chronosequence were examined in order to elucidate main soil variables, as well as the activity and community structure of methanotrophs, a group of microorganisms involved in regulation of atmospheric methane. Soil variables revealed poor soil development, and incubation experiments showed methane consumption rates of 2.14 nmol CH day g <sub>soil</sub>  at 22 C and 1.24 nmol CH day g <sub>soil</sub>  at 10 C in the LIA terminal moraine. Methane consumption was not detected in younger samples, despite the presence of highaffinity methanotrophs in all samples. This was indicated by successful amplification of partial pmoA genes, which code for a subunit of a key enzyme involved in methane oxidation. In addition, the results of the diversity study show that the diversity of the methanotrophic community at the younger, recently deglaciated site P5 is poorer than the diversity of the community retrieved from the LIA moraine. We put forward the hypothesis that aerobic methanotrophs were at very low abundance and diversity during glaciation probably due to anoxia at the ice-sediment interface and that colonization after deglaciation is not completed yet. More detailed studies are required to explain the causes of discrepancy between activity and presence of highaffinity methanotrophs and its relation to the transit from ice-covered probably anoxic to ice-free oxic conditions.
20181730|Over the past half century there has been a trend in numerous regions of the western United States toward a declining portion of the total annual streamflow occurring during the snowmelt season (April through July). Changes in the seasonality of discharge primarily reflect a shift in the seasonal distribution of precipitation. Years with an unusually large fraction of annual streamflow occurring during the spring snowmelt coincide with winters with unusually high precipitation. Years with an unusually small fraction of annual streamflow occurring during the spring snowmelt coincide with unusually low precipitation during the winter and unusually warm temperatures during the spring. The magnitude of the peak annual flood is sensitive to amount of winter precipitation and variations in spring and early summer temperatures. Large peak annual floods occur in years with high precipitation and low temperatures in the late winter and spring, which preserve the maximum snowpack. Small peak annual floods occur in years with low precipitation throughout the winter and high temperatures in the spring. During the period of gage record, peak annual flood magnitudes exhibit temporal variability. Extreme events in the peak annual flood record, particularly years of large snowmelt floods, have increased in frequency since 1960. Large floods during this time period occur in years with atypically cool temperatures in April and May, which would likely preserve the winter snowpack through the spring.
40962401|In this study, we apply temperature, precipitation, and other data from 66 Chinese meteorological stations including Xining and Lhasa to analyze the extreme climate events and their impacting factors over the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau during the period 1961-2007. We focus on the spatial and temporal features of extreme climate events and their long-term changes over five climate zones of alpine grassland, meadow, and desert areas. Results show that, during the past decades, the changes in climate over the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau present trends towards warm and wet conditions. These changes in temperature and precipitation are evident in both seasonal means and extreme events, and the changes in precipitation are apparent in both precipitation amount and number of precipitation days. Clearly, warm and wet events increase, but cold and dry events decrease over the plateau region. Features of the warming climate are relatively consistent in spatial and seasonal distributions, with the most significant changes in winter and autumn and at nighttime. Northern Qinghai exhibits the greatest and most significant decrease in the frequency of extremely low-temperature events. However, the wetting trend shows more distinctive spatial features and is more seasonally dependent. While the trends in both precipitation amount and the number of precipitation days are positive in all climate zones for winter and spring, both positive and insignificant negative trends appear in summer and autumn. The largest decrease in the frequency of severely dry events is found over southeastern Tibet and western Sichuan.
10.2307/1552466|Perennially frozen lakes are common features in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of South Victoria Land in Antarctica. Some of them, called wet based, contain liquid water capped by a permanent ice cover between 2.5 and 6 m in thickness. The others, called dry based, are ice-block lakes. The thickness of the latter may far exceed those of the former. Their level is rising from freezing of the surface flooding of summer meltwater. However, we show here for the first time, using isotopic analyses together with an ionic and gas content and composition study, that the ice of one of these dry-based lakes has been formed by complete freezing from top to bottom of a closed water reservoir and not by successive layers of icings (aufeis) piling on top of each other. We also show how this lake, dammed by a cold-based glacier, has contributed to the formation of the basal ice layer of this glacier.
10.2307/1552446|Simulations of an alpine tundra ecosystem using the CENTURY ecosystem model were conducted to test model descriptions of carbon and nitrogen cycling and to explore the alpine ecosystem response to physical and chemical components of global change. The parameterization of the alpine tundra for CENTURY was updated to reflect current knowledge of the site, and sensitivity analyses were conducted. Verification of results from a 6-yr fertilization experiment in the alpine tested the predictive capabilities of the parameterization. Simulations with increased winter precipitation and with the climate predicted under doubled atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations were then conducted. Modifications to the parameterization necessary to describe carbon and nitrogen cycling included decreasing the C:N ratios of plant tissues, increasing the amount of nitrogen retranslocated at the end of the growing season, extending the length of the growing season, and lowering the rate of decomposition. The updated parameterization requires 30% greater than observed inputs of net primary productivity to simulate observed levels of total soil carbon suggesting that soil carbon sequestration is not well represented in the model. Carbon and nitrogen cycling showed greatest sensitivity to the length of the growing season and to the temperature regulation of decomposition. Simulation of the nitrogen fertilization experiment resulted in 11% greater productivity than observed empirically, a reasonable verification of the updated parameterization. The major impact from increasing winter precipitation was a 30% increase in the amount of nitrogen in stream flow. Simulation with the climate predicted for a doubling of current carbon dioxide levels reduced production 10% while total soil carbon remained constant. This response was largely controlled by reduced soil moisture during the growing season.
4095945|Laminated sediments from Bolterskardet Lake on Svalbard provide a new 150-year record of heavy metals in the Arctic. Independent data of
1552354| The physical and chemical limnological characteristics of 22 lakes and ponds in the remote region of Haughton Impact Crater, Devon Island, Nunavut, Canada, were explored. Our overall goals were to gather baseline information for use in climate and environmental change monitoring programs in the High Arctic as well as to compare these observations to other limnological surveys conducted in high-latitude regions. Study sites were alkaline (pH<sub>mean</sub> = 8.3), ultraoligotrophic (TPU<sub>mean</sub> = 3.7 g L<sup>-1</sup>), and phosphorus limited. Major and minor ionic concentrations of most sites are comparable to other previously surveyed high arctic sites. Lakes and ponds in close contact with the impact-generated carbonate melt rocks associated with Haughton Crater were distinguished from the larger data set due to their elevated Mg<sup>2+</sup>, SO<sub>4</sub><sup>2-</sup>, Ba<sup>2+</sup>, Sr<sup>2+</sup>, and SiO<sub>2</sub> concentrations. Selenite (CaSO<sub>4</sub> 2H<sub>2</sub>O) formations commonly associated with the lower levels of the carbonate melt sheets were identified as a likely source for the elevated SO<sub>4</sub><sup>2-</sup> concentrations in these sites. Principal Components Analysis separated sites along a conductivity and nutrient gradient on the primary and secondary axes, respectively. This study serves as a baseline for a long-term monitoring program in the Haughton Crater region. 
40962397|Snow avalanches can exert considerable erosive forces on soils. If a snow avalanche flows directly over bare ground, basal shear forces may scrape away and entrain soil. Soil material entrained by the avalanche is transported to the deposition zone, changing the chemical composition of the soils and potentially contributing to unique landforms. The quantity of soil material eroded and accumulated depends on avalanche characteristics and on morphological features, as well as soil properties and vegetation cover. We monitored a channeled avalanche path in the Aosta Valley of NW Italy in order to assess the contribution of avalanche debris to the formation of soils in the runout zone. Sediment concentration estimates and measurements of the avalanche deposit volumes were used to estimate the total sediment load. The collected sediments were separated into fine sediments (<2 mm) and large (>2 mm) organic and mineral fractions, Results, obtained from the winter seasons of 2006, 2007, and 2008, showed that the amount of sediment deposited on the preexistent soil at the foot of the avalanche path was mainly the fine sediments fraction. The total carbon and nitrogen content in the line sediment fraction ranged respectively from 6,6 to 9.0% and 0.37 to 0.42%. The total sediment load transported out of the 3.5 km<sup>2</sup> basin was estimated to be 7585 kg in 2006, 27,115 kg in 2007, and 2323 kg in 2008. This mass transport resulted in basin averaged denudation rates ranging from 0.67 g m<sup>-2</sup> event<sup>-1</sup> in 2008 to 7.77 g m<sup>-2</sup> event<sup>-1</sup> in 2007. Annual accumulation in the runout zone was 240 Mg ha<sup>-1</sup> in 2006, 38 Mg ha<sup>-1</sup> in 2007 and 10 Mg ha<sup>-1</sup> in 2008, The inorganic N concentration of the snow in the runout zone was significantly greater than in the starting zone and was correlated with the organic fraction accumulated by the avalanche. By redistributing snow, avalanches not only redistribute water but also nutrients that can be available for plants in the growing season. Moreover, avalanche paths are places where soil accumulates in some areas and erodes in others, contributing to potentially unique pedo-environmental conditions.
10.2307/1552224| New geologic data from western Iceland reveal raised marine terraces at elevations between 105 and 148 m a.s.l., 45-80 m above the late Younger Dryas (ca. 10.3 ka BP) raised beaches in the region. Radiocarbon dating assigns the high marine levels a Blling Interstadial age of ca. 12.6  0.1 ka BP. Inferred gradient for raised Blling beaches in the lower Borgarfjrdur area is close to 2.3 m km<sup>-1</sup>. The marine terraces indicate a Blling glacio-isostatic crustal depression of up to 250  20 m, reflecting ice thickness of up to 840  150 m. This is close to previously estimated Last Glacial Maximum (LGM) ice thickness. The Icelandic crust responds rapidly to changes in ice-load. Gradual thinning and retreat of the Icelandic ice sheet would have been concurrently compensated for by isostatic rebound, inhibiting formation of raised shorelines reflecting LGM isostatic crustal depression. The Blling shorelines, together with recent marine and geophysical data, indicate a very rapid deglaciation of western Iceland shelf and coastal areas around ca. 12.6 ka BP. The rapid deglaciation coincides with a period of rapid eustatic sea-level rise, which destabilized the western part of the Icelandic ice sheet and caused it to collapse. 
40801692|"Gentiana leucomelaena" (Gentianaceae), an alpine herbaceous species of the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau, has two colors of flowers (blue and white) that bloom in early spring. In order to determine the effect of petal color on flower interior temperature and behavior in the gentian, we investigated the differences in timing of flower opening and closure and the interior temperature of blooming flowers between the two colors, while recording the ambient temperature, light intensity, and relative humidity over the flowering season from March to May of 2009. When the flowers were open, the anther temperature was higher in the white flowers than in the blue flowers in various weather patterns; in particular it was about 2  C higher on sunny days. Relative to the ambient temperature, the anther temperature was 1.27  C higher in the white flowers, but was 0.41  C lower in the blue flowers. Compared to blue flowers, white flowers opened later but closed earlier in the day at a higher ambient temperature. The two-factor two-level experiment (10  C vs. 20  C and 10,000 lux vs. darkness) indicates that temperature is the factor eventually determining the timing of flower opening and opening rates, but light may accelerate flower opening at the same temperature. The dye experiment, in which blue flowers were painted with red and purple food coloring, showed that the purple flowers had higher anther temperature, opened later but closed earlier, relative to the red ones.These results suggest that flower interior temperature is affected by both flower color and behavior in the species. In addition, we surveyed the percentages of the two flower colors in the field during the flowering season and also experimentally placed individuals with flower buds into growth chambers with contrasting day/night temperatures (12 C/2 C, 15 C/2 C, and 20 C/2 C), so as to examine the temperature effect on flower color frequency. A greater proportion of white flowers emerged in the early stage of the flowering season and in the low-temperature chambers, but blue ones dominated the late season and in the high-temperature chambers. This suggests that the color differentiation in the species is associated with temperature. The different strategies of adaptation to temperature might have allowed for flower color polymorphism.
24551625|A previous study of carbon isotopes in the sediments of a glacial lake in Costa Rica led to the hypothesis that changes in the migration of the intertropical convergence zone (ITCZ) over the course of the Holocene significantly affected the hydrology of the surrounding high-elevation pramo ecosystem. This hypothesis was based on millennial-scale changes in terrestrial n-alkane carbon isotope (13C) values in a sediment core from Lago de las Morrenas 1, a tarn on the Chirrip massif of the Cordillera de Talamanca. Here we present terrestrial n-alkane hydrogen isotope (D) data, a more direct proxy of ecosystem drought stress, from the same core. These new data support the previous hypothesis and confirm that the effects of millennial-scale ITCZ dynamics in the circum-Caribbean region were not restricted to tropical lowlands. In southern Central America, these dynamics may have played a fundamental role in millennial-scale fire dynamics in high-elevation pramo ecosystems.
4139126|Surface conditions in the non-mountainous areas of the central Tibetan Plateau were measured in a field survey in February 2004, and water balance parameters such as precipitation, sublimation, and water equivalent of snow cover were examined through the 2003/2004 winter by in situ automated measurements. Snow cover was shallow and coexisted with snow-free areas, producing large surface temperature heterogeneity under strong insolation. Clear diurnal variation was found in the meteorological observation. The precipitation and total sublimation from November 2003 to January 2004 were estimated as 15 mm and 17 mm, respectively, and the remaining equivalent snow water quantity in the beginning of February 2004 was 8 mm. Imbalance of the water budget was mainly due to the uncertainty of snow cover proportion within the mesoscale area. Importance of a redistribution process of the snow was proposed to explain the consistency of surface heating and remaining snow cover.
1552325|In alpine lakes from several regions of the world, sedimentary diatom profiles indicate that rapid shifts in diatom community structure have occurred over the past century. A number of these recent shifts have been attributed to anthropogenic disturbances such as enhanced atmospheric nitrogen (N) deposition or climate change. When these disturbances are coupled, the response of alpine lakes becomes more complex and varies from region to region. The Beartooth Mountain Range, situated on the border between Montana and Wyoming, is part of the central Rocky Mountains; it is considered an area of relatively low N deposition but has experienced an increase in bulk precipitation rates, primarily in the form of snowfall, over the past century. We have examined a 400-yr sediment record from Beartooth Lake and have observed a rapid change in the diatom community structure over the past decade. A typical alpine lake diatom flora, consisting mainly of small Fragilaria sensu lato species, dominated this lake until approximately 1995, at which time Fragilaria crotonensis and Cyclotella bodanica var. lemanica rapidly increased to approximately 30% each of the total assemblage. The diatom assemblages from the tops and bottoms of short cores from three additional lakes in the area also reveal taxonomic shifts. These shifts appear indicative of both increased N loading to these systems as well as changes in thermal stratification patterns.
10.2307/1552279|Detailed inventory of peatlands by aerial photography shows that peatlands with climatically sensitive localized islands of permafrost cover 17,505 km<sup>2</sup> within a broad band of occurrence in continental western Canada (Alberta, Saskatchewan, and Manitoba). Within this zone, 37.5% of the total area covered by bog, and 9.1% of total area covered by fen have localized permafrost landforms (frost mounds and/or internal lawns). Regional distribution of the presence/absence of localized permafrost peatlands relative to expansive peat plateaus (peatland completely underlain by permafrost) shows that a north to south landform gradient exists that is dominantly controlled by mean annual temperature. Percent cover of localized permafrost peatland in an area is best explained by the amount of total peatland cover that can support it. Localized permafrost is associated with collapse forms (internal lawns) throughout the range of its occurrence in western Canada. In some locations permafrost has completely melted, moving the current southern limit of permafrost north by 39 km on average, and by as much as 200 km.
1552369|During the Last Glacial Maximum (LGM), ice thickened considerably and expanded toward the outer continental shelf around the Antarctic Peninsula. Deglaciation occurred between > 14 ka BP and ca. 6 ka BP, when interglacial climate was established in the region. Deglaciation of some local sites was as recent as 4-3 ka BP. After a climate optimum, peaking ca. 4-3 ka BP, a distinct climate cooling occurred. It is characterized at a number of sites by expanding glaciers and ice shelves. Rapid warming during the past 50 yr may be causing instability of some Antarctic Peninsula ice shelves. Detailed reconstructions of the glacial and climatic history of the Antarctic Peninsula since LGM are hampered by scarcity of available archives, low resolution of many datasets, and problems in dating samples. Consequently, the configuration of LGM ice sheets, pattern of subsequent deglaciation, and environmental changes are poorly constrained both temporally and spatially.
1552183|The effect of environmental factors on the distribution of alpine plant community types has been extensively studied in Colorado. Much less attention has been paid to the effects of these factors within community types, however. Transects were placed in the alpine zone of Goliath Peak in the Front Range of the Colorado Rocky Mountains. Species presences were tallied in 1-m<sup>2</sup> rectangular plots. Fuzzy set ordination (FSO) was used to determine which environmental factors were responsible for changes in species composition. Most sites fell into the fellfield or dry meadow community types. Water availability, as indicated by elevation, estimated winter snow depth and, less strongly, soil texture, was a strong factor associated with changes in plant community composition, both within and among community types. Temperature, as indicated by aspect, was also associated with these changes. The lack of Kobresia myosuroides at Goliath Peak appears to be caused by snow depths too deep or too shallow for this species. FSO proved to be more effective when environmental factors were ordinated separately rather than sequentially, as originally suggested. This was confirmed by a Bray-Curtis ordination. A species-site biplot showed how species and sites can be displayed together on the same fuzzy set ordination.
40305843|Indirect topographic variables have been used successfully as surrogates for disturbance processes in plant species distribution models (SDM) in mountain environments. However, no SDM studies have directly tested the performance of disturbance variables. In this study, we developed two disturbance variables: a geomorphic index (GEO) and an index of snow redistribution by wind (SNOW). These were developed in order to assess how they improved both the fit and predictive power of presenceabsence SDM based on commonly used topoclimatic (TC) variables for 91 plants in the Western Swiss Alps. The individual contribution of the disturbance variables was compared to TC variables. Maps of models were prepared to spatially test the effect of disturbance variables. On average, disturbance variables significantly improved the fit but not the predictive power of the TC models and their individual contribution was weak (5.6% for GEO and 3.3% for SNOW). However their maximum individual contribution was important (24.7% and 20.7%). Finally, maps including disturbance variables (i) were significantly divergent from TC models in terms of predicted suitable surfaces and connectivity between potential habitats, and (ii) were interpreted as more ecologically relevant. Disturbance variables did not improve the transferability of models at the local scale in a complex mountain system, and the performance and contribution of these variables were highly species-specific. However, improved spatial projections and change in connectivity are important issues when preparing projections under climate change because the future range size of the species will determine the sensitivity to changing conditions.
10.2307/1552281| This paper (1) describes soil temperature conditions in an area close to the altitudinal and latitudinal distribution limit of the mountain birch, and (2) evaluates whether soil temperature is likely to impose a limit on nitrogen uptake and subsequent reductions in growth and survival. Soil temperature was monitored at two depths (-5 and -10 cm) during 3 yr in forested and nearby nonforested sites both at low altitude (ca. 400 m) and at forest line (ca. 650 m) in the Tornetrsk area, northern Swedish Lapland (6821N, 1849E). The mean summer soil temperature was ca. +6 to +7C and +5 to +7C at -5 and -10 cm, respectively. Forest-line soils were on average 0.8C warmer than valley soils. We found no statistically significant differences in soil temperature between sites colonized by mountain birch and nearby nonforested habitats. Given present soil temperatures, there is thus no reason why (mature) trees should not survive also on alpine and subalpine heaths currently not colonized by birch. However, relating these temperature recordings to experimentally determined relationships between soil temperature and seedling nitrogen (N) uptake, and between N uptake and survival, indicates that the mountain birch seedlings are unlikely to survive their first winter under soil temperature conditions normally prevailing in this area. Our analysis suggests that successful seedling establishment can be expected on disturbed sites when the growing season (15 June to 15 August) mean soil temperature is ca. 12C or higher. In comparison, growing season soil temperature under undisturbed vegetation (at -5 cm) was on average ca 8.2C during our 3 yr of soil temperature measurements. Air temperature during the same period was 1.1C warmer than the average for the last 86 yr (1913-1998, 11.0 versus 9.9C). 
4139078| We derived and implemented two spatial models of May snow water equivalent (SWE) at Lee Ridge in Glacier National Park, Montana. We used the models to test the hypothesis that vegetation structure is a control on snow redistribution at the alpine treeline ecotone (ATE). The statistical models were derived using stepwise and "best" subsets regression techniques. The first model was derived from field measurements of SWE, topography, and vegetation taken at 27 sample points. The second model was derived using GIS-based measures of topography and vegetation. Both the field-(R = 0.93) and GIS-based models (R = 0.69) of May SWE included the following variables: site type (based on vegetation), elevation, maximum slope, and general slope aspect. Site type was identified as the most important predictor of SWE in both models, accounting for 74.0% and 29.5% of the variation, respectively. The GIS-based model was applied to create a predictive map of SWE across Lee Ridge, predicting little snow accumulation on the top of the ridge where vegetation is scarce. The GIS model failed in large depressions, including ephemeral stream channels. The models supported the hypothesis that upright vegetation has a positive effect on accumulation of SWE above and beyond the effects of topography. Vegetation, therefore, creates a positive feedback in which it modifies its environment and could affect the ability of additional vegetation to become established. 
10.2307/1552220| For paleoclimatic reconstructions based on vegetation history in Iceland, the upper limit of tree or shrub birch growth has been proposed as an indicator of summer temperature. Plant macrofossil and pollen analyses of a series of sections and cores from Vesturrdalur on Trllaskagi show that Betula pubescens grew up to an altitude between 450 and 500 m a.s.l. during optimum conditions in the Holocene. The birch pollen and macrofossil record of core Vesturrdalur 2 at ca. 450 m a.s.l., which covers the time from ca. 9200 BP to present, thus represents the first continuous high-resolution reconstruction of the variations of Betula pubescens at the ecological upper limit of tree or shrub birch in northern Iceland. Between ca. 6700 and ca. 6000 BP, a distinct maximum in the influx of Betula pubescens pollen at this site indicates a high position of the shrub line. This can be distinguished from a low influx of tree or shrub birch pollen from ca. 6000 to ca. 5600 BP, and a very pronounced minimum of Betula pubescens in the pollen record around ca. 3300 BP. The inferred depressions of the shrub line can be correlated with evidence for glacier advances and increased slope activity in northern Iceland. 
23252332|Seed reproduction is considered a critical bottleneck of the plant life cycle, constraining population growth, especially in the Mediterranean area. In this study, we investigated seed reproduction of Lamyropsis microcephala (Asteraceae), a threatened species occurring only in the Gennargentu massif (CE Sardinia, Italy). Seed output was quantified in two of the four localities where the species occurs, which differed in population size. Germination of seeds from all the four localities was assessed, both in the field and under controlled conditions, and the annual trend of soil temperature recorded by data-loggers. Plants had ca. 60 cypselas (i.e. the fruits of Asteraceae) per capitulum in the larger Rio Aratu and ca. 30 in the smaller Pisargiu locality, with only ca. 1.7 and 0.3 germinating cypselas per capitulum, respectively. Under controlled conditions, seeds of the two large localities (Bau 'e Laccos and Rio Aratu) germinated above 80%, while those of the two small ones (Bruncu Spina and Pisargiu) did not reach 55%. All seeds sown in the field germinated in AprilJune, when diurnal fluctuations of temperatures were almost 10 times higher than in winter, limiting the length of the growing season before the onset of summer drought, and highlighting an increasing threat from global warming.
20181824|Arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) and dark-septate endophytic (DSE) fungi were quantified in plant roots from high-elevation sites in the Cordillera Vilcanota of the Andes (Per) and the Front Range of the Colorado Rocky Mountains (U.S.A.). At the highest sites in the Andes (5391 m) AM fungi were absent in the two species of plants sampled (both Compositae) but roots of both were heavily colonized by DSE fungi. At slightly lower elevations (5240-5250 m) AM fungi were present in roots while DSE fungi were rare in plants outside of the composite family. At the highest sites sampled in Colorado (4300 m) AM fungi were present, but at very low levels and all plants sampled contained DSE fungi. Hyphae of coarse AM fungi decreased significantly in plant roots at higher altitude in Colorado, but no other structures showed significant decreases with altitude. These new findings indicate that the altitudinal distribution of mycorrhizal fungi observed for European mountains do not necessarily apply to higher and drier mountains that cover much of the Earth (e.g. the Himalaya, Hindu Kush, Andes, and Rockies) where plant growth is more limited by nutrients and water than in European mountains. This paper describes the highest altitudinal records for both AM and DSE fungi, surpassing previous reported altitudinal maxima by about 1500 meters.
20181767|The Buordakh Massif, in the Cherskiy Range of northeast Siberia, contains mountains over 3000 m and, despite its arid climate, numerous glaciers. This paper presents a glacier inventory for the region and documents some 80 glaciers, which range in size from 0.1 to 10.4 km (total glacierized area is ca. 70 km). The inventory is based on mapping derived from Landsat 7 ETM+ satellite imagery from August 2001, augmented with data from field investigations obtained at that time. The glaciers in this region are of the 'firn-less,' cold, continental type, and their mass balance relies heavily on the formation of superimposed ice. The most recent glacier maximum extents have also been delineated, and these are believed to date from the Little Ice Age (ca. A.D. 1550-1850). Glacier areal extent has reduced by some 14.8 km (ca. 17%) since this most recent maximum. Of the 80 glaciers catalogued, 49 have undergone a measurable retreat from their most recent maximum extent.
4139114|The ecosystems of alpine snowbed habitats are reviewed with emphasis on ecosystem functioning and capability to adapt to current and predicted global change. Snowbeds form in topographic depressions that accumulate large amounts of snow during the winter months, and the final snowmelt does not occur until late in the growing season. Many species preferentially grow in snowbed habitats and some of these are even restricted to these habitats. In this review we identify several ecosystem services which snowbeds provide to the alpine landscape. For instance, snowbeds provide a steady water and nutrient supply to adjacent plant communities and offer newly emerged high-quality food for herbivores late in the growing season. We also propose that alpine snowbeds are much more productive than earlier thought, especially when the very short growing season and often high grazing pressure are taken fully into account. Furthermore, we propose that bryophytes and graminoids (grasses, sedges, and rushes) probably will be most negatively impacted by global change, and the snowbed plant communities will be invaded by species from adjacent plant communities, especially by shrubs and boreal species. As snowbed plants have special growth conditions, their sensitivity and ability to respond rapidly to changes in annual snowfall patterns make snowbed communities particularly vulnerable in a warmer climate, and thereby sensitive indicators of global change.
10.2307/1552394|We investigated population structure of Carex aquatilis ssp. stans, Carex membranacea, and Eriophorum angustifolium ssp. triste in ungrazed and grazed (by muskoxen) high arctic sedge meadow vegetation. Age structure, density, biomass, growth, and reproduction of tillers were compared between sites in 1995 and 1996. Tillers were considerably older in ungrazed vegetation relative to grazed vegetation. The density and biomass of C. stans were significantly greater in grazed vegetation than in ungrazed vegetation, whereas the density of C. membranacea and E. triste was the same but the biomass was lower relative to the ungrazed meadows. The grazed plants of all species reproduced earlier, but no seedlings were found in grazed vegetation, in contrast to ungrazed vegetation. Carex stans appears to gain competitive advantage over the other two species in grazed vegetation. This may be due to the larger belowground biomass, the high phenotypic plasticity in rhizome lengths and more persistent rhizome connections. E. triste may be the least buffered against grazing due to its lower belowground biomass and the early disintegration of rhizomes. On the other hand, E. triste allocates more to sexual reproduction than the two other species.
20181732|The headwaters of the Bear River drainage were occupied during the Last Glacial Maximum (LGM) by outlet glaciers of the Western Uinta Ice Field, an extensive ice mass (685 km) that covered the western slope of the Uinta Mountains. A well-preserved sequence of latero-frontal moraines in the drainage indicates that outlet glaciers advanced beyond the mountain front and coalesced on the piedmont. Glacial deposits in the Bear River drainage provide a unique setting where both Be cosmogenic surface-exposure dating of moraine boulders and C dating of sediment in Bear Lake downstream of the glaciated area set age limits on the timing of glaciation. Limiting C ages of glacial flour in Bear Lake (corrected to calendar years using CALIB 5.0) indicate that ice advance began at 32 ka and culminated at about 24 ka. Based on a Bayesian statistical analysis of cosmogenic surface-exposure ages from two areas on the terminal moraine complex, the Bear River glacier began its final retreat at about 18.7 to 18.1 ka, approximately coincident with the start of deglaciation elsewhere in the central Rocky Mountains and many other alpine glacial localities worldwide. Unlike valleys of the southwestern Uinta Mountains, deglaciation of the Bear River drainage began prior to the hydrologic fall of Lake Bonneville from the Provo shoreline at about 16 ka.
10.2307/1552452| Despite extensive field studies, progress in understanding gelifluction processes has been limited. Controlled laboratory simulation experiments offer an alternative and potentially extremely effective approach. Such an experiment is described here. It was conducted on a 12 slope formed of two natural soils, one a fine sandy silt derived from slate bedrock, the second a gravelly silty sand derived from mudstone bedrock. Continuous measurements were made of soil temperatures, porewater pressures, frost heave, thaw settlement, and downslope displacements of the soil surface over seven freeze/thaw cycles. Two-dimensional vectors of soil surface movements together with evidence from excavated displacement columns suggest that gelifluction occurred only during thaw consolidation of the upper parts of the soil profile; thawing of the deeper layers caused thaw consolidation but little downslope displacement. Cryogenic processes are shown to cause progressive decreases with depth in void ratio and moisture content and increases in undrained shear strength within the continuous soil matrix that separates ice lenses. Since self-weight stress levels are low, thawing leads to significant shear strain only in the softer, wetter near-surface soil layers. 
20181841|Dating of past glaciation in New Zealand allows Quaternary climatic events to be identified in areas at a great distance from northern hemisphere ice sheets and associated climatic feedbacks. Moreover, climate reconstruction in New Zealand provides insight into the amount of climate change that occurred in the Southwest Pacific where zonal circulation is an important integrator of the climate signal. Boulder Lake is a relatively low-elevation cirque in a range of moderate-relief (1600 m) mountains in South Island of New Zealand, and it experienced cirque and valley glaciation during the Late Quaternary. Geomorphic mapping, Be and Al exposure, and luminescence dating provide evidence for glacial advances during the Last Glacial Cycle, specifically during Marine Isotope Stage 4 (MIS 4) and Marine Isotope Stage 2 (MIS 2). The MIS 4 advance was fractionally larger and is dated by a former ice-marginal lacustrine deposit (minimum age) with a basal Optically Stimulated Luminescence (OSL) sediment deposition age of 64.9  10 ka. Paired Be and Al constrain a slightly less extensive MIS 2 glacial advance to 18.2  1.0 and 17.8  0.9 ka, coincident with the Last Glacial Maximum (LGM). Glacial equilibrium-line altitudes during both MIS 4 and MIS 2 phases were 960 m lower than the present. This corresponds to a cooling of 5-7C, taking possible precipitation variability into account. Our findings and a growing number of publications indicate that many temperate valley glaciers reacted differently to the major ice sheets during the Last Glacial Cycle, reaching their maximum extent during MIS 4 rather than during peak global ice volume during MIS 2.
41240397|The retreat of glaciers during past decades has led to the emergence of large rock outcrops in many glaciated areas around the world. Primary succession of vegetation in glacier forelands has been described for many regions, but most studies have been conducted on glacial deposits, whereas deglaciated rock outcrops have received little attention. This study assesses the pattern of primary succession on a chronosequence of five rock outcrops exposed during the past 140 years by the retreat of Glaciar Fras in the Patagonian Andes, Argentina. Data on floristic composition and species cover for algae, lichens, ferns, bryophytes, and vascular plants were recorded on sampling plots. Ordination and classification analyses discriminate three major successional stages, each dominated by a different species assemblage, suggesting directional replacement of species in the succession. The pioneer stage is dominated by the crustose lichen Placopsis perrugosa, the mid-successional stage by a lichen-moss mat dominated by the moss Racomitrium lanuginosum, and the late-successional stage by a large diversity of vascular plants. The low density of Nothofagus dombeyi saplings in the late-successional site indicates that plant succession is still in progress 140 years after deglaciation. Progress in succession appears to be influenced by species life-cycle traits and facultative interactions among species. The comparison of the successional processes between rock outcrops and unconsolidated glacial deposits suggests that the vegetation sequence is similar, but the rate of succession is slower on rock outcrops. The development of a ground lichen-moss cover, previous to the widespread colonization by vascular plants, accounts for the slower succession progress on rock outcrops. The establishment of Nothofagus stands takes at least 100 yrs longer on the rock outcrops than on glacial deposits. Under predicted climate warming, most Patagonian Andes glaciers will continue the retreat along steep bedrock slopes, where similar, long-term vegetation successional patterns to those observed on Glaciar Fras foreland will eventually occur.
25642076|Twelve jack pine (Pinus banksiana) tree-ring chronologies were developed from sites on rock outcrops near Yellowknife, Northwest Territories, Canada. The average chronology length is approximately 180 years spanning the period 18252005. The longest extends to 1679, whereas the shortest covers the period 19362005. All of the site chronologies are significantly correlated with June, total MayJuly, JuneJuly, and JuneAugust precipitation, although relations with the single month of June are strongest. June precipitation was reconstructed using a regionally averaged tree-ring chronology. The reconstruction captures 42% of the variance in the instrumental climate record and based on Rbar and EPS statistics is considered robust from 1819 to 2005. Periods of lower June precipitation occurred in 19271979, 18801893, 18421865, 18011821, 17761796, and 16981739. Positive June precipitation anomalies are reconstructed for 19801995, 18901926, 18221841, 17561775, and 16871697. Throughout the period of reconstruction, there is strong multi-decadal agreement between June precipitation in Yellowknife and other dendrohydrological records from western North America and records of Pacific climate variability. This suggests that large-scale atmospheric patterns influenced by sea surface temperatures (SSTs) in the Pacific basin have controlled continental-scale precipitation patterns at decadal time scales in the Yellowknife region over the past three centuries or more.
20181763|We investigated the effects of experimental manipulations of snowmelt on the flowering phenology and forage chemistry (digestibility and nitrogen concentration) of tussock cottongrass (Eriophorum vaginatum) on the Seward Peninsula, Alaska. Early snowmelt accelerated reproductive phenology by 11 days, and resulted in higher floral digestibility both early and late during inflorescence development. Nitrogen concentrations of inflorescences in late snowmelt plots were initially the highest among treatments, but decreased nearly 40% during inflorescence development. Thus, changes in climate that lead to changes in snow cover can alter both the timing of flowering and chemistry of Eriophorum and, consequently, its value as reindeer and caribou forage. We then used published relationships between forage chemistry and body weight gain of reindeer (White, 1983) to model the possible effects of altered forage chemistry on food intake and growth in reindeer. Model output shows that reindeer foraging on Eriophorum inflorescences may increase digestible dry matter intake twofold by selectively foraging on early-emergent inflorescences. The multiplicative effects of forage quality and food intake result in a near doubling in the rate of weight gain during this critical early spring period. Such increases in body weight gain have potentially great consequences for reindeer at both individual and population levels.
40305859|We investigated dietary variation during three winters in female Svalbard reindeer (Rangifer tarandus platyrhynchus) on the basis of rumen samples from animals culled in early and late winter during 2000-2002. The winter diet was compared to a late summer diet on the basis of samples from 1999, with variations in dietary composition in early and late winter among years also investigated. We conducted our assessment by identifying plant fragments in rumen samples using a point identification method. The effects of season and year on dietary composition of females were tested using non-parametric multifactorial MANOVA. During early winter, the diet seemed to be a function of both plant availability and plant quality, with the latter also highly important for the summer diet. During late winter, restricted forage availability due to snow cover seemed to have influenced dietary composition. We also found dietary variation among years both in early and late winter. We hypothesize that climatic effects previously found on the growth rate of Svalbard reindeer populations may be mediated through interannual variation in their diet where increased summer precipitation and winter rain may affect the dietary composition through decreased availability of forage biomass.
41416427|We document the post-Last Glacial Maximum (LGM) deglaciation history of a small catchment in Colorado's Front Range and model the glacial history responsible. We combine cosmogenic exposure dating of moraine boulders and glacial polish from 10 sites down the valley axis with a set of 1-D and 2-D numerical glacier models in which climate is represented by prescribed winter and summer mass balance profiles. Moraine ages of 24-18 ka constrain the LGM maximum glacial extent at 15 km down valley from the range crest. Glacial polish sites decline in age along the center portion of the valley, dropping to roughly 12 ka by 5 km from the crest. This supports a monotonic but non-steady decline in glacier length. Modeling of the deglaciation history reveals that the equilibrium line altitude (ELA) rise from ~ 18 ka to ~ 14 ka was between 250 and 350 m, and that from ~ 14 ka to ~ 12 ka was between 100 and 150 m. Complete deglaciation requires at least another 250-300 m of ELA rise. A transient model run employing this ELA history can both reproduce the spatio-temporal pattern of glacial polish ages, and honor the constraints on maximum glacial extent. The full deglaciation between 18 ka and 10 ka can be modeled successfully with a 4.5-6 C temperature rise and little to no change in precipitation.
40962403|Dendroclimatological reconstructions may be influenced by intraspecific variation in radial growth caused by plant gender and ecotypic differentiation. We examined the growth response of the High Arctic Salix arctica to interannual variation in snow precipitation in Zackenberg, NE Greenland. Tree ring examinations revealed a consistent response of annual radial growth in this dwarf shrub to variation in the amount of snow precipitation across gender and across three distinct vegetation types. Annual growth, however, differed between vegetation types. These results are discussed with respect to an improved understanding of the factors limiting the growth of S. arctica, which can be used for future reconstructions of climatic conditions, especially in remote High Arctic regions.
4095853|In this paper we analyze upright mountain pine (Pinus montana Miller) radial growth responses to climatic and environmental factors in a valley of the Central Italian Alps. This valley is characterized by intense geomorphological dynamics that can mostly be traced back to instability processes and particularly to debris flows. Here, there are also less active areas that allow undisturbed tree growth and permit dendroclimatic research to be performed. The relationship between climatic factors and radial growth in mountain pine was established by Pearson's correlation and response functions using four chronologies. Two were built using trees located on opposite valley slopes; the other two from the valley bottom. One of these last two is constructed with trees growing in areas occasionally affected by sheetfloods. We found that the climate of the summer months has the strongest influence on tree-ring growth: especially May and July mean temperatures and June precipitation. In contrast, the chronology built with trees located in the valley bottom in an area affected by sheetfloods, shows different climate-growth relationships especially concerning summer precipitation. The burial made by silt layers and the more impermeable conditions of the substrate seem to be the main factors regulating tree growth in this area. Comparing this chronology with the reference chronologies, we found that some years with growth anomalies in the disturbed site correspond to debris flow events dated by previous studies in nearby fans. This paper points out the potential use of mountain pine for dendroclimatic reconstruction and the influence of soft slope processes on tree growth.
4139082|We studied the fossil remains of the common Antarctic oribatid mites, Alaskozetes antarcticus and Halozetes belgicae, in sediment cores from two lakes in adjacent catchments on Signy Island, South Orkney Islands, maritime Antarctic. The aim was to examine the response of these species to 7000 yr of documented environmental change. Mites colonized the island shortly after the ice sheet retreated and habitats became available. A temperate period in the Holocene (c. 3800-1400 cal. yr BP) led to population expansion by factors of 7 (both species) in one catchment and 5.1 and 2.3 for both species in the other. This mid-Holocene hypsithermal is thought to have involved increases in habitat size, productivity, temperature, and moisture availability. Mite populations went into decline as conditions cooled. A period of short cold summers from c. 1400 cal. yr BP persisting to the middle of this century continued to impose restrictions on the biota. These results suggest that mite populations will respond positively to the recent rapid regional warming documented in the maritime Antarctic. However, on Signy Island this prediction is complicated by a similarly recent and rapid expansion of the populations of Antarctic fur seals (Arctocephalus gazella), which has not occurred previously since deglaciation, damaging the mites' habitats and exerting a new set of ecological constraints.
4139085| This is the first time that the soil arthropod community composition along a high-altitude gradient (3,837, 4,105, and 5,050 m a.s.l.) has been investigated in eastern Tibet, China. Five soil samples of 50 cm were taken from each site and extracted for 7 days in Berlese/Tullgren funnels without heating. Acari was the dominant group of arthropods at all three elevations (79%, 53%, and 54%, respectively, from the lower site to the upper site). Prostigmata and Oribatida were more abundant than Mesostigmata and Astigmata at all three elevations. Mesostigmata and Oribatida were most abundant at the upper elevation (about 8,300 and 29,000 individuals/m, respectively). Prostigmata and Astigmata were most abundant at the lower elevation (about 170,000 and 20,000 individuals/m, respectively). Collembola was most abundant at the middle elevation (about 68,000 individuals/m). The insect taxa were most abundant at the lower elevation. Diptera larvae, Protura, and Homoptera were the most abundant taxa along the elevation gradient, while Hemiptera, Thysanoptera, and Protura occurred only at the lower elevation. A multivariate redundancy analysis (RDA) shows that 64% of the variance can be explained by altitude. A change in dominant mite taxa along the elevation gradient could be seen. From the lower to upper sites, the dominant taxa changed from Prostigmata to Prostigmata and Oribatida, and then to Oribatida. About 33 genera in 24 families of oribatid mites were found. The numbers of genera from the lower, middle, and upper elevation were 14, 20, and 19, respectively. 
41240424|Available soil N is a key factor limiting plant productivity in most low arctic terrestrial ecosystems. Atmospheric N-fixation by cyanobacteria is often the primary source of newly fixed N in these nutrient-poor environments. We examined temporal and spatial variation in N-fixation by the principal cyanobacterial associations (biological soil crusts, Sphagnum spp. associations, and Stereocaulon paschale) in a wide range of ecosystems within a Canadian low arctic tundra landscape, and estimated N input via N-fixation over the growing season using a microclimatically driven model. Moisture and temperature were the main environmental factors influencing N-fixation. In general, N-fixation rates were largest at the height of the growing season, although each N-fixing association had distinct seasonal patterns due to ecosystem differences in microclimatic conditions. Ecosystem types differed strongly in N-fixation rates with the highest N input (10.89 kg ha yr) occurring in low-lying Wet Sedge Meadow and the lowest N input (0.73 kg ha yr) in Xerophytic Herb Tundra on upper esker slopes. Total growing season (3 June-13 September) N-fixation input from measured components across a carefully mapped landscape study area (26.7 km) was estimated at 0.68 kg ha yr, which is approximately twice the estimated average N input via wet deposition. Although biological N-fixation input rates were small compared to internal soil N cycling rates, our data suggest that cyanobacterial associations may play an important role in determining patterns of plant productivity across low arctic tundra landscapes.
24551717|Vegetation-banked terraces with alternating bands of vegetation and gravel are spectacularly developed on the plateau of subantarctic Macquarie Island. Previous work has described two distinct, apparently unrelated types of vegetation-banked terraces on the island, "windward" and "leeward," depending on their exposure to the prevailing westerly winds. Here we have documented aspects of terrace morphology and vegetation. The terraces are dynamic, with mobile gravel, substrate erosion, and vegetation growth all in evidence. By focusing on the processes occurring, we conclude that the "windward" and "leeward" types are actually two related forms that grade from one into the other, depending on hillside aspect. In addition, we describe stone-banked terraces, not previously reported from Macquarie Island. Recent changes on the island resulting in widespread death of the cushion plant Azorella macquariensis may impact on the maintenance of terrace stability in the long term.
4095823|A coupled surface mass balance and ice-flow model was used to predict the response of three ice caps on Severnaya Zemlya, Russian Arctic, to the present climate and to future climate changes as postulated by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Ice cap boundary conditions are derived from recent airborne geophysical surveying (Dowdeswell et al, 2002), and model inputs are constructed from available climate data. Model results indicate that, currently, the state of balance of ice caps on Severnaya Zemlya is dependent on their size. For small ice caps, such as Pioneer Ice Cap
24551608|The goal of the study was to provide an analysis of climate impact before, during, and after the Little Ice Age (LIA) on the larch (Larix gmelinii) tree line at the northern extreme of Siberian forests. Recent decadal climate change impacts on the tree line, regeneration abundance, and age structure were analyzed. The location of the study area was within the forest-tundra ecotone (elevation range 170450 m) in the Anabar Plateau, northern Siberia. Field studies were conducted along elevational transects. Tree natality/mortality and radial increment were determined based on dendrochronology analyses. Tree morphology, number of living and subfossil trees, regeneration abundance, and age structure were studied. Locations of pre-LIA, LIA, and post-LIA tree lines and refugia boundaries were established. Long-term climate variables and drought index were included in the analysis. It was found that tree mortality from the 16th century through the beginning of the 19th century caused a downward tree line recession. Sparse larch stands experienced deforestation, transforming into tundra with isolated relict trees. The maximum tree mortality and radial growth decrease were observed to have occurred at the beginning of 18th century. Now larch, at its northern boundary in Siberia, is migrating into tundra areas. Upward tree migration was induced by warming in the middle of the 19th century. Refugia played an important role in repopulation of the forest-tundra ecotone by providing a seed source and shelter for recruitment of larch regeneration. Currently this ecotone is being repopulated mainly by tree cohorts that were established after the 1930s. The last two decades of warming did not result in an acceleration of regeneration recruitment because of increased drought conditions. The regeneration line reached (but did not exceed) the pre-LIA tree line location, although contemporary tree heights and stand densities are comparatively lower than in the pre-LIA period. The mean rate of tree line upward migration has been about 0.35 m yr1 (with a range of 0.210.58), which translates to a tree line response to temperature of about 55 m C1.
10.2307/1552385|Numerous cold-induced changes in physiology limit the capacity of northern conifers to photosynthesize during winter. Studies of red spruce (Picea rubens Sarg.) have shown that rates of field photosynthesis (P<sub>field</sub>) and laboratory measurements of photosynthetic capacity (P<sub>max</sub>) generally parallel seasonal ambient temperature trends; carbon exchange decreases in the fall, remains negative or close to zero for much of the winter, and increases in the spring. However, increases in P<sub>max</sub>, and foliar carbohydrate concentrations can occur during winter thaws. Thaw-induced increases in photosynthesis are probably not the result of increased stomatal conductance, but may result from other changes in physiology associated with thaw-induced improvements in water relations. In addition to increased photosynthesis, red spruce also decrease in cold hardiness during thaws. The co-occurrence of thaw-induced changes in photosynthesis and cold hardiness raises questions regarding their adaptive significance, particularly in the context of potential climate change. Red spruce may face a tradeoff between potentially beneficial increases in carbon capture and potentially detrimental reductions in cold tolerance. The physiological consequence(s) of this tradeoff may depend on the number and duration of thaws, as well as ambient temperature trends following thaw. Pollution-induced reductions in cold tolerance, and the low genetic variability of red spruce, may also influence the net outcome of thaw-induced changes in physiology.
10.2307/1552482|An experiment was conducted to investigate whether nutrient availability and competition limit aboveground growth of five herbaceous species in the boreal forest understory. The experiment involved adding fertilizer and removing neighbors of selected target individuals of five different species. Aboveground biomass and leaf number were measured as the response variables, and treatment effects were tested using ANOVA and ANCOVA. The five species showed variable responses to fertilizer addition with Achillea millefolium, Festuca altaica, and Mertensia paniculata showing significant increases. Lupinus arcticus had no response and there was a strong negative effect on survival of Anemone parviflora. Achillea was the only species that showed some growth limitation due to neighboring individuals for both biomass and leaf number; other species showed no response.
10.2307/1552551| Over 80 lakes were sampled between the ice margin and the coast in West Greenland between 66 and 67N and analyzed for their pH, alkalinity, conductivity, and major ions. Most of the lakes (67%) are dilute, circumneutral, and have conductivity values <150 S cm<sup>-1</sup>. There are, however, also saline lakes (2000-4000 S cm<sup>-1</sup>; NaHCO<sub>3</sub>/CO<sub>3</sub>, and Mg HCO<sub>3</sub>/CO<sub>3</sub>-dominated), mainly around the head of the fjord. The main control on lake chemistry in this area is evaporation as indicated by the fossil shorelines surrounding the saline lakes. The high concentrations of Na indicate extensive inputs from either weathering or from eoliantransported silts (loess) derived from the sand outwash plains at the ice sheet margin. The pattern of cation dominance in the freshwater lakes is Ca > Mg > Na > K. Variability in the water chemistry and the dominant controls on water chemistry were examined using PCA and RDA, respectively. There is a clear gradient in lake chemistry from west to east. This trend reflects the split between the dilute coastal lakes (with higher %Cl) and the saline lakes close to the head of the fjord. Altitude is also significant and probably reflects reduced weathering rates at upland sites (500 m) with limited vegetation cover. A number of lakes had high SO<sub>4</sub> concentrations (maximum >10,000 eq L<sup>-1</sup>) and were clearly influenced by local geology. 
1552571| Is alpine plant development in spring controlled by photoperiod irrespective of actual temperatures at the time following snowmelt? We investigated phenological responses to day length and temperature in 33 high-elevation species of the Central Alps (2600-3200 m a.s.l.), Austria. Plants were collected in the field in August, potted, and overwintered in a freezer at -1C. Released from dormancy, plants experienced various photoperiods (12, 14.5, 15, and 16 h) and two temperature regimes (6/11C and 8/18C). Day length was extended with tungsten lamps, which do not contribute a significant dose of photosynthetically active photon flux density but provide a day-length signal. Only 23 species produced sufficient flowers to be included in the analysis. Flowering (yes or no) was sensitive to photoperiod in 54% of the species. Surprisingly, only 24% of the species showed temperature sensitivity at longer photoperiods, whereas at shorter photoperiods, 65% of the species were sensitive to an increase in temperature. The number of days between thawing of soil and flowering is sensitive to photoperiod in 46% of the species. Cerastium uniflorum, Elyna myosuroides, Saxifraga oppositifolia, Saxifraga seguieri, and Ranunculus glacialis are insensitive to both photoperiod and temperature and thus flower as soon as released from the snow irrespective of co-occurring light and temperature conditions. Specific leaf area and the duration of leafing were responsive to photoperiod and temperature in forbs but not in grasses. These results suggest that about half of the tested alpine species are sensitive to photoperiod and may not be able to fully utilize periods of earlier snowmelt. 
40801687|Equilibrium-line altitudes (ELAs) were determined from reconstructions of 22 paleoglaciers at their extent during the local last glacial maximum (LGM) using the accumulation-area method. LGM ELAs thus derived ranged from 2980 to 3560 m and follow a statistically significant regional trend of rising ~ 4.5 m km- to the east.Two approaches using a degree-day model were used to infer LGM climate by finding plausible combinations of temperature and precipitation change that (1) would be required to lower ELAs to their mean LGM values in both the Taylor Park/eastern Elk Mountains region and western Elk Mountains, and (2) provide steady-state mass balances to maintain individual glaciers. The results of these two approaches are convergent and suggest that in the absence of significant changes in precipitation, mean summer (or mean annual) temperatures within the study area during the LGM were on the order of about 7  C cooler than at present. The model also suggests that even allowing for modest changes in LGM precipitation ( 25%), the required mean summer temperature depressions are within ~ 0.5  C of these values. Furthermore, there appears to be no significant dependence on small potential changes in temperature seasonality (i. e., winter temperatures). The inferred magnitude of LGM temperature change in the study area is consistent with other estimates from the broader Southern and Central Rocky Mountain region.
1552327|Soil microbial properties were investigated to assess the potential of organic matter dynamics in mineral and ornithogenic soils in a cold climate. Microbial biomass, respiration, N-mineralization, and enzyme activities were measured along two catenary transects crossing penguin rookeries and seabird colonies. Ornithogenic excrements, total organic carbon (TOC), and phosphorus accumulation were major factors controlling microbial properties in Antarctic soils. Multivariate approaches (cluster and discriminant analysis) clearly distinguished the ornithogenic soils from the mineral soils based on their microbial characteristics. Microbial biomass, respiration, and N-mineralization were gradually inhibited by increasing P-inputs by penguins. The metabolic quotient (qCO<sub>2</sub>) was negatively correlated to P-content, whereas all other microbial properties (microbial biomass, respiration, N-mineralization, enzyme activities) followed the patterns of TOC. Urease, xylanase, phosphatase, and arylsulfatase activities were significantly favored by penguin and seabird excrements in the ornithogenic soils compared to the mineral soils. Microbial biomass-to-enzyme activity ratios were substantially higher at sites influenced by penguin guano than by other seabird excrement. We show that enzymes are active in antarctic soils, and that high levels of biomass-based specific activity in the ornithogenic soils, compared to those of mineral soils, result from continuous input of large quantities of enzyme-rich penguin guano.
23252815|We characterized the effect of an extreme rain event on the biogeochemistry and ecosystem metabolism of an oligotrophic Sierra Nevada (California) lake. During a 10 hour period of an autumn season rainfall event, lake discharge increased from <1.0 L s -1 to over 3000 L s -1 , reaching a rate one order of magnitude higher than found during peak snowmelt. Large quantities of terrestrial particulate and dissolved organic matter were washed into the lake. An entire season of autochthonous dissolved organic carbon (DOC) was flushed and replaced by allochthonous DOC as light attenuation increased by >300%. The resulting truncation of the photic zone, reduction of water column chlorophyll-a, and increase in particulate and dissolved organic matter available to microbes resulted in a 47% reduction in whole lake gross primary production and 30% increase in respiration relative to average autumn values. As a consequence, the lake went from being slightly autotrophic to strongly heterotrophic. If rain events increase in frequency, as many climate change models predict, increased terrestrial inputs to Sierran lakes may result in more frequent periods of reduced primary production, increased periods of hypoxia and anoxia, and an ecosystem shift toward net heterotrophy during the ice-free season.
25642089|An ecological analysis of wetlands in the high mountain jalca above 3700 m elevation in the Andes near Cajamarca, Peru, indicated that most wetlands are groundwater-supported peat-accumulating fens. The floristic composition of fen communities was controlled largely by groundwater chemistry, which was highly variable and influenced by watershed bedrock composition. Watersheds with highly mineralized rock discharged water as acidic as pH 3.7, which was high in CaSO, while watersheds with limestone, marble, and skarn produced groundwater as basic as pH 8.2 and high in CaHCO. Of the 125 plots sampled in 36 wetland complexes, >50% of plots had at least 3 m of peat, and 21 plots had peat thicker than 7 m. Most soil horizons analyzed had 18 to 35% organic carbon, indicating high C storage. A total of 102 vascular plants, 69 bryophytes, and 10 lichens were identified. Study plots were classified using TWINSPAN into 20 plant communities, which were grouped into four broad categories by dominant life form: (1) cushion plant communities, (2) sedge- and rush-dominated communities, (3) bryophyte and lichen communities, and (4) tussock grass communities. Direct gradient analysis using canonical correspondence analysis indicated that Axis 1 was largely a water chemistry gradient, while Axis 2 was a complex hydrology and peat thickness gradient. Bryophytes and lichens were more strongly separated in the ordination space than vascular plants and were better indicators of specific environmental characteristics.
41416445|Six open-canopy high-elevation northern red oak (Quercus rubra L.) ring-width records were evaluated along the Southern Appalachian mountain range for a common climate-driven growth signal. Ring-width records show significant correlations over the past two centuries with principal component one (PC-1) accounting for 50% of the common variance. Spectral analysis reveals that the relative variance in ring-width is concentrated at decadal time scales. Ring-width records show positive correlations (p < 0.05) with prior fall-early winter and current summer mean temperature, and negative correlations (p < 0.05) with prior late summer-winter total precipitation. Yet, temperature-precipitation covariance along the Southern Appalachian mountain range during winter and summer seasons undergoes a significant reversal with intervening spring and fall seasons showing weak association. As a result, ring-width-climate signal strength exhibits time-dependence over the instrumental period, although the temporal change is not statistically significant. This temporal change suggests that both temperature and precipitation can have a marked influence on ring-width variability depending on the degree of seasonal covariance. Finally, obtaining a stable interannual climate-growth calibration for these particular ringwidth records remains a foremost challenge, and is a primary consequence of mixed temperature-precipitation signal strength and little power at higher frequencies.
20181832|The treeline ecotone in northern Finnish Lapland is characterized by a mosaic of sites with highly varying environmental conditions. Density, age structure, growth, and root systems of mountain birch seedlings (Betula pubescens ssp. czerepanovii [Orlova] Hmet-Ahti) were studied in different microsite classes (deflation, lichen heath, dwarf shrub heath, hummock, willow shrub, sedge mire). On wind-exposed convex topography characterized by shortage of moisture and nutrients, seedling establishment is impeded, as is indicated by low seedling densities and lack of very young seedlings as well as by high rooting depths and root/shoot ratios of the few individuals. In sedge mires, birch seedlings occasionally occur in great numbers but die off at an early stage. Extremely shallow root systems point to anoxia as the main reason. Severe shoot damage is common to almost all saplings. This is likely due to grazing by reindeer (Rangifer t. tarandus). As a result, height growth is suppressed even on sites with otherwise relatively suitable conditions (e.g. willow shrub sites). Future effects of climate change which could locally improve conditions for germination and establishment of birch young growth might be overridden by the effects of high reindeer density.
4095878|We evaluated the importance of the northern pocket gopher (Thomomys talpoides) in controlling plant species composition and richness in two alpine tundra plant communities. We hypothesized that forb diversity and relative abundance is modified by gopher mounding activities in moist meadows of Niwot Ridge, Colorado, U.S.A., where both the pocket gopher and forbs are most concentrated. We tested this hypothesis with simulated gopher mounds. Forbs recovered faster following burial than graminoids or cushion plants, demonstrating a resilience that we propose confers a competitive advantage over other growth forms and favors forb dominance in moist meadows. Gopher effects on species richness varied according to spatial scale of measurement and community type. For one decade we monitored the responses of a sedge-dominated community to gopher activity in
20181817|Palynological (species assemblage, pollen accumulation rate), geochemical (carbon to nitrogen ratios, organic carbon and biogenic silica content), and sedimentological (particle size, magnetic susceptibility) data combined with improved chronology and greater sampling resolution from a new core from Elikchan 4 Lake provide a stronger basis for defining paleoenvironmental changes than was previously possible. Persistence of herb-dominated tundra, slow expansion of Betula and Alnus shrubs, and low percentages of organic carbon and biogenic silica suggest that the Late-Glacial transition (ca. 16,000-11,000 cal. yr BP) was a period of gradual rather than abrupt vegetation and climatic change. Consistency of all Late-Glacial data indicates no Younger Dryas climatic oscillation. A dramatic peak in pollen accumulation rates (ca. 11,000-9800 cal. yr BP) suggests a possible summer temperature optimum, but finer grain sizes, low magnetic susceptibility, and greater organic carbon and biogenic silica, while showing significant warming at ca. 11,000 cal. yr BP, offer no evidence of a Holocene thermal maximum. When compared to trends in other paleorecords, the new Elikchan data underscore the apparent spatial complexity of climatic responses in Northeast Siberia to global forcings between ca. 16,000 and 9000 cal. yr BP.
40801685|We studied Mount Washburn (Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming) to describe alpine ecosystem function and evolution at an important site in the North-Central Rockies. To describe the alpine environment we sampled major environmental nodes (north-faces, south-faces, snowbanks, ridges, talus, and ledges). Our analysis was bolstered by the measurement, over five years, of seasonal soil water and temperature. Clusters representing nodal plant communities explained 86% of scatterplot variability, after accounting for spatial location, in a strong (non-metric r = 0.98) NMDS ordination. Water inputs and nutrient storage (also significant predictors of community structure) increased while soil temperature fell from southern to northern nodes. Seasonal soil water availability was strongly influenced by transpiration. As a result soils dried earlier than expected under dense northfacing turf and later than expected under talus and ledges. We propose that abiotic and biotic processes have combined to increase resources for northern nodes at the expense of southern nodes since the last glaciation. This is because soils have continually blown with snow from south slopes to north-facing lee slopes, improving their water and nutrient status. Increases in vegetation have further increased water and nutrient capture and decreased water and nutrient losses in a biologically driven positive feedback loop.
10.2307/1552250|Summer sea-ice conditions in the Laptev Sea are characterized by high interannual variability. The impact of Lena River discharge, one of the Arctic's major rivers discharging roughly 525 km<sup>3</sup> annually onto the Laptev shelf, and the regional meteorological regime affect the spring and summer ice regime of the Laptev Sea. Using ground and remote-sensing data and statistical analyses, it is shown that river discharge plays an insignificant role in the large-scale decay of the Laptev Sea ice cover. Hydrological and remote sensing data for the period 1979-1990 show that discharge/sea-ice interactions are confined to the coastal regions, with Lena River water flooding a fast-ice belt, roughly 25 km wide, in early to mid-June. Sea-ice decay and summer ice extent are shown to be affected most strongly by dynamic atmospheric forcing and by opening and enlargement of coastal polynyas in early spring.
40962395|Bacterial strains isolated from Antarctic environments were used to assess the role of carotenoid pigments as cryo- and solar radiation protectants. Isolates were subjected to one hundred 12-hr freeze-thaw cycles and exposed to ambient simulated solar radiation (300 Wm) with growth recovery evaluated after pre-set time intervals. Differences in survival were observed between carotenoid pigmented and non-pigmented strains in response to the different stresses based upon the enumeration of colony forming units. On average carotenoid pigmented strains were more resistant to freeze-thaw cycles as compared to the non-pigmented strains. Survival for non-pigmented strains decreased precipitously from 2  10 to 1.5  10 cells mL, on average, within the first 20 cycles. Similar results were found in the solar radiation experiments. After 2 hrs of solar radiation exposure, 61% of the pigmented organisms survived versus 0.01% for the non-pigmented isolates. We applied an additive mixed model to estimate differences between the carotenoid pigmented and non-pigmented bacterial groups. Modeled results confirmed a positive effect of pigmentation on survivability and provide evidence that carotenoid pigmentation in heterotrophic bacteria isolated from Antarctic environments increases resistance to environmental Stressors.
10.2307/1552553|Sediment yield in mountainous catchments is closely associated with habitat stability of ecosystems in floodplain or valley bottom. The results of this study provide potential scenarios of future changes in sediment yield as a result of increasing rainfall due to climatic warming. We monitored stream discharge and sediment yield at four small catchments with different bedrock types and stream orders in a subalpine environment in central Japan. The results showed that bedload materials were yielded continuously in the granitic rock area, but only intermittently during the strong storm runoff in the sedimentary rock area. Our results indicate that future increase in the amount of bedload yield in sedimentary rock area will be proportional to rainfall in the granitic catchments, but may be variable in the sedimentary catchment depending on the sediment availability. The amount of bedload had no linear relation with catchment size. In the longterm, however, the impact on habitat stability can be substantial in both types of catchments, because annual amount of bedload will increase from year-to-year. Nevertheless, out results indicate that an improvement of the existing methods for predicting the trends of bedload yield is needed for the appropriate management and conservation of mountainous watersheds.
1552643| In this work we report the vertical phytoplankton biomass distribution (chlorophyll a depth-profiles) and the integrated phytoplankton biomass (chlorophyll a per unit area) of two high-mountain Mexican Lakes: El Sol and La Luna (1906N, 9945W, 4200 m a.s.l.). El Sol and La Luna are transparent, nonglacier-fed lakes. Both lakes are continuous warm polymictic with a uniform vertical distribution of phytoplankton biomass. Slight heterogeneities were observed in El Sol with a deep-water chlorophyll maximum above the sediments (maximum difference 0.71 g L<sup>-1</sup>) associated to phytoplankton sunken cells and the presence of filamentous benthic algae. Phytoplankton biomass per unit area was low in both lakes (El Sol 1.91-8.36 and La Luna 1.13-4.80 mg Chla m<sup>-2</sup>), and similar to that of temperate high-mountain lakes. The temporal variations in the phytoplankton biomass were attributed mainly to a combined effect of nutrient input and zooplankton grazing pressure; the effect of low pH is also considered in La Luna. 
24551605|Using tree-ring data collected from five stands of Qinghai spruce (Picea crassifolia) along an altitudinal gradient in the eastern Qilian Mountains, northwest China, we investigate the differences of the chronologies' statistical parameters and climatic-growth relationships along the gradient. Our results indicate that the radial growth-climate patterns are similar at all studied elevations, and tree growth in this region is strongly related to drought conditions. Growth-temperature and precipitation correlations reveal very coherent patterns for the four lowest sites, showing significant (p < 0.05) correlation with JulyAugust temperatures and August precipitation in the previous year and March temperatures in the current year. For the upper treeline site, the chronology is negatively and significantly (p < 0.05) correlated with August temperature and December precipitation in the previous year. In addition, individual chronologies are significantly (p < 0.05) correlated with the Self-calibrated Palmer Drought Severity Index for many months. The cross-correlation matrix of the individual chronologies indicates all the correlation coefficients are significant (p < 0.01), confirmation that tree growth is predominantly influenced by common climate factors. The outstanding drought periods recorded by the five chronologies took place during A.D. 18601875, the 1880s, and 19051935. Pluvial periods took place during A.D. 18001810 and 19751990.
10.2307/1552465|Hydrological investigations of three active rock glaciers in the Austrian Alps (Reichenkar rock glacier in the western Stubai Alps, Kaiserberg rock glacier in the western tztal Alps, and Gnitz rock glacier in the Schobergruppe) demonstrate that discharge is mainly controlled by the local weather conditions, the thermal properties of the debris layer, and the physical mechanisms that control the flow of meltwater through the rock glacier. Discharge of active rock glaciers is characterized by strong seasonal and diurnal variations. Water derived from snowmelt and summer thunderstorms is quickly released causing floods. Fair weather periods with intense melting of snow and ice cause pronounced diurnal variations in discharge. Water temperature of active rock glacier springs is constantly below 1C during the whole melt season. Electrical conductivity of the water is low during high discharges due to high amounts of meltwater derived from snow/icemelt and/or precipitation, and high during cold weather periods and in autumn when discharge is very low and consists mainly of groundwater. The discharge pattern of active rock glaciers is similar to that of glaciers due to similar meltwater sources and flow paths. However, the average yearly mean specific discharge from active rock glaciers is significantly lower than that of glaciers.
24551632|The soil seed bank and seed germination capacity of Poa annua in the vicinity of the Polish Antarctic Station (South Shetlands, Antarctica) were investigated. It was documented that annual bluegrass can reproduce sexually and produce a functional seed bank of close to 5000 seeds/m2 under maritime Antarctic conditions. Comparison of germination between Poa annua and two native plant species revealed that Poa annua seeds can germinate as fast or even faster than native species, and are more vigorous. Our studies show that in the Antarctic Poa annua can successfully reproduce sexually and produce fully developed, viable caryopses that are able to survive the maritime Antarctic winter, not only in a soil bank, but also directly in the previous year's inflorescences.
1552311| As glacier length fluctuations provide useful information about past climate, we derived historic fluctuations in the equilibrium-line altitude (ELA) on the basis of 19 glacier length records from different parts of the world. We used a model that takes into account the geometry of the glacier, the length response time and the mass balance-surface height feedback. The results show that all glaciers of the data set experienced an increase in the ELA between 1900 and 1960. Between 1910 and 1959, the average increase was 33  8 m. This implies that during the first half of the 20th century, the climate was warmer or drier than before. The ELAs decreased to lower elevations after around 1960 up to 1980, when most of the ELA reconstructions end. These results can be translated into an average temperature increase of 0.8  0.2 K and a global sea-level rise of about 0.3 mm a<sup>-1</sup> for the period 1910-1959. 
1552290| We examined soil microbial activities, i.e., biomass, respiration rate, and temperature dependence of the respiration on a glacier foreland in Ny-lesund, Svalbard, Norway. We collected soil samples from 4 study sites that were set up along a primary succession (Site 1, the youngest, to Site 4, the oldest). Microbial biomass measured with the SIR method increased with successional age (55 to 724g C<sub>biomass</sub> g<sup>-1</sup> soil d.w. from Site 1 to Site 4). The microbial respiration rate of the soil was measured in a laboratory with an open-flow infrared gas-analyzer system, changing the temperature from 2 to 20C at 3-4 intervals. The microbial respiration rate increased exponentially with the temperature at all sites. The temperature dependence (Q<sub>10</sub>) of the microbial respiration rate ranged from 2.2 to 4.1. The microbial respiration rates at a given temperature increased with succession as a step change (0.48, 0.43, 1.26, and 1.29g C g<sup>-1</sup> soil h<sup>-1</sup> at 8C from Site 1 to Site 4, respectively). However, the substrate-specific respiration rate (respiration rate per gram soil carbon) decreased with successional age (0.034 to 0.006g C mg<sup>-1</sup>C<sub>soil</sub> h<sup>-1</sup> from Site 1 to Site 4). A comparison of these respiratory properties with other ecosystems suggested that soil microorganisms in arctic soils have a high potential for decomposition when compared to those of other temperate ecosystems. 
10.2307/1552585|The vegetation and climatic history of subalpine forests on the Colorado Plateau is documented from Lowder Creek Bog and Alpine Pond on the Markagunt Plateau. Pollen and macrofossil data demonstrate substantial changes at sites above 3150 m elevation during the last ca. 13,000 yr. During and after Late Wisconsin deglaciation, subalpine tree species (Picea engelmannii and Abies lasiocarpa) were rare or absent near the Lowder Creek Bog site, but nonarboreal species predominated. P. engelmannii-A. lasiocarpa forest became well-established there between 11,000 and 9800 yr BP and subalpine trees dominated this elevation throughout the Holocene. By ca. 8500 yr BP, however, Picea declined somewhat, with minimal pollen and macrofossil deposition occurring between ca. 8500 and 6400 yr BP. Picea trees may have thinned during this time or Picea may have expanded to higher elevations during this part of the Holocene, while Pinus ponderosa expanded at lower elevations. These changes were probably driven by warmer conditions with variable precipitation. Alternative explanations include hydroseral changes within the bog, or insect infestation on Picea. After ca. 6400 yr BP, more consistent Picea pollen influx suggests renewed importance around the bog, which has been maintained until the present. Abies lasiocarpa became more important after ca. 2700 yr ago. The pollen sequence supports an interpretation of high effective precipitation during the early Holocene, followed by warmer temperatures and somewhat variable precipitation after ca. 8500 yr BP. This sequence is most similar to other sites on and near the western, southern, and northeastern Colorado Plateau, where the maximum influence of monsoon activity may have declined by the end of the early Holocene. Declines in summer insolation probably contributed to Late Holocene cooling, with increasing effective precipitation at most sites, including Lowder Creek Bog.
40801758|We studied the vegetation of Kasatochi Island, central Aleutian Islands, to provide a general field assessment regarding the survival of plants, lichens, and fungi following a destructive volcanic eruption that occurred in 2008. Plant community data were analyzed using multivariate methods to explore the relationship between pre-and posteruption plant cover; 5 major vegetation types were identified: Honckenya peploides beach, Festuca rubra cliff shelf, Lupinus nootkatensis-Festuca rubra meadow, Leymus mollis bluff ridge (and beach), and Aleuria aurantia lower slope barrens. Our study provided a very unusual glimpse into the early stages of plant primary succession on a remote island where most of the vegetation was destroyed. Plants that apparently survived the eruption dominated early plant communities. Not surprisingly, the most diverse post-eruption community most closely resembled a widespread pre-eruption type. Microhabitats where early plant communities were found were distinct and apparently crucial in determining plant survival. Comparison with volcanic events in related boreal regions indicated some post-eruption pattern similarities.
41240401|Truelove Lowland on Devon Island, Nunavut (75N), has long been investigated for its flora, fauna, and microbiota. Unlike ectomycorrhizae, endomycorrhizal interactions have been described as sparse or absent in this High Arctic environment. To probe this observation, samples of roots and associated soils (55 plants in total) from 10 genera in 9 families were collected during July 2006. Fungi growing within these roots were visualized using our high-sensitivity lactofuchsin epifluorescence method. Fungal colonization within plant roots (collectively, endorhizal fungi) was assessed with our quantitative microintersect method. Of the 3988 intersections assessed at 400x total magnification, only 154 lacked fungi. Most colonization was by septate endophytes (average abundance 66%, range 13-100%), and fine endophytes (average abundance 48%, range 0-100%). Endorhizal morphology in Dryas and Saxfraga roots typically consisted of thin extraradical hyphae that formed a sheath and grew between and within root cortical cells, resembling ericoid or ectendomycorrhizae. Soil in which the Truelove plants had grown, which had been stored at -20 C, was planted with wheat seeds. After 10 weeks, fungal colonization of these roots was 35-100%. Endorhizal fungi are typically present in roots of plants living on Devon Island tundra.
4095891|Streamflow, suspended sediment transport, and meteorological variables were measured during two field seasons in order to determine the climatic controls on daily discharge and suspended sediment load for three large middle arctic catchments. Substantive suspended sediment transfer only occurred during the short-lived nival peak, and the duration of the peak appears to be broadly scaled with interannual catchment snow water equivalence (SWE). Thermal energy was critical in generating streamflow and suspended sediment transfer, but only until watershed snowpack had been exhausted. Thus, total annual suspended sediment load in this environment is ultimately a function of total discharge through SWE rather than melt energy. Specific sediment yields were some of the lowest recorded in the arctic, ranging between 0.2 and
1552176| Intraseasonal patterns of normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI), leaf area index (LAI), and phytomass were compared for four tundra vegetation types at Ivotuk, Alaska, during summer 1999. The vegetation types included moist acidic tundra (MAT), moist nonacidic tundra (MNT), mossy tussock tundra, and shrub tundra. The seasonal curves of NDVI were similar among the vegetation types but with varying magnitudes of the peak values. Peak NDVI in the shrub tundra (0.83) was significantly greater than in MAT (0.76), which was significantly greater than in MNT (0.71) and mossy tussock tundra (0.70). LAI and phytomass exhibited high temporal variability with distinct seasonality only in shrub tundra. Seasonal LAI and NDVI patterns were therefore correlated only in shrub tundra, which was attributed to the high quantity of deciduous shrub foliage present in this community and absent in the other vegetation types. Shrub tundra peak live above-ground phytomass (1256  123 g m<sup>-2</sup>) was significantly greater than peak live above-ground phytomass for MAT, MNT, and mossy tussock tundra (722  71, 773  53, 703  39 g m<sup>-2</sup> respectively, P < 0.05). Relative abundances of deciduous shrubs, mosses, and graminoids were revealed as key components controlling differences in NDVI, LAI, and phytomass among tundra vegetation types. 
20181721|Cumulative days of seasonal snow cover at Ben Lawers National Nature Reserve, a mountain site in Scotland, are related to altitude, temperature, and precipitation using a 45-year record from a nearby climate station. Multiple linear regression is used to model interannual variation in snow cover duration as a function of winter mean daily temperature and monthly precipitation. Snow cover duration is closely linked to temperature, while precipitation contributes a positive effect among winters of similar temperature mode. Snow cover duration at mid to upper altitudes (600-900 m) responds most strongly to variation in mean daily temperature. A 1 C rise in temperature at the station corresponds to a 15-day reduction in snow cover at 130 m and a 33-day reduction at 750 m. The empirical relationship is applied to climate change scenarios from the HadRM3 regional climate model. Under a 'low' greenhouse gas emissions scenario, snow cover in the 2050s is projected to be reduced by 93% at 130 m, 43% at 600 m and 21% at 1060 m, while under a 'high' emissions scenario these reductions are projected to be 100%, 68%, and 32%, respectively. The potential impact of snow cover reduction on snow-dependent vegetation is modeled. The results suggest a future decline in climax vegetation of international conservation importance.
1552645| The paper briefly presents a methodology for mapping surface UV radiation that uses a radiative transfer model and satellite data to quantify the influencing factors. TOMS, TOVS, and GOME data are used for the total column ozone. The cloud optical thickness is estimated using METEOSAT/MVIRI images. Other influencing factors taken into account include tropospheric aerosols, snow cover, and surface elevation. The resulting products are maps of surface dose rates and daily doses, covering Europe with a spatial resolution of 0.05. On this basis, construction of a European UV climatology has been undertaken, with the purpose of supporting impact studies on the environment and human health. The data set covers the period from 1 January 1984 to 31 August 2003. A comparison between the satellite estimates and the measurements in Ispra, Italy, is briefly presented. Finally, examples of how the climatological data set can document the geographical distribution and year-to-year variability in surface UV radiation are presented. 
23359380|We present the first glacier inventory of the Monte San Lorenzo region (4735S, 7218W) in the southern Patagonian Andes of Chile and Argentina. This region contains the largest and easternmost glaciers at these latitudes in South America. The inventory was developed using a combination of ASTER and Landsat ETM + scenes from 2005 and 2008, respectively, and a semi-automatic band ratio approach to map glacier ice. Manual corrections were applied to include debris-covered ice and ice in cast shadows. We inventoried 213 glaciers that cover a 2005/2008 total area of ca. 207 km 2 and lie between 520 m and 3700 m in elevation. Landsat TM images acquired in 1985 and 2000 were subsequently used to assess changes in glacierized area over the 19852008 interval. Based on all available information, we determined an 18.6% reduction in the total glacier area since 1985. Glaciers smaller than 1 km 2 have shown highly variable (0100%) relative areal reduction, whereas the formation and growth of proglacial lakes promoted rapid recession of the larger valley glaciers, which concentrate the major ice losses, representing ca. 32% of the total glacier area reduction. Glacier fragmentation has occurred for 50% of the ice bodies larger than 1 km 2 . These results agree with the generalized pattern of glacier retreat observed throughout the Patagonian Andes, but the lack of detailed meteorological and glaciological data in the area preclude a more refined analysis of the climate-glacier relationships and processes explaining the recent glacier trends.
20181722|A c. 5500 year record of peatland development and vegetation change was generated from a core recovered from an Agrostis magellanica peat bog on subantarctic Marion Island, using palynomorph, plant macrofossil, and tephra analyses. Two tephra horizons (both 17 cm thick) were identified and dated to ca. 2900 cal. BP and ca. 1700 cal. BP. Succession of the vegetation as a consequence of tephra deposition, particularly by the pioneer Azorella selago, appears to have been very slow, lasting as long as c. 700 yr. The slow pace of vegetation succession highlights the sensitivity of the indigenous Marion Island flora to environmental change, and the vulnerability to the spread of alien invasive species.
20181773|Understanding natural variability in precipitation and drought, and the resulting effects on Sierra Nevada forests, is crucial for successful resource management in this environmentally sensitive area of California. This study assessed the species-specific influence of precipitation variations on radial growth, recruitment, and mortality patterns for three conifer species (Pinus jeffreyi, Juniperus occidentalis, and Pinus contorta) in two mid-elevation lake catchments over the past 550 years. The P. jeffreyi chronology was the most highly correlated with winter precipitation patterns, although the other two species also exhibited significant correlations. Ring-width patterns suggest the influence of the Pacific Decadal Oscillation (PDO) and El Nio-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) on winter precipitation over the length of the records. Recruitment patterns displayed significant, though directionally distinct, correlations with winter drought: P. contorta exhibited increased recruitment during extended drought periods, while P. jeffreyi and J. occidentalis showed increased recruitment during wetter intervals. Finally, a ring of dead trees around both lakes is evidence of a late 20th century water level rise, likely caused by earlier snowmelt and/or wetter conditions. Moisture availability has exerted a strong influence on Sierra Nevada forests through time, but the strength of tree-growth response, and even the sign of tree population response, has been species-specific.
25642093|This paper describes a micromorphological investigation of an early Holocene loess-paleosol sequence at the Chena Hot Springs Road site, a highway road cut exposure near Fairbanks, Alaska, U.S.A. The procedure identified and described soil microstructure, basic mineral components and their related distributions, organic inclusions, and pedogenic features. Micromorphology confirmed the presence of a number of thin, discontinuous, weakly expressed soils that evince disturbance by diagenetic, graviturbative, and cryoturbative processes. Well-preserved organic remains indicate the presence of a boreal forest that would have acted as a highly effective sediment trap. The frequent observation of detrital iron-oxide grains is consistent with other studies of area loess that reveal high concentrations of magnetite and ilmenite, resulting in significant increases in magnetic susceptibility. Increases in wind strength are likely responsible for the increased clay content in the buried paleosols. Loess deposition, which would inhibit pedogenesis, is probably related to greater wind strength, while pedogenesis, indicative of stability and minimal deposition, suggests periods of reduced wind.
40962399|The sink-limitation hypothesis postulates that suppression of meristematic activity can limit growth at low temperatures (direct-cold-limitation) in situations where photosynthesis is not restricted. In accordance with this hypothesis, high concentrations of non-structural carbohydrates (NSC) have been found, in several studies, in plants at high altitudes or latitudes. However, high concentrations of NSC could also be due to nutrient deficiency. This study aimed to differentiate between nutrient-and direct-cold-limitation by comparing the growth and NSC concentrations of Abies veitchii saplings at two altitudes (high/low) and with two fertilization treatments (N-rich/N-poor). N-rich saplings grew better at the low than the high site, but N-poor saplings were suppressed to similar degrees at both altitudes, Among N-rich saplings, the leaf nitrogen concentration was lower at the high site than the low site. Leaf NSC concentrations were higher in N-poor than N-rich saplings. However, NSC concentrations were higher at the high site than the low site in leaves with the same nitrogen concentrations. These results indicate that direct-cold and nutrient-limitation may occur simultaneously at high altitude, causing restricted growth and NSC accumulation. Therefore, NSC concentration should be interpreted in terms of both directcold and nutrient-limitation.
20181847|Geographic variations in summer (July-August) precipitation data for the northern Qinghai-Xizang (Tibetan) Plateau, collected during the IOP (Intense Observation Period) of GAME-Tibet, were examined. Results indicated that, basically, the daily precipitation amount consistently varies temporally at all sites. An increase in precipitation amount is evident from north to south. The distribution of summer monsoon precipitation is affected by latitude, altitude, and other factors (i.e. atmosphere circulation, water vapor transportation). The latitude effect of precipitation in July and August was significant. August precipitation varied with both latitude and altitude. The site with higher elevation received more precipitation. Topoclimatic controls operating over precipitation on slopes include elevation. The distribution of the precipitation during July-August mainly showed the effects of latitude, but this was modified by the altitude effect. Redistribution processes caused by topography induce increased precipitation with altitude at some sites. Owing to the complexity of surface conditions on the Qinghai-Xizang (Tibetan) Plateau, precipitation is controlled by many factors simultaneously. Without benefit of an expanded observation network, it is difficult to separate the effects of the many factors influencing the distribution of precipitation in the region.
4095859|This article describes a 6-yr study of the radial growth rates (RGR,
10.2307/1552244| Establishment of forest trees into subalpine grasslands near Mt. Hotham, southeast Australia, was quantified in 1998 across long-established forest-grassland boundaries in belt transects at four sites. Although the grasslands varied in their dominant species and groundlayer biomass, tree encroachment (principally by Eucalyptus pauciflora) occurred at all sites. Tree encroachment is a recent and synchronous event; all invading saplings were 31-yr-old and the majority (54%) established between 1991 and 1995. Most sapling establishment (66%) occurred within 5 m of the forest-grassland boundary where the number of plants present was positively associated with the amount of overhanging tree cover at three of the four sites. No correlation between encroachment and groundcover type or biomass, however, was found at any site. Some of the recently established plants are now small trees (1-8 m in height) and have become reproductive, indicating that establishment in grasslands is successful, making ecotone shifts possible. Any changes in boundary position, however, will be slow given the limited distance that trees established from the forest edge. Tree encroachment near Mt. Hotham is likely the outcome of small-scale (e.g., regeneration microsite) and landscape-scale (e.g., climate, grazing) processes that require further clarification. 
40801755|Kasatochi Island, the subaerial portion of a small volcano in the western Aleutian volcanic arc, erupted on 7-8 August 2008. Pyroclastic flows and surges swept the island repeatedly and buried most of it and the near-shore zone in decimeters to tens of meters of deposits. Several key seabird rookeries in taluses were rendered useless. The eruption lasted for about 24 hours and included two initial explosive pulses and pauses over a 6-hr period that produced ash-poor eruption clouds, a 10-hr period of continuous ash-rich emissions initiated by an explosive pulse and punctuated by two others, and a final 8-hr period of waning ash emissions. The deposits of the eruption include a basal muddy tephra that probably reflects initial eruptions through the shallow crater lake, a sequence of pumiceous and lithic-rich pyroclastic deposits produced by flow, surge, and fall processes during a period of energetic explosive eruption, and a fine-grained upper mantle of pyroclastic-fall and -surge deposits that probably reflects the waning eruptive stage as lake and ground water again gained access to the erupting magma. An eruption with similar impact on the island's environment had not occurred for at least several centuries. Since the 2008 eruption, the volcano has remained quiet other than emission of volcanic gases. Erosion and deposition are rapidly altering slopes and beaches.
4095834|Surface horizons of many alpine soils on Quaternary deposits in high-mountain settings are enriched in silt. The origin of these particles has been debated, particularly in the Rocky Mountain region of North America. The most common explanations are frost shattering of coarser particles and eolian additions from distant sources. We studied soil A horizons on alpine moraines of late-glacial (Satanta Peak) age in the Colorado Front Range. Surface horizons of soils on these moraines are enriched in silt and have a particle size distribution that resembles loess and dust deposits found elsewhere. The compositions of sand and silt fractions of the soils were compared to possible local source rocks, using immobile trace elements Ti, Nb, Zr, Ce, and Y. The sand fractions of soils have a wide range of trace element ratios, similar to the range of values in the local biotite gneiss bedrock. In contrast, silt fractions have narrower ranges of trace element ratios that do not overlap the range of these ratios in biotite gneiss. The particle size and geochemical results support an interpretation that silts in these soils are derived from airborne dust. Eolian silts were most likely derived from distant sources, such as the semiarid North Park and Middle Park basins to the west. We hypothesize that much of the eolian influx to soils of the Front Range occurred during an early to mid-Holocene warm period, when sediment availability in semiarid source basins was at a maximum.
10.2307/1552212| Between October 1993 and May 1998 we measured snow depth (cm), density (g cm<sup>-3</sup>), and resistance (kg  cm) adjacent to 53 Peary caribou (Rangifer tarandus pearyi) and 134 muskox (Ovibos moschatus) feeding craters on Banks Island in the Canadian High Arctic. Measurements were taken in early (26 October-18 November), mid- (12 February-1 March), and late-winter (20 April-4 May). Concurrently, we recorded snow depth, density, and resistance along fixed transects in the four habitats used by foraging caribou and muskoxen. Caribou craters were found predominantly (94%) in upland habitats; upland barren (UB), hummock tundra (HT), and stony barren (SB). Caribou abandoned craters in the more rolling UB and HT when snow was shallower, less dense, and less resistant than average snow conditions in these habitats; in most cases the differences were significant (P < 0.01). In SB, the habitat with the shallowest snow, caribou cratered through snow conditions similar to the average found in this habitat. During winter 1994-95, when snow depth, density, and resistance was greatest, we located caribou craters only in SB. Muskox craters were found almost exclusively (96%) in wet sedge meadows (WSM); the habitat with deepest snow. Muskoxen abandoned crater sites when snow depth, density, and resistance was less (P < 0.01) than average conditions in WSM, regardless of animal density. Muskoxen in low density areas were faced with deeper snow, particularly in late- winter, and they abandoned crater sites when snow depth was greater (P < 0.004) than muskoxen in high density areas. During winter 1994-95, muskox cratered through deeper, denser, and more resistant snow than during winter 1997-98 when snow conditions were the least severe of the study. We discuss our results in relation to the population dynamics of Peary caribou and muskoxen on Banks Island. 
20181812|After more than half a century of paleoenvironmental investigations, disagreements persist as to the nature of vegetation type and climate of the Bering land bridge (BLB) during the late Wisconsin (Sartan) glacial interval. Few data exist from sites on the former land bridge, now submerged under the Bering and Chukchi Seas. Two hypotheses have emerged during the past decade. The first, based on pollen data from Bering Sea islands and adjacent mainlands of western Alaska and Northeast Siberia, represents the likely predominant vegetation on the Bering land bridge during full-glacial conditions: graminoid-herb-willow tundra vegetation associated with cold, dry winters and cool, dry summer climate. The second hypothesis suggests that dwarf birch-shrub-herb tundra formed a broad belt across the BLB, and that mesic vegetation was associated with cold, snowier winters and moist, cool summers. As a step towards resolving this controversy, a sediment core from Norton Sound, northeastern Bering Sea was radiocarbon dated and analyzed for pollen content. Two pollen zones were identified. The older, bracketed by radiocarbon ages of 29,500 and 11,515 C yr BP, contains pollen assemblages composed of grass, sedge, wormwood, willow, and a variety of herb (forb) taxa. These assemblages are interpreted to represent graminoid-herb-willow tundra vegetation that developed under an arid, cool climate regime. The younger pollen zone sediments were deposited about 11,515 C yr BP, when rising sea level had begun to flood the BLB. This younger pollen zone contains pollen of birch, willow, heaths, aquatic plants, and spores of sphagnum moss. This is interpreted to represent a Lateglacial dwarf birch-heath-willow-herb tundra vegetation, likely associated with a wetter climate with deeper winter snows, and moist, cool summers. This record supports the first hypothesis, that graminoid-herb-willow tundra vegetation extended into the lowlands of the BLB during full glacial conditions of the late Wisconsin.
10.2307/1552200|We examined the host-pathogen system of an evergreen dwarf shrub Vaccinium vitis-idaea and its fungal pathogen Exobasidium splendidum in two habitats, a cleared forest (disturbed habitat), and an untouched forest (undisturbed habitat). Our aims were to find out how environmental factors, plant community characters, and the characters of V. vitis-idaea vary among the two habitats and whether these characters correlate with the frequency of E. splendidum. Our results suggest that environmental factors in the disturbed habitat are more favorable for the disease through increased growth of the host V. vitis-idaea and possibly by increased growth and reproduction of the pathogen. The high emergence rate of new V. vitis-idaea ramets in the disturbed habitat resulted in a younger ramet age structure as compared with the undisturbed habitat. Consequently, the ratio of growing to nongrowing ramets was higher in the disturbed habitat. We consider growth to be a prerequisite for V. vitis-idaea becoming infected. Thus, a low amount of growing ramets may be seen as a characteristic of undisturbed V. vitisidaea stands, which buffers the plant against E. splendidum. On the other hand, shoot and ramet death caused by E. splendidum. may induce compensatory growth in V. vitis-idaea, thus supporting the survival of the fungus.
24551606|The objective of this study is to determine fine-scale spatial and temporal trends in screen temperature, lapse rates, and inversions associated with the Great African Escarpment wall. Particular attention is focused on the characteristics of near-surface-temperature lapse rates, their variability associated with particular synoptic conditions, and environmental implications such as for modeling climate projections in topographic- and climatic-specific high mountain regions. Hourly temperature data were logged on northeast- and southeastfacing slopes over 12 months in 2001, in the high Drakensberg Escarpment of southern Africa, at a range of elevations including: 2650, 2900, and 3200 m a.s.l. High spatial and temporal variations in lapse rates are recorded and illustrated. A relatively low mean annual lapse rate of 0.42 C 100 m1 between 2650 and 2900 m a.s.l. doubles to 0.84 C 100 m1 between 2900 and 3200 m a.s.l. The frequent westerlies and tropical temperate troughs provide for high lapse rates (0.91 C 100 m-1), which are likely responsible for the relatively high annual average lapse rate of 0.63 C 100 m1. Quantifying the fine-scale temperature trends has important implications for better understanding site-specific paleoenvironmental signatures and for projecting future climate scenarios and associated bio- and geosystem responses.
4139118|In the Colorado Front Range, rock glacier distribution has been noted on U.S. Geological Survey maps and in several publications; however, a comprehensive account of distribution is not available. When analyzed in a Geographic Information System (GIS), Digital Elevation Model variables (elevation, slope, or aspect) could reveal unique topographic characteristics of rock glaciers. The objectives of this study are to provide an accurate, complete account of rock glacier locations in a digital format, to compare topographic variables of rock glacier form and activity classes, and to evaluate glacier and rock glacier topographic information. Rock glacier locations were obtained from previous studies and were re-digitized on highresolution digital orthophotos. Glacier distribution was determined through classification of a satellite image. Topographic information for rock glacier form and activity classes as well as for glaciers was obtained through zonal overlay in a GIS. Results indicate that tongue-shaped rock glaciers occur at higher elevations, have more northerly aspects, and have gentler slopes compared to lobate rock glaciers. Active, inactive, and fossil forms showed typical elevation and aspect gradients. Active rock glaciers are found at the highest elevations and most northern aspects. Inactive rock glaciers are found at lower elevations on all aspects with a tendency to face northeast, and fossil rock glaciers occur at the lowest elevations on all aspects. Topographic variables for all rock glaciers were statistically different compared to glacier locations; however, active tongue-shaped rock glaciers had similar topographic variables compared to glaciers, but lobate forms showed a significant difference. In the Front Range, active tongue-shaped rock glaciers are developed by glacial processes and active lobate forms are the product of periglacial processes.
40305861|Pollen limitation (PL) is thought to be an important factor driving the evolution of floral traits in alpine plants. However, results of pollen supplementation experiments in alpine plants do not always show high levels of PL, and a general review of the importance of PL on alpine-plant reproduction is needed. We assessed to what extent alpine plants are pollen limited, and whether the intensity of PL differs between alpine and lowland species. Moreover, we assessed whether or not PL of alpine species depends on their reproductive system and, finally, whether the outcome of PL studies depends on whether supplemental-pollination was done at the whole-plant level or within a subset of available flowers. We performed both classical and phylogenetic meta-analysis. Our results show that alpine plants are pollen limited. However, PL did not differ significantly between alpine and lowland species. In the alpine, self-incompatible and self-compatible species show similar levels of PL. We did not find differences in PL between different manipulation levels. These results will help understand the real importance of PL of seed production in the alpine. We identify gaps in our knowledge of PL in the alpine that could serve to guide future directions of research in this field.
4095896|Data mining-the discovery of previously unknown information from a large collection of individual data sources-is becoming increasingly popular for scientific data archives. We describe an approach to data mining that uses spatial, temporal, and type constraints to obtain a broad list of data that are potentially related to a data set of interest. Tree- and spline-based multivariate regression and classification techniques are then used to identify functional relationships between the data. Expert knowledge is used to constrain and guide the model building and evaluation process. We demonstrate the approach by identifying relationships between indicators in a state of the Antarctic environment reporting database. Analyses of the fuel usage of electrical generators and boilers at Australia's Davis station yielded fuel usage dependencies on air temperature and wind speed that were in good accordance with known physical processes. The phenomenon of periodic haul-outs of large numbers of leopard seals on Macquarie Island was related to anomalies in regional sea ice cover and sea surface temperature.
25642090|Surface height and mass balance changes of Taku and Lemon Creek Glaciers within Juneau Icefield, Alaska, are examined to determine the relationship between these parameters and climatic forcing. Both Taku and Lemon Creek Glaciers are located in a maritime climate, but they behave very differently. Taku Glacier, a former tidewater glacier, is 70 times larger than Lemon Creek Glacier, and its dynamics are largely a result of the post-tidewater glacier cycle which causes insensitivity to climate change during advance phases. Taku Glacier is advancing at present but its surface height, mass balance, and rate of advance have decreased since 1988. Lemon Creek Glacier, a small alpine glacier, is retreating and has maintained a negative mass balance since 1953. Mass balance records from both Taku and Lemon Creek Glaciers correlate well with temperature and show little correlation with precipitation. The mass balance of these glaciers also correlates with the Pacific Decadal Oscillation (PDO). However, the Lemon Creek Glacier mass balance record shows a stronger correlation with the PDO than that of Taku Glacier. Taku Glacier shows a longer delay in response to warming in Southeast Alaska likely due to post-tidewater glacier dynamics, its large accumulation area ratio (AAR), and its size.
4095828|The present investigation of High Arctic epilithic lichens and their substrate is based on field observations in Inglefield Land, North-West Greenland, mainly in 1999, with subsidiary observations from 1995. Eighteen rock samples, all glacial erratics, were specifically selected on the basis of macroscopic mineralization features such as iron and copper staining, vein and breccia structures, and ore minerals. The samples are representative of the crystalline shield, and their lithologies can be matched with exposures in Inglefield Land. Seven lichen communities are recognized, viz. Pleopsidium chlorophanum c, Xanthoria elegans var. splendens c, Dimelaena oreina-Physcia caesia-Xanthoria elegans c, Xanthoria elegans-Umbilicaria virginis c, Orphniospora moriopsis c, Porpidia flavicunda c, and Tremolecia atrata c. The studied material on the 18 samples reveals no conspicuous correlation between metal concentrations in the rock samples and the lichen communities and, broadly speaking, it can be stated that the lichens reflect more the properties of the rock surface, such as, for example, nitrogen- and iron-bearing weathering crusts, than the mineralogical composition of the rocks. However, there is a very close affinity between the Orphniospora moriopsis community and one variety of syenitic rocks with elevated magnetite and phosphorus.
1552341| We monitored variability of heat tolerance, osmotic water potential, and microclimate for seven alpine plant species at field sites and in response to a controlled in situ heat treatment (+3 K) using infrared lamps. Mean and maximum heat tolerance differed significantly between species and were clearly related to growth form and moisture conditions in the preferred microhabitat. Diurnal heat tolerance changes greater than 1.5 K occurred on 18% of summer days at a velocity of 0.4-2.2 K h<sup>-1</sup>. The diurnal heat tolerance amplitude ranged from 4.8 to 9.5 K, exceeding even the seasonal amplitudes (5-8 K) previously reported for other higher plant species. Heat tolerance increased under warmer microsite conditions and in warmer years. Long-term artificial heating by +3 K led to a significant (P > 0.01) increase in heat tolerance by +0.6 K. Under drought stress, heat tolerance was reduced to minimum values, with the exception of xerophytic species. The plant species investigated appeared to be very well adapted to the temperature conditions of their microhabitat, with the exception of the cushion plant Minuartia recurva, which recurrently experienced heat damage during the investigation. 
10.2307/1552507| Radiocarbon-dated organics from lacustrine cores and colluvial basins, combined with measurements of lichens growing on moraines previously interpreted as Neoglacial in age, argue that the extent of post-Pleistocene ice in the northern Uinta Mountains was limited. An AMS date of 12,190  120 <sup>14</sup>C yr BP on basal organic sediment from a tarn indicates that deglaciation was locally complete by 14 ka BP. Additional radiocarbon ages of 10 ka BP from two colluvial basins behind end moraines suggest that these moraines date to the latest Pleistocene. Crosscutting moraines from a fourth site indicate that an active cirque-glacier system was present at some point after the terminal Pleistocene deglaciation. Maximum diameters of Rhizocarpon geographicum lichens on these moraines, however, suggest they may predate Little Ice Age deposits in the Wind River Range and Sierra Nevada. The convergence of evidence suggests that glaciers in the northern Uintas during the Holocene were extremely limited in extent, and restricted to the middle Neoglacial period. This preliminary conclusion contradicts some previous interpretations of the upper subalpine geomorphology of the range, which postulated widespread post-Pinedale glaciation, and multiple stades of Holocene Neoglaciation. 
1552639| Respiration rates, thermal sensitivity, and thermal acclimation potential of root respiration were investigated in Ranunculus from the Arctic. Comparisons of three species (R. glacialis, R. nivalis and R. acris subsp. pumilus) used plants grown on a mountain or in a glasshouse for 6 wk at contrasting soil temperatures (5.4 and 14.5C, respectively). Northern and southern ecotypes of two species of Ranunculus (R. pygmaeus, and R. acris subsp. acris), together ranging from Svalbard (79 N) to Scotland (56N), were similarly compared after 2 wk in a growth cabinet at 5 and 15C. Respiration rates varied at standard measurement temperatures; R. nivalis and R. pygmaeus grown on the mountain or at 5C had the highest respiration, followed by other alpine snowbed species (R. glacialis and R. acris subsp. pumilus) and R. acris subsp. acris from the arctic lowland; R. acris subsp. acris from Scotland had lowest rates. Respiration was temperature sensitive for all populations, increasing progressively between 5 and 20C (Q<sub>10 (5-15)</sub>: 1.2-2.4). Extent and type of acclimation of root respiration varied with no clear latitudinal pattern emerging. Acclimation to a 10C increase in growth temperature was achieved through: change in temperature sensitivity (shown by changes in Q<sub>10 (5-15)</sub> values) (R. acris subsp. pumilus); or reduction in absolute rates (R. pygmaeus from Svalbard, R. acris subsp. pumilus and R. nivalis). Complete acclimation occurred in R. acris subsp. pumilus and R. pygmaeus, whereas R. acris subsp. acris from Scotland and R. glacialis did not acclimate. Plants that adjust root respiration (e.g., R. pygmaeus from Svalbard and R. acris subsp. pumilus) to maintain a positive carbon balance, may tolerate predicted temperature increases in arctic regions. Plants with high rates of root respiration and/ or high sensitivity to temperature as well as poor acclimation potential, (e.g., R. glacialis) may only persist in cold microhabitats. 
1552178|At 17 sites in the European Alps (2170-3310 m), the population density and seed production of the high alpine cushion plant Eritrichium nanum were investigated. Recruitment in this non-clonal species relies exclusively on seeds. The population density rose significantly with increasing altitude. A mean number of 368 seeds per m<sup>2</sup> was observed. Whereas the quantity of the generative rosettes (metamers) was relatively constant, the annual seed production strongly varied and was found vulnerable, particularly in 1996, when it was suppressed by unfavorable weather conditions. In 1997 seed production again reached the usual level, when about the same amounts of seeds were recorded as in previous years, indicating the strong resistance of elevated E. nanum populations against the severe climate at high altitudes. With rising population density, E. nanum produces distinctly higher seed numbers. This increasing amount of seeds seems essential for the persistence of its uppermost populations. Our results indicate that it is caused by the rising number of rosettes/surface and not a higher reproduction by single rosettes. Compared to other alpine species, the seed weight of E. nanum (average 0.76 mg) is high. Most of its neighboring species are clonal, producing much lighter seeds. The strategy of producing heavy seeds favors successful recruitment and appears to be decisive for an obligatory seeder such as E. nanum.
40305853|Proglacial outwash plains, or "sandar," can be recognized to be a part of a geomorphic, sedimentary, and hydrological system. At a global scale, glacial meltwater regimes and hence proglacial fluvial systems are strongly determined by glacier basal water conditions and glacier behavior. At a catchment scale it is necessary to consider that proglacial fluvial sedimentation can have a range of frequency and magnitude regimes. This paper presents geomorphological and sedimentological data from Franz Josef Glacier and Fox Glacier sandar, which have adjacent catchments. We determine that glaciofluvial facies are the most abundant sediment-landform association at both sites. However, we also observe considerable intra-catchment variability with respect to the magnitude-frequency regime of fluvial deposition and the relative importance of fluvial processes for sandur character. Franz Josef Glacier sandur is relatively high relief and superficially composed of boulder bedforms that are laterally and longitudinally extensive. It has a sedimentology dominated by massive, poorly sorted sediments containing outsized clasts. Franz Josef Glacier sandur thus has a character consistent with formation by episodic high-magnitude fluvial flows, i. e. jokulhlaups. In contrast, Fox Glacier sandur is of low cross-section relief and comprises two distinct components: an aggrading braided river and paraglacial debris fan deposits. With the exception of the contemporary ice margin, Fox Glacier sandur is of significantly finer-grained material than that at Franz Josef Glacier. We suggest that the contemporary Fox Glacier sandur contains widespread evidence that refutes a hypothesis of highmagnitude episodic events. Additionally, contemporary paraglacial inputs from recently deglaciated valley walls at Fox Glacier are far more important to sandur sedimentation than water or sediment from Fox Glacier. These results present a conceptual model of the predominant contemporary land-forming processes within a glaciated technically active region with exceptionally high denudation rates. Intracatchment variability has important implications for predicting sediment fluxes in response to hydro-climatic forcing.
10.2307/1552601| The opening up of the Alps for tourism has increased the risk potential from natural hazards, one of the greatest of which is debris flows. Since 1996 we have been studying the debris fan of Multetta above Tschierv in Val Mstair in the Swiss Alps to determine the dates and hence the frequency of debris flows. Abrupt growth changes, impact scars, and the formation of adventitious roots allowed precise dating by dendrochronological methods in cases where tree ring characteristics occurred synchronously in several different trees. Six debris flows since the late 15th century could be recognized, occurring at the end of the 15th century, and in 1573, 1655, 1784, 1958, and 1989. The debris deposited during the past 500 yr has formed a layer about 5 m deep. Two further debris flows were identified through scars formed in 1759 and 1837. A greater frequency of scars between the mid-18th century and the end of the 19th century indicates considerably higher morphological activity during the last peak of the Little Ice Age. 
10.2307/1552445| The long-term climate records of the Mountain Research Station (MRS) at the University of Colorado cover a range of elevations from the lower montane forest zone (2000-2400 m), through the upper montane forest (2400-2800 m) and subalpine forest (2800-3300 m) to the alpine tundra (>3300 m) on Niwot Ridge, Colorado. Temperature records from all four MRS sites and the additional high plains site of Longmont (1509 m) are analyzed for the period 1952-1997, after extraction of much extra data from the original thermograph charts. The records are adjusted for instrumental changes where necessary and all four records are judged to be homogenous. Contrasting temporal trends are uncovered at the various elevations with warming at middle elevations and absolute cooling above the treeline in the alpine tundra. The resulting increased surface-based lapse rates do not arise from changes in relative frequencies of airflow types as is shown by a synoptic analysis based on objective airflow indices. Lapse rate increases are most systematic for synoptic classes with westerly components and during fall, winter, and spring. Climate at high elevations of the Front Range appears to be responding in an unusual way to global-warming influences. 
24551614|Arctic lake-rich landscapes are vulnerable to climate change, but their remote locations present a challenge to develop effective approaches for monitoring hydroecological status and trends. Here, we structure the hydrological component of an aquatic ecosystem monitoring program that addresses concerns of Parks Canada (Vuntut National Park) and the Vuntut Gwitchin First Nation about changing water levels of Old Crow Flats (OCF), Yukon, Canada, a 5600-km2 thermokarst landscape recognized nationally and internationally for its ecological, historical, and cultural significance. The foundation of the monitoring program is 5 years (20072011) of water isotope data from 14 lakes situated in catchments that are representative of the land-cover and hydrological diversity of OCF. Isotopic compositions of input water (I) and evaporation-to-inflow (E/I) ratios, calculated using the coupled-isotope tracer method, provide key hydrological metrics for each lake over the 5-year sampling interval. From these time series, we identify monitoring lakes that are sensitive to changes in snowmelt, rainfall, and evaporation, and demonstrate the use of the Mann-Kendall test for determining statistically significant trends in the roles of these hydrological processes on lake-water balances. These approaches will serve to identify lake hydrological responses to climate change and variability from ongoing water isotope monitoring by Parks Canada, in partnership with the Vuntut Gwitchin Government, Wilfrid Laurier University, and the University of Waterloo.
25642067|With climatic warming, wildfire occurrence is increasing in the boreal forest of interior Alaska. Loss of catchment vegetation during fire can impact streams directly through altered solute and debris inputs and changed light and temperature regimes. Over longer time scales, fire can accelerate permafrost degradation, altering catchment hydrology and stream nutrient dynamics. In 2004, the 217,000 ha Boundary Fire burned 65% of an established study site in the Caribou-Poker Creeks Research Watershed. We used this opportunity to investigate the impact of wildfire on stream chemistry and metabolism in boreal forest catchments. Wildfire impacts on chemistry were evaluated by examining solute chemistry in four catchments from 2002 to 2007. Ecosystem metabolism was measured over the summer of 2005 in one burned and two unburned catchments. Wildfire led to stream nitrate concentration increasing up to threefold, whereas dissolved organic carbon (DOC) and dissolved organic nitrogen concentrations decreased post-fire. Average stream gross primary production in the burned catchment was double that of the unburned sites (2.4 and 1.2 g O m day, respectively). Respiration rate was also elevated in the burned stream (6.6 g O m day) compared with the control streams (1.2 and 4.5 g O m day). Climatic warming has the potential to impact boreal forest streams through permafrost thaw and increased fire frequency, leading to altered solute inputs and production and respiration rates.
23252818|The paradigm that winter is a dormant period of soil biogeochemical activity in high elevation or high latitude ecosystems has been amply refuted by recent research. Carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) released from cold or snow-covered soil is a substantial component of total annual ecosystem carbon fluxes. Recent investigations have shown that the late-winter/early-spring transition is a period of high biogeochemical activity. However, little is known about the temporal dynamics of CO 2 from the snowpack itself during periods of snowmelt. We present a case study of three snowmelt events at a high-elevation site in northern Arizona during which we measured changes in CO 2 concentrations and fluxes above the snow and within the soil profile, and characterized the soil physical environment and site meteorological variables. We show that large pulses of CO 2 were emitted to the atmosphere during snowmelt, and we present evidence that these pulses came from CO 2 stored in snowpack. Earlier and more frequent snowmelts worldwide caused by climate change have the potential to alter the timing of release of CO 2 from land to atmosphere.
4095948|Although arctic lakes rank among the most pristine ecosystems remaining on Earth, widespread paleoecological analyses have revealed rapid recent changes in lake ecology that largely surpass Holocene natural variability and that are generally attributed to climate warming since the end of the Little Ice Age. However, the possibility that climate is only one dimension of these unprecedented ecological shifts remains an untested possibility, especially given that current warming may not yet exceed maximum, naturally mediated, postglacial warmth. In this paper, we assess whether increased anthropogenic nitrogen (N) deposition from distant sources is contributing to directional changes in the biogeochemistry and ecology of two remote lakes on Baffin Island in the eastern Canadian Arctic. Paleolimnological analyses, including diatom assemblages and a suite of biogeochemical proxies (total organic matter, biogenic silica, organic N and C contents, and stable isotopic ratios) reveal a complex suite of progressive changes that are coherently expressed in both lakes. Diatom assemblages began to change as early as the mid-19th century, but major inflections in the biogeochemical proxies occurred significantly later, being most pronounced after 1950. Among these changes are increases in sediment organic matter, depletions of
1552294|We examined the impact of Salix lapponum canopies on plant community structure in five sites along a climatic gradient in a glacier foreland in alpine south Norway. Species richness is lower inside canopies compared to outside in climatically relatively benign communities, while species richness is not affected by canopies in the most severe communities closest to the glacier. Differences in species composition inside and outside canopies, as judged by detrended correspondence analysis, are greater in the benign communities compared to the severe communities. Variation in the differences in species richness or composition outside and inside canopies within a community is related to differences in the reduction of photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) by canopies in only one community. Canopy size does not explain differences in species richness or composition between outside and inside canopies in any except one benign community. Our results suggest that species responses to canopies are individualistic, and that at the whole-community level negative and positive impacts of canopies on species occurrences cancel each other out in severe communities, whereas in benign communities negative effects dominate slightly over positive ones in their effects on species persistence inside canopies.
10.2307/1552451|Ghiacciaio del Calderone is the only glacier in the Italian Apennines and the southernmost glacier in Europe. In this paper, the authors present a tentative synthesis of the evolution of the glacier, with a particular focus on evaluating the variations in area and thickness ranging from the end of the Little Ice Age to the present. The analysis was performed in a GIS environment, using available data for georeferation (mainly from recent topographic maps) and for the reconstruction (from historical documents and old topographic maps) of the variations of the glacier in the last two centuries. The resulting values, reconstructed and/or calculated, covering the period since the end of the Little Ice Age, of about 36 m of ice thickness and of about 59,000 m<sup>2</sup> of ice surface area represent the glacier loss by 1990.
1552347|To evaluate edge effects in subalpine coniferous forest, I quantified stand structure characteristics in a plot that extended into the forest from a road that had been constructed approximately 30 yr previously on Mt. Fuji, in central Japan. The basal area of standing dead trees and the density of saplings in the plot were greater near the road. However, cluster analysis indicated that stand structure near the road edge was similar to that of gaps in the interior of the stand. Since edge effects may result from interactions among several variables, analyzing data sets that include several variables rather than a single variable is a promising approach for evaluating edge effects. In a multiple regression analysis, sapling densities of Tsuga diversifolia and Abies veitchii were strongly affected by the basal area of standing dead trees that had apparently died as a result of the construction. A. veitchii is more shade intolerant than the other two main species in the study plot, but it responds quickly to increased light availability. Although the plot is currently composed of T. diversifolia and A. mariesii, successful regeneration of A. veitchii may eventually change the species composition of this plot.
10.2307/1552280| Thirty-six Gelisols were investigated in the vicinity of Galbraith Lake and Toolik Lake (6830N, 14930W) in northern Alaska. The soils formed on surfaces previously interpreted as ranging from 110 ka BP to late Holocene in age. Sixteen of the profiles (44%) contained evidence of cryoturbation and were classified as Turbels, while the others were classified as Orthels. While most of the Orthels are developed in coarse-textured outwash, all of the Turbels are restricted to fine-grained till and colluvium with ice-rich permafrost. There were no significant differences in profile quantities of weathering products, such as H<sup>+</sup> ion, clay, silt, silt-plus-clay, and loss on ignition, between Orthels and Turbels. However, there were significant or nearly significant differences in profile quantities of H<sup>+</sup> ion, silt, and silt-plus-clay as a function of age, with the lowest values in Holocene soils, intermediate values for the two younger drifts, and greater values for the oldest surface. A key finding of this study is that despite pervasive cryoturbation, soil properties can be used to determine relative age in the Low Arctic. Our results confirm previous age estimates that Itkillik II surfaces are of late Wisconsin age, with Itkillik I surfaces being somewhat older. 
20181783|Populations of arctic-alpine plant species inhabit a range of environments, to which their life-history characters are expected to have adapted; yet geographic differentiation among populations is seldom studied. Brief growing seasons mean that germination characters are critical fitness traits, especially for annual species. In this study, striking differences in germination traits among three geographically distinct populations of the widely distributed arctic-alpine annual Koenigia islandica are found. The seeds (achenes) of the Colorado population, which experience the lowest summer temperatures, are conditionally dormant; only scarification breaks dormancy. This germination pattern is consistent in all four investigated subpopulations from Colorado, with no significant differences among them. In contrast, seeds originating in the Yukon, which experience extreme winter temperatures but a relatively warm summer, germinate readily after cold stratification, a pattern consistent with that of summer annuals. Seeds from the Norway population, which experience the mildest climate, germinate readily even if untreated. Cold stratification decreases germination fraction in the Norway population, a pattern characteristic of winter annuals. The strong population differentiation found here provides evidence for divergent selection operating among arctic-alpine habitats and suggests that further investigation of its adaptive significance is merited.
23359382|Physiological processes responsible for ecosystem carbon and nitrogen cycling may vary across hill slopes and be controlled by watershed hydrology and the associated nutrient transport. Mass transport of nutrients down slope and into water tracks may increase nutrient delivery to plant roots, nutrient uptake, and perhaps photosynthetic activity. Small arctic watersheds are commonly characterized by increased biomass, particularly of woody deciduous shrubs, both down slope and in water tracks. We ask if photosynthetic physiology varies with hill slope position and if it is correlated to observed changes in above ground biomass. Chlorophyll fluorescence surveys from six common species reveal that maximum photosynthetic electron transport decreased significantly (by as much as 85%) down slope in 4 species. Leaf nitrogen concentrations varied from 1 to 2.5% across all leaves sampled, but show little trend with hill slope position, and as a result are not well correlated with photosynthetic electron transport. We hypothesize that trace metal concentrations may have increased in the leaves of plants growing in down slope positions and that this may be responsible for the reduction in electron transport. The relationship between the measured maximum energy conversion by photosystem II and maximum electron transport rate is species specific and indicative of light adaptation in these arctic species. Increased plant growth down slope and in water tracks does not appear to be correlated to the physiological parameters measured and instead are more likely a product of increased canopy nitrogen concentrations and leaf area accumulation.
40305863|Nitrogen availability is considered to be a key limiting factor for plant growth in arctic tundra. Freeze-thaw cycles, which can produce patterned-ground features, may also limit the establishment and growth of arctic plants. In this experiment, we fertilized nonsorted circles, a type of patterned-ground feature, and the surrounding more stable vegetation in moist nonacidic tundra of northern Alaska to determine if nitrogen availability limited plant communities on these disturbance-dominated features. Similar to other studies in moist nonacidic tundra, the fertilized stable vegetation showed an increase in graminoid biomass and a decrease in moss biomass, but no total biomass response. The plant communities on nonsorted circles were less responsive to the addition of nitrogen as compared to the well-vegetated rims. The nonsorted circle vegetation may be limited by additional factors, such as frost heave disturbance, availability of buried seeds, and/or other nutrients. This difference in fertilization response shows that the presence of these features creates spatial heterogeneity in tundra plant community dynamics that should be taken into account when studying tundra responses to environmental change.
1552170|Glacier-climate relationships in the Canadian Rockies have been documented previously through mass-balance studies of individual glaciers and local meteorological parameters. In terms of regional significance, however, the relationship between the areal distribution of glaciers and regional climate is perhaps more important in evaluating large-scale responses to climate forcings. The purpose of the current study is to establish which climate variables are responsible for the observed distribution of glaciers. Using a 1:50,000 digitized coverage of glaciers in the Canadian Rockies, a 1-km resolution Digital Elevation Model (DEM) and climate normals from 88 stations throughout the study area, the authors examine the correlation between climate variables and the distribution of glacial ice in the Canadian Rockies. Through the construction of climatic lapse rates, sea-surface interpolation, and subsequent extrapolation based on the DEM, simple cell climatologies that reflect both the altitudinal and regional variations in temperature and precipitation are developed for the study area. Normalized Ice Coverage values prescribed for the study cells from the digitized coverage are then examined through a statistical framework which suggests that spring precipitation, annual temperatures, and winter precipitation are the strongest predictors of glacier distributions in the Canadian Rockies.
41240440|While there has been a general trend of climate warming in the Arctic causing early snowmelt and prolonged growing season, climate change models for some areas in the High Arctic suggest increased snow accumulation, delayed spring melt, and consequently shorter growing season. We tested the vegetative and reproductive responses of Cassiope tetragona, an arctic shrub, to increased snow depth and delayed snowmelt using a snow fence experiment in Adventdalen, Norway (7854'N, 1801'E) . We recorded seasonal shoot length, number of leaves, and capsules per shoot for three summers (2005-2007): two prior and one after the treatment began. Phenological events were recorded in 2007. The number of seeds per capsule was counted and seed germination was tested. Phenological development was significantly delayed behind fences, with lower shoot length, number of leaves, capsules, and seeds per shoot segment (16, 20, 54 and 11%, respectively) compared to controls, but there was no difference in these parameters between plots prior to fence establishment. Seed viability was unaffected by treatment. A delay in start of growing season due to delayed snowmelt decreased vegetative and reproductive performance of C. tetragona; earlier melt may therefore improve performance. This may lead to floral composition change in some high arctic locations.
1552165| This study investigated the relationship of seed bank and field seedlings on the structure of standing vegetation. We also studied the roles in sexual regeneration of seed size, diaspore morphology, and the ability to regenerate vegetatively. Seed banks, field seedlings, and standing vegetation were sampled in 8 subarctic plant communities in Kilpisjrvi, Finland, in, 1995-1998. The seed bank densities varied from 99 to, 1109 viable seeds m<sup>2-1</sup> and decreased toward higher altitudes. The seed bank densities were significantly larger than the field seedling densities in the closed vegetation of the lower slopes, whereas the differences were smaller in the open, late-melting snowbeds on higher slopes. The species that occurred only in the seed bank had small seeds or appendaged diaspores. The field seedling densities were high in plant communities dominated by species with ineffective vegetative reproduction or by species with diaspores and with pappus. The floristic similarity was low between the seed bank, field seedlings, and standing vegetation. The nonmetric multidimensional scaling revealed that the species diversity was lower in the seed banks than in standing vegetation and field seedlings. The results indicate that all transitions equally constrain the sexual regeneration of vegetation. Clonality, very small and very large seed sizes, appendaged diaspores, and possibly narrow first leaves in seedlings are traits that limit the transition of plants from standing vegetation to the phase of field seedlings via seed bank. Persistent seed bank has a minor role compared to clonal growth in the regulation of vegetation structure. 
10.2307/1552235|The current global carbon budget has a missing sink, which is believed to be in terrestrial ecosystems. At least one carbon sink, wood charcoal sequestrated in soil, remains poorly detailed. We estimate the wood charcoal-carbon content in soils located in dry valleys within the French Alps. Soils were sampled at five sites along altitudinal transects, from the conifer-dominated subalpine forests to the alpine grasslands. The five sites were distributed along a bioclimatic and biogeographic gradient from the southern Mediterranean to the northern continental Alps. The altitudinal distribution of charcoal exhibits the same pattern in the five sites, despite stand fire history, and regional bioclimatic and biogeographic differences. Charcoal concentrations are low (0.01 to g<sub>char</sub> m<sup>-2</sup>) in soils from the current treeless belt, while soils at lower elevation show high concentrations (10 to g<sub>char</sub> m<sup>-2</sup>). The results suggest that the landscape structure determine the charcoal accumulation throughout variability of vegetation type and fire frequency. Charcoal concentrations recorded in the subalpine belt in the Alps are similar to those of Swedish boreal forests, but are 10 to 100 times lower than values from Mediterranean ecosystems. Dry to subhumid ecosystems contain subfossil carbon in the form of charcoal, which should be explicitly taken into account in the global carbon budget.
10.2307/1552414|Scour and fill patterns at East St. Louis Creek, Colorado, were investigated via repeat, detailed surveys of the channel bed at 11 cross sections during the 1995 snowmelt season. Spatial variability was remarkably high, with significant differences in cross section scour and fill patterns over distances as short as 0.5 m. Most sites had small net changes in bed elevation, both daily and over the entire runoff season. The data and observations indicate the presence of small pulses of fine material that are temporarily deposited on top of the channel pavement in wider areas of the channel and near woody debris complexes. Scour and fill are primarily limited to the finer material of such pulses. ANOVA analysis indicates that although discharge was important in predicting changes in bed elevation, the relationship between discharge and bed mobility is complicated by the effects of local channel morphology and a slight hysteresis. Regression analysis shows that variations in channel width determine where finer sediments are deposited, and therefore the locations of greater change in bed elevation. The proximity of morainal ridges and boulders to the channel edge locally influence the channel width and also the distribution of woody debris complexes. Results of this study suggest that the channel morphology and sediment transport along some reaches of small, high-gradient streams in watersheds with a glacial history may not respond as substantially to changes in discharge characteristic as do other types of alluvial channels.
20181835|Flight of alpine stream insects has not been well studied but is an important ecological process that ensures successful mating and allows gene flow among relatively isolated populations. In this study, we collected actively flying insects along a perpendicular transect from an alpine headwater stream in the Colorado Rocky Mountains (U.S.A.) during the summer emergence season in two consecutive years with contrasting hydrology: 2002 had minimal snowfall the previous winter, while 2003 snowfall was above average. Flight activity patterns among four common stream taxa were similar to previously reported results from streams below treeline: Ephemeroptera and Plecoptera declined as an inverse power function, Trichoptera declined as a negative exponential function, and Simuliidae did not decrease with lateral distance. Sex ratios typically were strongly biased, possibly a result of the harsh terrestrial environment negatively influencing the naturally more sedentary sex (which varies among taxa). In 2003, the majority of common species emerged approximately one month later than in 2002, and abundance and diversity were greater in 2003 than 2002, patterns potentially attributable to increased snowpack amount and duration. Late-emerging species, by contrast, were less abundant in 2003, likely because that year emergence was delayed to later in the season, when cooler air temperatures reduce flight activity. Our results suggest that alpine streams are sensitive to interannual variation in snowpack, and therefore more research will be needed to address the potential effects of climate change and associated winter snowfall trends on these unexpectedly diverse aquatic systems.
20181762|Pollinator-dependent reproductive systems are predicted to be disadvantageous in the Arctic due to the unreliability of pollinator services. Observations in northwestern Alaska appear to support this prediction, where the common Primula eximia possesses reproductive assurance through homostyly and is outpacing the reproduction of its rare, distylous, and pollinator-dependent congener, P. tschuktschorum. We examined the reproductive ecology of these two taxa to determine if P. tschuktschorum is fully distylous with self and intramorph incompatibility, if P. eximia is homostylous with an advantage in fecundity over the rare species, and if there are reproductive interactions between the species. Our results indicate that while P. tschuktschorum is morphologically distylous, it displays only weak incompatibility reactions, but nonetheless has significant reproductive limitations relative to the fecundity of P. eximia, especially in the face of herbivory, which reduces the pool of compatible mates. Some hybridization is occurring between the species. These results support previous suggestions that reproductive assurance may be an important factor limiting the distribution of distyly where pollinator service is unreliable. Homostylous species are likely to be more successful and outcompete distylous progenitors, and selection pressures for reproductive assurance may lessen strong self and intramorph incompatibility reactions in distylous species.
41240416|Wet sedge tundra communities in the High Arctic are valuable sources of forage for several resident and migratory herbivores; however, the effects of grazing on these systems have been rarely studied. We simulated grazing in two wet sedge meadows at a site on Ellesmere Island that has not been affected by grazing. Over two summers, we clipped plots at four different frequencies and removed litter to assess effects on aboveground net primary production, availability of soil nitrogen, shoot concentrations of carbon and nitrogen, and soil temperature and moisture regimes. Available soil nitrate and ammonium were highest in plots with intermediate clipping frequencies. Shoot nitrogen concentrations were also greater at intermediate clipping frequencies in two of the four species studied. Aboveground net primary production decreased after clipping, regardless of frequency. Litter removal resulted in slightly increased soil moisture, but had no effect on aboveground net primary production. Soil temperature was not affected by any of our treatments. These results suggest that nitrogen cycling is stimulated by intermediate frequencies of simulated grazing, but clipping decreased aboveground net primary production in ungrazed high arctic wet sedge tundra.
20181795|We studied the course of primary succession following deglaciation and the convergence/divergence of plant community development with respect to topographic factors at Koryto Glacier Valley on Kamchatka's Pacific coast. Vegetation changes over an 270-yr-old chronosequence were related to concurrent changes in substrate and soil properties. Ordination analyses showed that substrate texture and topography are the most important environmental factors influencing the course of succession. About 25 yrs after surface deglaciation, belowground stagnant ice melts, and moraine consolidation causes the successional communities to diverge. Speciespoor communities, dominated by alder and grasses (Alnus fruticosa, Calamagrostis purpurea), occurred on the fine-grained substrate of moraine crests, while species-rich communities, dominated by legumes and forbs (Oxytropis kamtschatica, Saxifraga species), developed on the coarse-grained substrate of moraine flanks, and in depressions communities dominated by willows and sedges (Salix arctica, Juncus beringensis) developed. In depressions and plains adjacent to the ridges, succession toward Alnus stands is hindered by late-melting snow and flooding. Plant-species richness peaked at the 80-yr-old moraine, but thereafter decreased as the rapid growth of Alnus led to dense stands that dominated resources and inhibited colonization and growth of earlier, as well as later, successional species. Mat-forming capacity, high litter production, an extensive root system, and snow-pressure tolerance enable A. fruticosa to maintain dominance without replacement by Betula ermanii. This potential climax species remains scattered on rock terraces and elevated locations above the valley basin where it escapes snow avalanches and accumulation, a factor responsible for the inversion of vegetation zones in this maritime region.
41240445|Snowmelt is considered to affect growth of the boreal forest. So, we tested the hypothesis that late snowmelts delay the onset of xylogenesis and reduce xylem production in trees. Timings of xylem formation were compared to the dates of complete snowmelt combining a 7-year monitoring of cambial activity with meteorological records in four plots of Picea mariana in Quebec, Canada. The spatial and temporal variability in snowfall was analyzed separately, so taking into account both the long-and short-term effects. Snowfall occurred from October to May, with a snow cover lasting 173-199 days. Overall, xylogenesis lasted 99-117 days, with onsets ranging from late May to mid-June. The highest cell productions were observed in the warmest site, where the longest periods of growth were observed. Although at long-term the effects of snowmelt were significant for both onset and duration of xylogenesis and cell production, at short-term only the relationship between the onset of xylogenesis and the date of complete snowmelt was significant. The initial hypothesis could be confirmed only partially. The different responses to the long-and short-term analyses demonstrate the multi-scale influence of snowfall on tree growth and the determinant role of nutrient cycling in the productivity of boreal ecosystems.
40305846|During the early life-history stages, plants are especially susceptible to the abiotic conditions present in high mountain environments. At high altitudes, facilitative interactions between close neighboring plants may buffer seedlings from these abiotic pressures by providing shelter from frosts and winds. At lower altitudes, seedlings may not be so limited by the abiotic environment, and may therefore compete for resources with close neighboring plants. Using four alpine sites at different elevations (representing an abiotic stress gradient), we investigated how the presence of close neighboring plants influences seedling growth in their first growing season. We experimentally cleared above-ground vegetation and transplanted seedlings of three species into cleared and control plots. We quantified the stress gradient of abiotic conditions across sites by measuring ambient and soil temperatures, soil moisture, and soil frost heave. We used the "Relative Neighbor Effect" index to show the direction of the interaction between transplanted seedlings and their close neighboring plants. Aciphylla glacialis seedlings showed neutral interactions across the gradient of alpine sites, with undetectable change across the growing season, compared with Brachyscome rigidula seedlings which showed positive interactions with neighbors across the growing season at most sites. Trisetum spicatum seedlings showed mostly neutral interactions with neighbors at the higher elevations, and often negative interactions at the lower elevations, particularly midway through the growing season. Our findings highlight the importance of spatial and temporal plantplant interactions with regard to seedling performance across altitudinal stress gradients.
24551622|Dissolved organic matter (DOM) exported in glacier meltwater influences downstream biogeochemical processes, and climate warming may increase the meltwater DOM flux. In this study, we quantify and use fluorescence spectroscopy and parallel factor analysis (PARAFAC) to characterize DOM exported in glacier meltwater in Taylor and Wright Valleys, McMurdo Dry Valleys, Antarctica. Andersen Creek, a proglacial stream draining Canada Glacier meltwater, exported 20 kg of DOM as dissolved organic carbon (DOC) to Lake Hoare during the melt season. Supraglacial snowpack DOM from all of the Dry Valley glaciers sampled exhibits "protein-like" fluorescence indicating that it contains potentially labile moieties that might be a favorable substrate supporting downstream microbial metabolism. However, this protein-like fluorescence does not persist in any of the meltwater streams surveyed, suggesting that it is quickly transformed by resident microbial populations and/or mixed with other DOM pools within stream channels or along its margins. Given the seemingly ubiquitous protein-like fluorescent characteristic of glacier-derived DOM and the immediate change to the bulk DOM in glacier streams, a more thorough characterization of the bulk DOM pool from glacial sources and through downstream ecosystems would yield valuable information about the potential contribution of glacier melt to the global carbon cycle.
4139080|This paper describes the structural glaciology of Haut Glacier d'Arolla, a small valley glacier fed by two distinct accumulation basins in the Swiss Alps. A considerable body of field data is presented alongside observations from ground and aerial photographs. Suites of structures identified in the field and from aerial photographs are first described in nongenetic terms before being assigned regular structural terms. Haut Glacier d'Arolla is dominated by primary stratification, which is progressively folded and eventually transposed into longitudinal foliation as it moves into the glacier tongue. Crevasses and crevasse traces cross-cut and in places displace primary stratification and longitudinal foliation. Crevasse traces are formed by the closure of crevasses or may represent tensional veins. On their journey downglacier, crevasse traces become increasingly rotated. Close to the snout, some crevasse traces become reactivated as thrust faults. Strain ellipses, derived from the velocity field, show progressive deformation downglacier (cumulative strain). The shapes of the strain ellipses agree with inferences made concerning the orientation and magnitude of strain from observations of structures in the field. Independent modeling of cumulative strain shows good agreement with the development of longitudinal foliation in a simple shear regime. However, there are inconsistencies in the relationship between modeled cumulative strain and other structures.
1552295| We examined the effects of snow avalanche on stand structure and the subsequent regeneration of subalpine Abies mariesii Mast forest in northern Japan, and discussed whether gap formation after avalanche disturbance leads to immediate seedling establishment or not. Tree size and age, tree-ring chronology, and seedling density were compared between, on, and around a relatively large avalanche path, which was created in the mid-1980s within Hachimantai National Park. On the avalanche path, only smaller and younger trees (height <5 m, 50-100 yr old) escaped the mechanical damage of avalanche by leaning into the remaining snowpack, and old canopy trees were mostly killed by stem breakage. Tree size structure of the avalanche path, including both living and dead individuals, was relatively similar to that of nearby undisturbed forest, indicating that a mature stand (>ca. 200 yr old) had been previously developed on the avalanche slope without large-scale disturbances in the past. Most of the surviving, younger trees showed abrupt growth release during the few years (1987-1989) after the avalanche event. However, densities of both post-avalanche (<15 yr old) and pre-avalanche (15 yr old) seedlings were much lower on the avalanche path than in the nearby forest, especially at microsites covered with dense dwarf bamboo (Sasa kurilensis) shrub. The pre-avalanche seedlings on the avalanche path sharply increased annual height growth rates after the mid-1980s avalanche, but such positive growth response did not continue longer than 6 to 7 yr. These findings suggested that gap formation following the infrequent, large-scale avalanche disturbance did not necessarily lead to immediate seedling recruitment and/or further growth release of pre-avalanche seedlings. The constraint of seedling establishment was primarily explained by the lack of potential seed supply, and shading effect of the dwarf bamboo bush. Consequently, post-avalanche regeneration of the subalpine fir forest was likely to depend on the smaller individuals (2-5 m in height) that were able to avoid both the mechanical damage of avalanche and mortality from shading by the dwarf bamboo. 
40305844|Mount Washington, New Hampshire, has the longest northeastern U.S. mountain climatological record (1930s to present), both at the summit (1914 m) and at Pinkham Notch (612 m). Pinkham's homogenized daily temperature exhibits annual (mean = + 0.07C/decade, p = 0.07; min = + 0.11C/decade, p = 0.01), winter (min = + 0.18C/decade,p = 0.07), spring (max = + 0.13C/decade, p = 0.10), and summer (min = + 0.11C/decade, p = 0.01) warming trends. Though suggesting annual, winter, and spring warming (0.05 to 0.12C/decade), mean summit temperature trends were not significant. Pinkham shows no significant change in date of first and last snow; however, the summit does but its period of record is shorter. Onset of continuous snow cover has not changed significantly at either site. Thawing degree days trended earlier at the summit (2.8 days/decade; p = 0.01) and Pinkham Notch (1.6 days/decade, p < 0.01), but end of continuous snow cover trended significantly earlier (1.6 days/decade;p = 0.02) only at Pinkham. Growing degree days showed no significant trends at either location. Pinkham exhibits more climatic change than the summit but less than regional lower elevations. Thermal inversions and high incidence of cloud fog commonly at or above the regional atmospheric boundary layer may explain the summit's resistance to climate warming. Caution is needed when extrapolating climate change trends from other mountains or proximate lower elevation climate data to upper elevations.
40801693|Poa alpina grass plays a predominant role across the entire range of primary succession on alpine glacier forelands. One demographic factor that reacts clearly to changing environmental conditions is reproduction. Using permanent plot data, the complete life cycle of Poa alpina was studied along a successional gradient of the Rotmoos glacier foreland (2300-2400 m a. s. L, Central Alps, Austria) over a period of three years. We used matrix modeling to study the importance of the generation of plantlets and seedlings along the successional gradient and their ability to form adult individuals, and we hypothesized that plantlets develop faster to adults than seedlings because they start already with 3-4 developed leaves. The study showed that plantlet and seedling fecundities of Poa alpina changed differently in the course of succession: seedling establishment was observed over the entire range of the successional stages, whereas plantlet establishment almost vanished with ongoing succession. In the pioneer stage, plantlets were more important than reproduction by seedlings. But we found neither a higher survival rate nor a significant advantage in development to adults for plantlets compared to seedlings. Opportunistic reproduction plantlets under harsh abiotic conditions, seeds under increasing density may therefore explain the fact that the species is ubiquitous along the whole glacier foreland.
10.2307/1552450|Seven meters of snow accumulated at 1470 m above sea level on the Norwegian glacier Austre Okstindbreen during the 1994-95 winter. Fifty samples, together representing the entire snowpack, were collected in a continuous column downwards from the surface on 29 April 1995, before the onset of melting. The water-equivalent thickness of each sample was calculated from density measurements. Concentrations of Na<sup>+</sup> and non-sea-salt (nss) SO<sub>4</sub><sup>2-</sup> in the samples were measured and the ionic loads determined. In an attempt to date some of the stratigraphic variations of ionic concentrations, use was made of precipitation data from the monitoring site Tustervatn (439 m asl), 25 km southwest of the glacier. Synoptic conditions associated with heavy precipitation, extended periods of dry weather, high Na<sup>+</sup> loading, and high nss SO<sub>4</sub><sup>2-</sup> loading were identified. Daily values for precipitation amount, Na<sup>+</sup> load, and nss SO<sub>4</sub><sup>2-</sup> load for the 115 d on which more than 1 mm of precipitation was recorded were recalculated as percentages of the winter totals. Comparison of data from Tustervatn and the 1470 m site indicates that about 2.5 m of the 1470 m snowpack had accumulated by the end of November 1994, 4 m by the middle of January, and 5 m by mid-February.
20181801|We analyzed diversity patterns of alpine tundra ecosystems along environmental gradients. We hypothesized that alpine diversity is affected by climate at local and regional scales, nutrient availability, soil moisture, and disturbance related to herbivory. In all, 232 samples in 11 study areas in Troms and Finnmark counties were analyzed with regard to - and -diversity of vascular plants and lichens. Relationships between -diversity and environmental variables were analyzed by regression trees. -diversity defined as species turnover was investigated using indirect ordination methods. Sites with non-acidic soil parent material showed highest species densities. Lowest species numbers were typical for extreme topographic positions. Heavily grazed samples showed less species numbers and coverage percentage of vegetation. The number of graminoid species was found to be highest in areas of high grazing pressure. We concluded that -diversity was controlled by growing season, snow cover, pH, soil moisture, disturbance, temperature, and precipitation, stressing the importance of multi-factorial approaches in diversity studies. Determinants of -diversity were predominantly local environmental conditions, whereas regional conditions were less important.
41240443|We used a regionally modified global vegetation model (BIOME4-Tibet) to simulate biome distribution on the Tibetan Plateau under current climate conditions derived from regional meteorological observations. The bioclimatic limits (mean temperatures of the coldest and warmest months, minimum temperature, growing degreedays on 5 C and 0 C bases) for some key alpine plant functional types (temperate deciduous and conifer trees, boreal deciduous and conifer trees, desert woody plants, tundra shrubs, cold herbaceous plants, and lichens/forbs) were redefined based on regional vegetation-climate relationships. Modern vegetation maps confirmed that the BIOME4-Tibet model does a better job of simulating biome patterns on the plateau (gridcell agreement 52%) than the original BIOME4 model (35%). This improved model enhanced our ability to simulate temperate conifer forest, cool conifer and mixed forest, evergreen taiga, temperate xerophytic shrubland, temperate grassland and desert, and steppe and shrub tundra biomes, but made a negligible or reduced difference to the prediction of temperate deciduous forest, warm-temperate mixed forest, and three tundra biomes (erect dwarf-shrub tundra, prostrate dwarfshrub tundra, and cushion forb, lichen, and moss tundra). Future modification of the vegetation model, by increasing the number of shrub and herb plant functional types, re-parameterization of more precise bioclimatic constraints, and improved representation of soil, permafrost, and snow processes, will be needed to better characterize the distribution of alpine vegetation on the Tibetan Plateau.
20181800|Numerous paleolimnological studies of Arctic lakes and ponds have shown marked shifts in both algal and invertebrate taxa within the past 150 years that are consistent with recent climatic warming. However, the magnitude and timing of changes are often non-uniform, with large, deep lakes frequently exhibiting muted assemblage shifts relative to smaller ponds. The hypothesis that duration and extent of ice cover exerts an overriding influence on habitat availability for biota has been commonly invoked to explain these differences, and many studies indicate that changes in ice cover are important drivers of recent biological changes. However, a detailed paleolimnological comparison of two lakes from the same region that have similar water chemistry but different ice cover regimes has not yet been attempted. Here we examine the influence of prolonged ice cover on the rate, magnitude, and direction of fossil diatom species shifts over time in two remarkably similar and adjacent Ellesmere Island lakes that mainly differ in their periods of ice cover. These two lakes exhibit strikingly different paleolimnological diatom profiles, despite their physical proximity, similar depths, and nearly identical water chemistry. In the lake characterized by prolonged ice cover, we find little evidence of diatom-inferred environmental change over its recent history, while diatom assemblages have undergone dramatic changes in the lake with the shorter duration of ice cover. This study supports the general hypothesis that changes in ice cover are a principle determinant of shifting diatom assemblages in High Arctic lakes.
10.2307/1552591| The landforms and deposits associated with AD 1996 debris-flows at three sites in the low-alpine zone, Jotunheimen, southern Norway, are described and analyzed. Parallel leves, composed of diamicton, occur on the valley-side slopes but distinct frontal lobes are absent: instead, low-angle fans, up to about 50 m wide and ca. 500 m long have overridden vegetation in the footslope zone and in the valley bottom. Five facies are recognized in the fans: (1) cobble-rich diamicton, up to 50 cm thick; (2) pebble-rich diamicton, typically up to 30 cm thick; (3) pebbly sand lenses, up to about 15 cm thick; (4) massive silty sand or sandy silt (intermediate-type deposits) of thickness 5-15 cm; and (5) laminated fine sands and silts (typically a few cm thick). These succeed one another in a vertical and lateral sense. The landform-sediment assemblage and proximal-distal trends are explained by a four-stage model of an integrated debris-flow event in which (1) slope failure and sediment disaggregation are followed sequentially by (2) debris flow sensu stricto (cohesive debris flow), (3) wet mudflow or hyperconcentrated flow, and (4) water flow. Debris flow sensu stricto accounts for an estimated 48 to 51%, wet mudflow/hyperconcentrated flow 21 to 26%, and water flow 24 to 31%, by volume of material mobilized during each debris-flow event at two of the sites. Results highlight the potential complexity of debris-flow events and the importance of the associated relatively fine-grained intermediate-type deposits with little or no structure, which are attributed here to wet mudflow and/or hyperconcentrated flow. Water-lain deposits, also integral to the debris-flow event, tend to be thinner and finer, better sorted, and distinctly laminated. 
10.2307/1552221|The impact of black-capped marmots on arctic tundra vegetation was examined by descriptive and quantitative methods in three marmot home ranges. Vegetation in the home range core area (main burrows) differed from the peripheral zone (secondary burrows, paths, scratching areas) or from marmot-free tundra area. In main burrow plots species richness, diversity, and equitability were low. In the same places graminoid abundance were increased, whereas dominance of shrubs and presence of cryptogams (bryophytes and lichens) were declined. Some forbs were more often found around marmot main burrows. Some of these are rare and listed as protected species in Siberian Arctic tundra. This suggests that through activities such as burrowing, trampling, and excretion black-capped marmots modify microrelief and soil properties, which influence the floristic structure and composition of the arctic tundra.
25642068|Blowing and drifting snow continues to be a transportation and safety hazard with significant economic costs. Critical design criteria for the construction of a living (vegetated) snow fence are reviewed and presented using the most currently available design equations. Coupled with an analysis of climate and topographical data, the design criteria are applied to an area in Rocky Mountain National Park historically prone to snow drifting. The long-term average snow accumulation season (period beginning with the first blowing snow and ending with maximum drift density) was calculated from air temperature as between 4 November and 10 April, and these dates compared well with those based on nearby snow observations. Over the snow accumulation season, the potential for snow transport based on wind characteristics was 21.4 tonnes m (all wind directions), of which 21.0 tonnes m occurred along a mean drifting direction of 259 (nearly perpendicular to the road at the study site). The potential for snow transport based on snow characteristics (754 tonnes m) exceeded the potential for snow transport based on wind characteristics, thus indicating that wind was the primary factor controlling drift formation. Using a snow transport of 23.9 tonnes m, determined using the long-term average snow water equivalent plus one standard deviation (occurred in three out of 25 years of observations), the required snow fence height needs to be 1.61 m tall, set back 56.4 m from the road. The fence will have a trapping efficiency of 79% when an effective porosity of 50% is achieved. Comparisons of these design parameters to snow drift conditions created behind a structural fence indicated that living snow fence design parameters are likely appropriate and realistic.
1552356| We evaluate two approaches to spatially interpolating winter surface air-temperature fields over the terrestrial Arctic from available weather-station records. We then examine 30 yr (1961-1990) of winter air-temperature change over the terrestrial Arctic through a timetrend analysis of interpolated winter air-temperature fields. We used monthly average air temperatures from 4984 Arctic station records that were available for the period 1961-1990. The two spatial interpolation procedures employed were "traditional" interpolation and a method that makes use of spatially high-resolution digital-elevation information, called "DEM-assisted" (DAI). The Arctic average winter air temperature obtained from the traditionally interpolated 1961-1990 climatology is over 9C colder than the mean winter station temperature, illustrating the considerable warm bias in Arctic weather station locations. The DAI-based average is 1C colder, further emphasizing the importance of spatial interpolation prior to spatial averaging. Over the 30 yr, increases in winter air temperature appear across western Canada and in parts of central Asia, with decreasing trends apparent over eastern Canada. Much of the Arctic exhibits no clear trend, with low explained variances. In western Canada, however, warming trends are on the order of 0.1 to 0.4C yr<sup>-1</sup> when the fields analyzed were traditionally interpolated or interpolated using DAI. Explained variances (r<sup>2</sup>s) are higher where trends are largest: approximately 0.2 to 0.4 in western Canada and slightly higher (albeit spuriously) in an isolated area of central Asia. Over the entire terrestrial Arctic, mean winter air temperature has increased at a rate of about 0.05C yr<sup>-1</sup> based on traditional interpolation and DAI. 
10.2307/1552626|The Mutual Climatic Range (MCR) method of paleoclimate reconstruction uses the climatic parameters associated with the modern range of species to produce climate envelopes for taxa found in fossil assemblages. The overlap of these climate envelopes produces a mutual climatic range for fossil assemblages. The method employs predatory and scavenging beetle species found in fossil assemblages. By comparing observed versus predicted mean summer and winter temperatures from MCR, we developed a set of calibration equations for fossil beetle assemblages in Alaska and the Yukon Territory. These equations showed that MCR predictions fit the observed mean temperatures of the warmest month (TMAX) reasonably well, but the predictions of mean temperatures for the coldest month (TMIN) for coastal sites were consistently below the observed values. Thus the beetle communities living in coastal Alaska today are indicative of colder winter temperatures than are indicated by the observed TMIN, and such lack of correlation is a difficulty in applying the MCR method and in estimating paleoclimates in Beringia. We postulate that periods of severely cold weather in coastal regions are sufficiently common to eliminate species adapted to maritime climates. Instead we find in coastal localities more cold-resistant species whose principal ranges are in interior regions. These species are adapted to continental climates (with extreme seasonality of temperatures), rather than maritime climates (with reduced seasonality). Another difficulty in estimating paleoclimates of Beringia is that the coastal geography has changed with each glacial/interglacial cycle. Glacial and interstadial sites that lie near the modern coast were subject to continental, rather than maritime climates.
10.2307/1552409| There are few sites in southern South America where late Tertiary glacial sediments have been radiometrically dated. Glaciations occurred near the Miocene-Pliocene transition, during the mid-Pliocene (3.5 Ma), and after 2.1 Ma ago. In the Ro Shehuen valley at least four river terraces older than 2.25 Ma correlate with terminal moraines and outwash plains. The age of the youngest Pliocene advance is bracketed by two radiometric dates; glaciofluvial sediments lie on a 3.0 Ma old basalt lava and merge into a river terrace that is covered by 2.25 Ma old basalts. A remnant of a terminal moraine of the second oldest advance still exists. This glacier advance extended over 160 km from the Southern Patagonian Icefield. The oldest glaciation occurred well before 3.0 Ma. It may be possible to correlate these pre-Pleistocene glaciations to glacial deposits covering the Meseta Desocupada north of the glacial basin of Lago Viedma (250 m altitude). There, at an elevation of 1500 m, previous research found a till lying between two basalt flows with an age of 3.5 Ma. Till, separated by soil formations, covers the plateau surface. 
25642074|We studied the seed bank of abandoned fields in four successional stages (habitat A: 1 year; habitat B: 10 years; habitat C: 20 years; and habitat D: mature meadow) in eastern Tibetan Plateau. The seed density in seed banks decreased with successional age, but species richness and diversity increased, and the highest species diversity and species richness appeared in habitat C. Similarity between the seed bank and vegetation decreased gradually with succession in the whole. The vegetation is more similar to the seed bank in the shallow layer than to the seed bank in the deeper soil, which shows that the vegetation contributes less to the seed bank as soil depth increases. The seed bank was mainly composed of first successional species during the whole successional range. Species of the later successional stages contributed little to the seed bank. Most of species from early successional stage produced longer-lived seeds, which stayed viable in the soil for a long period (more than 20 years). Hypotheses about changes in seed bank during succession, predicting decreasing species richness and seed diversity, were not confirmed. The hypothesis that density of buried seeds declined during succession was confirmed. We conclude that seed bank plays an important role on vegetation in the early succession stage. In the later succession stages, seed bank's role becomes weaker and weaker, and which likely relies on vegetative reproduction and dispersal.
20181844|QEMSCAN, an automated scanning electron microscope, is used to provide a high-resolution analysis of eolian sands collected from Victoria Valley, McMurdo Dry Valleys, Antarctica. This technique provides a rapid, digital, quantitative morphological and mineralogical analysis of sediments, originally developed for the mining industry, which we apply for the first time to the study of eolian sand transport. Results show fine to medium-sized sands (&lt;300 m) are similar in shape and mineralogy throughout the hyper-arid landscape of the Victoria Valley. We relate this to the almost continuous mixing of fine-grained sediments in the mostly snow-and ice-free valley by frequent thermally induced easterly winds and less common but stronger topographically channeled southwesterly foehn winds. Analysis of local dune sands transported during easterly winds, which typically just exceed the local threshold entrainment velocity of 5.3 m s (at 0.4 m), indicate preferential transport of quartz grains by these winds. Surface type was found to exhibit considerable influence over the characteristics of eolian sand transport with much larger grains carried in saltation and modified suspension above fluvio-glacial outwash surfaces than above sand dunes. Results illustrate the potential of QEMSCAN as an effective tool for multi-parameter analysis of eolian sands allowing greater insight into the controls on eolian sand transport in settings such as the Victoria Valley, Antarctica.
40305852|There have been only a few truly integrated quantitative studies on sediment budgets and relief development in cold environments. For a combined quantitative investigation of the relevant denudative slope processes and stream work in the 7 km 2 catchment Hrafndalur, situated in a rhyolite area in the northern part of the Icelandic Eastern Fjords region (Austfirdir), information was collected on the absolute and relative importance of the different denudative processes. Integration of the six-year monitoring program with the analysis of Holocene storage elements using geophysical techniques allows estimates on Holocene process intensities in addition to the measured present-day sedimentary transfers. With respect to mass transfers, fluvial suspended sediment plus bed-load transport is most relevant and is followed by fluvial solute transport, rock and boulder falls, chemical slope denudation, mechanical fluvial slope denudation (slope wash), creep processes, avalanches, debris flows, translational slides, and deflation. Due to comparably high mechanical weathering and sedimentary transfer rates, postglacial modification of the Pleistocene glacially formed landscape is clearly more advanced than in the extended basalt areas of Austfirdir. Postglacial relief development is characterized by a valley widening due to the active retreat of rock walls and the formation of extended talus cones coupled with channel systems.
4139094| The effects of microclimate change on the growth of fast- and slow-growing glacier foreland species were analyzed from 1996 to 2004 to test the following hypotheses: (1) plant growth and cover will increase due to experimental warming; (2) fastgrowing species will respond the most; and (3) asexually and sexually reproducing forms of Poa alpina react differently-the asexually produced plantlets will respond the most due to their growth advantages in contrast to seedlings. Temperatures were increased with open top chambers (OTCs) by 1  0.01 C (soil surface) and 0.7  0.03 C (soil) during the growing seasons using a modified ITEX approach. Juvenile plants of Artemisia genipi (pioneer species), Trifolium pallescens (mid-successional species), Anthyllis vulneraria ssp. alpestris (late-successional species), Poa alpina, and Poa alpina ssp. vivipara (ubiquitous species) were planted into plots with OTCs and adjacent control plots and harvested after three, four, and five years, respectively. The Artemisia and Poa (R- and S-selected species) showed little response to changes in microclimate, whereas Trifolium and Anthyllis (plastic species, CSR/CS strategists) had significantly higher dry weights and enhanced reproduction. 
10.2307/1552410| Dendrochronology, lichenometry, and analysis of aerial photographs taken in 1944, 1979, and 1983 were used to date the 19th- and 20th-century fluctuations of the Arco, Colonia, and Arenales glaciers on the eastern side of the Hielo Patagnico Norte in southern Chile. This work has demonstrated that the glaciers retreated from their Little Ice Age maximum positions between 1850 and 1880, with retreat rates increasing during the 1940s and with surface thinning of at least 30 m since 1980. Comparison with the fluctuation behavior of other outlet glaciers of the icefield suggests a degree of synchrony in the timing of their variations and therefore argues for a common climatic control for these movements. 
1552370|Dendroecological analysis is often used in animal ecology to infer population fluctuations. In this study, we used scars produced by caribou hooves on superficial roots of conifers to evaluate the recent activity of the George River caribou herd (GRCH). In 1999 and 2000, we sampled a minimum of 300 trampling scars at each of 31 lichen woodland sites distributed over the summer habitat of the GRCH. Among the 31 selected sites, 18 had been previously sampled in 1992-1993 and showed a good agreement in trends inferred in caribou activity with the 1999-2000 data set at the same sites. We evaluated the recent activity pattern of the GRCH using mean values of pooled scar-age data from the 31 sites. We inferred two major trends from the tree-ring data: that the GRCH experienced an important increase from 1975 to the late 1980s, and that this growth was followed by a major decline that began in the early 1990s. Radio-collar data from 1991 to 1998 also support the decline as no major change was found in the geographical distribution of the GRCH during this period.
20181744|Using long-lived Qilian juniper (Sabina przewalskii Kom.) in the middle Qilian Mountains, the temperature variations in the last 1000 yr were reconstructed. We find that the annual growth ring width and C series mainly reflect variations in regional temperature. Except in May, warmer temperatures indicate greater growth over the period from December to April, and C values in tree-rings are higher for years with higher temperature. The notable features in the temperature reconstruction are the occurrence of the Little Ice Age from A.D. 1600 to 1880 and the abrupt warming over the end of past millennia. The comparison of our chronology to a Northern Hemispheric temperature proxy shows that our tree-ring data will facilitate intercontinental differentiation of large-scale synoptic climate variability.
24551631|Expected shifts in the upper forest limit of many mountain ranges due to anthropogenic climate change will likely be constrained by current and historical land-use practices. We used historical maps and Landsat satellite imagery to analyze timberline change for the entire Carpathian range in Eastern Europe. Our objectives were (1) to compare 19th and 20th century timberline elevations across regions differing in sociopolitical history and land-use trends; and (2) to quantify how land-use patterns and environmental influences were associated with changes in timberline position. Timberline changes across geopolitical regions were consistent with regional variations in re-settlement rates and population shifts following World War II. Important predictors for timberline rise were the mainly biophysical factors of slope steepness, timberline elevation, shrub cover, topographic curvature, aspect, and proximity to roads. For horizontal migration, important predictors were proximity to shepherd's huts, elevation, population density, forest composition, and shrub cover. Overall, cultural influences were critical for understanding the response of Carpathian timberlines to global change, yet biophysical influences proved important where reforestation was already occurring. In mountain ranges with prevalent agricultural abandonment, forest migration associated with climate warming may lead to increased contrast in the forest-alpine ecotone between areas with and without intensive land-use.
10.2307/1552522|Macro- and mesoscale patterns of the full altitudinal range (1200-2200 m) of alpine vegetation and vascular flora on Mount Armstrong, on New Zealand's perhumid Southern Alps, are deduced from 41 vegetation and soil samples. Multivariate analyses of quantitative data for 138 vascular plant taxa separated high-alpine from low-alpine communities between 1640 and 1800 m depending on local topography. Four high-alpine and seven low-alpine communities were differentiated. Vector fitting of 25 environmental variables to a sample ordination revealed 16 were statistically significant. Factors associated with topography (altitude, exposure, and slope) are the primary determinants of the macroscale patterns while soil, particularly those factors affected by processes associated with site stability, determine the mesoscale patterns of the alpine vegetation. Dominance of Hemicryptophytes and Chamaephytes across the alpine zone reveals a general consistency with alpine areas elsewhere. The tussock or caespitose form of Hemicryptophyte is the most common in New Zealand except near the upper limit of the high-alpine zone where cushion and mat forms dominate. Several large-leaved, mostly evergreen forbs (megaphyllous herbs) are a feature of the New Zealand low-alpine zone in perhumid regions. The overall pattern of alpine vegetation and associated life forms in oceanic New Zealand shows closer affinities with those occurring on perhumid tropical high mountains and other oceanic regions, particularly the subantarctic islands, than those of the temperate northern hemisphere continental mountains. The similarity between the moderate, extended but variable alpine growing season in New Zealand and the nonseasonal environments of tropical high mountains and subantarctic islands is suggested as the basis for this affinity. This contrasts with the much shorter but generally more favorable growing season and the extreme winters of temperate northern hemisphere continental mountains. Two data sets, one from Mount Armstrong and the other gathered from a wider geographic and altitudinal range, revealed curvilinear rather than linear relationships for both richness and altitudinal ranges of the vascular flora. Detailed information on altitudinal ranges and distribution of the alpine vegetation, vascular flora, life forms, and environments over the full range of the alpine zone on Mount Armstrong provides baseline records relevant to future assessments of probable effects of global climate changes.
1552638| Tundra ecosystems constitute large stocks of carbon and might therefore, if climate warming releases CO<sub>2</sub>, induce positive feedback and amplify temperature increase. We studied the effect of a 2.5C temperature increment, induced by controlled infrared irradiation, on various components of the carbon balance of a High Arctic tundra ecosystem at Zackenberg in Northeast Greenland (74N, 21W) over the 1999 growing season. Gross photosynthesis (P<sub>gross</sub>), belowground respiration (R<sub>soil</sub>), and canopy respiration (R<sub>canopy</sub>) were regularly determined with closed dynamic CO<sub>2</sub> exchange systems, and the whole-growing season C-balance was reconstructed by relating these components to potentially controlling factors (green cover, soil moisture, radiation, soil and canopy temperature, and thawing depth). Thawing depth and green cover increased in heated plots, while soil moisture was not significantly affected. P<sub>gross</sub> increased 24.2%, owing to both a green cover and a physiological influence of warming. Belowground respiration was enhanced 33.3%, mainly through direct warming impact and in spite of lower Q<sub>10</sub> in the heated plots; the factors controlling R<sub>soil</sub> were day of the year and soil moisture. R<sub>canopy</sub> did not differ significantly between treatments, although green cover was higher in the heated plots. This tundra ecosystem acted as a relatively small net sink both under current (0.86 mol CO<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup>) and heated (1.24 mol CO<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup>) conditions. Nevertheless, turnover increased, which was best explained by a combination of direct and indirect temperature effects, and delayed senescence. 
1552573| We investigated carbon isotope discrimination of two morphs of Saxifraga oppositifolia and other plant species in a glacier foreland in the High Arctic at Ny-lesund, Svalbard, Norway. At this site, soil conditions vary considerably along with the progress of primary succession within a small area. We compared growth forms and 13C values, which reflect long-term leaf gas exchange characteristics, of plants growing in different successional stages with different soil conditions. Even though the soil mass water content (water mass/dry mass) increased from 10% to 140% with the progress of succession, the water and nitrogen content of the soil had negligible effects on the 13C values of the observed species. The 13C values were determined mainly by species and growth forms. We compared two morphs of S. oppositifolia, the prostrate form (P-form) and the cushion form (C-form), on the same riverbank in the glacier foreland. Regardless of the successional stage, the 13C values of the C-form were about 2 more negative than those of the P-form. The ground cover area per plant mass (GA) of the C-form was less than 30% that of the P-form, and the product of GA and stomatal conductance appears to be an important factor in the relationship between transpiration and photosynthesis of a whole plant. We suggest that the relationship between GA and the root mass fraction is a crucial factor affecting the water utilization in high arctic environments. We also examined the relationship between life form and water utilization for other phototrophs, including lichens, mosses, narrow-leaved grasses, perennials, and shrubs. 
40305857|Fieldwork within the framework of SEDAG (SEDiment cascades in Alpine Geosystems) has focused on hydrology, fluvial sediment transport dynamics, and hydrogeomorphological characteristics of the alpine river Partnach (Reintal Valley, Bavarian Alps, Germany). In August 2005 a dambreak flood occurred in the Reintal Valley. The contributing catchment area supplying material for bed load transport at the outlet of the catchment has been enlarged by more than 33% (4.3 km + 1.6 km ) due to lake infilling, and thus, reconnecting formerly disconnected parts of the catchment. Post-dambreak downstream variation of total and specific stream power, bed shear stress, and particle characteristics (size and shape) were determined and compared with pre-dambreak findings. As to our knowledge, results of pre-and post-dambreak fluvial-geomorphic investigations have not been published so far for an individual river. Results show high values for total and specific stream power in the post-dambreak regime. In addition, general trends for downstream decreasing in particle size, stream power, and bed shear stress show a degree of regularity after disturbance. Nevertheless, further adjustments of the Partnach channel system in response to the dambreak event are expected in the near future.
10.2307/1552514|Floristic differences between alpine communities on calcareous and siliceous rocks have been mainly attributed to soil chemical properties in the European Alps. In contrast, water availability and temperature, factors that correlate with calcareous and siliceous substrates, have received more attention in other mountain ranges. To compare the relative importance of soil chemical versus physical factors for explaining differences in floristic composition between communities from calcareous and siliceous rocks, we conducted a fine-scale correlative study in the northern French Alps, in which the effects of topographic variations were compared on dolomitic limestone (calcareous) and gneiss (siliceous). We analyzed 192 plots with correspondence analysis (CA) and canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) using a matrix of 20 environmental variables including snow melt dates and water availability. We also measured aboveground biomass and available nitrogen and phosphorus for a subset of the plots. Species composition, aboveground biomass, and species richness were highly correlated with substrate type. However water availability, not substrate chemistry, appeared to drive differences in community composition, biomass, and richness. Siliceous substrates appeared to be more mesic because of the water supplied at the subsurface level. Conversely calcareous soils were drier, probably because of the higher porosity of the rock.
41240402|Understanding relationships between snow accumulation and synoptic climatology is important for assessing the way in which future climate variability will impact on glacier mass balance. However, few studies have as yet examined these relationships. Variability in snow accumulation on mid-latitude glaciers is strongly influenced by atmospheric circulation, orography, and redistribution of snow by wind. Very little is known about these processes in the New Zealand Southern Alps, where it is assumed that west-facing glaciers receive higher snow totals. However, few measurements are available to test this hypothesis. These processes were investigated over a 21-day period in winter 2008 on glaciers located west (Franz Josef Glacier) and east (Tasman Glacier) of the Main Divide of the Southern Alps. We directly measured snow accumulation and considered how it was affected by synoptic weather regime and location with respect to the Main Divide. Both glaciers received ~ 75% of their snowfall during troughing regimes, which are characterized by strong westerly quadrant winds bringing humid air masses from the Tasman Sea over the Southern Alps. The Franz Josef Glacier site received ~ 30% more snow than the Tasman Glacier site, but wind deflation meant that by the end of the study period, net snow accumulation was similar at both sites. Blocking synoptic regimes resulted in a reversal of prevailing westerly flow, generating strong downslope winds at Franz Josef Glacier and snow loss.
1552429|Glacial deposits are identified from within and near Sinks Canyon, southwest of Lander, Wyoming, representing 6 first-order Pleistocene glaciations. Relative-age analyses of the deposits (including moraine morphology and soil development characteristics) indicate that they correspond to 4 glaciations previously identified from the Wind River Range (Pinedale, Early Wisconsin, Bull Lake, and Sacagawea Ridge) and to 2 older glacial events (Younger and Older Pre-Sacagawea Ridge). <sup>10</sup>Be and <sup>26</sup>Al exposure ages associated with recessional Pinedale deposits are similar to those associated with recessional Pinedale deposits elsewhere in the range. <sup>10</sup>Be and <sup>26</sup>Al exposure ages also support the identification of Early Wisconsin deposits here. The Early Wisconsin deposits represent the second locality where O-isotope stage 4 glacial deposits are described from the Wind River Range. Preliminary analysis of <sup>10</sup>Be exposure data from the Older Pre-Sacagawea Ridge deposit suggests that a glacial advance occurred here before O-isotope stage 18 (>800 ka). If true, then Sinks Canyon contains the most complete record to date of glaciation in the Wind River Range and the only reported record of Pleistocene glaciation prior to O-isotope stage 18 in the Rocky Mountains.
4095894|We investigated biotic and abiotic associations for four growth forms in Chile's Parque Nacional Lauca, a tropical alpine puna ecosystem. We determined the biotic associations between Parastrephia lucida (Meyen) Cabr. [Asteraceae] and Festuca orthophylla Pilger. [Poaceae]. To determine if F. orthophylla was acting as a nurse plant for P. lucida, we used chi-square analysis to test for nurse plant effects. Our results indicated that F. orthophylla roots more often on bare ground and that P. lucida grows more often in association with F. orthophylla than would be expected. In testing for abiotic associations, we observed that both a tree, Polylepis tarapacana [Rosaceae], and a cactus, Tephrocactus ignescens [Cactaceae], showed positive abiotic associations with large boulders. These studies indicate that in an extreme environment, such as the South American puna, abiotic and biotic associations are important for plant survival.
23252809|Winter roads across subarctic peatlands are increasingly being used to access remote communities and resource development camps, yet relatively little is known on their ability to recover after abandonment. We evaluated the natural recovery of winter roads abandoned within 7 years on peatlands in the Hudson Bay Lowland, Canada. We sampled 5 winter roads of increasing age of abandonment and compared surface elevation, microtopography, active layer thickness, species cover, diversity, and composition between winter road clearances and adjacent undisturbed peatland. No differences in surface elevation and hummock-hollow microtopography were detected between road clearances and adjacent peatlands, but clearances had significantly thinner active layer, which persisted at least 7 years after abandonment. The cover of lichens, bryophytes, and vascular plants returned within 5 years to similar levels as in undisturbed peatlands, although species richness per quadrat remained lower and species composition differed. The limited recovery of black spruce on these peatlands and their slow growth indicates that the full recovery of vegetation structure on these road clearances will take decades. Future research should focus on the restoration of a Sphagnum carpet and on the interactions between a shallower active layer and the revegetation of abandoned winter roads.
1552157| A sediment core recovered in Lake Lyadhej-To at the northwestern edge of the Ural Mountains reflects the complete Holocene environmental history from 11,000 cal. yr B.P. Five limnological episodes are identified in the diatom and geochemical records. The initial lake stage, Episode I (11,000-10.850 cal. yr B.P.) is characterized by the absence of biogenic production and a high influx of clastic sediments. Episode II (10,850-8650 cal. yr B.P.) is characterized by ice-free conditions during summer, highest bioproductivity, strong growth of planktic diatoms and anoxic bottom waters. This period represents the Holocene climatic optimum. Deterioration of climatic conditions commenced in Episode III (8650-7000 cal. yr B.P.) as indicated by distinctly lower bioproductivity and longer persistence of winter ice on the lake. During Episode IV (7000-2500 cal. yr B.P.), the diatom and pollen records indicate that temperatures were cool and growing season was short. Finally, in Episode V (2500 cal. yr B.P. to present), limnological conditions, indicated by increased organic carbon and diatom deposition, initially suggest improved conditions followed by a return to modern conditions beginning 500 cal. yr B.P. The pollen stratigraphy from Lake Lyadhej-To is consistent with other paleoclimatic records from northern Eurasia, confirming rapid postglacial warming, the presence of dense tree forests during the climatic optimum, and finally a gradual southward retreat of the treeline towards its modern locations. 
1552644|Observational series and downscaled scenarios of air temperature are used to describe long-term variations 1900-2050 in different climatic indices that are important for the living conditions in the Nordic Arctic (Northern Fennoscandia, Svalbard, Faeroe Islands, and the Greenland-Iceland-Norwegian Sea regions). In addition to air temperature; indices illustrating vegetation conditions (growing season), energy consumption (heating season), and frost conditions (freezing season) are studied. The analyses are based on smoothed daily temperature series deduced from monthly averages for 27 Nordic climate stations, and are focusing on conditions in the climatological 30-yr reference periods 1901-1930, 1931-1960, and 1961-1990, and the scenario period 2021-2050. Also values for two recent time periods (1976-2000 and 1990-2002) are included. The results show substantial variations in growing, heating and freezing indices in the Nordic Arctic during the 20th century. Compared to the period 1961-1990, the growing season has increased during the recent decades in large parts of the region. Projections up to 2050 indicate that the growing season may increase by 3 to 4 wk at most of the stations in the region. The heating season has been reduced during the latest decades, and the projections indicate a further reduction during the next 50 yr.
23252813|Because the distribution of alpine tundra is associated with spatially limited cold climates, global warming may threaten its local extent or existence. This notion has been challenged, however, based on observations of the diversity of alpine tundra in small areas primarily due to topographic variation. The importance of diversity in temperature or moisture conditions caused by topographic variation is an open question, and we extend this to geomorphology more generally. The extent to which geomorphic variation per se, based on relatively easily assessed indicators, can account for the variation in alpine tundra community composition is analyzed versus the inclusion of broad indicators of regional climate variation. Visual assessments of topography are quantified and reduced using principal components analysis (PCA). Observations of species cover are reduced using detrended correspondence analysis (DCA). A "best subsets" regression approach using the Akaike Information Criterion for selection of variables is compared to a simple stepwise regression with DCA scores as the dependent variable and scores on significant PCA axes plus more direct measures of topography as independent variables. Models with geographic coordinates (representing regional climate gradients) excluded explain almost as much variation in community composition as models with them included, although they are important contributors to the latter. The geomorphic variables in the model are those associated with local moisture differences such as snowbeds. The potential local variability of alpine tundra can be a buffer against climate change, but change in precipitation may be as important as change in temperature.
24551715|Chloroplast pigments and chlorophyll fluorescence were characterized in needles of Korean fir (Abies koreana) in summer, winter, and spring at three altitudes on Jeju Island, Korea. High light-harvesting efficiency (intrinsic photosystem II efficiency) and indirect evidence for high photosynthetic rates (high levels of -carotene and chlorophyll b) during the growing season contrasted with mid-winter downregulation of light-harvesting efficiency involving retention of high zeaxanthin levels and locked-in photoprotective thermal dissipation (from low chlorophyll fluorescence emission). Neoxanthin levels were inversely correlated with sustained photoprotection in the winter, and lutein to xanthophyll cycle carotenoid levels decreased from summer to winter, suggesting that zeaxanthin plays the prominent role in winter photoprotection of Korean fir needles. Summer was apparently most conducive to photosynthesis, consistent with high levels of summer precipitation on Jeju Island, and in contrast to fir and other conifers in a climate with dry summers at high altitudes in Colorado, U.S.A., where studies have shown that the wet spring is the season most favorable for photosynthesis. Lastly, despite there being only 300 m difference in altitude among the three sites, there were discernible differences in (i) accumulation of zeaxanthin in winter (as an indicator for the severity of conditions, with highest levels at the highest altitude), (ii) apparent photosynthesis rates in summer (from -carotene levels, with highest levels at the highest altitude), and (iii) transition to increased photosynthesis in spring (from fluorescence emission levels, slowest at the highest altitude).
40305865|We mapped Little Ice Age (LIA) moraines in the Brooks Range to estimate former equilibrium-line altitudes (ELAs), and combined this information with available proxy temperature estimates to infer precipitation trends because little is known about precipitation changes associated with centennial-scale climate variability in the Arctic during the late Holocene. The Brooks Range, northern Alaska (68N), hosts hundreds of extant glaciers that exhibit geomorphic evidence for multiple fluctuations in ice extent during the past millennium. Our lichenometric age estimates for LIA moraines in the forefields of five cirque glaciers in the Sagavinerktok River valley and Oolah Valley suggest two intervals of LIA moraine formation centered around A. D. 1250 and 1650. The outermost LIA moraine was mapped on aerial photographs for 114 relatively large (1.2  0.5 km) and geographically simple glaciers along a 700-km-long transect following the range crest. At their maximum extent during the LIA, these glaciers were an average of 0.2  0.1 km longer than the ice margins shown on most recent U. S. Geological Survey topographic maps (1956 and 1972). The EL A was estimated using an accumulationarea-ratio method and GIS analysis. The reconstructed ELAs needed to maintain an equilibrium length for the LIA glaciers were an average of 51 = 29 m lower than for the smaller glacier sizes of the mid 20th century. This small ELA lowering during the LIA is less than would be expected from available proxy temperature estimates from elsewhere in Alaska that indicate warm-season temperature reductions of about 1C. To explain this discrepancy, we suggest that precipitation decreased during the LIA. A prolonged southern displacement of the Arctic front might explain the drier conditions in the Brooks Range during the LIA.
4095879|The Khangchendzonga Biosphere Reserve in the Sikkim State, India, with an area of
4095837|Long-term records from meteorological stations on the Antarctic Peninsula show strong rising trends in the annual duration of melting conditions. In each case, the trend is statistically significant and represents a major increase in the potential for melting; for example, between 1950 and 2000 the record from Faraday/Vernadsky Station showed a 74% increase in the number of positive degree-days (PDDs). A simple parameterization of the likely effects of the warming on the rate of snow melt suggests an increase across the Antarctic Peninsula ice sheet from
1552164| The extremely high level of solar radiation on the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau may induce photoinhibition and thus limit leaf carbon gain. To assess the effect of high light, we examined gas exchange and chlorophyll fluorescence for two species differing in light interception: the prostrate Saussurea superba and the erect-leaved Gentiana straminea. In controlled conditions with favorable water and temperature, neither species showed apparent photoinhibition in gas exchange measurements. In natural environment, however, their photosynthetic rate decreased remarkably at high light. Photosynthesis depression was aggravated under high leaf temperature or soil water stress. Relative stomatal limitation was much higher in S. superba than in G. straminea and it remarkably increased in the later species at midday when soil was dry. F<sub>v</sub>/F<sub>m</sub> as an indicator for photoinhibition was generally higher in S. superba than in the other species. F<sub>v</sub>/F<sub>m</sub> decreased significantly under high light at midday in both species, even when soil moisture was high. F<sub>0</sub> linearly elevated with the increment of leaf temperature in G. straminea, but remained almost constant in S. superba. Electron transport rate (ETR) increased with photosynthetically active photon flux density (PPFD) in S. superba, but declined when PPFD was high than about 1000 mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup> in G. straminea. Compared to favorable environment, the estimated daily leaf carbon gain at PPFD above 800 mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup> was reduced by 32% in S. superba and by 17% in G. straminea when soil was moist, and by 43% and 53%, respectively, when soil was dry. Our results suggest that the high radiation induces photoinhibition and significantly limits photosynthetic carbon gain, and the limitation may further increase at higher temperature and in dry soil. 
1552168| We analyze errors in several digital elevation models (DEMs) of part of Axel Heiberg Island, Nunavut, Canada. We define total error as the sum of map-reading error, which measures the fidelity of the DEM to the map, and mapping error, which measures the fidelity of the map to the terrain. Three of the DEMs derive from estimates made by eye on maps prepared for research purposes and having scales of 1:10,000 ("10K"), 1:50,000 ("50K") and 1:100,000 ("100K"), while two are based on spatial interpolation from published topographic maps of scale 1:250,000 ("250K") and 1:1 000,000 ("1M"). Map-reading errors are reduced markedly by proofreading, and are unbiased but not normally distributed. They are also moderately correlated, with decorrelation distances of 1 to 3 DEM resolution elements. Replicate readings from maps 10K and 50K have rms differences of about 20 m, a figure which shrinks to 12 m when gross errors are identified and excluded. These differences represent the mapping errors. Total error in the 10K DEM may range from 1 m up to, at worst, 19 m, while for the 50K DEM the total error may reach 20 m. Excluding gross errors, the worst-case estimates of total error decrease to 11-12 m. Total error is estimated as 90 m for 250K and 158 m for 1M. We show that map-reading error is small in comparison with mapping error. However there are three obstacles to formal description of total DEM error. First, there is no objective basis for partitioning the mapping error between the two maps of a comparison pair. Second, gross errors cannot be accommodated satisfactorily. Third, because the usual statistical assumptions are violated the errors define confidence regions narrower than the usual 68% by some unknown amount. Maps of larger scale have steeper slopes. Differences in the frequency distribution of slopes are such that a simple additive correction would worsen, not improve, the gentle-slope bias of the smaller-scale DEMs. Elevation errors are roughly equal to one half of the contour interval of the parent map. It is not obvious why this should be so, but as a practical rule of thumb it should perform well. 
24551716|NDVI (Normalized Difference Vegetation Index) calculated from coarse-resolution sensors has shown strong increases since the 1980s on Alaska's North Slope. Finer-resolution satellite data and ground studies are needed to understand the changes in the vegetation that are causing these increases. Analysis of an 823 km2 area using a Landsat NDVI time series showed that the homogeneous greening at coarser scales was very heterogeneous at 30-m pixel resolution, with a strong influence due to glacial history. Small scattered patches of pixels with significant increases in NDVI occurred throughout the younger, late Pleistocene glacial deposits. On older, mid-Pleistocene deposits, increases occurred in few, larger patches of mostly tussock-sedge, dwarf-shrub, moss tundra, possibly a result of release of nutrients from thawing of ice-rich permafrost. Five percent of pixels had significant linear increases in NDVI from 1985 to 2007 (n = 6, p < 0.05), while 0.4% showed significant decreases, in small patches whose causes were evident when sampled on the ground. Trends in NDVI varied by glacial history, elevation, slope, and the resulting vegetation conditions. This heterogeneity in response to climate change can be expected throughout much of the Arctic, where complex glacial histories determine existing soil and vegetation characteristics.
20181735|Surface sediment recovered from 51 lakes in the Uinta Mountains of northeast Utah was analyzed for subfossil chironomid remains, and incorporated in a midge-based inference model for summer surface water temperature (SSWT). The lakes in the calibration set spanned elevation, depth, and summer surface water temperature ranges of 900 m, 12.7 m, and 11.3C, respectively. Redundancy analysis (RDA) identified four variables, SSWT, depth, specific conductivity, and Al concentration, that could account for a statistically significant amount of variance in the chironomid distribution, with SSWT accounting for the largest amount of variance. The Uinta Mountain calibration set was merged with a previously developed calibration set from the Sierra Nevada, California, in order to develop a midge-based inference model for SSWT applicable to subfossil chironomid stratigraphies from the Great Basin. A variety of statistical approaches, such as weighted averaging (WA), weighted averaging-partial least squares (WA-PLS), and partial least squares (PLS) were used to assess model performance. The best inference model for SSWT, based on a 3-component WA-PLS approach, had robust performance statistics (
1552298|Positive interactions in alpine plant communities have been reported to increase in importance with increasing altitude and exposure. Positive and negative interactions between plants might occur simultaneously, so the net plant-plant interaction is determined by the balance between positive and negative effects. I investigated the relative effect of facilitation and resource competition by surrounding dwarf shrubs on Carex bigelowii in two contrasting arctic-alpine tundra heathlands. Carex bigelowii was positively associated with dwarf shrubs on an exposed mountain ridge but negatively associated with dwarf shrubs on a protected heath. A removal experiment indicated that positive associations at the exposed site are the result of facilitation of C. bigelowii by the dwarf shrub canopy. Our understanding of arctic and alpine plant communities can be enhanced by regarding plant interactions as combinations of positive and negative components.
1552308|A simple method is presented which demonstrates the use of continuously injected Rhodamine WT dye to provide automated around-the-clock estimates of flow during the spring breakup. Dye of a known concentration is injected at a constant rate upstream from a sampling point, and the dilution of the dye in the sampled downstream water is a measure of discharge. Field trials conducted in and around Inuvik, Northwest Territories in two small snow-choked streams during spring breakup of 1995 to 1999 suggest that some dye is adsorbed to suspended sediment in the stream channel, resulting in an overestimate of discharge. However, there is still a strong linear relationship between the discharge as estimated by the dye method and that determined by conventional current metering. Correcting the dye values by a linear regression equation line results in a reasonable estimate of streamflow. This method's most promising application is in the monitoring of small basins where much of the annual discharge occurs during the spring melt. Given the occurrence of rapid changes in discharge in these basins due to both diurnal variations in snowmelt and changing runoff source area, and the excessive manpower required to carry out a sufficient number of current meterings needed to properly observe this changing discharge, the dye dilution method often provides a more accurate estimate of discharge.
20181776|Whitebark pine (Pinus albicaulis), an important treeline conifer in northern Montana, is considered both a keystone and foundation species in high-elevation ecosystems. The introduced fungal pathogen Cronartium ribicola, which causes white pine blister rust, has resulted in severe declines in whitebark pine in subalpine forest communities throughout the northern Rockies during past decades. However, the prevalence of blister rust in whitebark pine within the alpine treeline community and its impact remain to be determined. We gathered field data on blister rust infection incidence in the treeline ecotone at two locations east of the Continental Divide in the northern Rocky Mountains, Montana, U.S.A. Our objectives were (1) to examine the potential importance of whitebark pine in tree island formation, (2) to determine if blister rust is present in whitebark pine within the alpine treeline community, and (3) to characterize the incidence and intensity of blister rust in krummholz tree islands. We found that whitebark pine is the primary initial colonizer in tree island formation, indicating that the species is important in generating vegetation pattern in these communities. Thirty-five percent of all sampled whitebark pine were infected with blister rust. Although more cankers were found in solitary whitebark pine trees, highest infection incidence per tree occurred in trees that were part of multitree islands. Finally, we found a significant correlation between tree island length and infection incidence. These results have important implications with respect to alpine treeline dynamics on a landscape scale, especially in the context of climate change.
1552186|Nitrogen availability is considered limiting for plant growth at the forest-tundra ecotone, and it might modulate ecosystem response to climate warming. The aim of this research was to compare the impact of climate, vegetation cover, and soil organic matter (SOM) chemistry on N mineralization rates at the forest-tundra ecotone. We therefore estimated N mineralization in mountain birch (Betula pubescens Ehrh. ssp. czerepanovii) forest and tundra soil across a broad-scale latitudinal gradient in Fennoscandia, which incorporated 4 research sites (Dovrefjell, Vassijaure, Abisko, and Joatka). During the summer period, ammonium was the dominant form of mineralized nitrogen in forest soils, while nitrate mineralization rates were higher at tundra sites during the winter. A negative regression relationship between an index of climatic continentality and N mineralization was found. Further, summer NH<sub>4</sub><sup>+</sup> mineralization rates increased with total N content in soils, while NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup> mineralization seemed to be associated with C availability. Our study showed markedly contrasting inorganic N release in forest and tundra soil, and that, although mineralization rates differed between the summer and winter period, the winter activity was relatively high and should not be ignored. We conclude that a shift in the forest-tundra ecotone in response to climate warming will have stronger effects on nitrogen availability at these sites than the direct effects of warming.
23359388|Average depth of snow in the mountains of southeastern Australia is decreasing at a rate of 0.48 cm a -1 , while the duration of the snowpack has been shortened by 18.5 days since 1954 - 3 days per decade). The major factors responsible for these declines are an increasing temperature trend of 0.36 C per decade, and a reduction in winter precipitation at the rate of 10.1 mm a -1 . While the depth of the snowpack is dependent upon precipitation trends and minimum temperatures (multiple r 2 = 0.43), the shortening in the length of the snow period is best predicted by increasing temperatures and reduced humidity. The major forcing of the warming trend involves greenhouse gasses, in particular atmospheric carbon dioxide and water vapor. However, the decline in winter precipitation seems to be unrelated to the forcing of greenhouse gasses, and is instead statistically associated with the Southern Oscillation Index (r = 0.38). Inverse correlations were found between depth of snow and solar irradiance, which in turn is inversely correlated with the number of sunspots per cycle. The latter findings suggest that the declining precipitation and snow trends could additionally be associated with a reduction in solar activity during the past five decades.
20181755|Significant interaction occurs between ecosystem physiological processes and climate. Studying this interaction is beneficial for understanding dynamics of climate change as well as forecasting future climate change. On the Qinghai-Xizang Plateau, the highest plateau in the world, interaction between ecosystem physiological processes and climate affect mid-levels of the atmosphere, so the study of this interaction has a special significance. We use two models, a carbon cycle model (CCM3) and a land surface model (LSM), to simulate ecosystem carbon cycle characteristics over the Tibetan Plateau and its influence on climate. The CO flux varies seasonally with ecosystem physiology processes on the Plateau: fluxes are highest in summer and lowest in winter. The seasonal variation of vegetation net CO flux shows that vegetation is an atmospheric carbon sink during most of the year, except in winter. This means that vegetation could weaken the greenhouse effect, which is important in terms of global warming. The land ecosystem is a weak carbon source from October to April, and it is a carbon sink from May to September (especially between June and August). The Tibetan Plateau CO fluxes vary spatially. The fluxes are highest over the southwest and southeast boundary areas and the northeast region of the Plateau in summer, and are lowest in the middle and northwest regions in winter. The interaction of CO flux and temperature shows that higher temperatures increase vegetation photosynthesis and all respiration. The abrupt increase in land ecosystem physiological processes with increasing temperature indicates that any warming due to increased atmospheric CO caused by human activity will be weakened by the land ecosystem over the Tibetan Plateau.
4095913|This study is presented against the background that climate warming is predicted to continue in much of the Arctic through the next century and that small greenhouse chambers have been used widely to warm tundra communities in order to forecast climate-related changes. It reports results from up to 8 years of experimental warming with
1552566| We review current understanding of dynamic interactions between environmental variables and stream benthic communities within glacierized alpine catchments to provide a context for the central theme of habitat complexity within alpine streams. We present a conceptual model summarizing the important links between environmental variables, from large-scale (regional/catchment) to stream-reach/patch-scale processes, to illustrate this physical habitat complexity. Existing alpine stream classification and zonation criteria are examined, and the environmental characteristics representative of the different stream classes are identified. The theme of habitat complexity is developed to assess the applicability of traditional (principally temperature-based) alpine stream classifications. These traditional classifications do not take into account spatial and temporal variations in water source contributions to alpine streams unless associated temperature changes occur. However, different hydrological stores and pathways impart other physical and chemical influences upon stream benthic communities that are overlooked by traditional classifications. We propose a new classification system to better describe spatial and temporal variability in glacial, snowmelt, and groundwater inputs to alpine streams, based upon the mix of proportions of water contributed from each of these sources. Field data collected in the French Pyrnes are used to support this new alpine stream classification, which we propose as a tool for further research in alpine river catchments. 
1552316| Ice wedges are common in the Mackenzie Delta, although troughs may be filled by sediments and obscured by growth of vegetation. At four sites in eastern Mackenzie Delta, over 85% of the trees within 1 m of ice-wedge troughs leaned towards these troughs. The mean angle of lean was 12 from the vertical, with some trees leaning by more than 25. The angle of tree tilt varied inversely with distance from the ice-wedge trough and most of the trees over 1 m from an adjacent trough leaned away from the ice-wedge. Trees near the troughs are susceptible to toppling because their root systems trail away from the troughs. Reaction-wood rings in cross-sectional disks from trees leaning towards troughs indicated that progressive tilting has been sustained for decades to centuries. Long-term rates of tree tilting are estimated to be between 0.1 and 0.4 a<sup>-1</sup>. Progressive, unidirectional tilting may eventually destroy the spruce trees. In Mackenzie Delta, where forest fire is infrequent, earth movements associated with ice-wedge polygons may be one mechanism driving forest change in old-growth stands. 
41416430|Fens and wet meadows are important mountain wetland types, but influences on assemblage structure of associated invertebrates are poorly understood compared with other aspects of the ecology of these habitats. We sought to determine the relative contributions of terrestrial and aquatic invertebrates to diversity and abundance in these wetlands, the extent to which terrestrial and aquatic invertebrate assemblages differ with wetland type, and to what degree the aquatic assemblages vary as a function of slow sheet flow. We compared assemblages in fens and wet meadows, with and without flow, at 80 backcountry sites dispersed across the 6200 km landscape of Yosemite, Sequoia, and Kings Canyon National Parks in the Sierra Nevada mountains of California, U.S.A., using standard aquatic and terrestrial sweep netting. Cicadellid leafhoppers, aphids, and thomisid crab spiders were the most abundant terrestrial taxa. Cicadellids, Lepidoptera, anthomyiid, muscid, chloropid, and ephydrid flies, and thomisids were more abundant in fens than in wet meadows. Only mirid leaf bugs were significantly more abundant in wet meadows than fens. Sphaeriid clams and chironomid midges dominated aquatic assemblages both with and without flow. Chloroperlid stoneflies, mites, clams, and flatworms were all more abundant in flow, and Hemiptera and mosquitos were significantly more abundant in quiescent water. Mosquitos were more abundant in wet meadows, but there were few other population differences as a function of wetland type. Terrestrial diversity was 1.1 to 2.0 times that of aquatic diversity, depending on metric and habitat. Fens had greater terrestrial abundance, richness, evenness, and diversity than wet meadows; there were fewer differences as a function of wetland type for aquatic fauna. Presence or absence of slow sheet flow had more effect on these aquatic assemblages than did wetland type. Cluster analyses, ordination, and multi-response permutation procedures were generally consistent with the univariate results. Vegetation-based wetland classifications should be extrapolated to faunal assemblages with caution, particularly for aquatic invertebrates.
10.2307/1552197|This study explores whether the high variability of vascular plant diversity among alpine plant communities can be explained by stress and/or disturbance intensities. Species numbers of 14 alpine plant communities were sampled in the Swiss Alps. To quantify the intensity of 13 stress and 6 disturbance factors potentially controlling plant life in these communities, a survey was conducted by asking numerous specialists in alpine vegetation to assess the importance of the different factors for each community. The estimated values were combined in stress- and disturbance-indices which were compared with diversity according to the Intermediate Stress Hypothesis, the Intermediate Disturbance Hypothesis, and the Dynamic Equilibrium Model, respectively. Each of these theories explained a part of the variability in the species richness, but only the Dynamic Equilibrium Model provided a complete and consistent explanation. The last model suggests that community species richness within the alpine life zone is generally controlled by stress intensity. Disturbance and competition seem to play a secondary role by fine-tuning diversity in specific communities. As diversity is primarily limited by stress, a moderation of temperature-related stress factors, as a result of global warming, may cause a shift of the equilibrium between stress, disturbance, and competition in alpine ecosystems.
10.2307/1552505|Modern pollen assemblages from lakes in the Canadian high-arctic and middle-arctic vegetation zones are used to document geographic differences in pollen deposition. There are differences in the pollen percentages of the herbaceous taxa that can be used to discriminate the various regions of the Arctic. High-arctic pollen assemblages have higher Poaceae, while middle-arctic sediments have higher Cyperaceae percentages. Pollen spectra from Banks Island contain higher percentages of Saxifragaceae, Brassicaceae, and Tubuliflorae, while lake sediments from the central Arctic contain more Ranunculaceae and Caryophyllaceae pollen. Salix and Oxyria pollen percentages are relatively high in samples from Ellesmere Island. Pollen from the low-arctic and boreal zones can comprise a significant component of the assemblages in arctic sediments, and this is more important in the southern islands of the Canadian Arctic Archipelago.
20181770|Consistent with general predictions and earlier empirical studies, it appears that recent climate warming has started to affect large-scale biogeographical patterns in northern Sweden. Long-term, systematic monitoring in permanent altitudinal belt transects reveals spread of broadleaved thermophilic tree species with quite different life histories into the subalpine forest belt. Saplings of Quercus robur, Ulmus glabra, Acer platanoides, Alnus glutinosa, and Betula pendula have responded to altered climatic conditions by jump-dispersal in the order of 50-300 km northwards and 500-800 m upwards. Thereby, they have reinvaded elevations where they grew during the warmest phase of the Holocene, 9500-8000 years ago, but were subsequently extirpated by Neoglacial cooling. Confined to the past 15 years or so, these unique observations are consistent with background climatic data, i.e. warming of all seasons. The results contribute to more realistic vegetation models by stressing that at least certain plant species are able to track climate warming without substantial migration lag.
10.2307/1552241| Evaluating techniques for restoring alpine environments is important due to increasing human impacts on Colorado mountains. We studied restoration success after 1 yr on an alpine area disturbed by trampling at 3700 m a.s.l., Humboldt Peak, Sangre de Cristo Mountains, Colorado. This area was revegetated in summer 1997 by transplanting pieces of turf cut from a new trail. For both transplants and controls, 100 points were sampled in seventeen 70  70 cm plots. Vascular plant species richness did not differ between transplant and control plots. Thirtyone species showed absolute covers not significantly different between transplant and control plots, and twelve species had higher covers in control plots or showed a strong trend in that direction. Sums of covers of all species declined by 35% in transplant plots. Transplant and control plots had differential relative success of some important species as measured by relative cover although almost all differences were small. Grasses increased moderately and forbs declined by 9%. Relative cover of the dominant, Geum rossii, as well as two common graminoids, Carex phaeocephala and Trisetum spicatum, decreased in transplant plots. The forbs Polygonum bistortoides and Potentilla subjuga increased in relative cover in transplant plots; one of the dominant species, Carex elynoides, and many secondary species, were not different between treatments. Success in total cover and of almost all species after 1 yr indicates turf-transplants work well in this community and should be employed to restore other damaged alpine areas when feasible. 
41240436|Subsurface flow pathways of groundwater-fed streams were characterized on a floodplain terrace of the Toklat River, Alaska, in summer 2008, to establish the influence of local physicochemical variability upon macroinvertebrate communities. Streams proximal to the valley side (A sites) and to the main meltwater channel (B sites) were studied. Chloride and natural isotopic tracers (O and H) were used to identify water sources and flow pathways. Results indicated that flow in B sites was dominated by seepage of glacial meltwater through the alluvial aquifer. Streamflow at sites situated at higher elevations was ephemeral, and commenced with the seasonal rise in the groundwater table. In contrast, the physicochemistry of A sites was characteristic of seepage from valley-side debris fans, which maintained perennial flow to streams at lower elevations. Macroinvertebrate diversity was lower in ephemeral streams, likely due to colonization constraints. In June macroinvertebrate abundance was significantly positively correlated with the percentage contribution to streamflow from debris-fan seepage (p < 0.05) and with fine particulate organic matter concentration (FPOM) (p < 0.05); FPOM was correlated with debris fan seepage (p < 0.05). These relationships were not evident in July and August, when organic matter availability increased. Our study demonstrates that flow pathways and organic matter availability significantly influence macroinvertebrate communities in these groundwater-fed streams.
41240404|Whitebark pine (Pinus albicaulis) is a foundation and keystone species of upper subalpine and treeline ecosystems throughout the western United States and Canada. During the past several decades, Cronartium ribicola, an introduced fungal pathogen that causes white pine blister rust in five-needled pines, has caused significant declines in whitebark pine throughout its range. Our research objectives were to examine geographic variation in blister rust infection (total canker density) in whitebark pine found at six alpine treelines east of the Continental Divide in Glacier National Park, Montana, and to determine which environmental factors have the greatest influence on blister rust infection at treeline. Within a total of 30 sampling quadrats (five at each treeline study site), we measured the number of cankers on each whitebark pine in order to assess how blister rust infection varied throughout our study area. We created high-resolution digital elevation models to characterize surface microtopography, and used a geographic information system (GIS) to derive environmental variables of interest. A mixed effects, Poisson regression model determined environmental correlates of blister rust from the resulting set of field and GIS-derived variables. We found that rates of infection varied considerably among treelines, and that treeline sites exhibiting high flow accumulation rates, greater distances to wetlands, slopes facing southwest, higher curvature, greater wind speeds, and close proximity to Ribes and perennial streams had the highest rates of blister rust infection.
4095918|Microbial activity in arctic tundra soils has been evaluated through both lab incubations and field flux measurements. To determine whether these different measurement approaches can be directly linked to each other, we developed a simple model of soil microbial CO
40305831|The evaluation of fungal root endophytes of two multizonal mountain plant species (Soldanella carpatica and Homogyne alpine) in relation to altitude was conducted. The comparison of root colonization by coarse arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) and the fine AMF endophyte (Glomus tenue), as well as the presence of dark septate endophytes (DSE) were assessed along altitudinal gradients (10002050 m a.s.l.) on calcareous and non-calcareous substrata in the Tatra Mts. (Western Carpathians). Additionally, AMF species composition in the rhizosphere of the investigated plants was determined. Coarse AMF dominated over the fine endophyte in roots of S. carpatica and H. alpina. In the case of S. carpatica, there was a tendency for coarse AMF colonization decline with increasing altitude, while the reverse trend was observed for the fine endophyte. In contrast, the altitudinal patterns of the two types were opposite in H. alpina. Fifteen AMF species associated with the rhizosphere of S. carpatica were identified at the sites located in the Western Tatra Mountains, whereas spores of only four species were isolated from the rhizosphere of H. alpina in the High Tatra Mountains. None of the identified AMF species was observed to occur both in the High and Western Tatra Mts. DSE accompanied AMF in the roots of S. carpatica and H. alpina at each site; however, the root colonization by this group of fungi was low. The DSE colonization did not have a consistent relationship with altitude in both plant species. The results suggest that at the investigated altitudes factors such as the type of substrata, host plants, and local plant species composition may play a more important role in determining root colonization as well as the establishment of a local AMF community than the climatic changes with increasing elevation above sea level.
10.2307/1552393|We studied tradeoffs among current reproduction, vegetative growth, and resource storage, and the consequences of such tradeoffs for future growth and reproduction in an alpine tundra population of long-lived iteroparous herb, Oxytropis sericea from the Colorado Rocky Mountains. When plant reproductive effort was manipulated through the removal of inflorescence buds, branching and leaf production increased significantly in the year of treatment but the end-of-season nonstructural carbohydrate content in storage organs (taproots and branches) was not affected. In contrast, plants from which buds were removed, accumulated more nitrogen and phosphorus in their perennial branches (although not in taproots), compared to controls. Bud removal in 1996 and in 1997 led to greater vegetative growth in the following summer, with potential consequences for long term reproductive effort. Addition of mineral fertilizer to flowering individuals in 1996 stimulated some aspects of vegetative growth and reproduction in 1997 indicating that growth in these plants was nutrient-limited. Leaf photosynthetic rates were not affected by the removal of inflorescence buds, inflorescences or infructescences during 1996, but were significantly lower in plants prevented from fruiting in 1997, showing limited evidence for photosynthetic compensation of reproductive effort. We suggest that mineral nutrients, rather than photosynthate, constitute the currency underlying the future costs of reproduction in O. sericea.
41416446|Instrumentation to study snowpack in situ was deployed in Lassen Volcanic National Park (LVNP), California, in an area of deep seasonal snow accumulation and known snow algal bloom recurrence. Included in the instrumentation were 11 temperature sensors, evenly spaced up to 2 m above the ground, which provided (1) temperature data within the snowpack when buried, and (2) estimates of snowpack height during accumulation and ablation periods. Beginning in April, moisture sensors measured a strong increase of snowpack liquid water content to greater than 15% by volume; this high melt content is usually coincident with the start of runoff from the snowpack. Snow depth profiles showed a rapid ablation of the final 2 m of the snowpack over about 23 days beginning in late June. SNTHERM numerical modeling confirmed that solar radiation was the dominant energy term throughout the melt season. By modeling a variety of snowpack parameters, such as albedo and initial snow density, we determined that the date of snow loss is the most sensitive observable that can be used to constrain the modeled parameters. These data sets from LVNP can also be applied to knowledge of snow algae lifecycles in deep snow to help understand whether the availability of light, water, or both controls the onset of snow algae germination at the base of a thick snowpack. Data and modeling indicate that meltwater was present throughout the snowpack beginning in March and runoff is initiated in April, when the snowpack was still several meters deep.However, significant levels of light did not penetrate to the soil until June, when the snow was less than 2 m deep.
4095876|This paper presents data derived from extensive rockfall investigations in the Karwendel Mountains and in the Ammer Mountains near the German-Austrian border. The rock faces in the areas investigated consist of Mesozoic limestone and dolostone. The debris was quantified by means of more than 60 rockfall collectors, which were emptied regularly. Air and rock temperature data were measured by a meteorological station and by several dataloggers equipped with pT100 temperature probes. The temporal distribution of rockfall was highly variable, which is due to the combination of several trigger parameters. A statistical analysis of the dataset revealed that various meteorological conditions enhance the probability of rockfall occurrence. Deep frost in winter, freezing and thawing during wet weather conditions, and wetting/drying contribute to the weathering of the rock faces investigated. The actual removal, leading to rockfall, is triggered by a complex combination of frost shattering, temperature fluctuations, and down wash by precipitation. Despite the irregular patterns, it is evident that the mean removal in the summer months is much higher than in winter, which is probably due to the lack of water in the cold season. Even a large number of temperature oscillations across zero do not seem to affect weathering as long as there is an insufficient moisture supply.
4095919|Using a combination of microscopic examination and electronic scanning and printing, we analyzed the impacts of early spring snow cover extent and temperature during the growing season on the annual radial growth in arctic willow (Salix arctica Pallas) in the Zackenberg valley, High Arctic Northeast Greenland. So far, only little dendroclimatological research has been conducted on Salix arctica, and the species constitutes a yet-untapped resource for climate reconstruction in the Arctic. We obtained reliable annual radial growth measurements from a total of 43 Salix arctica stem samples and analyzed these in a mixed model to determine the limiting climatic factors. We found that early spring snow cover extent impacted the annual growth significantly, whereas variable temperature regimes seemed unimportant. Following the building of a site chronology for the Zackenberg valley, the early spring snow cover extent during the last century was reconstructed.
24551714|Wind exposure is known to have stressful effects on plant growth, particularly at high altitudes. We studied how environmental factors affected carbon assimilation in Pinus pumila needles at a wind-exposed site. Needle gas exchange rates were determined for detached shoots in the laboratory where the needles were free from field environmental stresses, and also determined for attached shoots in the field under in situ environment. There was no difference in gas exchange characteristics determined in the laboratory between shoots from the wind-exposed and the wind-protected sites, suggesting that wind exposure did not affect the photosynthetic potential. In the field, however, the photosynthetic rate of one-year-old needles (in situ Aarea) was significantly lower at the wind-exposed site than that at the wind-protected site. There was a positive correlation between the in situ Aareaand the xylem pressure potential, suggesting that water deficit caused photosynthetic suppression at the wind-exposed site. The in situ Aarea was lower at the wind-exposed site, even with the same electron transport rate and the same stomatal conductance. These results suggest that CO2 assimilation is suppressed by lower mesophyll CO2 conductance at the wind-exposed site. We conclude that the carbon gain is limited by water stress in wind-exposed regions.
24551709|Environmental trends and ecosystems' ranges of variability are little known in tropical very high elevation Andean ecosystems (above 4400 m a.s.l.). We combined satellite image analyses and dendrochronological methods with instrumental records at lower elevation to assess changes in lake size and indices of plant productivity of subtropical high-elevation ecosystems in northern Argentina and southern Bolivia. Between 1985 and 2009, interannual lake fluctuations assessed with Landsat images were positively correlated with interannual variations in regional precipitation and de Martonne's aridity index, showing a decreasing trend in moisture availability during the period. Changes in lake size were positively correlated with radial growth of Polylepis tarapacana, and with MODIS-derived phenological parameters of enhanced vegetation index (EVI; an index of vegetation "greenness") between 2001 and 2010. This indicates that water balance has a significant effect on ecosystem functioning, which is related to regional scale atmospheric circulation. A long-term tree ring chronology (starting in 1750) showed that tree growth during recent decades was lower than the last 180 years, and were comparable to growth patterns that occurred between 1775 and 1825. These results suggest that if recent climatic trends continue, long-term ranges of variability in ecosystem functioning could be exceeded.
20181753|By using radiosonde data in Sichuan Province and Chongqing Municipality of China during May-September from 1982 to 2002, the meteorological significance and evolution patterns of the atmospheric boundary layer (ABL) wind on the eastern edge of the Tibetan Plateau are analyzed. Results show that the ABL wind at Chengdu near the eastern edge of the Tibetan Plateau varies with regularity. Because of the interaction between the circulation and the topography, the wind field alternates between northeast and southwest winds. When northeast ABL winds prevail at Chengdu, the ABL in the Sichuan Basin maintains a cyclonic flow field and corresponds with heavy rain in the Sichuan Basin. When southwest winds prevail, the ABL maintains an anticyclonic flow field and corresponds with rainless, fine weather in Sichuan Basin. With the northeast-southwest-trending topography between the Tibetan Plateau and the Sichuan Basin, the dynamic trigger of the ABL at Chengdu is a very important cause of occurrence and development of severe, convective weather and heavy rain in the Sichuan Basin. The Chengdu station is the key weather station in the Sichuan Basin for weather prediction and understanding physical mechanisms.
41240422|We evaluated elevation changes at four sites on debris-covered ablation area of Khumbu Glacier, Nepal Himalaya, since 1978. In 2004, we carried out a ground survey by differential GPS in the upper-and lowermost areas of the ablation area. The amount of surface lowering was calculated by comparing digital elevation models (DEMs) with 30-m grid size, as generated from survey data corrected in 1978, 1995, and in the present study. Because we could not access the middle parts of the debris-covered area due to surface roughness, for this area we used an ASTER-DEM calibrated by the ground survey data. The amount of surface lowering during the period 1978-2004 was insignificant near the terminus. A remarkable acceleration of surface lowering was found in the middle part of the debris-covered ablation area, where the glacier surface is highly undulating. In the uppermost area, surface lowering has continued at a steady rate. Surface flow speeds have decreased since 1956, revealing that the recent decrease in ice flux from the upper accumulation area would have accelerated the rate of surface lowering of the debris-covered area of Khumbu Glacier during the period 1995-2004.
41240441|The blue-white gentian, Gentiana leucomelaena (Gentianaceae), bears two colors of flowers (blue and white) within populations and on individual plants. We tested the hypothesis that these flower morphs have different mating systems associated with differences in pollinator species and visitation rates. This hypothesis was driven by the fact that colorful flowers are often more likely to be pollinated by diverse animal pollinators, and by the observation that white G. leucomelaena flowers always blossom earlier than blue ones in early spring, when few pollinators are available. This hypothesis was investigated by determining the pollination success, daily duration of flower opening, flower life span, the number of pollen grains and ovules per flower, pollinator visitation rates, and seed output for both color morphs during the flowering season of 2009. Hand-pollination and pollinator-exclusion experiments were also conducted to determine whether the two color morphs differed in their ability to self-pollinate. In general, blue flowers were found to have a trait combination that favors a significantly higher degree of pollinator specificity and cross fertilization, whereas white flowers were characterized as pollinator generalists and self-fertilizing. We speculate that the difference in the floral structure and function between blue and white flowers and their coexistence are likely adaptive in unpredictable and often pollinator-limited environments such as those found in the alpine meadows of the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau.
4139081| Morphological and physiological variation of four geographically separated European populations of Oxyria digyna (L.) Hill (Polygonaceae) ranging from 45 to 78N latitude were studied in controlled environments. Characters such as the presence of rhizomes, variable stamen number, few inflorescence branches, and low leaf length/width ratio were found to be common to northern populations. Perennating buds were formed under short day (SD) conditions in all populations across the temperature range (9-21C), while induction of dormancy required the combination of SD and low temperature. Dormancy release of dormant buds required long day (LD) conditions only. The species was found to be a short-long-day plant for flowering control, the SD requirement being quantitative while the subsequent LD requirement is obligatory. Both the SD flowering response and the fecundity of flowering decreased clinally with increasing latitude of population origin, while the critical daylength for secondary floral induction showed a parallel increase. With some minor modifications, these results agree with earlier findings with North American populations. It is concluded that the obligatory LD requirement for flowering has been a limiting factor for the southward geographic distribution of the species, and that the photoperiodic control of flowering and winter dormancy renders Oxyria particularly well adapted to resist potential negative effects of rising global temperature. 
10.2307/1552391|A coherent elevational tree-limit chronology, based on megafossil wood of Pinus sylvestris L. (Scots pine), is presented for the entire Holocene period in the Swedish Scandes. The chronology is argued, on the basis of a close modern tree-limit/climate relationship, to describe quite sensitively the secular-millennial course of summer temperature variations. Pinus had immigrated to the Scandes by about 11,700 BP (ca. 13,800 cal BP), which is much earlier than previously believed. The highest pine limit position, relative to the present day, was attained about 9400 BP (ca. 10,700 cal BP). Subsequently, it has descended gradually by ca. 500 m up to the present. This permanent state of unidirectional flux compares well with the Milankovitch model of orbital climate forcing, prescribing an early-Holocene thermal optimum, successively turning into a stage with cooler summers. Prior to ca. 8000 BP, the rate of tree-limit recession was higher than later on, which is explained by additional cooling originating from particularly large glacioisostatic land uplift before this break point. Apart from the smooth longterm thermal decline and a few minor excursions (brief warmings and coolings), the Holocene climate appears to have been fairly stable. There are no indications of millennial-scale and large-amplitude climatic cycles. The virtually unbroken postglacial cooling, consistent with the predictive mechanism of orbital forcing, makes us hypothesize that this trend could be projected into the future, given that only natural climate mechanisms were operative. In such a perspective, the warm 20th century (and its high pine limit) stands out as an anomaly. Possibly, it signals some anthropogenic climate forcing, although contributory natural mechanisms cannot be precluded. The earliest megafossil dates originate from high mountain peaks during a period when traditional glacial models envisage that the Scandes and large areas to the east, south, and north were still covered by the extensive and entirely continuous Weichselian ice sheet. Thus, it appears that the biogeographic and deglaciation history of the Scandes is more complicated than previously understood.
4095850|The establishment of tree seedlings in primary succession is thought to occur only after an adequate reserve of nutrients has accumulated in the soil. Individuals of Pinaceae are sometimes reported to grow on very recently deglaciated substrates. This study analyzed the colonization of a glacier foreland by Pinus wallichiana. Physical, chemical, and biotic aspects of potential and observed seedling microsites were analyzed with regression methods and tests for proportions. Microsites with intermediate to high moisture levels and alkaline nutrient-poor soils were found to be conducive to seedling establishment. The most recently deglaciated parts of the foreland have soils with little nutrients and high pH. There is a linear change in soil variables from low nutrient content and high pH at the most recently deglaciated parts to more nutrient-rich and neutral toward the pre-neoglacial moraines. Surrounding old-growth forests of Pinus wallichiana shed an abundance of seeds onto the foreland, are able to germinate and grow, and are predominant among the early pioneers, which makes this species an unusual pioneer of primary succession. Colonization by P. wallichiana is not restricted to particular safe sites. Even though individuals look chlorotic and stunted, they grow at near normal rates. Leaf discoloration of seedlings occurs in soils with high pH and low nitrogen content. P. wallichiana is also a canopy dominant on some of the oldest terrains and outside the foreland.
10.2307/1552550| Water chemistry and sediment trap data from the 18.9-m-deep, high-altitude, hard-water lake Hagelseewli (2339 m asl.) indicates that biogenic induced calcite precipitation occurs in a water depth of 6 to 9 m at a temperature of 4C. Our data indicates that calcite precipitation takes place as a short pulse that lasts less than 14 d in response to photosynthetic CO<sub>2</sub> uptake in late summer probably by cyanobacterial picoplankton. In up to 8.4 times supersaturated water 30 m large calcite crystals precipitate that show surface features typical for eutrophic lakes (rough surface and enhanced columnar growth). Subsequently, during the long period of ice coverage calcite is completely dissolved in strongly undersaturated bottom waters. Sediment calcite concentrations therefore are below 0.3%, although the comparison of trap fluxes and sediment accumulation rates indicates that they could be as high as 25%. The theoretical annual accumulation of calcite in Hagelseewli is similar in magnitude to a single spring precipitation event in a low-altitude temperate, hardwater lake. In the most recent sediments the occurrence of higher amounts of organic carbon and sulfur indicates increasing bottom water anoxia during the last 30 to 40 yr. 
23359391|To understand the dependence of glacial features on precipitation, glacier behavior was simulated under different precipitation conditions using a glacier fluctuation model that combined a mass-balance model with a glacier flow model. The results reveal a strong dependence of glacier behavior on precipitation conditions. Glacier volume changes in accordance with both precipitation seasonality and annual precipitation amount. Glacier volume also fluctuates in response to changes in precipitation seasonality even if no change in annual precipitation amount occurs, because of changes in glacier albedo and the volume that is able to accumulate. Furthermore, the accumulation area ratio (AAR) depends not only on the annual precipitation amount, but also on precipitation seasonality. These relationships should be considered when the AAR method is used to reconstruct the past equilibrium line of glaciers. Glacier reactions to temperature change become more sensitive as the amount of annual precipitation increases. Response time is different for each glacier type defined by precipitation seasonality: the winter-precipitation-seasonality type had the longest response time, and the summer-precipitation-seasonality type had the shortest. The difference in the response time of glacier types is larger under arid conditions and smaller under humid conditions. The simulation results in this study underscore the importance of including glacier response to precipitation conditions when estimating glacier reactions to climate change.
20181799|The optimum temperatures of three species of snow algae were studied using four strains of Chloromonas (Cr.) rosae v. psychrophila, six strains of Cr. tughillensis, and one strain of Cr. chenangoensis. These axenic strains were from Upstate New York except for two of Cr. rosae v. psychrophila from the White Mountains, Arizona. Temperatures tested were from 2.5 to 20C. The high elevation subalpine Cr. rosae v. psychrophila from New York and Arizona grew from 4 to 20C and had the greatest cell counts at 4 to 15C. In contrast, the subalpine to temperate low elevation strains of Cr. tughillensis grew from 2.5 to 10C and optimally at 2.5 or 5C, and Cr. chenangoensis grew from 2.5 to 7.5C and optimally at 2.5 and 5C. Chloromonas tughillensis and Cr. chenangoensis belong to a genetic subclade with low temperature optima, whereas Cr. rosae v. psychrophila belongs to a subclade with broad temperature optima. In acclimation experiments, there were no significant differences in cell counts when acclimating two Adirondack, New York, strains of Cr. rosae v. psychrophila for two weeks prior to experiments vs. using non-acclimated strains that were moved from 4C directly to 4, 10, 15, or 20C. For Cr. tughillensis, four of six strains had significantly higher cell counts when grown at 2.5C after acclimation at 7.5C for five months. These are the first reports of temperature optima of snow algae from eastern North America.
20181715|Although the contribution of methane emission to global change is well recognized, analyses of net methane emissions derived from alpine regions are rare. Therefore, three fen sites differing in water balance and plant community, as well as one dry meadow site, were used to study the importance of soil temperature, water table, and plant biomass as controlling factors for net methane emission in the Eastern Alps, Europe, during a period of 24 months. Average methane emissions during snow-free periods in the fen ranged between 19 and 116 mg CH m d. Mean wintertime emissions were much lower and accounted for 18 to 59% of annual flux. The alpine dry meadow functions as a methane sink during snow-free periods, with mean flux of -2.1 mg CH m d (2003) and -1.0 mg CH m d (2004). Seasonal methane emissions of the fen were related to soil temperature and groundwater table. During the snow-free periods the water table was the main control for seasonal methane emission. The net methane flux related to water table was much higher for the distinctly drier year 2003 than for the wetter year 2004. Methane emissions differed diurnally at sites where the water table position was high or very low. The influence of total above-ground plant biomass on methane emission was apparent only for those sites with high water table positions. Seasonal and diurnal methane uptake of the dry meadow was related to soil temperature and water-filled pore space, whereas plant biomass did not significantly influence methane fluxes. Our studies gave evidence that fens in the Eastern Alps act as a source of methane throughout the whole year and that a dry meadow site acts as a net methane sink during snow-free periods.
23359384|Wildfires are historically infrequent in the arctic tundra, but are projected to increase with climate warming. Fire effects on tundra ecosystems are poorly understood and difficult to quantify in a remote region where a short growing season severely limits ground data collection. Remote sensing has been widely utilized to characterize wildfire regimes, but primarily from the Landsat sensor, which has limited data acquisition in the Arctic. Here, coarse-resolution remotely sensed data are assessed as a means to quantify wildfire burn severity of the 2007 Anaktuvuk River Fire in Alaska, the largest tundra wildfire ever recorded on Alaska's North Slope. Data from Landsat Thematic Mapper (TM) and downsampled Moderate-resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) were processed to spectral indices and correlated to observed metrics of surface, subsurface, and comprehensive burn severity. Spectral indices were strongly correlated to surface severity (maximum R 2 = 0.88) and slightly less strongly correlated to substrate severity. Downsampled MODIS data showed a decrease in severity one year post-fire, corroborating rapid vegetation regeneration observed on the burned site. These results indicate that widely-used spectral indices and downsampled coarse-resolution data provide a reasonable supplement to often-limited ground data collection for analysis and long-term monitoring of wildfire effects in arctic ecosystems.
1552427|In the Aigue Agnelle Valley (Queyras, southern French Alps), between 2200 and 2300 m a.s.l., several travertine deposits are present. Some, containing leaf imprints and pine cones, have been dated back to the early Holocene. Others containing charcoal fragments and dating back to the middle Holocene have also been found. The study of the plant imprints and charcoal within these travertines allowed us to reconstruct the vegetation dynamics of this valley. During the early Holocene (9800 B.P.), Pinus uncinata (mountain pine) was the most common tree. It was gradually replaced by Pinus cembra (arrola pine) in association with Betula (birch) and Vaccinium sp. (berry), probably as a result of climatic warming (ca. 7600 B.P.). Since ca. 5600 B.P., Pinus cembra seems to have regressed in correlation with the development of Larix decidua/Picea abies (larch/spruce) as a consequence of fire events related to climatic and/or anthropogenic factors.
1552161|Four independent studies of conifer growth between 1880 and 2002 in upper elevation forests of the central Sierra Nevada, California, U.S.A., showed correlated multidecadal and century-long responses associated with climate. Using tree-ring and ecological plot analysis, we studied annual branch growth of krummholz Pinus albicaulis; invasion by P. albicaulis and Pinus monticola into formerly persistent snowfields; dates of vertical branch emergence in krummholz P. albicaulis; and invasion by Pinus contorta into subalpine meadows. Mean annual branch growth at six treeline sites increased significantly over the 20th century (range 130-400%), with significant accelerations in rate from 1920 to 1945 and after 1980. Growth stabilized from 1945 to 1980. Similarly, invasion of six snowfield slopes began in the early 1900s and continued into snowfield centers throughout the 20th century, with significantly accelerated mean invasion from 1925 to 1940 and after 1980. Rate of snowfield invasion decreased between 1950 and 1975. Meadow invasion and vertical leader emergence showed synchronous, episodic responses. Pinus contorta invaded each of ten subalpine meadows in a distinct multidecadal pulse between 1945 and 1976 (87% of all trees) and vertical release in five krummholz P. albicaulis sites also occurred in one pulse between 1945 and 1976 (86% of all branches). These synchronies and lack of effect of local environments implicate regional climate control. Composite weather records indicated significant century-long increases in minimum monthly temperature and multidecadal variability in minimum temperature and precipitation. All ecological responses were significantly correlated with minimum temperature. Significant interactions among temperature, precipitation, Pacific Decadal Oscillation (PDO) indices, and multiyear variability in moisture availability further explained episodic ecological responses. Four multidecadal periods of the 20th century that are defined by ecological response (<1925; 1925-1944; 1945-1976; >1976) correlate with positive and negative PDO phases, as well as with steps in the rate of temperature increase. These diverse factors in spatially distributed upper-montane and treeline ecosystems respond directionally to century-long climate trends, and also exhibit abrupt and reversible effects as a consequence of interdecadal climate variability and complex interactions of temperature and moisture.
10.2307/1552556|This paper examines the longitudinal pattern of oligochaetes in the hyporheic and benthic layers of a glacial river (Val Roseg, Switzerland). We hypothesized that the spatial distribution of oligochaete communities would reflect changes in surface water/groundwater interactions along the river continuum. From June to November 1997 (4 dates), three hyporheic and three benthic samples were collected at 11 and 9 sites, respectively, located over a distance of 11 km from the glacier terminus. A two-ended member mixing model based on concentrations of sodium was used to determine changes in the relative proportions of glacial water and groundwater along the river. The longitudinal increase in the diversity and abundance of hyporheic assemblages of oligochaetes was closely linked to the convergence of groundwater and surface glacial water. The differential distribution of hyporheic and benthic assemblages suggested that the hyporheic corridor acted as the main upstream migration pathway for oligochaetes. In this glacial river, the hyporheic zone appeared as a source area from which benthic habitats presenting suitable environmental conditions could be colonized.
10.2307/1552587| Multivariate statistics are applied to data on low arctic flora and vegetation in an effort to compare and interpret information derived from contrasting field methods normally considered to be incompatible. Data were collected using two of the most widespread field techniques currently in use in the circumpolar North: (1) standardized sampling, using a point frame-based protocol; and (2) more traditional phytosociological methods. The comparison is based on simultaneous objective (quantitative) and subjective (qualitative) sampling of identical stands of vegetation at and north of the latitudinal treeline in the Yamal Region of Northwest Siberia. The species composition of vegetation on anthropogenic primary surfaces is emphasized, but undisturbed tundra was also sampled. One hundred and sixty-five quadrats (1  1 m) were analyzed together with 33 relevs (5  5 m) using detrended correspondence analysis (DCA). The ordination results revealed very good correlation within anthropogenic vegetation stands. However, in ordination diagrams derived from samples within undisturbed tundra, samples were clearly separated based on quadrat size because many non vascular taxa were missed in the large quadrats. 
4139084|The evolution of snow depth in the central Spanish Pyrenees was analyzed using measurements from 106 snow stakes over a period of 14 yr (1985-1999). Relationships were considered between the regional series of snow depths at the end of winter and in the middle of spring with respect to precipitation and temperature in previous months. Both variables explained a large percentage of the interannual variability in snowpack. The high correlation between climate parameters and snow depth series may help to better understanding snow evolution at different times of the year and to obtain a predicted series of snow depths for the period 1950-1999 from longer climate series. Snow depth decreased significantly during the second half of 20th century, probably because there was less precipitation from January to March. The decrease in winter precipitation seemed to be related with the positive trend of the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO) index during the same period.
4095902|We investigated the influence of nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) on
10.2307/1552527|Sodium metabolism was studied by isotope dilution techniques infree-ranging reindeer in the Jotunheimen mountain region of southern Norway. In the study three groups of animals were injected intravenously with <sup>22</sup>NaCl and bled 2-3 times per year. The study lasted from 184 to 993 d in the groups. Flow rates and half times of <sup>22</sup>Na in the plasma pool were calculated. The overall results showed half-times for <sup>22</sup>Na in winter of 301 d against 107 d in summer (mid May to early September). The difference in metabolic half time reflected large differences in the Na content of the diet. Sodium analyses of 485 plant samples from the study area, and diets constructed from published literature, showed that 1 kg dried summer diet would contain 6 to 7 mmol Na kg<sup>-1</sup> and 1 kg winter diet 4.4 mmol Na kg<sup>-1</sup>. Daily food intakes were calculated from dietary Na content and Na turnover estimates. Female reindeer with 70 kg body mass had an intake of 3.2 to 3.8 kg dry matter in summer and 1.8 kg in winter. We conclude that the Na supply in our area is marginal for reindeer, and that supplementation may enhance reindeer survival and productivity.
40305855|The distribution of mountain permafrost in the northern hemisphere depends on topographic and climatic factors, ranging from the maritime conditions of Iceland over transitional conditions in southern Norway to continental conditions in Mongolia, and from alpine mountains to paleic mountains. This study discusses the different environmental factors that govern permafrost distribution based on personal studies and a literature review. It is hypothesized that the thermal state of the ground is an important parameter to understand the time and spatial scale of sediment transfer and landscape development in cold mountainous regions. This is exemplified for the cases of rock walls, glacier forefields, rock glaciers, and the case of sediment remobilization due to glacier advance. The authors propose that thorough knowledge of the ground thermal regime is an important basis for addressing sediment budgets in space and time.
10.2307/1552259|Ski slope vegetation on Mount Hood, Oregon, U.S.A. was surveyed to assess vegetation that has developed under a constant disturbance regime and the environmental factors that are important in structuring the vegetation. Ski runs extend from 1200 to 2200 m on the south face of Mount Hood. TWINSPAN distinguished 17 plant communities including 4 above treeline and 13 below treeline; 3 of the latter also occur in the forest adjacent to the ski runs. Elevation, which is correlated to temperature, precipitation, depth of snowpack, and timing of snow melt, is the most important variable structuring the vegetation. Soil texture is also important. Distance to the forest boundary influences the vegetation only at lower elevations. Most of the slopes we examined were thickly vegetated, except above treeline where vegetation is typically sparse. Non-native species were detected only at the lowest elevations and were infrequently dominant. Non-native species cover and richness were correlated with percent bare area. Relative to ski runs in other areas, those on Mount Hood have little non-native species invasion, probably due to the harsh conditions prevalent on the ski runs and to a relative lack of bare areas, which occupy 17% of the runs below treeline. The relative scarcity of bare areas may be a result of the relatively great age of the ski runs (64 yr). Above treeline there was no detectable difference in vegetative composition on and off the ski run, probably due to extensive trampling of the vegetation in the summer.
10.2307/1552627|Three moraine complexes containing large rafts of fractured-bedrock formed by small cirque glaciers occur in Reindalen, Svalbard. Glaciotectonic landforms cored by rock rafts have been described from mid-latitude ice sheets of Pleistocene age in the past, but we believe this to be the first time large-scale bedrock rafts have been reported from moraines formed by small cirque glaciers. These moraine complexes consist of an imbricate stack of thrust slabs composed of fractured-bedrock and diamicton. Although the exact mechanism are unclear, we suggest that these moraines form by the displacement of subhorizontal strata within the cirque floor to form an initial stack of rock-cored thrust slabs, which subsequently confine the cirque glacier. Subsequent glacier advances, against this "barrier," establishes a strong compressive regime within the glacier snout, which leads to erosion and moraine development. Estimates of the thickness of the rock rafts are used to derive erosion rates, which are an order of magnitude greater than those previously reported for arctic regions.
4095944|We provide a description of the structural and thermal characteristics of snow cover in the Snowy Mountains of southeast Australia. Using the snow classification system developed by Sturm et al. (1995), the snow cover in the Snowy Mountains is classified primarily as maritime in areas where there is sufficient accumulation, and as ephemeral at lower elevations and on ablating aspects. Maritime snow is generally deep (>100 cm), with a density
41240415|Soil moisture has both direct and indirect effects on carbon dioxide (CO) exchange in tundra vegetation. It directly affects vegetation distribution and functioning, thus CO exchange at the leaf level, and it controls microbial decomposition influencing soil respiration. In this study we investigated CO exchange on a heterogeneous tundra landscape in the Canadian low arctic with the primary purpose of exploring the relationship between moisture variability and community level fluxes. CO exchange was measured with a portable chamber system, along with soil and air temperature. Biomass, leaf area, and foliar nitrogen were determined from harvested vegetation. Fluxes were compared in birch, tussock, heath, and sedge communities under different moisture regimes. Respiration and productivity were typically highest in wet or mesic groups, with fewer differences in net CO exchange. Across the soil moisture gradient, productivity and net CO exchange per unit leaf area and foliar nitrogen showed a significant negative linear trend. Respiration was limited in very dry and saturated soil, and soil temperature effects on respiration were seen only in mesic moisture conditions. These findings indicate that nutrient and temperature affects on fluxes can be at least partially explained within the framework of soil moisture availability.
20181720|The pollination ecology of small, short, and two-flowered Pedicularis muscoides subsp. himalayca was studied during its full blooming period in alpine areas of western Sichuan Province, China, part of the putative origin and diversification center of the genus. Pedicularis muscoides subsp. himalayca was notoribically pollinated exclusively by queens of four bumblebee species (Bombus Latr.) that foraged for nectar on flowers in an upright position. Of the four Bombus species, B. friseanus Smith occurred in the highest frequency and was the major pollinator of P. muscoides subsp. himalayca. It comprised 81% of the bumblebees collected on P. muscoides subsp. himalayca. Queen bumblebees stood on the ground while foraging on flowers, which has not previously been reported in other Pedicularis species. During the study period almost all the foragers were confined to the studied subspecies and very occasionally visited other associated blooming species at the study site. The low plant height; outcurved terminal flowers; short-tubed, erostrate, and copiously nectariferous flowers; corolla morphology; and highly synchronized short-blooming period of P. muscoides subsp. himalayca made this plant well adapted to pollination by queen bumblebees within a short growing season. Thus this study provides evidence for coadaptation between Pedicularis and bumblebee pollinators.
10.2307/1552206|We describe and analyze a complete 1-yr data set from an automatic weather station (AWS) located on the snout of the Morteratschgletscher, Switzerland. The AWS stands freely on the glacier surface and measures pressure, windspeed, wind direction, air temperature and humidity, incoming and reflected solar radiation, incoming and outgoing longwave radiation, snow temperature, and change in surface height (giving melt rates and snow accumulation). The wind is downglacier most of the time. As expected for a flow of katabatic origin, for air temperatures above the melting point we find a correlation between windspeed and temperature. We evaluate all significant components of the surface energy flux. For a (constant) turbulent exchange coefficient of 0.00153 (reference height 3.5 m) we obtain a perfect match between calculated and measured ice melt. The sensible heat flux is positive (towards the glacier surface) all the time with the largest values on fine summer days (daily mean values are typically 100 W m<sup>-2</sup> on the warmest days). The latent heat flux is small and negative in winter. In summer it is mainly positive (condensation), but negative values also occur. Altogether about 75% of the melt energy is supplied by radiation (shortwave and longwave) and 25% by the turbulent fluxes.
20181708|Much of the low Arctic is covered with shrubs that are partially buried by snow in winter and become exposed during melt. This study presents measurements and modeling of shortwave radiation reflection and extinction by a deciduous shrub canopy emerging from a melting snowcover in the mountains of the Yukon Territory, Canada. Shrubs shade most of the snow surface at low solar elevation angles, so only a fraction of the incoming radiation reaches the surface, but there is greater direct shortwave transmission to the surface in gaps between shrubs for higher solar elevations. A simple model is developed to incorporate the changing contributions of sun-lit gaps, shaded gaps, and shrubs to the landscape-averaged (areal) transmission and reflection of shortwave radiation. The areal transmissivity and albedo in this model are lower than in a two-stream approximation that neglects gap shading. A simple shadow parameterization is proposed for calculating shrub tundra snowmelt rates and surface energy balances in hydrological and land-surface models.
1552162|The construction and maintenance of roads in the Australian Alps has caused profound disturbance to the natural existing soil and vegetation, as well as the introduction and proliferation of exotic plant species. This study examined three ecotypes associated with roads. These ecotypes were tested for differences in soil characteristics and occurrence of different plant species. Differences in chemical and physical soil properties were found between road verges and adjacent native vegetation areas. Soils from natural areas had higher humus levels, less gravel and sand, higher levels of nutrients, and higher pH and electrical conductivity than road verges. A relationship was found between soil properties and the occurrence of different exotic plant species along roadsides. Exotics dominated in areas along the road verge and road drainage lines. The dominant exotic found in these ecotypes was Achillea millefolium (yarrow). These ecotypes were characterized by high water and sediment wash off, which had significantly higher soil pH and exchangeable levels of calcium and potassium than natural areas and disturbed areas without yarrow.
20181837|Infrared differential thermal analysis (IDTA) was used to study ice propagation and whole plant freezing patterns in dehardened intact individuals of various alpine plant species, including a shrub (Rhodedendron ferrugineum), a herbaceous plant (Senecio incanus), a cushion plant (Silene acaulis), and two graminoids (Poa alpina and Juncus trifidus). Freezing patterns differed markedly among species and reflected peculiarities of the shoot structure and the vascular system. In graminoids, each single leaf required a separate ice nucleation event, as the polystele prevents ice propagation between leaves via the stem. Additionally, enhanced supercooling resulted in a temperature range of whole plant freezing of up to 10C, which corroborates the high summer frost resistance of graminoids. This could have ecological significance for frost survival. In contrast, in dicotyledonous species one nucleation event was usually sufficient for whole plant freezing. Controlled ice-seeding experiments on leaves with droplets of water and bacterial water suspension (Pseudomonas syringae) showed that ice propagation into the leaf tissue from the surface was inhibited as long as the leaves were undamaged. The rate of ice propagation in veins was significantly higher at lower temperatures and reached up to 24 cm s in J. trifidus, which is much higher than reported in earlier findings. Ice propagation in graminoids was much faster, which may indicate that ice propagates within the protoxylem lacunae of large vessels.
20181782|Tree growth is generally limited by temperature in cold climates and by water availability in arid zones. Establishment in altitudinal treeline ecotones depends on the temperature, but may be very sensitive to water availability as well. We studied the effect of climate and land use on the colonization and growth of Pinus cembra in the treeline ecotone of the dry Central Swiss Alps; one site was influenced by timber harvest and cattle activity and another one was undisturbed. Stands were sampled at three elevations: in the forest and the lower and upper parts of the treeline ecotone. The age structure was similar in all sites, ranging from uneven-aged (forest) to more even-aged, with recent densification and upslope expansion of the treeline ecotone. However, recruitment started at the treeline around 1850 (the end of the Little Ice Age) in the undisturbed site, simultaneously with an increase of tree-ring growth, but about 60 years later at the other site, after cattle grazing decreased. These results, and the positive correlation of radial growth with summer and previous autumn temperatures indicated that, in this altitudinal treeline ecotone, growth and establishment are mainly linked to temperature. However, drought stress was visible in the lowest stands, with a positive correlation of growth with rainfall during the previous autumn and December, and in August of the growing season. This could limit growth in a future warmer climate.
4139073|We collected ground-penetrating radar data at 10 sites along the Kuparuk River and its main tributary, the Toolik River, to detect unfrozen water beneath river ice. We used 250 MHz and 500 MHz antennas to image both the ice-water interface and the river channel in late April 2001, when daily high temperatures were consistently below freezing and river ice had attained its maximum seasonal thickness. The presence of water below the river ice appears as a strong, horizontal reflection observed in the radar data and is confirmed by drill hole data. A downstream transition occurs from ice that is frozen to the bed, called bedfast ice, to ice that is floating on unfrozen water, called floating ice. This transition in ice type corresponds to a downstream change in channel size that was detected in previously conducted hydraulic geometry surveys of the Kuparuk River. We propose a conceptual model wherein the downstream transition from bedfast ice to floating ice is responsible for an observed step change in channel size due to enhanced bank erosion in large channels by floating ice.
23252812|Nitrification and denitrification are key microbiological processes in the soil nitrogen cycle and are the main biological sources of N 2 O emissions from soils. In this work, we measured gross nitrification and denitrification rates of northern Tibet alpine grassland ecosystems during the growing season and evaluated the influence of soil environmental factors. The results showed that the soil inorganic nitrogen concentration and gross nitrification and denitrification rates of both alpine meadow and alpine steppe varied obviously across the season. During the growing season mean values of gross nitrification and denitrification rates of the alpine meadow site were 3.0 and 2.3 times greater than those of the alpine steppe site, respectively. Both gross nitrification and denitrification rates were not significantly correlated with the determined soil characteristics which include soil microbial biomass, inorganic nitrogen, and soil temperature, except that gross nitrification seemed associated with the microsite where soil moisture was higher. Our results demonstrate that soil moisture can explain partly the higher soil nitrogen (N) transformation rates in alpine meadow sites, but soil N transformation microorganisms and enzyme activities studies covering prolonged observation periods are still needed to clarify the key soil environmental factors that control gross nitrification and denitrification processes in alpine grassland ecosystems.
20181711|The present extent of glacier ice on Bylot Island, Arctic Canada, is mapped using high-resolution Landsat 7 ETM+ satellite imagery. The island is 43% ice covered, with 4783 km of ice. Most ice is centered on the northwest-southeast-trending Byam Martin Mountains, flowing outward as radial valley glaciers and piedmont lobes. The largest glacier is 49 km long and 6.5 km wide. The majority of glaciers terminate on land, but many have margins ending in lakes and two calve into the sea. The late summer snowline, mapped from satellite imagery, is highest along the southern and central parts of the island at about 1050 m, with lower values along the east-northeastern margin of the ice down to about 700 m. These snowline-elevation differences suggest a predominant moisture source from the northeast. Several valley glaciers and piedmont lobes have deformed medial moraines and ice-surface foliation suggesting past surge activity. Ten glaciers are interpreted to be of possible surge-type. The modern extent of glaciers is compared with that of two earlier time intervals. First, we have mapped glacier margins in several areas of Bylot Island from aerial photographs acquired in 1958 and 1961. Secondly, former positions of ice fronts are mapped from moraine systems deposited during the Neoglacial maximum and identified on satellite data. Glaciers have retreated from 0.9 to 1.8 km since the Neoglacial maximum about 120 years ago, with most retreat occurring between 1958/1961 and 2001. Approximately 253 km or 5% of the 1958/1961 ice-covered area has been lost. Overall, marked glacier retreat has occurred, although a few glaciers, possibly of surge-type, show small readvances. This retreat is consistent with observed climate warming in the Canadian Arctic, especially since the 1960s.
23359627|Cold season respiration may significantly affect arctic terrestrial ecosystem annual net carbon balances. Here, the influences of vegetation type, experimentally deepened snow, and interannual climatic variation on total cold season CO 2 efflux were investigated in a Canadian low arctic site containing dry heath, tall birch understory, birch hummock, and wet sedge ecosystems. Total efflux ranged from 34 to 126 g CO 2 -C m -2 among the vegetation types, with the tall birch understory respiring at least twice that of the birch hummock and four times that of either the dry heath or wet sedge. This variation did not correlate with soil temperature differences alone, but instead was attributed to ecosystem-specific interactions between snow depth, vegetation canopy cover, soil temperature, and moisture, as well as differences in plant biomass and litter production. Respiration from the birch hummock site was twice as high in 2006/2007 (the year of relatively warm fall and late winter soil temperature phases) as compared to 2004/2005, and was enhanced by the snow fence treatment only in the latter year. Together, these data demonstrate that cold season CO 2 release differs substantially among tundra vegetation types, and strongly suggest that these effluxes can significantly offset growing season carbon gains, resulting in annual net carbon losses in some years.
1552328| Subalpine grasslands in the western Alps are currently facing major environmental changes induced by pastoral disuse. In such a context, the rapid spread of a shrub (Alnus viridis [Chaix] DC.) is expected to threaten biodiversity. The aim of this study was to assess the impact of its cover on vascular plant diversity. Data collected at several local levels (108 plots) in a representative area detected a linear decrease in species richness across an increasing A. viridis (green alder) cover gradient, whereas alder-stand -diversity at the community level was particularly singular. We used constrained ordination methods based on Principal Components Analysis to partial out substantial variance explained by spatial structure of samples. The resulting partial Redundancy Analysis accounted for 62.3% of the initial inertia, and the environmental effect by A. viridis cover was identified as a major cause of variance in the whole species ordination (16.1%). The expansion of A. viridis on subalpine grasslands causes considerable environmental changes which have mostly a negative effect on the conservation of vascular plant diversity in the inner part of the western Alps. However, A. viridis appears to contribute to the diversity of the subalpine belt by inducing a peculiar floristic composition. 
1552332|This paper contains an analysis of magnitude and frequency of avalanches in relation to terrain and forest cover variables. The analysis was applied to 194 avalanche paths in four avalanche areas along highways in British Columbia with approximately 25,000 avalanches recorded. The magnitude and frequency for the avalanche paths were estimated from data collected along the highways by avalanche technicians. Results show that mean magnitude and mean frequency are weakly correlated for a set of avalanche paths in an avalanche area. In addition, with magnitude and frequency viewed as response variables, magnitude and frequency correlate with different sets of predictor variables from one area to another. This paper contains the first comparison of variables which correlate with magnitude and frequency from one avalanche area to another. The results show that previous studies conducted for single areas are simplistic. However, there is some consistency between areas. Avalanche frequency is most directly related to terrain steepness and snow supply. Average avalanche magnitude appears related to terrain steepness, starting zone, and track confinement and the scale (e.g., total vertical drop of the path) with only indirect evidence for a link to snow supply.
41240403|Winter snowfall is increasing in many Arctic regions and climate models predict this trend will persist in the coming century. We examined the effects of two levels of increased winter snow accumulation on soil microclimate, plant and soil nutrient status, plant phenology and ecosystem CO exchange after five years of treatment in a widespread High Arctic ecosystem. Increased snow cover resulted in greater winter CO efflux, altered growing season soil nutrient availability and greater leaf nitrogen concentrations during the snow-free season. Modest increases in snow cover (+0.25 m above ambient) increased gross ecosystem photosynthesis (GEP) without increasing ecosystem respiration (ER), while the deepest snow cover (+0.75 m above ambient) increased both GEP and ER. The area of intermediate snow addition was a smaller source of CO to the atmosphere during the growing season when compared to the ambient and deep snow areas. The intermediate and deep snow areas apparently had similar effects on the functioning of the vegetation community (increased GEP), but divergent effects on the soil microbial respiration, as evidenced by the changes in ER. This nonlinear response to increasing snow depth demonstrates the potential for complex High Arctic ecosystem responses to changes in winter precipitation.
4095884|Willows (Salix spp.) are important riparian plants along high elevation streams of western North America, but the hydrologic conditions needed for initial recruitment are not well defined. A replicated plot experiment was used to determine the effects of (1) elevation above the stream (high, middle, or low), (2) soil texture (sand or gravel), (3) watering to simulate additional rainfall, and (4) an upstream water diversion on soil water content and first-year willow seedling survival along a subalpine reach of the Colorado River. Soil water content varied with elevation (F = 163.8, p < 0.001) and soil texture (F = 387.3, p < 0.001), while the effect of the watering treatment was not statistically significant. Soil water content controlled first-year willow seedling survival (
20181804|Soil frost formation, snow distribution, and winter/spring/summer terminal infiltration rates (TIRs) were quantified in Icelandic Andisols with contrasting vegetation cover types (grassland, spruce and birch woodland, lupine, and sparsely vegetated lava site). TIRs (mm h; determined with double-ring infiltrometers) were generally higher in unfrozen than in frozen soils (102-369 vs. 9-306, respectively in sandy soils; 28-94 vs. 3-72 in finer-textured soils) and differed between land cover types, being consistently highest in birch woodlands. TIR was an inverse function of soil frost depth. Lowest TIRs were associated with deep and dense soil frost, which formed in spruce woodland and grassland communities where snow depth was shallow. Results suggest conditions conductive to erosion by water are most likely to occur during winter warm spells and in spring in vegetation types where snow cover is low or ephemeral. Threefold increases in TIRs occurred one year after livestock grazing was discontinued, suggesting Andisols are hydrologically resilient where vegetation cover is relatively continuous and soil organic carbon content is high.
10.2307/1552217| This study documents the characteristics of upper montane forests within Cotacachi-Cayapas Ecological Reserve, a protected area in northern Ecuador. On Cotacachi Volcano, there are remnants of forest vegetation extending from about 3650 m down to a crater lake at 3150 m. We examined these forests at four sites located within a deep ravine; the forests were sampled with 50  10 m inventory plots placed at 100 m elevation intervals between 3630 and 3330 m. We noted changes in vegetation composition and structure along the altitudinal gradient, as well as variation in these parameters with distance from the forest edge. There were important differences in structure and composition with elevation, but some were unexpected and appear to be related to the influences of past anthropogenic disturbances. For example, the trees at the higher elevations were taller and more massive, suggesting they had not been cut or burned by escaped grassland fires, processes known to have occurred at lower elevations. Little evidence of edge effect was documented within the plots, which is expected if deforestation has converted most of the forest into edge habitat. These patterns may be typical of other remnant forests in the Andes, and provide a basis for understanding the nature of human impact on Andean forests. 
10.2307/1552415|We measured CO<sub>2</sub> flux, soil organic matter, and soil microbial biomass carbon in six high arctic tundra communities near Thule, Greenland, in July 1997, including polar desert, polar semidesert, and polar oasis ecosystems. Three of the four polar desert sites were in a contiguous toposequence originating at the receding margin of the Greenland ice cap and extending away from the ice approximately 400 m. The other sites ranged from 3 to 12 km from the ice margin. We measured net ecosystem CO<sub>2</sub> uptake in the polar desert ecosystem most distance from the ice sheet (1.2 g CO<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>) and in the polar semidesert ecosystem (0.3 g CO<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>), but net CO<sub>2</sub> loss in the polar oasis site and the three polar desert sites in the toposequence. Ecosystem respiration tended to be greatest in the ecosystems that have apparently been ice-free the longest, with efflux rates up to 3.7 g CO<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>. In the toposequence, soil organic matter was greatest adjacent to the icecap (3.10%) and decreased to 0.93% is the polar desert site 400 m from the ice. The polar semidesert and polar oases sites had 2.67 and 3.83% soil organic matter, respectively. Soil microbial biomass carbon ranged from about 1 mg C g<sup>-1</sup> soil in the polar oasis ecosystem to about 0.2 mg C g<sup>-1</sup> soil in one of the polar desert ecosystems but did not follow the patterns we found for soil organic matter. Our findings substantiate other recent studies showing significant CO<sub>2</sub> flux between high arctic ecosystems and the atmosphere, and suggest that carbon exchange in these systems merit consideration in circumarctic estimates of carbon flux.
20181736|Twelve profiles of alpine soils associated with well-developed, but currently inactive, sorted polygons were investigated in the Uinta Mountains of northeastern Utah. The summit upland in the Uintas does not appear to have been glaciated, and these soils are considerably older than those located in lower elevation glacial valleys. Profiles of soils from the polygon centers reveal a dark, organic-rich surface horizon developed in loamy loess overlying a series of redder, sandy B horizons locally exhibiting strongly developed platey structure and pockets of coarser sediment. Irregular and broken horizons at depth reflect extensive cryoturbation during episodes when the sorted polygons are active. Overall morphology and profile quantities of weathering products in these soils are similar to those previously reported for alpine tundra soils in the Uintas; however, the cryoturbated horizons are limited to soils in the patterned ground. A developmental model for these soils emphasizes the combined role of pedogenic processes operating during interglaciations (accumulation of organic matter and loess, translocation of silt and clay, chemical weathering) and periods of cryoturbation (distortion of horizons, redistribution of weathering products within the solum). Outstanding questions include the timing and relative duration of cryoturbation episodes, the timing of loess deposition, and the overall age of the soils.
40801761|A description is presented of the nearshore benthic community of Kasatochi Island 10-12 months after a catastrophic volcanic eruption in 2008. The eruption extended the coastline of the island approximately 400 m offshore, mainly along the south, southeast, and southwest shores, to roughly the 20 m isobath. Existing canopy kelp of Eualaria (Alaria) fistulosa, as well as limited understory algal species and associated fauna (e.g., urchin barrens) on the hard substratum were apparently buried following the eruption. Samples and observations revealed the substrate around the island in 2009 was comprised almost entirely of medium and coarse sands with a depauperate benthic community, dominated by opportunistic pontogeneiid amphipods. Comparisons of habitat and biological communities with other nearby Aleutian Islands, as well as with the Icelandic volcanic island of Surtsey, confirm dramatic reductions in flora and fauna consistent with an early stage of recovery from a large-scale disturbance event.
20181719|Methanotrophy (the bacterial oxidation of CH) in soils is the major biological sink for atmospheric CH. Here we present results from a study designed to quantify the role of the physical diffusion barrier to CH, through surface soils, as a factor affecting methanotrophy. We used the mountain birch forest-tundra heath ecotone in subarctic northern Sweden as our study system. Our results show that, although CH fluxes were generally low (around -20 mol mh; a net flux from atmosphere to soil), the two adjacent communities responded in contrasting ways to in situ experimental reduction of the diffusion barrier (removal of the top 50 mm of soil): Uptake increased by 40% in forest soil in association with the removal, whereas it decreased marginally (by 10%) in tundra heath. Investigations of the depth-distribution of CH oxidation in vitro revealed maximum rates at the top of the mineral soil for the forest site, whereas at the tundra heath this was more evenly spread throughout the organic horizon. The contrasting physicochemical properties and methanotroph activity in the organic horizons together explain the contrasting responses to the removal treatment. They also illustrate the potential role of vegetation for methane oxidation around this ecotone, exerted through its influence on the depth and properties of the organic horizons in these subarctic soils.
20181846|Using the High Sudetes as an example, we examined whether the position of the alpine treeline is in fact related to the heat load of the site, and whether the temperatures of the air and soil change along slopes with differing exposure to solar radiation. We hypothesized that if there are really strong exposure effects they must be expressed both in significant correlations between treeline elevation and heat load of respective sites and in distinct differences in root zone and tree top temperatures. We found that the highest positions of the alpine treeline were situated in places with the potentially highest heat load. Nevertheless, only weak exposure effects on the soil temperatures during the growing season were detected, both in the closed forest and in the tree groups. Further, air temperatures near the terminal shoots varied significantly less than soil temperatures; however, the margins of the closed forest were especially more favorable at the south-facing slopes. Winter soil temperatures did not seem to be generally more advantageous on sites with high heat load. Direct temperature measurements thus indicated that established positions of the alpine treeline are just slightly influenced by differences in heat load.
41416436|About 5.6% of the drainage area of the Tanana River, Alaska, is covered by mountainous glacierized regions, and most of the other area by forests (51%) and wetlands (9%) with discontinuous permafrost. The water discharge and sediment load from glacierized and non-glacierized regions within the drainage area were represented by observed data of the proglacial Phelan Creek and the non-glacial Chena River, respectively, which are both the tributaries of the Tanana River and ultimately drain to the Yukon river basin. In the glacier-melt periods of 2007 and 2008, the runoff rate and suspended sediment concentration in Phelan Creek was 15 times and 36 times as high as those in the non-glacial Chena River, respectively. As a result, the mean sediment yield in the glacier-melt periods of 2007 and 2008 for Phelan Creek (24.8 t km day) was estimated to be 640 times as high as that in the Chena River (0.039 t km day). Hence, the glacierized regions were considered to be a major source of the fluvial sediment. In order to quantify the contribution of water discharge and sediment load from the glacierized regions to those of the Tanana River, the time series of water discharge, Q, and sediment load, L, in the glacier-melt periods were simulated by a tank model coupled with the L-Q equations (Nash-Sutcliffe efficiency coefficients, 0.41 to 0.82). The model indicates that the glacier-melt discharge accounted for 26-57% of the Tanana discharge, while the sediment load from the glacierized regions solely accounted for 76-94% of the Tanana sediment load. The remaining contribution (6-24%) of the sediment load was probably due to the fluvial resuspension of glacial sediment deposited previously in the river channels.
24551602|Identifying the factors controlling tree mortality is key to understanding the effects of ongoing global change on treeline movement and species composition. One potentially significant but little studied factor that impacts the formation of treelines is mortality caused by snow fungi. We studied the mortality patterns of Pinus cembra, a typical treeline species of the Central Alps of Switzerland, in two plantations located on opposite slopes of the Dischma valley (Northeast [NE] and Southwest [SW]) above the current treeline. In 1975, 33,000 P. cembra trees were planted at the NE site and 550 trees at the smaller SW site. All trees have been periodically monitored for survival since then. After 30 years, only ca. 5% of all P. cembra trees survived in both plantations. Two species of pathogenic snow fungus, Gremmeniella abietina and Phacidium infestans, were major mortality agents for saplings. High rates of infection by Gremmeniella corresponded to late snowmelt and high ratios of rainfall to temperature. High rates of infection by Phacidium corresponded to earlier snowmelt and were spatially associated with P. cembra mature trees that had been present in the area before the time of planting. We provide experimental evidence that snow fungi are a primary cause of sapling tree mortality at treeline. Although additional evidence from different geographic regions and more natural treeline distributions is needed, our results suggest that the prevalence of snow fungi may prevent establishment of trees above the current treeline at present, and under future climate scenarios.
40801760|Kasatochi Island, home to a rich community of largely marine-dependent fauna, erupted with little warning on 7-8 August 2008 and buried the island under up to 30 m of tephra. We visited the island during the summer of 2009 to examine the effects of the eruption on local wildlife. The abundance of sea lions and many seabird species in 2009 was comparable to pre-eruption estimates, suggesting that adult mortality was low for these species. In contrast, shorebirds and passerines formerly breeding on the island were not observed in 2009 and probably perished in the eruption. The largest direct effect of the eruption to individual animals was probably mortality of chicks, with an estimated total 20,000-40,000 young birds lost. Indirect effects on wildlife consisted of loss of foraging habitat for species that relied on former terrestrial, intertidal, or nearshore-subtidal habitat and the near-total destruction of all former nesting habitats for most species. Although several species attempted to breed in 2009, all except Steller's sea lions failed due to lack of suitable breeding sites. The recovery of wildlife at Kasatochi will depend on erosion of the tephra layer blanketing the island to re-expose former breeding habitat.
24551719|We compared in three shallow Alaskan Arctic lakes physical properties of bulk sediment and the fine-scale (1 mm increments to 20 mm sediment depth) vertical distribution of dissolved O2, scalar irradiance, chlorophyll a, and radiocarbon assimilation by microphytobenthos to better understand the structural and functional significance of this community. Sediments showed water contents of 8698%, and dry bulk densities of 0.0120.146 g cm3, depending on depth. Chlorophyll a displayed no clear vertical pattern, suggesting mixing of surface layers and showed lakewise averages of 5.123.7 g cm3. Sediments were oxic to 1.55.5 mm and showed attenuation coefficients of 1.172.07 mm1 for photon scalar irradiance. Photosynthetic activity was localized near the sediment surface, as 5781% of H14CO3 added to intact cores was recovered in the 02 mm zone. Only 2644% of the chlorophyll a in vertical profiles was sited in the euphotic zone, but microphytobenthos in underlying, aphotic sediments immediately photosynthesized at or near rates for the surface sediment when artificially irradiated. Area-based chlorophyll a in the euphotic plus photosynthetically capable aphotic microphytobenthos was 62105 times higher than that of the phytoplankton, pointing to the potential importance of benthic autotrophs to Arctic lake food webs.
4139103|Bilchenok Glacier is a surging glacier in the Kamchatka Peninsula, Russia, which most recently surged in 1982 and is currently in its quiescent phase. Field research in 1998 revealed an ogive-like repeated pattern of transverse ridges and intervening gently sloping ice at the surface of the ablation area of this glacier. It was also observed that most of the glacial surface was covered by volcanic rocks and ash, and the debris thickness on the ridges was more than 1 m, whereas the gently sloping ice was covered by thin debris. We posit that the pattern of the debris thickness is caused by the unique conditions of Bilchenok Glacier, namely, the restricted position of its debris supply at the foot of the rock walls beside the icefall and its surging behavior. The distance between the ridges might indicate the total horizontal displacement attributable to surges. The dependence of the ablation rate on the debris thickness can result in a highly undulating ice surface between the ridge and the gently sloping ice. We estimate the effect of the debris thickness on the ice surface profile using a simple model and this model successfully predicts that high ice relief can be caused by different ablation rates in the debris cover thickness.
4095946|Pollination ecology and habitat preference of Pedicularis species were studied in a transitional zone between subalpine coniferous forests and alpine meadows in north-western Sichuan of China. Pedicularis species exhibited apparent preferences for different microhabitats. Species with long rostrate and contorted galea were nectarless and their mean corolla tube length ranged from 7 to 50 mm while species without long rostrate and contorted galea produced nectar and their corolla tube length averaged from 8 to 18 mm. Bumblebees were the sole pollinators of the studied species and five bee species pollinated seven Pedicularis species with one species pollinating all the Pedicularis species. Pollinators that visited nectariferous species had longer tongues than those that visited nectarless species and they spent longer time on nectariferous than on nectarless species. All Pedicularis species except for P. rex subsp. lipskyana were pollinated by worker bees. Pedicularis rex subsp. lipskyana was pollinated nototribically by worker, male and queen bumblebees through stigmatic contact with residual pollen on the left side of the bee's head. Morphology of pollinators, rather than pollinator species, may play the key role in diversification of Pedicularis. Microhabitats rather than pollination may be the separation barrier in propagation. Factors contributing to high diversity of Pedicularis need further study.
10.2307/1552447|Carbon and peat accumulation rates over the past 1200 yr were measured in relation to permafrost aggradation, maturity, ground fires, and degradation in a peatland with discontinuous permafrost near Fort Simpson, N.W.T., Canada. The White River volcanic ash layer, deposited 1200 yr ago, was used as a chronostratigraphic marker to compare peat and carbon accumulation among peat cores collected along transects over a consistent period of time. The aggradation of permafrost results in a change from unfrozen bog to forested peat plateau, and approximate decreases of 50 and 65% in carbon and vertical peat accumulation rates, respectively. Carbon and peat accumulation continue to decrease significantly with both increasing permafrost maturity and the number of ground fires. The transition from peat plateau to collapse bog through internal permafrost degradation results in up to a 72 and 200% increase in carbon and vertical peat accumulation rates, respectively. Permafrost degradation at the margins of a peat plateau can result in the formation of collapse fens, in which vertical peat accumulation increases significantly yet the carbon accumulation rates remain similar to the peat plateau. A warming climate may result in a shift towards higher carbon accumulation rates in peatlands associated with bog vegetation following peat plateau collapse, yet warmer peat temperatures, greater soil aeration, greater rates of peat decomposition, and an increase in burning may provide limits to the increase.
25642079|Several members of the subgenus Amphilaena (Saussurea; Asteraceae) growing at high elevations in the Himalayan region have semi-translucent bracts covering their inflorescences, the function of which is not fully understood. We investigated the thermal benefits of these bracts in Saussurea velutina in situ in the Hengduan Mountains, SW China, and compared the reflectance spectra and anatomical characters of bracts and rosette leaves in the laboratory. After removal of bracts in the field the average inflorescence daytime temperature was 2.5 C colder than in control plants with intact bracts. Manually opened treatment inflorescences grew slower and set significantly fewer seeds than control inflorescences with bracts intact. The mesophyll of bracts is a single cell layer with a lower reflectance in the infrared range than rosette leaves. We show that the semi-translucent bracts in S. velutina function to ensure warmer temperatures for floral and seed development at high elevations in the Hengduan Mountains.
4095842| Proglacial areas in the Alps usually cover a time span of deglaciation of about 150 years (time since the end of the "Little Ice Age" in the 1850s). In these proglacial areas soils have started to develop. In view of the foreseeable climate change, the time factor is of growing interest with respect to the landscape and consequently the soil development. We investigated soil changes (primarily on the basis of soil types) in the proglacial area Morteratsch (Swiss Alps) to derive time trends that can be used as a basis for spatial modeling. Differences in the soil development could be primarily interpreted in view of the time scale and topography (landscape shape, slope, aspect). Data was managed with GIS and regression analyses. Input data sets were the digital soil map, the glacial states, and the digital elevation model. The calculations were done raster based (GRID, 20 m resolution). After about 20 years the first signs of soil development could be found. Around 25% of the area of the valley floor is covered with weakly developed Skeletic/Lithic Leptosol after about 30 years of deglaciation. One hundred years of soil development led to a strong decrease of the Skeletic/Lithic Leptosol in favor of the Humi-Skeletic Leptosol and Ranker. Fluvisols and Cambisols play a subordinate role also after 100-150 years. Undisturbed and fast soil evolution was measured in flat positions and on slopes up to about 14. In general, the various landforms also correlated well with soil evolution. One of the most surprising facts was that the weathering between south- and north-facing sites differed distinctly, with the north-facing sites having the higher weathering rates. Soil moisture seems to be a decisive factor in weathering. Thicker snow packs probably inhibit or reduce soil frost and allow larger fluxes of snowmelt water to infiltrate into already moist profiles. Slope, exposure and to a lesser extent also the landform determined the soil development: these influences could be quantified using regression analyses. These analyses serve as a basis for further spatio-temporal modeling. 
20181746|Annual accumulation records covering the period A.D. 1952-1998 were reconstructed using a 29.5-m ice core from the col of the Lanong Glacier (5850 m a.s.l.) on the eastern saddle of Mt. Nyainqentanglha, southern Tibetan Plateau. Using NCEP/NCAR Reanalysis data, we explore the relationships between this ice-core accumulation record and primary components of the climate system. Linear correlation analysis between annual accumulation and climate components for the 47-yr overlap period indicates that annual accumulation variations are closely correlated with sea-surface and 500-mb air temperature over the North Indian Ocean and atmospheric circulation (surface pressure and geopotential height) over Asia (r &gt; 0.34, P &lt; 0.01). An intensification of atmospheric circulation and increase of sea-surface and air temperatures, resulting in intensified moisture availability and moisture transport, have been a major cause for the increase of ice-core accumulation over the Mt. Nyainquentanglha region since the 1980s.
10.2307/1552218| Growth and development of two populations of Phleum alpinum L. from South Georgia (5420S) and the Rondane Mountains in Norway (6142N) were studied in controlled environment in order to test the feasibility of transequatorial migration of this bipolar species. The South Georgia population flowered more sparsely, but had much higher vegetative reproduction capacity than the Rondane population. Both had an obligatory low temperature and/or short day (SD) requirement for inflorescence initiation. Although heading and inflorescence development were enhanced by long days (LD) and higher temperature, neither population had any obligatory LD requirement for flowering. No adaptation in the flowering requirements would thus have been required for a step by step migration of this bipolar species on mountain tops across the equator. Relative growth rate (RGR) and dry matter production per plant were stimulated by LD in both populations, despite reduction in photosynthetic capacity and chlorophyll content compared with SD conditions. The main driving force for increased production in LD was LD-stimulation of individual and total leaf area which more than compensated for reduced photosynthesis per unit leaf area. Relative growth rate, photosynthetic capacity, and chlorophyll content were less in South Georgia than Rondane plants, while specific leaf area and shoot/root ratio were higher in the former. Chlorophyll a/b ratios were always higher in South Georgia than Rondane plants while they increased markedly with decreasing temperature, and were always higher under SD than LD conditions in both population. Possible consequences for photosystem acclimation are discussed. 
23359383|In this study, we use the coupled photosynthesis-stomatal conductance model of Collatz et al. (1991) to simulate the current canopy carbon dioxide exchange of a heterogeneous tundra ecosystem in European Russia. For the parameterization, we used data obtained from in situ leaf level measurements in combination with meteorological data from 2008. The modeled CO 2 fluxes were compared with net ecosystem exchange (NEE), measured by the eddy covariance technique during the snow-free period in 2008. The findings from this study indicated that the main state parameters of the exchange processes were leaf area index (LAI) and Rubisco capacity (V cmax ). Furthermore, this ecosystem was found to be functioning close to its optimum temperature regarding carbon accumulation rates. During the modeling period from May to October, the net assimilation was greater than the respiration, leading to a net accumulation of 58 g C m -2 . The model results suggest that the tundra ecosystem could change from a carbon sink to a carbon source with a temperature rise of only 23 C. This is due to the fact that, in the continental Arctic, a global warming of a few degrees might restrict the net assimilation, due to high temperatures, whereas the respiration is predicted to be enhanced. However, future changes in vegetation composition and growth, along with acclimation to the new thermal regime, might facilitate the assimilation to counterbalance the carbon losses.
1552174| The effects of ultraviolet radiation on plant frost hardiness were studied at two subarctic experimental sites, namely Abisko (northern Sweden, 68N) and Sodankyl (northern Finland, 67N). The Abisko treatment mimicked 15% ozone depletion and had been running for 7 yr. The investigated plant species was bilberry (Vaccinium myrtillus L.). The Sodankyl treatment consisted of lingonberry (V. vitis-idaea) and seedlings of mountain birch (Betula pubescens ssp. czerepanovii), which were exposed to both elevated UV-B and UV-A radiation in a modulated system corresponding to about 20% loss of the ozone layer. The frost hardiness tests in the Sodankyl experiment were carried out after UV exposure for one growing season. The frost hardiness of bilberry in Abisko was marginally decreased as a consequence of elevated UV-B exposure similarly to the frost hardiness of lingonberry and mountain birch in the Sodankyl experiment in August. The work provides evidence for rather than against a reducing effect of ultraviolet radiation on plant frost hardiness. The results suggest that elevated UV-A radiation probably reduces plant frost hardiness more efficiently than UV-B radiation. 
4095875|Alpine lakes are often highly transparent to ultraviolet (UV) wavelengths, which has led to the suggestion that a deep chlorophyll maximum (DCM) results in these systems from UV avoidance by phytoplankton. However, an alternative explanation is that the formation of the DCM is primarily driven by greater nutrient availability below the thermocline in these oligotrophic systems. We investigated the location of the chlorophyll maximum over spatial and temporal scales in a set of high-elevation lakes in the Beartooth Mountains (Montana/Wyoming). The position of the DCM was compared to a suite of physical and chemical variables across systems. Chlorophyll was strongly correlated to a suite of nitrogen variables, whereas correlations with UV parameters were not consistently observed. We also conducted an experiment with the natural phytoplankton assemblage from the DCM in Beartooth Lake; both UV exposure and nutrient additions were tested in a factorial design. The UV-exposed treatment and the control had the same final total phytoplankton biovolume, while the nutrient addition treatment had a final biovolume ten times as great. These results suggest that, as in other oligotrophic aquatic systems, greater nutrient availability in the hypolimnion leads to the development of the DCM in alpine lakes.
20181742|The Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) derived from NOAA AVHRR Global Vegetation Index (GVI) for Lhasa area in the central Tibetan Plateau from 1985 to 1999 and its relationship with climate conditions (precipitation and temperature) are established in this study. Climate data from the Lhasa meteorological station provided by the Tibet Climate Data Center are used for this analysis. The NDVI-derived vegetation growth patterns show very strong seasonal cycles and interannual variations. The growing season length varies between years. The correlation between NDVI and precipitation (r = 0.75, P &lt; 0.01) in Lhasa area is higher than the correlation between NDVI and temperature (r = 0.63, P &lt; 0.01), suggesting that NDVI is more sensitive to precipitation than temperature in this semiarid climate zone. Furthermore, the time series of NDVI demonstrate a positive trend from 1985 to 1999, which means that the vegetation biomass present on land surface is increasing. This trend is strongly correlated to increased rainfall and temperature from mid-1980s to 1990s in the Lhasa area of the Tibetan Plateau.
4095846|We studied the diurnal activity patterns of the African ice rat Otomys sloggetti robertsi, a murid rodent endemic to the harsh alpine and sub-alpine habitats of southern Africa. The taxon is poorly adapted physiologically to cold conditions, and we investigated whether the activity of free-living O. s. robertsi is modified by prevailing environmental conditions. O. s. robertsi displayed a bimodal diurnal activity profile in summer, retreating into underground burrows during the middle of the day when ambient temperatures and solar radiation levels were at their highest. In contrast, during winter, O. s. robertsi displayed a unimodal activity profile by spending most of the day foraging aboveground and extending its foraging bouts for about half an hour after sunset. More time was spent foraging than basking in winter compared to summer. Levels of foraging decreased and levels of basking increased during periods of snow cover, although runways beneath the snow could have provided access routes to foraging areas. O. s. robertsi activity is dictated by environmental conditions seasonally, time of the day, and the absence or presence of snow, and the taxon responds to these conditions by trading off between behaviors critical for meeting thermoregulatory requirements.
10.2307/1552526|Grazing activities and densities of muskoxen in Sverdrup Pass, Central Ellesmere Island, were investigated by use of an automatic camera monitoring system from May to August, 1987 and by direct observation from March to May 1988. Average seasonal density of muskoxen was 6.4  1.9 (S.E.M.) animals  km<sup>-2</sup> resulting in an average of 48.3  5.1 (S.E.M.) % of available shoots grazed in meadow stands. These figures far surpass previous estimates of density or impact of muskoxen in the High Arctic. It shows that in some high arctic plant communities herbivores can reach high densities and have a high impact, even though aerial survey counts of large areas indicate low average animal densities. Muskoxen selected wet and mesic meadow communities between April and August, except in late June and late July of 1987, when willow herb fields were chosen. In March and early April of 1988 muskoxen grazed valley slopes with little snow cover and little vegetation. In total, 82.8% of the grazing time between 18 May and 18 August 1987, was spent in meadows, despite the fact that these communities covered only 31% of the study area. Muskoxen were therefore highly selective grazers.
20181765|Mammalian herbivores in arctic tundra often alter plant species composition and lichen abundance, with effects dependent on grazing season and herbivore preference. We investigated how long-term mammal exclosures designed to exclude large mammals (caribou) alone, large and medium-sized mammals (e.g., ground squirrels), or all mammals (including voles and lemmings) affected lichen abundance and species composition as well as the vascular plant community. The exclosures were partly established in combination with long-term soil nutrient additions to investigate the interaction between mammal activity and nutrient availability. Our study was conducted in dry heath tundra in northern Alaska, dominated by dwarf evergreen shrubs and lichens. Excluding mammals for 17 years allowed the lichen community to increase in biomass, particularly within the genus Cladonia, which also had more intrageneric diversity in the exclosures; after 10 years, results were subtler. Fertilization, however, almost eliminated the lichens, regardless of herbivore treatment. This coincided with a dramatic shift in vascular vegetation toward a more palatable grass-dominated community, similar to studies of other arctic heaths. Our results suggest that with greater soil nutrient availability that occurs with climate warming, lichens will decrease in abundance, and this effect may be exacerbated by increased mammalian herbivory.
20181717|Fresh snow samples were collected following seven snow accumulation events along an altitudinal transect of the Robertson Valley. This glacierized valley is on the eastern slopes of the Canadian Rockies at the Continental Divide and receives precipitation from both westerly (Pacific) air masses and from easterly (upslope) systems. Snow samples were collected over two winter seasons and were analyzed for O, revealing altitudinal gradients that ranged from -0.3/100 m to +1.8/100 m. Five of seven snow events had positive (inverse) isotopic gradients with altitude: O enrichment at higher altitudes. Surface and upper-air meteorological data were analyzed to classify the type of weather systems bringing precipitation to the area for each accumulation event. Three storm classifications were developed: westerly, upslope, and mixed/ northwesterly systems. Positive O-elevation gradients were found under strong westerly and northwesterly flow, when the Robertson Valley acts as a leeward slope, while more conventional negative gradients correspond with upslope flow, when easterly winds make the Robertson Valley a windward snow deposition environment. We interpret the inverse isotopic gradients as evidence of ongoing Rayleigh distillation as westerly systems cross the Continental Divide. Position on the Rayleigh distillation curve had a strong influence on the magnitude of O-elevation gradients.
40962404|We studied sexual segregation in an endangered alpine ungulate, Sierra Nevada bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis sierrae) in the Sierra Nevada, California, U.S.A., during winter 2005-2006. We tested hypotheses for sexual segregation to better understand that phenomenon and to obtain information critical for the conservation of these rare mammals. Females foraged in larger groups that were closer to escape terrain than did males. Areas used by males had higher biomass of vegetation and were less open than areas used by females. Males foraged more efficiently in larger groups, whereas females foraged more efficiently when close to escape terrain. Females exhibited a higher bite rate than did males. Males traveled farther per day and in more open terrain than did females. Sexes of bighorn sheep also differed in their dietary niches. Those niches differed most where sexes of bighorn sheep overlapped more in spatial distribution, and differed less where spatial separation was more pronounced. These outcomes are most parsimoniously explained by the gastrocentric and prdation hypotheses. In addition, sexes of bighorn sheep behaved as if they were separate species by exhibiting avoidance on one niche axis (space) when there was overlap on another axis (diet). Management and conservation plans must consider the disparate requirements of males and females to help assure the viability of these endangered mountain ungulates.
40305840|Snowpack evolution and glacier ice surface temperatures were studied on the Indren glacier (Northwestern Alps, Italy) under different meteorological conditions: in winter 2002-2003, rich in snow from the beginning of the season, and in winter 2005-2006, poor in snow until February. Periodical snow profiles were made to measure the physical properties of snow, while data loggers measured the snow/ice interface temperature. Furthermore, in winter 2002-2003, the influence on the snowpack evolution of an artificial increase in the snow density was evaluated. During the season rich in snow there was a prevalence of rounded crystals originated by melt-freeze metamorphism, while in the season poor in snow depth hoar and faceted crystals prevailed, due to the higher temperature gradient. From these two winter seasons, it appeared that a deep snow cover of at least 100 cm was able to maintain the snow/ice temperature at around -5C until the snow cover reached isothermal conditions, whereas, during the winter of 2005-2006, the shallow depth of snow did not allow basal temperature to reach an equilibrium value and the snow/ice interface temperature oscillated between -2 and -8C. The altered snow density had no effect on the snow/ice interface temperature, whereas it caused a delay in the time of reaching isothermal conditions, thus allowing snow cover on the glacier to persist longer.
1552159| Pine latewood width, density, and stable carbon isotope ratios were measured at two sites, separated in altitude by 400 m, close to the forest limit on a south-facing slope in the western French Alps. The signal to noise ratio in the 13C series from each site is higher than that of either of the growth proxies. When the sites are combined, the high-frequency climate signal in the 13C series is enhanced, whereas in both the ring width and density series it is weakened. Because regional climate dominates over local site conditions, 13C ratios from long pine chronologies will provide a better indicator of past climate than either ring widths or densities. At dry Alpine sites, 13C values are controlled mainly by stomatal conductance, which is linked to summer moisture stress and thus antecedent precipitation. 
20181754|The soil thermal regime of the Tibetan Plateau is modeled by applying a one-dimensional heat transfer model with phase change. The two main forcing variables are surface air temperature, from the ERA-40 reanalysis, and snow depth, derived from passive microwave satellite data. Daily fields of soil temperature are simulated, ranging from the soil surface down to 30 m depth, and the horizontal grid cell resolution is 25 km  25 km. Results are presented for three different soil moisture regimes. The trend analysis is based on daily fields of active-layer depth (ALD) for the period January 1980 through December 2001. Significant positive ALD trends for all Tibetan permafrost regions are simulated in response to positive air temperature trends, with the strongest trend for the northern Tibetan Plateau (+1.4 cm yr). Significant trends can reach +4 cm yr locally. The day of year when ALD was reached shows strong interannual variation, and significant trends occur for smaller areas than for ALD. As an application, the active-layer deepening is presented along the tracks of the Qinghai-Tibet railroad line that has recently been completed.
41240405|For numerous climate studies, snowpack density is used to determine snow water equivalent from snow depth (or the reverse) or to determine snow surface albedo through the characterization of aging snow covers. In addition, high spring snowpack water content (and thus density) can act as a catalyst for wet avalanches. Surprisingly, there are few empirical studies that focus on spring snowpack density. In this study, spring snowpack densities in the western United States are statistically related to four variables that characterize the antecedent winter conditions: (1) mean air temperature for days without snowfall, (2) the fraction of precipitation falling as snow, (3) total precipitation, and (4) mean snowfall density. Areal composite regression analysis for the western United States indicates a highly significant (p = 0.005) positive relationship between winter precipitation total and April 1 snowpack density. This relationship weakens in lower elevation regions and coastal regions where warmer winter temperatures are conducive to more frequent rain events and melt events which affect snowpack density and ablate snow cover. These empirical results are supported by a simple snowpack model. The significant positive relationship between precipitation and density is likely due to increased densification rates through gravitational compaction from the presence of greater snow water equivalent resulting from more snowfall.
20181739|The Uinta Mountains form a crossroads of forests and woodlands in the central Rocky Mountains. Although no tree species is endemic to the area, all species characteristic of the central Rocky Mountains are found there, and the ranges of several other species terminate in the Uinta Mountains and the surrounding area. The peninsula-like shape, east-west orientation, and complex terrain of the range create a wide variety of potential forest sites that contrast with other ranges in the central Rockies. As a result, the Uinta Mountains are home to sites of unexpectedly high tree species diversity. Throughout most of the range, vegetation is organized in predictable zones that are characteristic of the Intermountain West; the range exhibits excellent vegetation zonation. However, across much of the northern slope several important species are absent, resulting in unexpectedly low diversity and "missing" vegetation zones. In this paper we provide an overview of the forest ecology and biogeography of the Uinta Mountains and update the local model for vegetation zonation. We also consider some possible explanations for the unexpected vegetation patterns and identify opportunities for future research.
10.2307/1552603|Recent high-resolution meteorological data from the Pennines of northern England are used to study temporal variation in surface temperature lapse rates. A regression approach uncovers significant relationships between lapse rates and solar input, mean temperature, vertical mixing (modeled through wind speed), and atmospheric moisture (specific and relative humidity). Prediction of lapse rates is successful, especially during spring, summer, and autumn, with mean r<sup>2</sup> above 0.66 (66%). Lapse rates are shallower for higher mean temperatures and for a moister atmosphere, but steeper under increased daytime solar input. At night windy conditions increase lapse rate. In addition, synoptic influences upon lapse rate are investigated. The diurnal lapse rate cycle increases under anticyclonic influences and when flow strength is weak. Southerly airflows have shallower lapse rates. Application of the above to consider possible climate change suggests that lapse rates should be shallower in a warmer moister atmosphere, but that synoptic controls are equally influential.
40305841|An experiment was conducted in arctic tundra to evaluate the role of reindeer grazing, trampling, and feces and urine deposition in nutrient turnover and primary production. Grazing was simulated by mowing, trampling by the impact of a wooden pole, and waste product deposition by the application of fertilizer. In the first year, aboveground primary production increased with simulated grazing in the fertilized plots and decreased with simulated grazing in the unfertilized plots; this indicates a higher regrowth capacity at higher nutrient levels. However, nitrogen mineralization and primary production were mainly determined by the input or removal of nutrients and, therefore, decreased in plots that were grazed but not fertilized and increased in plots that were fertilized but not grazed. Simulated trampling decreased the depth of the moss layer and increased soil temperatures, but the higher temperatures increased N mineralization only in unmowed plots, and the increased nitrogen availability was not translated into increased primary production. Since aboveground and belowground net primary production in plots with simulated grazing was the same as in plots without simulated animal activity, this study indicates that an entire trophic level can be supported with no apparent effect on primary production.
4095847|An extensive suite of physical oceanographic, remotely sensed, and water quality measurements, collected from 2001 through 2004 in two ice-marginal lakes at Bering Glacier, Alaska-Berg Lake and Vitus Lake-show that each has a unique circulation controlled by their specific physical forcing within the glacial system. Conductivity profiles from Berg Lake, perched 135 m a.s.l., show no salt in the lake, but the temperature profiles indicate an apparently unstable situation, the 4 C density maximum is located at 10 m depth, not at the bottom of the lake (90 m depth). Subglacial discharge from the Steller Glacier into the bottom of the lake must inject a suspended sediment load sufficient to marginally stabilize the water column throughout the lake. In Vitus Lake, terminus positions derived from satellite imagery show that the glacier terminus rapidly retreated from 1995 to the present resulting in a substantial expansion of the volume of Vitus Lake. Conductivity and temperature profiles from the tidally influenced Vitus Lake show a complex four-layer system with diluted (~50%) seawater in the bottom of the lake. This lake has a complex vertical structure that is the result of convection generated by ice melting in salt water, stratification within the lake, and freshwater entering the lake from beneath the glacier and surface runoff. Four consecutive years, from 2001 to 2004, of these observations in Vitus Lake show little change in the deep temperature and salinity conditions, indicating limited deep water renewal. The combination of the lake level measurements with discharge measurements, through a tidal cycle, by an acoustic Doppler Current Profiler (ADCP) deployed in the Seal River, which drains the entire Bering system, showed a strong tidal influence but no seawater entry into Vitus Lake. The ADCP measurements combined with lake level measurements established a relationship between lake level and discharge, which when integrated over a tidal cycle, gives a tidally averaged discharge ranging from 1310 to
41240418|The hydrological and geomorphic functioning of high-mountain catchments is heavily influenced by snow accumulation and melt processes, which condition the timing and characteristics of discharges, solute outputs, and suspended sediment and bedload transport. We report here the transport of suspended sediment and solutes during the snowmelt period in a small experimental catchment in the subalpine belt of the Central Spanish Pyrenees. The seasonality of hydrological and sediment responses throughout the year was investigated using daily data of discharge, suspended sediment transport and solute outputs of the hydrological years 2003/2004 and 2005/2006. The study demonstrated the importance of the snowmelt period in terms of runoff production, and solute and suspended sediment yield: whereas precipitation during the snowmelt period (2-2.5 months) represented 10-13% of annual precipitation, discharge and suspended sediment transport accounted for up to 50% and 60%, respectively, and solute output approximately 40-50%. Solute transport dominated throughout the snowmelt period, whereas suspended sediment transport mostly occurred during the second phase of the snowmelt period (June), when an expanding area of the catchment was free from snow. The moderate daily increases in discharge, which were related to day-night temperature fluctuations, were insufficient to transport bedload material. Hourly data were used for preliminary assessment of the relationships among discharge, suspended sediment, and solute concentration, which provided insights into sediment sources and delivery mechanisms. Thus, during snowmelt-related events, the sediment mobilized was most probably derived from areas near or within the channel. In contrast, during events involving both snowmelt and rainfall, the gully system near the divide contributed to sediment load. The solute concentration was inversely related to water discharge, with higher concentrations during the first half of the snowmelt period (May) than during the second half (June). The results of this study demonstrate the key role of snow accumulation and melting processes in controlling the hydrological dynamics and patterns of particulate and solute mobilization in high-mountain environments. Future changes in snow volume and duration will affect the timing of snowmeltrelated spring high flows, as well as soil erosion and transport.
4139117|The optimum pH of two species of snow algae from Upstate New York were assessed by studying three axenic strains of Chloromonas tughillensis in a pH range of 3.0-7.0 and three non-axenic strains of Cr. chenangoensis in a pH range of 3.0-8.0. Growth was examined at 0.5 pH intervals. Cell counts at the termination of the experiments differed among strains and among pH intervals in individual strains for both species, and strains of Cr. tughillensis responded differently to changes in pH (p <0.001) while strains of Cr. chenangoensis did not (p=0.193). Cell counts and absorbance data for Cr. tughillensis indicated an optimum pH of 4.9-6.1 using regression analysis. Strains of Cr. chenangoensis exhibited higher but insignificantly different counts between pH 7.0 and 8.0 with maxima at pH 7.5, but pH optima were not determined. When the range was expanded to include pH 8.5-9.0, an optimal pH of 7.0-8.0 was determined for strain CU 722B, and this is the first snow alga reported to have an optimum alkaline pH. The highest absorbance values, however, occurred between pH 3.0-4.5 and pH 7.0-8.0. The pH values recorded in the field were 5.0-5.3 for Cr. tughillensis and 6.7-7.6 for Cr. chenangoensis.
4095844|We report on the geochemistry of soil and bryophyte-laden sediment and on the biogeochemistry of willows growing in an undisturbed volcanogenic massive sulfide deposit in the Alaska Range ecoregion of east-central Alaska. We also describe an unusual bryophyte assemblage found growing in the acidic metal-rich waters that drain the area. Ferricrete-cemented silty alluvial sediments within seeps and streams are covered with the liverwort Gymnocolea inflata whereas the mosses Polytrichum commune and P. juniperinum inhabit the area adjacent to the water and within the splash zone. Both the liverwort-encrusted sediment and Polytrichum thalli have high concentrations of major and trace metal cations (e.g., A1, As, Cu, Fe, Hg, La, Mn, Pb, and Zn). Soils in the area do not reflect the geochemical signature of the mineral deposit and we postulate they are influenced by the chemistry of eolian sediments derived from outside the deposit area. The willow, Salix pulchra, growing mostly within and adjacent to the larger streams, has much higher concentrations of A1, As, Cd, Cr, Fe, La, Pb, and Zn when compared to the same species collected in non-mineralized areas of Alaska. The Cd levels are especially high and are shown to exceed, by an order of magnitude, levels demonstrated to be toxic to ptarmigan in Colorado. Willow, growing in this naturally occurring metal-rich Red Mountain alteration zone, may adversely affect the health of browsing animals.
4139097| Recent evidence suggests that biogeochemical processes in the Arctic during late winter and spring-thaw strongly affect the annual cycling of carbon and nutrients, indicating high susceptibility to climate change. We therefore examined the carbon and nutrient dynamics in a sub-arctic heath and a birch forest with high temporal resolution from March until snowmelt at both ambient and experimentally increased snow depths. Ecosystem respiration (ER) from mid-March to snowmelt at ambient snow was high, reaching 99  19 (birch) and 67  1.4 g C m (heath). Enhanced snow depth by about 20-30 cm increased ER by 77-157% during late winter but had no effects during spring-thaw. ER rates at the birch site were poorly described by classic firstorder exponential models (R = 0.06-0.10) with temperature as a single variable, but model fit improved considerably by including the supply of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) or nitrogen (DON) in the model (R = 0.40-0.47). At the heath, model fit with temperature as the single variable was better (R = 0.38-0.52), yet it improved when the supply of DOC or DON was included (R = 0.65-0.72). Microbial carbon decreased by 43% within a few days after the first soil freezethaw event, while microbial nitrogen and phosphorus decreased more slowly. Because soil inorganic nitrogen and phosphorus concentrations were low, nutrients released from lysed microbial cells may have been sequestered by surviving microbes or by plants resuming growth. The fast change in microbial biomass and the dependence of ER on substrate availability stress the need for high temporal resolution in future research on ecosystem carbon and nutrient dynamics at snowmelt in order to make robust models of their turnover. 
24551603|Microorganisms such as Bacteria and Archaea play important roles in the Arctic food web and biogeochemical cycles. Nevertheless, knowledge of microbial community composition in Greenland waters is scarce, and information on microorganisms associated with Arctic zooplankton species is virtually non-existent. We compared free-living microbial communities with those associated with two key copepod species (Calanus finmarchicus and Metridia longa) along a salinity gradient from the deep waters beyond Fyllas Banke to the inner part of Godthbsfjord, West Greenland, in summer 2008. Using genetic fingerprinting we found that free-living Bacteria (in particular Alphaproteobacteria) and Archaea varied with environmental factors and formed different communities along the fjord. Microbial communities associated with the two copepod species were clearly different from those in the ambient water. Surprisingly, Archaea could not be detected on the copepods. Our results show that zooplankton form "microbial islands" in the Arctic pelagic realm with a distinctive community composition and presumably functionality different from the free-living Bacteria. Changes in intensity and timing of meltwater runoff due to global warming are expected to affect these microbial assemblages differently, with potentially significant ramifications for Arctic food webs and biogeochemistry.
4095832|
               
4139111|The study area spans the 15-km-wide ecotone between coastal tundra and open subarctic forest near Churchill, Manitoba, Canada. Study sites include Black Spruce Wetland, White Spruce Forest, Burned Forest, Forest-tundra Tree Island, and Tundra. These ecosystems are representative of ones that dominate the circumpolar north. Mid-winter snowpack characteristics were measured during 2002, 2003, and 2004, including depth, density, and snow water equivalent. These studies reveal differences induced by changing vegetation characteristics and associated microclimates. Despite the dramatic differences in canopy, the post-fire forest snowpack differed little from that of the unburned forests. Interannual variations were much less than intersite variations in most snowpack characteristics. These studies are intended to be repeated annually in order to establish a longitudinal study of snowpack variation across the Arctic treeline during a period of predicted dramatic change in climate.
4095826|The rock-dwelling pikas of Asia and North America are suitable model species for studying foraging strategies of small generalist herbivores, because they collect and store green parts of plants for winter. In the past, contents of these stores were subjected to numerous studies but researchers differed in opinions on selective versus opportunistic plant-gathering by pikas. We analyzed plant species composition and their shares (%) in caches and in surrounding habitats in six territories of Ochotona hyperborea in Siberian mountains. We applied Ivlev's Electivity Index for assessing selectivity. We found that some plant species were evindently preferred and others avoided by caching pikas. Among the former, many were rich in secondary compounds, while among the latter, evergreen tuft-forming plants prevailed. Our data conform to earlier findings on selective foraging by the American pika Ochotona princeps, and prove great similarty in winter diet of both species. We discuss possible cues used by rock-dwelling pika species to choose which plants to collect, and suggest that their harvesting strategy is most economic in harsh high-mountains habitats.
1552158|The concentration and fluorescence characteristics of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) from surface waters in glacial and nonglacial catchments were used to investigate the provenance of DOC and flow routing of runoff from glacial and nonglacial environments. Seasonal trends in DOC concentration and fluorescence in the Bow River indicate that DOC in nonglacial runoff originates primarily from soil and plant organic matter that is flushed to the stream by shallow subsurface flow at the onset of snowmelt. Snowmelt in ice-free areas of the glacial catchment also appears to be routed through the shallow subsurface, but this snowmelt runoff has much less contact with organic soils or litter, than snowmelt runoff from the nonglacial catchment. The fluorescence of DOC in the Glacial stream in summer (when most runoff originates from ice-covered areas), suggests that DOC from glaciated regions is more "microbial" in character than that derived from ice-free areas. Summer rainstorms in the Glacial catchment flushed DOC derived from catchment soils and plants by displacing concentrated pre-event waters from the shallow subsurface to the stream.
10.2307/1552238|The input of nutrients into arctic polar deserts, aided by some physical processes, can result in localized areas of high biological productivity--"micro-oases." We examined the vegetation cover, and microbial and nematode abundance in the polar desert and in 38 micro-oases at the Haughton impact crater, Devon Island, Arctic Canada. Our sites were split between the alluvial terraces along the banks of the Haughton River and the breccia deposits resulting from the asteroid or comet impact 22 Myr ago that flank the alluvial terraces. The alluvial terraces have a vegetation cover that ranges from 2 to 11% depending on substrate and water availability with a species richness of 5 in most locations. The vegetation cover on the breccia is much lower, between 0.02 and 3% depending on water availability. The micro-oases on both substrates support between 2 and 98% cover, but they are smaller and more sparsely distributed than similar features found in the Truelove Lowland, Devon Island, and on Bathurst Island. Microbial and nematode numbers were an order of magnitude greater inside the micro-oases compared to outside. Micro-oases are often dominated by a particular species, resulting in well-defined groups of micro-oases that were separated by TWINSPAN analysis. The micro-oases at Haughton Crater provide insights into the process of colonization of a substrate resulting from an asteroid or comet impact and the unique biological characteristics of such substrates.
10.2307/1552262|Characterizing rockfall travel distances over a broad scale is time-consuming and expensive if a detailed numerical model is used that must account for varying boulder size and shape. In this paper four models are developed that utilize simple terrain parameters in order to predict extreme rockfall runout distances. Of these models, three are statistical and the fourth is a simple dynamics model. The results of our model testing suggest that a statistical model is advantageous if one wishes to determine rockfall hazard over a broad area quickly and effectively. In particular, the runout ratio approach is particularly useful at low exceedance probabilities because of the positively skewed distribution used. However, this model would appear to be more sensitive to the underlying data than other techniques. Consequently, the favored model may well depend upon the amount of data available from a given region.
1552180|Roughly 70% of the tundra north of the Brooks Range, Alaska, can be classified as moist nonacidic (39%) and moist acidic tundra (31%). We investigated the differences in energy partitioning and carbon balance among these two important landscape types. Despite structural differences in plant growth forms, moss cover, and soil pH, the sensible and latent heat fluxes were quite similar. However, aerodynamic properties (i.e. roughness length), ground heat flux, and CO<sub>2</sub> flux were significantly different: aerodynamic roughness of moist acidic tundra was 2.1 times higher than, and ground heat flux was 36% lower than the values obtained from moist nonacidic tundra. Daily carbon balance showed 26% more net CO<sub>2</sub> uptake (with 34% greater ecosystem respiration and 30% greater gross primary production) in moist acidic tundra. The greater respiration rate in moist acidic tundra was explained by differences in surface soil temperatures, whereas the rate of gross primary production was only half of what was expected from observed differences in leaf area index. These differences suggest that understanding the controls of CO<sub>2</sub> exchange in nonacidic moist tundra vegetation will be critical for determining the carbon budget of the Low Arctic region.
4095843| Climate change due to anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases is predicted to increase the average surface temperature. The most evident soil changes in the Alps will occur in proglacial areas where already existing young soils (with an age in most cases of up to 150 years) will continuously develop and new soils will form due to glacier retreat. Based on existing soil chronosequence data and statistical analyses in the proglacial area Morteratsch (Switzerland), the present-day state of the soils as well as their future development in the next 100 years in the existing and new proglacial area has been modeled taking the retreat of the glacier into consideration. The present-day as well as the future soil distribution was modeled using a probabilistic approach. Several soil characteristics have been modeled such as the pH value, the skeleton content, and the soil depth relevant to plant growth. To model soil properties in a future proglacial area (that is now covered by ice), the glacier-bed morphology had to be modeled. The calculations were performed using the cubic Non-Uniform Rational B-Spline (NURBS) curve to parameterize the course of a branch in flow direction. With the help of the ice cap and relief factor the thickness of the glacier was modeled. Climate change was introduced numerically by changing the mass balance of the glacier. For the area of interest a temperature increase of +1.6C by the year 2050 and +3C by the year 2100 can be assumed (according to the scenario A1B of IPCC). In the upper part of the proglacial area mostly Skeletic/Lithic Leptosols and Humi-Skeletic Leptosols will be found. In flat parts close to the main river, additional Fluvisols will develop. A considerable part of the upper proglacial area does not have any soil cover. Lithic/Skeletic to Humi-Skeletic Leptosols are modeled on the young lateral moraines. Chronosequences were vital to make any (4D) predictions of soil evolution in the proglacial area. The statistically and probabilistically based model also had, however, its weaknesses. The problems are related to the sediment properties in the glacier bed and the stability of new moraines. 
23359390|The reliability of Cassiope tetragona as temperature proxy might be restricted by influence on growth of precipitation and amount of Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR). Carbon-13 discrimination () in C 3 -plants is generally influenced by temperature and precipitation and can therefore potentially record important additional climatic information. We doubled precipitation and reduced PAR (-43%), during four and two growing seasons, respectively, at a high arctic site in Svalbard. Differences in discrimination in leaves from separate light, and thus temperature, regimes (sun-facing and soil-facing leaves) were also assessed. A -chronology (19752008) in annual shoot length increments was developed. C. tetragona growth did not respond to enhanced precipitation and only slightly to PAR-reduction. Discrimination against carbon-13 was stronger in leaves and shoots receiving extra precipitation and weaker in sun-exposed leaves compared to soil-facing leaves. The annual climate signal in the -chronology was strongly smoothed by secondary radial growth. Our results show that the temperature signal in C. tetragona is hardly disturbed by changes in summer precipitation or PAR, which confirms its suitability as temperature proxy. The experimental evidence for the sensitivity of carbon-13 discrimination in C. tetragona to precipitation and temperature changes shows its potential as proxy for hydrological changes in the polar semi-desert.
4095921|To determine if canopy gaps offer "safe sites" for recruitment and persistence of arctic-alpine plants, we compared seedling densities in frost boils and closed vegetation, and examined persistence of Diapensia lapponica within frost boils. Seedling density was greater within frost boils, and D. lapponica numbers increased in resurveyed frost boils, suggesting persistence. Lower seed bank size combined with higher seedling numbers confirmed that frost boils represent favorable sites for germination.
41416433|In this study, we analyzed the effect of topography, particularly slope, on the expansion rates and population dynamics of Echinospartum horridum at small spatial and temporal scales in the grassland communities of Ordesa-Monte Perdido National Park (OMPNP) (NE Spain). E. horridum is a thorny cushion dwarf, endemic of Spain and south of France, forming dense mono-specific large patches difficult to be penetrated by other plants and large herbivores once it is established. Between 2005 and 2007, we collected demographic parameters from 300 marked plants of E. horridum that were distributed in the center and the edge of four patches. At the patch edge, two of the four patches had a high slope (<10) and two had a low slope (10), whereas at the patch centers the slope was high (18-30). To calculate invasion speed, we use aerial photographs from 1981 and 2003. Plants in the center of patches had lower growth rates, fewer flowers, and higher crown death rates than did the plants at edge of patches. Slope influenced significantly invasion rates: the speed of expansion was lowest on gentle slopes, probably because of competition with grass. The speed of diffusion from 1981 to 2003 varied from 2.09 m yr on the steep slopes to 1.93 m yr on the shallow slope. Plant dynamics at patch edges suggest that colonization by E. horridum will continue in the grasslands of the OMPNP.
1552372|Data for Rhizocarpon agg. thalli at the Illecillewaet Glacier in British Columbia were used to see whether a single growth curve could provide accurate age estimates on either side of the Continental Divide, to determine whether modern and historical growth rates are similar, and to test a published model that estimates lichen age from short-term radial growth rates. A lichen growth curve was developed for Rhizocarpon agg. using thallussize data from 14 tree-ring and historically dated substrates. Comparison of this curve with one developed on similar materials 250 km north of this location found similar growth rates for the first 150 yr but slightly faster growth over the next 150 yr at the Illecillewaet site. Radial growth was also measured annually at an average of five points at 105 Rhizocarpon agg. thalli to see if direct-measurement data could be used to reliably estimate lichenometric ages. Radial growth from 1996-2000 ranged between 0.262 and 0.412 mm yr<sup>-1</sup> and showed large variation within and between thalli. Mathematical analysis found that radial growth was not a positive function of the radius, and linear regression incorrectly predicted that growth rates increase with thallus size. Ages estimated by linear extrapolation of the 4-yr mean growth rate were ca. 10 yr less than those estimated by the indirectly calibrated growth curve on surfaces <200 yr old. Progressively less accurate minimum estimates were obtained using linear extrapolation of radial growth rates for old surfaces and thalli >60-mm diameter. These findings lend support to the assumption that modern growth rates of Rhizocarpon lichens averaged over several years can potentially provide close estimates of lichenometric age.
1552636| As a part of the national Norwegian monitoring program, long-term surveys of contaminants have been carried out at the Zeppelin atmospheric research station (Ny-lesund, Svalbard) since the early 1990s. In the present study, all obtained data have been summarized and analyzed in order to review possible temporal trends for selected atmospheric contaminants at Svalbard. The following heavy metals were determined in aerosols: Pb, Cd, Hg, Cu, Zn, Cr, Ni, Co, Mn, V, and As. Only Ni showed a decreasing trend in the concentrations over the past decade. Organochlorine compounds in combined gaseous phase and aerosol samples evaluated were the following: -HCH (hexachlorocyclohexane), -HCH, HCB (hexachlorobenzene), and sum-DDT (dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane). Only those organochlorines exhibiting significant statistically confirmed temporal trends were chosen for the present comparison. Thus, although polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) as well as chlordanes are routinely monitored at the Zeppelin station, they were not considered for the here presented report because no clear trends were determined. Therefore all, but sum-DDT showed significant decreasing trends, correlating well with the national and international governmental regulations. 
1552367| Pollen and macrofossils were analyzed at two sites above today's treeline (or tree limit) in the Swiss Central Alps (Gouill Lor, 2503 m a.s.l., and Lengi Egga, 2557 m a.s.l.) to test two contrasting hypotheses about the natural formation of timberline (the upper limit of closed forest) in the Alps. Our results revealed that Pinus cembra--Larix decidua forests near timberline were rather closed between 9000 and 2500 B.C. (9600-4000 <sup>14</sup>C yr BP), when timberline fluctuations occurred within a belt 100-150 m above today's tree limit. The treeline ecocline above timberline was characterized by the mixed occurrence of tree, shrub, dwarf-shrub, and herbaceous species, but it did not encompass more than 100-150 altitudinal meters. The uppermost limit reached by timberline and treeline during the Holocene was ca. 2420 and 2530 m, respectively, i.e., about 120 to 180 m higher than today. Between 3500 and 2500 B.C. (4700-4000 <sup>14</sup>C yr BP) timberline progressively sank by about 300 m, while treeline was lowered only ca. 100 m. This change led to an enlargement of the treeline-ecocline belt (by ca. 300 m) after 2500 B.C. (4000 <sup>14</sup>C yr BP). Above the treeline ecocline, natural meadows dominated by dwarf shrubs (e.g., Salix herbacea) and herbaceous species (e.g., Helianthemum, Taraxacum, Potentialla, Leontodon t., Cerastium alpinum t., Cirsium spinosissimum, Silene exscapa t., and Saxifraga stellaris) have been present since at least 11,000 cal yr ago. In these meadows tree and tall shrub species (>0.5 m) never played a major role. These results support the conventional hypothesis of a narrow ecocline with rather sharp upper timberline and treeline boundaries and imply that today's treeless alpine communities in the Alps are close to a natural stage. Pollen (percentages and influx), stomata, and charcoal data may be useful for determining whether or not a site was treeless. Nevertheless, a reliable and detailed record of past local vegetation near and above timberline is best achieved through the inclusion of macrofossil analysis. 
1552567|Postindustrial rises in CO<sub>2</sub> have the potential to confound the interpretation of climatically sensitive tree-ring chronologies. Increased growth rates observed during the 20th century in strip-bark trees have been attributed to CO<sub>2</sub> fertilization. Absent in the debate of CO<sub>2</sub> effects on tree growth are spatially explicit analyses that examine the proximate mechanisms that lead to changes in rates of tree growth. Twenty-seven pairs of strip-bark and companion entire-bark trees were analyzed in a spatially explicit framework for abiotic environmental correlates. The strip-bark tree locations were not random but correlated to an abiotic proxy for soil moisture. The strip-bark trees showed a characteristic increase in growth rates after about 1875. Furthermore, the difference in growth rates between the strip-bark trees and entire-bark companions increased with increasing soil moisture. A possible mechanism for these findings is that CO<sub>2</sub> is affecting water-use efficiency, which in turn affects tree-ring growth. These results point to the importance of accounting for microsite variability in analyzing the potential role of CO<sub>2</sub> in governing growth responses.
41416428|Productivity of a managed grazing system is dependent upon both the grazing strategy of ungulates and decisions made by humans. Herds of domestic reindeer (Rangifer tarandus tarandus) graze on discrete ranges of the Seward Peninsula, Alaska with variable production rates. We show that the N natural abundance of reindeer forages vary significantly and the N value of collagen deposited in antler bone from spring until ossification was significantly correlated with the N signature of the diet. Calf weight in June was related to isotopie signatures in antler and soft tissue of adult females, and was inversely correlated with the absolute differential between summer and winter serum N values. This observation suggests that female reindeer with smaller calves had catabolized more body protein during winter than females in adjacent herds. Moreover, in herds with smaller calves, female reindeer consumed proportionately more shrubs in early spring resulting in a strong relationship between  signatures of antler collagen deposited in May and calf weight. These data suggest female reindeer catabolizing relatively more body protein during winter may attempt to compensate by increasing consumption of high-protein catkins and leaf buds of shrubs during May. Herders with relatively smaller calves in their herds may be able to improve protein balance of reproductive females and thus increase calf productivity by increasing access to shrub habitats during spring.
20181838|What do members of the general public know about polar regions, and how much do they care? Who knows or cares? This paper explores data from the General Social Survey (GSS), which in 2006 questioned a representative sample of more than 1800 U.S. adults about their knowledge and opinions concerning polar regions. The polar survey items were modeled on long-running GSS assessments of general science knowledge and opinions, recently summarized in the U.S. National Science Board's report Science and Engineering Indicators 2008. Polar knowledge proves to be limited but certainly not absent among survey respondents. Polar knowledge, general science knowledge, and education--together with individual background characteristics (age, sex, income)--predict policy-relevant opinions. Political orientation filters the impacts of education, and also shows consistent, significant effects across all the polar opinion questions. These 2006 GSS polar results will provide a baseline for comparison when the questions are repeated on a 2010 survey, after the International Polar Year concludes.
10.2307/1552253| Concentrations of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) and phytoplankton biomass (chlorophyll-a and biovolume) were measured during a survey of 57 high-mountain lakes of the Austrian Alps ranging from 1970 to 2890 m a.s.l. in elevation. Glacier-fed lakes had lower DOC (mean: 0.39 mg L<sup>-1</sup>) than lakes not fed by glaciers (mean: 0.70 mg L<sup>-1</sup>). Concentrations of DOC decreased with lake elevation and was 64% lower in lakes located between 2600 and 2800 (mean = 0.51, median = 0.47 mg L<sup>-1</sup>) than between 1970 and 2200 m a.s.l. (mean = 1.40, median = 1.10 mg L<sup>-1</sup>). Chlorophyll-a concentrations ranged from 0.2 to 10.6 g L<sup>-1</sup> with a typical deep water maximum found in transparent lakes and a maximum close to the surface in glacier-fed lakes. Chlorophyll-a and direct estimations of biomass were highly significant correlated among lakes (r = 0.938, P < 0.001). DOC concentrations and chlorophyll-a were not significantly correlated (P > 0.05). The potential impact of climatic warming on the underwater ultraviolet radiation (UVR) was assessed on the basis of expected changes in concentration of the two most important factors controlling the attenuation of UVR in the water column of alpine lakes not fed by glaciers, i.e. the chromophoric DOC and phytoplankton. Considering a scenario of further climatic warming in the Alps, we hypothesize that the attenuation of underwater UVR will increase mainly as a consequence of higher inputs of allochthonous DOC to surface waters of alpine lakes. Application of an empirical model based on the attenuation of underwater UVR by DOC, indicated that between 25 and 50% of the lakes studied can be considered as sensitive to UVR, i.e., the value of the 1% UV attenuation depth was higher than the lake maximum depth. 
1552314|A long-term proxy record of glacier mass balance was developed for Colonel Foster and Septimus glaciers on Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada. This was accomplished by analyzing the radial growth characteristics of climatically-sensitive mountain hemlock trees (Tsuga mertensiana), and by comparing this response with mass balance records from four glaciers in the Pacific Northwest. A strong (negative) relationship between the two records for the period 1966-1994 provides the basis for a mass balance reconstruction extending back to 1600. The reconstruction is in general agreement with information derived from dated moraine sequences at the two glaciers on Vancouver Island, and it has potential applicability to glaciers in adjacent areas of coastal Pacific North America. Our results highlight the likely influence of the Pacific Decadal Oscillation (PDO) on glacier dynamics during the mid- to late-Little Ice Age (LIA) and provide the groundwork for long-term glaciohydrologic studies.
20181815|We examined the influence of leaf size on forage selection by collared pikas (Ochotona collaris) living in alpine meadows in the Yukon Territory, Canada, by comparing the winter diets of individually recognized pikas to the available vegetation within their territories and by conducting cafeteria-style preference experiments. Pikas consistently preferred forage with larger leaves in the cafeteria trials. They also collected larger leaves from deciduous shrubs and graminoid species compared to other plant types such as lichens and evergreen shrubs for their winter diets. Pikas assessed differences in leaf size when selecting their winter diets and this appears to be an energetically efficient foraging strategy for surviving seasonal food scarcity.
4095915|High mountain environments are highly stressful for insect survival. It has been suggested that small microtopographic variations generating less stressful microclimatic conditions than the surrounding environment would provide more suitable sites for insect development. Cushion plants represent one of the life forms best adapted to the extreme alpine habitats. Cushion plants can modify microclimatic conditions within and under their canopy, generating less severe microsites than the surrounding environment. In this study, we characterized the microclimatic modifications made by the cushion plants Azorella monantha and Laretia acaulis and examine their role as microclimatic shelters for two species of high Andean coleopterans (Coccinelidae): Eriopis connexa and Hippodamia variegata at 3200 m a.s.l. in the Andes of central Chile. Results showed that the cushion species create microhabitats with higher availability of water and less oscillating temperatures. However, the intensity of modifications was higher in A. monantha compared to L. acaulis. The abundance of the two ladybird beetle species was higher within cushions than outside, although E. connexa showed higher abundances compared to H. variegata. However, a habitat selection experiment in a greenhouse showed that under milder temperature conditions ladybird beetles species do not prefer cushions. This suggests that in the harsh alpine climate, cushion plants may act as microclimatic shelters since they reduce stressful environmental conditions, allowing greater abundances of coleopterans than in the surrounding environment.
1552434| This paper shows the results of chemical and crystallographic analyses carried out on a core drilled within the frontal part of the Foscagno rock glacier in the Italian Alps. We use 58 vertical thin sections spaced along the massive ice core, found between depths of 2.5 and 7.65 m, to describe the ice fabric of the core. We also discuss the results of chemical analyses of more than 50 samples. The lower part of the massive ice core between 4 and 7.65 m shows a mean crystal size of 1.5 cm and a crystal shape predominantly elongated along the horizontal plane with c-axes. These characteristics are similar to those of firn ice. In contrast, the upper core between 2.5 and 4 m displays vertical elongation of large bubbles, indicating superimposed ice and the influence of melting and refreezing processes. The presence of a seasonal signal in sulfate distribution and the strong correlation between sodium and chloride in the lower part of the core confirm cold firnification without appreciable phase changes. This well-preserved glacier ice body is probably younger than 2200  60 yr B.P., a minimum age for the rock glacier as indicated by the <sup>14</sup>C age of a buried paleosoil, although the possibility that it may be older age cannot be excluded. The glacier ice body seems to be a relict of a former glacier preserved within a larger permafrost body that characterizes almost all of the rock glacier and also occurs beneath the massive ice. This finding points out that different types of ice can be preserved within a single rock glacier, reflecting a complex geological and paleoclimatic history. 
40801686|Temperature is one of the major abiotic factors influencing distribution and productivity of alpine plant species. Although some edaphic parameters (e. g. soil acidity) have also been suggested as determinants in the spatial distribution of alpine vegetation, there is little background on the importance of soil chemical properties in altitudinal gradients, particularly in the high Andes. The present study determined whether soil chemical properties affect spatial distribution and abundance of alpine plants in an altitudinal gradient in the Andes of central Chile, emphasizing metal content. A direct gradient analysis took place at Yerba Loca Natural Sanctuary (YLNS), based on a geobotanical sampling conducted in 73 sites distributed from 1970 to 3330 m a. s. l. According to a Canonical Correspondence Analysis, the main soil chemical factors that explain the pattern of compositional variation of high Andean vegetation are, besides altitude, total soil copper (Cu) content, percentage of soil organic matter, and available phosphorus and nitrogen. An analysis of shoot Cu content conducted in 19 plant species found in sites with highest soil Cu contents (> 250 mg kg-) showed high levels of Cu in their shoots (> 100 mg kg- ).These results demonstrate species or ecotypes with optimal distribution in soils with high Cu contents, such as Armeria martima, Trisetum lasiolepis, and Montiopsis potentilloides, which may have tolerance to this metal.
20181836|Research conducted with the communities of Igloolik, Ulukhaktok, and Churchill in northern Canada documents increasing exposure to hazards associated with ice use for hunting and travel. This trend is related to changing ice conditions. Instrumental records show later ice freeze-up and earlier breakup since the late 1970s, increasing temperatures, and changes in weather in the case study communities. Elders and mature community members, drawing upon their traditional knowledge, describe similar changes in ice and other climate-related conditions in recent years. These changes are increasing the risks of utilizing the ice for hunting and travel and they are reducing access to traditional food. Change in risk-taking behavior among users of the ice has also been documented in Igloolik and Ulukhaktok over the last few decades and has shaped the implications of more recent changes in ice conditions. Comparison between the communities reveals uneven consequences of changing ice conditions which is linked to the nature of ice use, local physiological setting, and community socio-cultural dynamics.
10.2307/1552470|Relationships between flowering phenology and fruit-set of 10 ericaceous species were studied in three alpine fellfields in the Taisetsu Mountains, northern Japan. Flowering season varied from late May to early August among species. There was a positive correlation between flowering time and fruit-set under natural conditions. Pollinator exclusion by net-bagging and hand-pollination revealed that very low fruit-set in early-flowering species was caused by severe pollen limitation, while late-flowering species tended to have high fruit-set with slight pollen limitation. Such seasonal patterns reflect the changes in seasonal activity of pollinating insects, which are highly influenced by ambient temperature. A similar research program was conducted in a subarctic heathland in northern Sweden with almost similar species composition. In Sweden, however, there was no positive correlation between flowering time and fruit-set. The difference between the alpine fellfields and the subarctic heathland may be caused by the specific seasonal pattern of temperature change in either region. A steep increase in air temperature from early to mid-summer in the alpine fellfields in Japan may cause an increase in pollinator availability with progress of season.
10.2307/1552621| This study examined the potential of infrared (IRSL) and red (RSL) stimulated luminescence to provide ages for fine-grained polymineral extracts from sublittoral strata from deglacial-emergence sequences on Brggerhalvya, Linnedalen, and Kapp Ekholm, west Spitsbergen. IRSL analyses of modern and ca. 12-ka-old sediment indicate that residual levels defined after 10 and 60 min of filtered sunlight provide close minimum and maximum age estimates, respectively, whereas full solar resetting gave age overestimates by 2 to 18 ka. Although red stimulation yields concordant ages for modern and Holocene sediments, RSL is not currently as robust a geochronometer as IRSL, but is a complementary measure to evaluate IRSL age estimates. Sublittoral strata from the penultimate deglacial sequence (Episode B) on Brggerhalvya gave IRSL and RSL ages of ca. 80  10 ka and presumably correlative strata from Kapp Ekholm and Linnedalen yielded IRSL ages of ca. 70  10 ka. Pre-penultimate deglacial event sediments (Episode C) from Brggerhalvya gave bracketing average IRSL ages of 118  17 and 153  21 ka. IRSL analyses for Formation B at Kapp Ekholm is less definitive with average minimum and maximum ages of 117  19 ka and 195  13 ka; the latter age is favored, although it is substantially older than a previously reported age of ca. 120 ka. IRSL is a more consistent geochronometer for dating waterlain sediments from Spitsbergen than TL, but there still remains considerable variability in the extent of solar resetting of IRSL of sublittoral sediments, that erodes precision particularly for ages <50 ka. These new luminescence age estimates indicate deglacial events at ca. 70, 140, and potentially at 190 ka that generally correspond to the early and later parts of Oxygen Isotope Stage 5 and late Stage 7. The inferred timing of deglacial events indicate that demise of a marine-based Barents Sea ice sheet may be associated with rising global sea level into an interglacial or an interstadial, rather than purely radiative forcing. 
24551628|Subsistence in northern regions with cold climate and long winters relies to a large extent on fuelwood access and logistics. The preferred sources of fuelwood in pre-industrial times in northern Scandinavia were dead standing Scots pine trees. To assess historical impacts of Sami settlement sites on surrounding forests, and effects of burning wood on living conditions inside their huts, we burned pine wood in a Sami tent hut during winter, as realistically as possible, then analyzed fuelwood consumption, temperatures, and CO levels inside it. Hourly wood consumption rates ranged from 5.0 to 7.4 kg, corresponding to an estimated average annual consumption of ca. 22,000 kg or 42 m3 per hut. The smoke created by the fire and the low indoor temperature at the periphery of the hut limited the comfortable living space to approximately a third of the total space. We estimate that areas up to 300 m from settlements were used for fuelwood collection, but deliberate, recurring tree girdling to produce snags suitable for fuelwood might have reduced this area. Overall, the landscape impact of settlements was low, affecting less than 2.2% of the utilized lands. We conclude that experimental simulations of historical resource uses can provide valuable quantitative data for verifying or challenging qualitative interpretations and thoroughly modeling human effects on ecosystems over time.
10.2307/1552532|Sea-level variation in Hudson Bay is examined using tide-gauge data from Churchill, Manitoba. Statistical analysis shows that 43% of the variation in this record is the result of variation in the local Churchill River discharge. Evidence is also found for the delayed effect of advective lag of discharge from James Bay on Churchill sea level. Increase in the seasonal amplitude of sea level after 1975 is the result of anthropogenically induced river diversion. Long-term changes, particularly an increase in the rate of sea-level drop from 1970 to 1985, is not likely the result of changes in local discharge, but is possibly the result of thermal contraction of the world ocean due to short-term cooling from 1960 to 1975. We speculate that changes in atmospheric conditions related to the North Atlantic Oscillation since 1970 may also affect sea-level changes in Hudson Bay.
1552371| Tree-ring analysis from Abies densa growing at the treeline in the Eastern Himalayan region reveals that temperature during late summer (July-September) plays a significant role in controlling the growth of this tree. Mean temperature of each year for these three months has been reconstructed based on this ring-width data. This record goes back to A.D. 1507; however data prior to A.D. 1757 are questionable because they are based on only one sample. The reconstructed temperature series for the last 237 yr shows annual to multiyear fluctuations punctuated with cool and warm periods. The warmest and coolest 10-yr periods of the entire span occurred in 1978-1987 (+0.25C) and 1801-1810 (-0.31C), respectively. 
4095911|Low-elevation glaciers in coastal regions of Alaska, the Canadian Arctic, individual ice caps around the Greenland ice sheet, and the Patagonia Ice Fields have an aggregate glacier area of about
1552184|The development and maintenance of several types of visually striking vegetation patterns are controlled by positive feedback between pattern and process. These patterns are particularly common at ecotones, where the influence of positive feedback may affect the position and dynamics of the boundary between the adjacent biotic communities. In this study, I use dendrochronology to examine the role of feedback between existing trees and the establishment and survival of seedlings in the advancement of linear, finger-like strips of subalpine forest in Glacier National Park, Montana. A general upslope, windward to leeward pattern of older trees followed by progressively younger trees was evident in all sample transects, although in some cases this pattern repeated several times along the length of a transect, with each repetition originating leeward of boulders. Overall advancement rates varied from 0.28 to 0.62 m yr<sup>-1</sup>. The oldest trees established in the early to mid-1700s, but establishment and advancement increased rapidly after 1850, and peaked in the early 1900s. In addition, almost all seedlings established within 5 m downwind of existing trees between 1700 and 1850, while establishment beyond this distance was common after 1850. These patterns suggest that existing trees facilitate leeward seedling establishment and survival, by depositing wind-blown snow. These seedlings in turn modify their leeward environment, thus allowing forest advancement in a linear pattern. Feedback was critical for the survival of seedlings before 1800, and strongly controlled advancement between about 1800 and 1850, but appears to have had little effect on establishment patterns since that time. The importance of feedback between pattern and process may change over time and space as a result of changes in climatic conditions or biotic surroundings.
4139119|Climate change may bring about geochemical changes in arctic regions as a result of increasing thaw depth. In order to better understand current watershed geochemistry and mineral weathering and provide a basis for predicting the geochemical effects of active-layer thickness increase, we examined elemental chemistry and ${87}^Sr/{86}^Sr$ of streams and sequential and total digests of soils, permafrost, and soil parent materials from seven glacial deposit surfaces of varying geomorphic ages in arctic Alaska in the vicinity of the Philip Smith Mountains quadrangle ($69\circN$, $150\circW$). We found overall greater exchangeable K concentrations, exchangeable and acid digestible P and Ca concentrations, acid digestible and total Ca/Na and Ca/Sr, and lower acid digestible ${87}^Sr/{86}^Sr$ in permafrost than in active-layer mineral soil. Of the surfaces with similar parent material, stream and soil data suggest that weathering has progressively depleted calcium carbonate in the active layer with increasing surface age. Our results suggest that increasing thaw depth will lead to increasing carbonate and Ca supply to soils and streams, as well as spatially variable increases in P and K supply. Geochemical differences between active-layer soil and permafrost suggest the possibility of using stream geochemistry to detect changes in active-layer thickness in watersheds.
4095897|An alpine fellfield community on granite substrate (elevation 3750 m) near the University of California Barcroft Laboratory in the White Mountains of eastern California was studied during the 2000 growing season to determine whether classic perennial life forms can be treated as plant functional groups. A series of 1-m
1552182| A process geomorphological investigation was started in 1999 to study present denudation rates and the mutual relationship of chemical and mechanical fluvial denudation in periglacial environments. Latnjavagge (9 km<sup>2</sup>; 950-1440 m a.s.l.; 6820N, 1830E) was chosen as a representative drainage basin of the arctic-oceanic mountain area in northernmost Swedish Lapland. Atmospheric solute inputs, chemical denudation, and mechanical fluvial denudation were analyzed. During the arctic summer field seasons of 2000, 2001, and 2002 measurements of daily precipitation, solute concentrations in precipitation, and in melted snow cores, taken before snowmelt, were recorded. In addition, solute and suspended sediment concentrations in creeks were analyzed, and bedload tracer movements were registered during the entire summer seasons (end of May until beginning of September). Results show a mean annual chemical denudation net rate of 5.4 t km<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup> in the entire catchment. Chemical denudation in Latnjavagge is less than one third of chemical denudation rates reported for Krkevagge (Swedish Lapland) but seems to be at a similar level as in a number of other subarctic, arctic, and alpine environments. Mechanical fluvial denudation is lower than chemical denudation. Most sediment transport in channels occurs in the early summer season during a few days with snowmelt generated runoff peaks. The main sediment sources in the drainage basin are mobilized channel bed pavements exposing fines, ice patches/fields, and material mobilized by slush flows. The calculated mean mechanical fluvial denudation rate is 2.3 t km<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup> at the inlet of lake Latnjajaure, situated in Latnjavagge close to the outlet of the valley. A very stable vegetation cover and rhyzosphere in this environment mainly explain the low value. The mean mechanical fluvial denudation rate at the outlet of the entire Latnjavagge drainage basin, below lake Latnjajaure, is only 0.8 t km<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>. Both chemical and mechanical fluvial denudation show low intensity. The results from Latnjavagge support the contention that chemical denudation is a somewhat important denudational process in periglacial environments. 
10.2307/1552472|Variation in spatial pattern and its consequences for intraspecific associations, regeneration, and allometric relationships in a population of Pinus canariensis was studied along an altitudinal gradient at the treeline on the west-northwest slope of Pico del Teide (Mount Teide) in Tenerife, Canary Islands. We sampled 11 plots (20 by 20 m), situated 30 m a.s.l. apart along a 4380 m transect which ran from the treeline at (2020 m a.s.l.) to the forest interior (1720 m a.s.l.). In each plot, we recorded height, diameter at breast height (DBH) and location of all tree stems (>130 cm in height), number of seedlings and saplings, and percent cover of vegetation layers. Stand basal area and maximum tree height decreased with altitude. The spatial distribution of P. canariensis was characterized by increasing regularity with tree size irrespective of altitude. The decrease in intensity of clumping with tree-size and the uniform pattern in older stages indicated intraspecific resource competition. The tree response to increasing altitude was largely associated with restricted height growth. At the treeline, the trees similar in diameter to those of lower-altitude sites were substantially shorter. The seedling and sapling density decreased significantly with increased altitude and increased in stands with increased basal area and canopy cover. Tree density along the altitudinal transect was similar, but trees at high-altitudes were shorter with smaller crowns, thus creating less favorable conditions for seedling and sapling survival. The positive or facilitating relationship between canopy trees and seedlings and saplings suggests that environmental factors (here stressful conditions) perform a key role in seedling establishment. Our results suggest that competitive relationships among canopy trees play a key role in generating stand structure.
41416426|Wind-blown mineral dust derived from the crustal surface is an important atmospheric component affecting the Earth's radiation budget. Deposition of dust particles was measured in snow on Glacier No. 72, Mount Tuomuer, in the western Tian Shan, China. The mean concentration of dust particles (measured as the number of particles) with 0.57 < d < 26 m in the snow pack is 706  10 mL;, with a mean mass concentration of 3806 g kg207B. Dust number size stribution showed the dominant particles with d < 2 m, while volume size distribution showed single-modal structures having volume median diameters from 3 to 25? m. Results were compared with data from other sites in the Tian Shan and various Northern Hemisphere sites. A backward trajectory model was also employed to examine the transport process of dust particles in this region. Most of the air mass originated from southern China, e.g., the Taklimakan Deserts in springtime, during the Asian dust period. Transport of dust from southern Chinese deserts to adjacent mountains is in agreement with a growing body of evidence on the importance of dust inputs to alpine regions.
40801764|Tundra soils contain large amounts of organic carbon (C) that might become available to microbial decomposition as soils warm. To elucidate the C sources currently sustaining CO emissions from striped tundra soils (soil respiration) in Northwest Greenland, we studied the seasonal pattern and radiocarbon (C) signature of soil respiration and of CO within the pore space, respired from roots and non-root-associated microbes, and of bulk soil organic matter. Old C pools are present in the topsoil of both barren ridges (1000-5000 yrs) and vegetated troughs (modern to 600 yrs). Before leaf-out, soil respiration was depleted in C relative to atmospheric CO, root and microbial respiration within the topsoil, demonstrating a substantial contribution of C fixed before 1950. As the growing season progressed, the contribution of older C pools decreased, but remained apparent in the soil respiration from ridges and in pore space CO. Soil respiration from troughs became dominated by recently fixed C. As the active layer deepens with permafrost thaw, buried C may become an increasingly larger component of soil respiration. Detecting microbial decomposition of older C pools requires continuous monitoring of soil and microbial respiration and better constraints on soil C pools.
4095829| Small (1  m diameter) sorted patterned ground features were studied on the Little Ice Age forelands of three Jotunheimen glaciers. Patterned ground appears to be most active near the ice margins, declining in intensity of activity with distance from the glaciers. Vegetation and soil development are negligible within patterned ground that is "Recent" (decadal time frame). Significant (P < 0.05) fine scale differences in vegetation and soil development occur within patterned ground on terrain ~70 yr in age, with patterned ground borders having higher values of vegetation cover and thicker soils than that in patterned ground centers. With increasing age of terrain and patterned ground, soil development and vegetation encroach inward toward patterned ground centers, implying that a short-term, active periglacial zone exists near the ice margin, decaying with time and glacier retreat. Specifically, terrain that has been deglaciated for ~70 years and is approximately ~350-500 m from the ice margin shows a significant decline in frost activity, allowing for the initiation of pedogenesis and vegetation colonization. 
1552181|In naturally harsh environments, such as arctic-alpine regions, even low levels of anthropogenic pollution appear to have detrimental impacts on plants. We studied the symptoms induced by metal and acid rain treatments in the ultrastructure of Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris) needles in one of the northernmost pine stands in the world at the Kevo Subarctic Research Station, Finland. Adult Scots pines at their natural growing site were irrigated during 1991-1996 with (1) water, (2) acid (pH 3), (3) copper and nickel (below CuNi), (4) Cu and Ni combined with acid, or (5) left unirrigated. The two youngest needle age classes were sampled in September 1996 for microscopy and elemental analyses, and the three youngest needle age classes for an evaluation of visible injuries. The CuNi treatment increased significantly both Ni and Cu concentrations. The accumulation of Cu in C + 1 needles was enhanced by acid addition. CuNi addition did not increase visible injuries, but significantly more ultrastructural dark accumulations and swollen thylakoids were seen in CuNi-treated C + 1 needles. The results show that, even in a seemingly harsh environment, pines are able to resist acid and metal-induced stress for a few years. However, tree growth is likely to suffer in the long run because the injuries seen in older needles suggest that the total capacity of the photosynthetic machinery is likely to decrease.
1552352| I replicated and analyzed six photographs taken in A.D. 1870 near the subalpine forestalpine tundra ecotone in the northern Uinta Mountains to quantify changes in the distribution of vegetation. Three dramatic differences were noted. First, the historical photographs document a treeline 60 to 180 m (mean of 100 m) lower than at present, with greater depression on west-facing slopes. Given the modern lapse rate for mean July temperature (6.9C km<sup>-1</sup>), this difference corresponds to a temperature depression in A.D. 1870 of 0.4 to 1.2C (mean of 0.7C). Second, timberline forests in A.D. 1870 were significantly (P < 0.01) less dense, with tree densities approximately half those measured in the modern photographs. Third, the area of floodplain meadows decreased 75% from A.D. 1870 to the present. Because the original photographs were taken within a few decades of the end of the Little Ice Age, ca. A.D. 1850, I assumed that differences in vegetation distribution documented in the repeat photographs represent the biotic response to climate warming over the past 130 yr. This analysis provides an independent estimate of the magnitude of growing season temperature depression during the Little Ice Age. 
4139089|We investigate which bedrock-derived soil nutrients are most important for the floristic composition and diversity of alpine, exposed, rocky habitats in North Norway, and whether the widely used pH parameter is a good estimate of soil chemical conditions in the middle alpine belt. Vegetation at 17 sites was recorded using the grid frequency method. Differences in the diversity of vascular plants, bryophytes, and lichens on the different substrates were compared using Shannon's diversity index. Local soil consisted of weathered material from one of five bedrock categories: carbonate rocks, calcareous mica schist, noncalcareous mica schist, mafic rocks, and felsic rocks. Particle size, loss on ignition, pH, and levels of calcium, magnesium, potassium, phosphorus, and nitrogen were measured in soil samples. Canonical Correspondence Analysis showed that soil pH and bedrock derived phosphorus in the soil influence the floristic composition. Randomization tests further indicated that the floristic variation explained by bedrock derived phosphorus was not correlated with soil pH. Thus, the pH measure should be used with caution for the characterization of soil conditions. Vegetation growing directly in soil derived from carbonate rocks is distinct from communities on other calcareous soils. Species at such sites should be referred to as carbonate specialists rather than lime demanding.
10.2307/1552535|The Inuit of late 18th-century Labrador lived in large communal houses, participated in long-distance trade networks, and maintained relatively elaborate economic and political organizations. For 25 yr archaeologists and ethnohistorians have debated the significance of these characteristics. Some propose that these practices are indicators of stress resulting from deteriorated environmental conditions, others see them as signs of economic success due, in part, to exploitation of Europeans visiting the coast. This paper examines the convergence of environment, history, and culture in late 18th-century Labrador. The authors argue that the Inuit experienced generally stable and moderate climatic conditions at this time. They were able to live with a degree of security, even accumulate surpluses, as a result of their flexible social and economic structure and the natural resources available to them. During this same period, Europeans visited Labrador in growing numbers and Moravian missionaries established mission stations amongst the Inuit. The Europeans' presence presented the Inuit with economic opportunities, while also posing significant spiritual and social threats. The Inuit responded by amplifying and elaborating some of their cultural practices in order to secure economic advantages, but also as a form of social resistance. Paleoenvironmental, ethnohistorical, and archaeological data indicate that late 18th-century Labrador Inuit enjoyed economic success while experiencing profound social distress.
4095874|The response of high arctic ecosystems' carbon dioxide exchange to changing climate is uncertain and may be important from a climate-change perspective. In this study, the net ecosystem carbon dioxide exchange during four growing seasons is examined by combining measurements and modeling from a high arctic fen in northeastern Greenland. The summer-season net ecosystem exchange shows large interannual variations, fluctuating from an uptake of
4095931|A 35 year chronology from 1965 to 2000 of the deposition of wind-blown sediment is constructed from snowpits for coastal southern Victoria Land, Antarctica. Analysis of local meteorology, contemporary eolian sedimentation, and mineralogy confirm a Victoria Valley provenance, while the presence of volcanic tephra is ascribed to an Erebus volcanic province source. Winter foehn winds associated with anticyclonic circulation are considered responsible for transporting fine-grained sediment from the snow- and ice-free Victoria Valley east toward the coast, while cyclonic storms transport tephra north along the Scott Coast. No trend could be identified in the occurrence of either tephra or wind-blown sediments sourced from the Victoria Valley and retrieved from the snowpits excavated on the Victoria Lower and Wilson Piedmont Glaciers. We infer this to indicate that the region has not undergone a significant change in weather patterns for at least the last 35 years. Our results also confirm the McMurdo Dry Valleys as a regionally significant source of wind-blown sediment.
20181820|This study examines current subglacial biogeochemical weathering models using PHREEQCi, a computer-based speciation mass-balance (SMB) model, parameterized using hydrochemical and mineralogical field data from Haut Glacier d'Arolla, Switzerland. The aim is to investigate the utility of SMB models for quantifying subglacial biogeochemical mechanisms, and the mathematical and thermodynamic robustness of current subglacial weathering models in a temporally variable, spatially heterogeneous hydrological and geochemical subglacial environment. The chemical evolution of meltwaters between their source in the supraglacial environment and their output from the hydroglacial system as bulk meltwaters are modeled, and compared with in situ meltwaters collected from the base of boreholes drilled to the glacier bed. SMB modeling produced a broad range of weathering outcomes, but delivered no unique weathering scenario which could account for the observed changes in water chemistry between input and output waters over the ablation season. Organic carbon oxidation and sulfide oxidation by dissolved O, coupled to carbonate dissolution and incongruent silicate dissolution, could account for seasonal changes in meltwater chemistry, supporting current subglacial biogeochemical weathering models. Atmospheric CO was not required under any weathering scenario, and organic carbon and atmospheric CO dissolution was only possible in one weathering scenario, at a mass ratio of 10:1, further suggesting that CO-driven dissolution is unimportant in subglacial environments. This investigation indicates the utility of SMB models applied to subglacial hydrological systems for determining geochemical and biogeochemical processes and interpreting water quality.
1552574|We studied relationships between vegetation, substrate texture, and surface movement velocity in two active rock glaciers in the Central Alps (northern Italy). We also compared the vegetation on the two active rock glaciers with that of adjacent stable areas and with that of an inactive rock glacier. The vegetation patterns on the two active rock glaciers differed sharply from those on the stable areas nearby and on the inactive rock glacier with respect to both total plant cover and floristic composition. Surface movement on the two active rock glaciers ranged from 0-5 to 35-40 cm yr<sup>-1</sup> and was largely independent of slope inclination. The most unstable sites were almost free of mosses and lichens and were characterized by vascular species tolerating surface instability in virtue of varying morphological adaptations. However, the distributional pattern of vascular species could not be directly related to surface instability but depended on a combination of substrate texture and movement intensity.
10.2307/1552602|The influence of river-catchment hydrological interactions on discharge patterns, lotic ecosystem size, and surface water chemistry were investigated in a glacial floodplain of the Swiss Alps (Val Roseg). Discharge, the extent and form of the stream network, specific conductance, and concentrations of major ions were measured periodically at multiple sites across the floodplain from August 1996 to January 1998. These data are used to (1) describe the seasonal cycle of contraction and expansion of the floodplain channel network and (2) identify hydrochemical tracers for detecting different sources and pathways of water. The seasonal changes in discharge, spatiotemporal patterns of channel length, and water chemistry within the floodplain are linked to the shifting dominance of different hydrologic reservoirs and flow paths within the catchment. During the expansion phase in spring, snowmelt is the main source of water for the entire floodplain, although it circulates via subsuface pathways on the catchment slopes before entering the floodplain. Peak discharge and maximum expansion of the channel network in summer are associated with the melting of the glaciers. Englacial water enters the floodplain mainly via surface flow paths and is distributed across the floodplain via surface connectivity and shallow groundwater pathways. During the contraction phase in autumn, seepage of subglacial water from the main channel is the primary water source for the upper floodplain. In the lower floodplain, surface flow is sustained by upwelling of deep alluvial and hillslope groundwaters. The relative contribution of deep groundwaters increases during winter, a phase of low discharge and maximum contraction of the channel network.
1552562| Diatoms from Sawtooth Lake (7920N, 8151W) on the Fosheim Peninsula in Central Ellesmere Island, Canada were analyzed to assess the temporal extent and magnitude of climatic change in the High Arctic during the late Holocene. Diatom results from the sediment cores show an absence of diatoms throughout the last 2.5 ka (4.6 m) until the 1920s. However, ca. 1926 (5.3-cm depth), a rapid colonization of diatoms in the lake occurred. Within the uppermost section of the core (1920 to 1997), the diatom flora shift from a small Fragilaria-dominated assemblage to a more diverse assemblage that is dominated by large planktonic taxa (e.g., Cyclotella bodanica) and large raphid benthic species. The postglacial nature of this assemblage suggests a decrease in ice cover and a concomitant increase in light and nutrient availability for diatom growth over the last 75 yr. Of particular significance is this absence of diatoms prior to the 1920s, which indicates that environmental conditions of the last 75 yr are unlike any of the previous 2500 yr. 
23252810|The authors propose a model of glacial mass balance based on correlations with meteorological observations and data from climate re-analysis. The minimum input data required include the following: average monthly temperature on the glacier and in its vicinity during summertime for a reference time period, average monthly air temperature, and average precipitation total at the nearest weather station or from re-analysis. This model was used to hindcast the mass balance and its components at Werenskioldbreen (southern Svalbard) over the period 19122005. The hindcast specific mass balance was then used to estimate the change in the thickness of the snout of Werenskioldbreen over the period 19581990. These results were compared with results obtained using a cartographic method. Comparing the topographic maps, the glacier front lowered 28.7 m on average over 32 years. The average difference in the calculation of the change in glacier thickness between these two methods amounted to 3.7 m (based on meteorological data) and 0.2 m (using ERA-40). The discrepancy of less than 13% confirmed that the method is a reasonably accurate way of predicting past glacier mass balance. The proposed method can find a broad application in hindcasting the mass balances of small Svalbard glaciers where observation data are scarce or nonexistent.
20181709|Ozone in interstitial air was studied in the seasonal, mid-latitude snowpack at a subalpine forest site at Niwot Ridge, Colorado, from January to June 2004. Sampling techniques were developed for continuous, vertical gradient measurements of ozone and temperature at four depths in the snowpack. During this time period, ozone in ambient air ranged from 15 to 80 ppbv, while in the snowpack ozone mixing ratios generally were below 5 ppbv, showed little variability, and decreased to less than 10% of ambient air levels within the first 10-20 cm below the surface. This ozone gradient (ambient air-snowpack air) appeared to be independent of solar radiation cycles. These findings are in contrast to similar studies in the polar snowpack, where a much deeper penetration of ozone into the snowpack and strong dependencies of the ozone gradient on incoming solar radiation levels has been reported. These observations imply that ozone levels in the seasonal, mid-latitude snowpack are determined by different processes, and overall are lower than in the year-round snowpack. A new question that needs to be addressed is to what degree these contrasting findings are caused by differences in the physical properties of these snowpacks (which will affect gas exchange processes), their chemical composition, and by the influence of the substrate below the snow and soil-snowpack-atmosphere gas exchange processes.
1552301| Colobanthus quitensis is one of only two vascular plant species that occur in the Antarctic islands. We evaluated morphological and physiological traits and survival after freezing in individuals of C. quitensis collected in two populations: one from the Andes of central Child and the other from the maritime Antarctic. We addressed whether these populations are ecotypes in terms of shoot morphology and physiology, and cold resistance. We also evaluated genetic differentiation at the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) regions. Under controlled growing conditions, Andean plants had longer and narrower leaves and longer peduncles. However, shoot biomass was similar in both populations. There was a 1.17% sequence divergence of ITS regions between populations. Survival to freezing at temperatures from 0 to -16C was not different in nonacclimated plants. After cold-acclimation at 4C, freezing tolerance was greater in Antarctic plants. Both Andean and Antarctic plants increased soluble sugars with increasing acclimation time, but it did not differ between populations. Shoot water content decreased with acclimation time in both populations, but Antarctic plants maintained slightly higher water contents after cold exposure. Shoot growth did not differ during acclimation. The studied populations of C. quitensis represent different morphological and cold resistant ecotypes despite their genetic similarity. However, the mechanistic basis of the higher survival to freezing of Antarctic plants was not elucidated. 
10.2307/1552273|To determine the modern relationship between pollen and stomate deposition and vegetation, surface sediments from 26 lakes along the Lena River in northeastern Siberia were analyzed for pollen and conifer stomate content. The lakes sampled, crossed a vegetation gradient from tundra, forest-tundra, to closed boreal forest. The pollen spectra of tundra lakes are dominated by Betula and Alnus. Cyperaceae and Poaceae are also abundant. Forest-tundra lakes are dominated by Betula and Alnus, but contain lower percentages of Artemisia than tundra lakes. Forest pollen spectra are also dominated by Betula and Alnus pollen, however, forest lakes contain greater percentages of Larix pollen. Principal components analysis indicates that forest and tundra sites were distinct from one another, but considerable overlap exists between forest-tundra and forest and tundra pollen assemblages. Larix stomates were abundant in all samples from regions where trees are currently present except for one lake. Small numbers of Larix stomates were found in tundra lakes, likely due to the redeposition of older material from eroding peat banks. It is likely that this process also contributed some older pollen to modern lake sediments as well. Principal components analysis was used to compare fossil samples from a lake-sediment core to the modern spectra. Early Holocene vegetation assemblages, dominated by herb and Betula shrub tundra and subsequent Larix forests, do not have modern pollen analogs in the lower Lena River region. Modern pollen analogs developed after 6 ka BP, when forest vegetation developed around the site. This was gradually replaced by modern tundra after 3.5 ka BP.
41240438|Environmental conditions associated with climate change, such as earlier snowmelt, warmer spring temperatures, and increased soil mineralization, have resulted in shifts in the timing of plant phenological events. We assessed the effects of fertilizer and herbivory on the phenology of 7 plant species from a boreal forest understory using long-term experimental plots in the southwest Yukon. Fertilizer and fencing treatments were initiated in 1990, and discontinued in half of each plot in 2000. There were few effects on phenology of either fertilizer or fencing. In some species, fertilizer affected the final phenological stage reached, but the presence and direction of the effect was species-dependent. Epilobium angustifolium was the only species where the timing of phenological stages responded to fertilization; early phenological stages were advanced with fertilizer. First leaf expansion for Arctostaphylos uva-ursi occurred earlier in fenced plots, although this effect disappeared in plots where the fencing treatment had been discontinued. We conclude that previously observed changes in species abundance with fertilizer treatments are likely not caused by changes in the phenology of these species, and are more likely due to fertilization imposed changes in vegetative growth.
10.2307/1552243|Sphagnum bogs that were monitored over a 15-yr period showed significant changes in the abundance of diagnostic species. At plots ungrazed by cattle, the major bog species Sphagnum cristatum, Caltha introloba, and Carex gaudichaudiana increased significantly in cover. No such increases occurred in grazed plots. There were few changes in cover of the main structural vegetation types--closed heathland, low open heathland, and open herbfield on stony pavements. Sphagnum and the main herbfield species, Oreobolus pumilio and Caltha introloba, were dislodged and shifted over unvegetated stony pavements by snowmelt runoff, snowpack movement, and cattle trampling. Experiments using Sphagnum transplants showed this species capable of colonizing pavements by establishing on other plants. Survival and growth of transplants were significantly greater on low compared with high water flow (high energy) sites. Grazing and trampling by cattle significantly reduced survival of transplants, thus disrupting the colonization of pavements; firstly, by directly reducing the survival and growth of Sphagnum and other colonists; and secondly, by preventing the formation of barriers to water flow that would facilitate colonization. We propose a successional dynamic based on some of the processes operating in the open herbfield and stony pavements of Sphagnum bogs.
1552312| An ecological study of the freshwater testate amoebae (Protozoa, Rhizopoda) on the subantarctic island le de la Possession (Crozet Archipelago) revealed 85 taxa, belonging to 21 genera. Twenty-two taxa belonged to the genus Difflugia, typical for freshwater habitats whereas the genus Trinema showed the highest relative abundance. A cluster analysis revealed two communities: a Difflugiella crenulata assemblage and a Trinema lineare--T. enchelys assemblage. These communities, together with the results of a RDA analysis, represented a clear geographical separation on the island. The Difflugiella crenulata assemblage typified locations, with a high specific conductance and neutral to alkaline pH values, on the western part of the island. Aquatic habitats in the larger valleys on the eastern side of le de la Possession, with a low conductivity and slightly acid pH values, were characterized by the Trinema assemblage. Weighted averaging and calibration were used to develop a statistical transfer function to infer the pH of freshwater bodies from the testate amoebae assemblages. The model is usable over a pH range of 5 to 9. 
10.2307/1552242|Long-term data from six sites in treeless subalpine and alpine vegetation in central Tasmania are used to document change in vegetation cover and life form dominance over time. All sites have been disturbed by burning and domestic stock grazing in the past. Although burning ceased at least 8 yr before initial measurements were taken, stock grazing still occurs at one site, and rabbits and native vertebrate herbivores (mainly wallabies) graze throughout the region. Vegetation cover increased across all sites over a 5- to 23-yr period at an average annual increment of approximately 1%. There was no significant relationship between the initial cover of bare ground and change in bare ground over time for most of the sites. Annual increases in vegetation cover were least in locations grazed by rabbits and native vertebrate herbivores and where domestic stock still grazed. Exclosures grazed only by rabbits had an intermediate rate of increase. Vegetation cover was found to increase most in ungrazed exclosures. The rates of increase in vegetation cover suggest that, in the absence of fire, it is a matter of decades before cover will be almost complete in the area.
41240413|For over 100 years, mountain treelines have been the subject of varied research endeavors and remain a strong area of investigation. The purpose of this paper is to examine aspects of the epistemology of mountain treeline researchthat is, to investigate how knowledge on treelines has been acquired and the changes in knowledge acquisition over time, through a review of fundamental questions and approaches. The questions treeline researchers have raised and continue to raise have undoubtedly directed the current state of knowledge. A continuing, fundamental emphasis has centered on seeking the general cause of mountain treelines, thus seeking an answer to the question, "What causes treeline?" with a primary emphasis on searching for ecophysiological mechanisms of low-temperature limitation for tree growth and regeneration. However, treeline research today also includes a rich literature that seeks local, landscape-scale causes of treelines and reasons why treelines vary so widely in three-dimensional patterns from one location to the next, and this approach and some of its consequences are elaborated here. In recent years, both lines of research have been motivated greatly by global climate change. Given the current state of knowledge, we propose that future research directions focused on a spatial approach should specifically address cross-scale hypotheses using statistics and simulations designed for nested hierarchies; these analyses will benefit from geographic extension of treeline research.
4095923| Critical revision is presented of taxa comprising 27 verified species of Rhagidiidae from the Alps. Assemblages of endemic, Palearctic, and Holarctic Rhagidiidae inhabiting montane stony debris in the tztal Alps, North Tyrol, Austria, consist of 2 to 9 species, and Poecilophysis pseudoreflexa is the most abundant and widely distributed species. The highest species richness and endemism are in the mid-alpine zone (2400-2600 m a.s.l.) and the high alpine zone (2600-2800 m a.s.l.). A particular assemblage of rhagidiids of low diversity occurred in voids of a bare scree slope. Cluster and numerical multivariate analyses revealed that (1) the different altitudinal niches of a majority of common species overlap, but some species become rare with increasing altitude; (2) additional species of rhagidiid mites might be expected to be found in special, previously uncollected microhabitats; (3) rhagidiid mites having some affinities to specific environmental factors can be distinguished; (4) the altitudinal gradient proved to be the significant complex environmental factor influencing the occurrence of mites; (5) moisture proved to influence abundance of mites but has no direct relation to species identity; and (6) in contrast, dryness proved to be bound with the occurrence of particular species of rhagidiid mites. 
4095936|Atmospheric nitrogen (N) fixation is a key N input to arctic ecosystems, but relatively few estimates of annual N-fixation rates are available. We measured N-fixation of plant-soil cores by the acetylene reduction technique at different topographic positions in an upland tundra watershed, Imnavait Creek, through two growing seasons in order to evaluate spatial and temporal variation in N-fixation. We also examined the effects of light and temperature on N-fixation to estimate annual N-fixation rates of surface soil in this watershed using field meteorological data. Surface soil at Imnavait Creek had significant acetylene reduction potential throughout the watershed (generally 6 to
1552569|In a factorial field experiment we increased the temperature (Open Top Chambers) and nutrients (nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium [NPK]) to simulate predicted future climate changes and studied the growth response of the acrocarpous bryophyte Pohlia wahlenbergii (Bryaceae) in a wet snowbed environment. The species shows a positive growth-length response to added nutrients and increased temperature. The stronger response to nutrients indicates a strong limitation of nutrients in the snowbed environment. There was an immediate response to nutrient treatment, whereas the temperature response was delayed. The growth response shows a clear interaction between temperature and nutrients. The immediate positive growth response is interpreted as a function of the wet habitat, since water makes the added nutrients immediately available to the plants. The growth form changed toward a more lax (loose) and desiccation-intolerant form with added nutrients. In a climate change scenario based on these results we hypothesize that bryophyte response will depend on the water availability from precipitation and from meltwater. In a drier environment we predict that bryophytes will become more constrained toward areas with a high continuity of meltwater, whereas increased precipitation may compensate for any changes in growth form, which would be positive for bryophytes.
20181816|Information about the annual carbon fluxes of fen and meadow ecosystems in alpine environments is rare. We studied the influence of photosynthetic active radiation (PAR), plant green area index (GAI), soil temperature, and water-filled pore space (wfps) on the net CO emission at four alpine sites (one meadow and three fen sites) differing in water balance and plant community. Measurements over two years were made in the Eastern Alps, Austria, including two snow-free periods and two snow periods. During snow-free periods, net CO gain during daylight periods (
1552646|This study investigates effects of reducing the ambient UV radiation on gas exchange and chlorophyll fluorescence of two shrub species, Salix arctica and Vaccinium uliginosum, in a high arctic heath in Northeast Greenland in July and August. On two sites films, Mylar and Lexan, were used to reduce UV-B radiation and UV-B + A radiation, respectively. A UV transparent film, Teflon, and no film were used as controls. Field measurements showed that the plants under Teflon, Mylar, and Lexan received approximately 91, 39, and 17% of the ambient UV-B irradiance, respectively. Reduced UV radiation increased maximal photochemical efficiency (F<sub>v</sub>/F<sub>m</sub>) in both species. The responses varied in significance according to species, sites and time of growing season. Net assimilation (P<sub>n</sub>), measured as net CO<sub>2</sub> uptake, was not significantly affected. But over the whole growing season stomatal conductance and intercellular CO<sub>2</sub> were decreased by both UV treatments. The underlying mechanisms for these results are discussed. PAR-irradiance had a negative influence on the absolute values of F<sub>v</sub>/F<sub>m</sub>. A positive correlation was found between F<sub>v</sub>/F<sub>m</sub> and P<sub>n</sub> measured at ambient CO<sub>2</sub>-level. It is concluded that it cannot be excluded, that the observed short-term effects could result in long-term negative effects on growth and survival for the investigated species.
40305823|Lakes may serve as sentinels for the impacts of changing climate in alpine areas. In the Rocky Mountain region, 2002 was a year with extremely low snowpack. We examined the summer phytoplankton community in Green Lake 4 for a 6-year period that included the summer of 2002. The phytoplankton community variation was examined in the context of the changes in physical and chemical properties of Green Lake 4. The physical changes associated with the 2002 drought included warmer surface water temperatures and greater hydraulic residence times; whereas the chemical changes included higher concentrations of acid neutralizing capacity (ANC) and major ions. During the summer of 2002 the phytoplankton community was dominated by Synedra sp. and Ankyra sp.; two previously rare species. The growth of Synedra sp. was sufficient to cause a decrease in silica concentrations, which has not been observed in other summers in the water quality monitoring record. The results of a redundancy analysis (RDA) indicated that concentrations of major ions and ANC were aligned with Synedra sp. and Ankyra sp. during the 2002 drought year. Following the 2002 drought year, Chrysococcus sp. and Chlorococcum sp., which became abundant, were aligned with nitrate in the RDA. These results indicate that the response of the phytoplankton community to the extreme drought was most strongly correlated with water quality changes that occurred, rather than temperature and hydraulic residence time. The dominant species in the post-drought phytoplankton community were found to be associated with nitrate, which is brought to the watershed by atmospheric deposition and may represent an anthropogenic driver of phytoplankton community composition.
20181745|A 107-cm-long lake core was drilled in South Hongshan Lake (3510N, 8004E, 5060 m a.s.l.) shows 150 yr of environmental change as inferred from ostracoda assemblages. Four species of ostracoda, which belong to four genera, have been identified. The ostracoda distribution in the core can be divided into six ostracoda assemblages as follows: OA1--Ilyocypris biplicata-Limnocythere inopinata assemblage; OA2--Limnocythere inopinata-Leucocythere mirabilis assemblage; OA3--Leucocythere mirabilis-Limnocythere inopinata assemblage, in which dominant species is Limnocythere inopinata; OA4--Nearly ostracoda free; OA5--Eucypris inflata-Limnocythere inopinata assemblage; and OA6--Limnocythere inopinata changes from dominant to sole species. These ostracoda assemblages, together with other proxies, imply the following environmental sequence for the past 150 yr in the study area. Shallow moving water appears in A.D. 1850-1884, followed by a warm-humid climate in 1884-1922. Lake level decreased and water temperature supported maximum ostracoda growth in 1922-1946, followed by cooling conditions in 1946-1960. From 1960 to 1980, declining lake level is closely linked with local precipitation. The period since 1982 is characterized by less precipitation and continuous aridity under warming climatic conditions.
20181716|The availability of seeds and microsites are limiting factors for many plant species of different vegetation types. We have investigated the existence of such limitations in two habitats, an alpine heath and a subalpine birch forest, where abiotic factors are hypothesized to be the main determining factor of plant species distributions. Both habitats are characterized by a short growing season and cold temperatures, and the alpine heath is also constrained by low productivity. A seed addition experiment including six vascular plants, selected by different functional traits and occurrence, showed that seed limitation was an important factor in these habitats. Removal of the aboveground biomass (controlled disturbance) increased germination only for some species. The effect of reindeer presence was found to be of less importance, probably due to low and varying densities of reindeer. To conclude, we found that seed limitation was the most important factor limiting the distribution of our studied species in the two alpine environments.
10.2307/1552467|Patterns of nematode population dynamics in an extreme environment were studies in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica. Nematode populations are sensitive to soil disturbance and are useful indicators of environmental change. We hypothesized that the pristine soil environments of Antarctica that are suitable for life would support stable both spatially and temporally nematode populations. We established three sampling sites across an elevation gradient in Taylor Valley and sampled each site at larger and smaller spatial scales three-times over a 6-yr period (1993, 1995, and 1999). Nematode variables and soil moisture were significantly different among years. Soil moisture, nematode abundance, and life cycle parameters varied also with elevation, but not spatial scale at the grid size over the 6 yr. Generally, soil moisture declined during the time of the study and was greatest at the lowest elevation. Throughout the 6 yr, Scottnema lindsayae was most abundant at the highest elevation and dominated all sites, while Eudorylaimus antarcticus was most abundant at the lowest elevation. Plectus antarcticus was present only at the lowest elevation. While Scottnema was negatively correlated with soil moisture, Eudorylaimus and Plectus showed a positive relationship. Similarities among nematode species in life cycle characteristics (e.g., long life cycles and low reproductive rates) may indicate adaptive strategy for survival in the Dry Valleys soil environments. The differences, however, may indicate species specific sensitivity to changes in the soil characteristics such as moisture. Temporal variation of variables describing nematode populations in Antarctic soil suggests the nematode species respond to short-term climate variation and, thus, may be affected by long-term climate change.
20181803|Chemical weathering in soils has not been studied extensively in high-latitude regions. Loess sequences with modern soils and paleosols are present in much of subarctic Alaska, and allow an assessment of present and past chemical weathering. Five sections were studied in detail in the Fairbanks, Alaska, area. Paleosols likely date to mid-Pleistocene interglacials, the last interglacial, and early-to-mid-Wisconsin interstadials. Ratios of mobile (Na, Ca, Mg, Si) to immobile (Ti or Zr) elements indicate that modern soils and most interstadial and interglacial paleosols are characterized by significant chemical weathering. NaO/TiO is lower in modern soils and most paleosols compared to parent loess, indicating depletion of plagioclase. In the clay fraction, smectite is present in Tanana and Yukon River source sediments, but is absent or poorly expressed in modern soils and paleosols, indicating depletion of this mineral also. Loss of both plagioclase and smectite is well expressed in soils and paleosols as lower SiO/TiO. Carbonates are present in the river source sediments, but based on CaO/TiO, they are depleted in soils and most paleosols (with one exception in the early-to-mid-Wisconsin period). Thus, most soil-forming intervals during past interglacial and interstadial periods in Alaska had climatic regimes that were at least as favorable to mineral weathering as today, and suggest boreal forest or acidic tundra vegetation.
25642098|We estimated the abundance of voles, or vole nests, in four different experiments in the Boreal forest understory in the southwestern Yukon to test if voles were attracted to fertilizer. In one experiment we counted vole nests in plots that had been fertilized or not fertilized for 4 years; in a second we counted trapped voles in plots that has been fertilized, or not, for 13 years; and in two others we counted the number of vole visits to Longworth traps baited with fertilizer. There were significantly more over-winter nests in the fertilized plots. In a June trapping session, more voles were captured in fertilized plots than unfertilized plots and voles entered locked-open traps and removed fertilizer. The results demonstrate a relationship between fertilizer and voles. Whether voles are attracted to the fertilizer alone or the higher quality feed it produces remains unclear. A plausible, yet untested, hypothesis is that the voles were consuming the fertilizer as a source of micro- or macronutrients.
10.2307/1552582| Glaciological research was carried out in November and December 1996 in the accumulation area of Glaciar Nef, an eastward-facing glacier from Hielo Patagnico Norte (Northern Patagonia Icefield), South America. A 14.5-m-deep firn core (9.7 m water equivalent: w.e.) was obtained at 1500 m a.s.l., and air temperature and melting rate were also measured. Values of 18O of 1- or 2-cm-thick samples in the upper 6 m of the firn fluctuated from -16 to -10%, which are explained by variations in 18O of precipitation. Below 6 m in the firn, 18O was almost constant, due to percolation of large amounts of meltwater. It was considered that the upper 6 m was deposited during the prior winter; thus winter balance in 1996 was derived as +3.5 m w.e. Based on the measurement results and climatic data, winter and summer ablations were estimated at 0.0 and 3.4 m w.e., respectively, and summer accumulation at 2.1 m w.e. Then, net balance in the calendar year 1996 was estimated at about +2.2 m w.e. Comparison with previous studies and candidate drilling sites are also discussed. 
4095840|In the Central Greater Caucasus Mountains, Georgia, Betula litwinowii (birch) occurs on north-facing slopes of east-west ridgelines that extend upward to high mountain peaks, forms the alpine timberline at higher elevation, and reaches its highest treeline limit only when associated with the broadleaf evergreen shrub, Rhododendron caucasicum. This association might generate an ecological facilitation of either temperatures or sky exposure, both of which have been related to the altitudes at which timberlines/treelines occur. At the lowest site (2072 m) the greatest abundance of birch seedlings (up to 2.3 seedlings/m
20181780|Glacier retreat has been widespread on Heard Island, an isolated 2745-m-high volcano in the southern Indian Ocean, since the first observations in 1947. This study represents the first quantification of the mass loss of a Heard Island glacier. Brown Glacier is 4.8 km long and is land terminating. A digital elevation model for the glacier was developed using a combination of static and kinematic differentially corrected GPS surveys and hand-held GPS elevations, and together with ground penetrating radar, was used to estimate the glacier's catchment area boundary. The 1947 extent of the glacier was estimated from an aerial photograph. The total ice covered area has decreased from an estimated 6.18  10 m in 1947 to 4.38  10 m in 2004. This corresponds to a loss of 29% of the original area. During the same period the ice volume decreased by an estimated 1.743  10 m (3.06  10 m a), equating to an average thickness change of -0.50 m a. The mass loss is consistent with limited temperature observations in the area that indicate a +0.9 C warming over the same time span. Meteorological observations combined with an energy balance model demonstrate the impact of foehn winds on the mass balance of the upper slopes of the glacier. Between December 2000 and December 2003, repeat differentially corrected GPS surface surveys revealed an average surface change of -9.9 m in the ablation area and -5.9 m in the accumulation area, translating to an ice loss of 8.0  10 m a, or more than double the 57 year average rate. There is no indication of an increase in geothermal heat flux that could explain an ice loss of this magnitude. The increase in the rate of ice loss suggests the glacier is reacting to ongoing changes in climatic conditions rather than approaching steady state.
10.2307/1552483|High-elevation areas in the Rocky Mountain treeline ecotone exhibit heterogeneous snow distribution resulting from interactions among topography, vegetation, and wind. Our study area--Libby Flats--is a gently arched ridge at 3200 m a.s.l. in the Medicine Bow Mountains, Wyoming. The Libby Flats snow season (October-May) features sub-freezing temperatures, abundant snow, and strong westerly winds (averaging 10 m s<sup>-1</sup>). While relief is gentle on Libby Flats, it, together with islands of krummholz and flagged trees, produces snow depths ranging from 0 to 7 m. These variable snow depths have important feedbacks on the occurrence of trees and vegetation, as well as direct controls on ecosystem properties. To better understand the factors controlling these interactions, snow distribution patterns were measured and modeled over a 6.25 km<sup>2</sup> area on Libby Flats during the 1997-98 snow season. Snow-depth observations during the snow season were compared with results from the SnowTran-3D model. These tests demonstrated that the model closely reproduces the observed snow distribution patterns and adequately represents snow depths at a 5 m spatial resolution on Libby Flats. Simulation experiments demonstrate the relative importance of wind speeds, precipitation, and vegetation in the natural system.
10.2307/1552471|We examined effects of annual snowfall fluctuation on tree growth and establishment in a mature stand (ca. 200 yr old) of Japanese subalpine Abies mariesii Mast. near upper forest-limits at leeward site. Relatively tall and aged fir trees (>5 m, >100 yr old) retained various scars of past mechanical damage due to snow pressures, e.g., multiple-, tip dieback- and broken-stems, and canopy anomaly. Ring-width pattern analysis showed that these deformed trees mostly experienced abrupt growth reduction. Some events of such abrupt growth reduction occurred simultaneously just after winters with heavy snowfall (e.g., mid-1960s), indicating that the A. mariesii trees often suffered from snow damage due to settlement force of excess snowpack. Particularly, in snowy winters, mechanical breakage of branches was likely to occur intensively at the height of 1 to 3 m above the maximum snowpack level of normal snowfall winters (ca. 3 m). On the other hand, some aged, but suppressed, trees sharply enhanced their growth rates simultaneously after such period of the intensive snow damage. This indicated that the snow damage upon the relatively tall trees sometimes facilitated regeneration of nearby shaded-trees by creating small-scale gaps. The snow-induced disturbance events may have occurred at about 10-yr intervals during the last half of 20th century. Our findings suggested that population dynamics of A. mariesii near its upper forest-limit, especially located at leeward and snowy site, was closely affected by the repetitive events of snow damage following snowy winters: the event primarily acted as a major limiting factor for canopy development of individuals, and sometimes triggered growth of suppressed-trees.
20181752|With mesoscale data from a high-resolution numerical model, this paper analyzes the impact of the complex mesoscale terrain at the eastern edge of the Tibetan Plateau on the formation and development of a local severe storm. The result shows that the dynamic blocking effect of the Tibetan Plateau terrain affects the moisture transfer channel in this heavy rain scenario and brings about the formation of a strong watervapor convergence center in northwest Sichuan and the upper branch of Huang He (Yellow River). The terrain structure of the east side of the Tibetan Plateau places a high energy tongue and energy front in the lower layer of the troposphere of Sichuan Basin and helps establish unstable potential energy stratification in the lower troposphere of the Sichuan Basin. The accumulation of water vapor in the lower troposphere in the Sichuan Basin is the major reason for the establishment of unstable potential energy stratification. The steep terrain of the east side of Tibetan Plateau strengthens the ascendant motion. The strongest updraft movement occurred in the convergence area of the vertical shear of east and west wind and the steep landform, stimulating the unsteady release of energy and rapid development of the strong convection. The process is also accompanied by a mesoscale vortex in the east side of the Plateau. The most significant thermal and dynamic feature of this heavy rain scenario is that high temperature, high humidity, and strong vorticity columns appear only in the lower troposphere, which is very different from Mei-Yu. ("Mei-Yu" in Chinese and "Baiu" in Japanese refers to the frontal precipitation caused by Mei-Yu front, a persistent east-west zone of disturbed weather during early summer which is quasi-stationary and stretches from the east China coast, across Taiwan, and eastward into the Pacific Ocean south of Japan.)
10.2307/1552278| Groundwaters, surface runoff and river discharge have been studied at the Fish Hole area of the Big Fish River catchment, near Aklavik, N.W.T., to quantify the seasonal variations in groundwater contributions to baseflow in a permafrost basin. Geochemical and isotope methods are used to distinguish three principal water types: (1) subpermafrost Na-Cl thermal waters (16C) discharging from bedrock along the river, (2) shallow, Ca-SO<sub>4</sub> groundwaters, and (3) low-salinity, Ca-HCO<sub>3</sub>, suprapermafrost drainage. Cl and SO<sub>4</sub> concentrations in river water show that baseflow is largely derived from groundwater sources (Na-Cl and Ca-SO<sub>4</sub> components), with less than 30% contributed from surface water runoff in any season. Thermal groundwaters discharge year-round at a calculated 1.6 m<sup>3</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>. The shallow, Ca-SO<sub>4</sub> groundwater is the dominant component of baseflow in summer but is absent in winter baseflow. Discharge analysis based on a single flow measurement (25.5 m<sup>3</sup> s<sup>-1</sup> in June, 1997) and Cl-dilution allows calculation of total river discharge. This is shown to vary from a low of 2.2 m<sup>3</sup> s<sup>-1</sup> in the winter, to 1050 m<sup>3</sup> s<sup>-1</sup> during early spring melt. 
1552305|Plant species with morphological features that enable the age of individuals to be estimated are potentially useful for understanding past environmental conditions. Here, the size and growth rate of the cushion plant, Azorella selago Hook. (Apiaceae), are examined to determine if an accurate and reliable age can be assigned to individual plants using the phytometric model detailed by Frenot et al. (1993). Plant size, growth rate, epiphyte load, nearest-neighbor characteristics, and spatial position (used as a surrogate, to encompass a range of abiotic conditions to which plants were exposed) were measured at three sites. Additionally, variation in some of these variables was quantified across three altitudinal transects. Relationships were examined using regression, trend surface and partial regression approaches. Growth rate was independent of plant size, differed between sites, and was related to abiotic as well as other biotic factors. As a result, the phytometric model's age estimates may be biased by environmental variables. The results of the phytometric model, albeit in the absence of support for one assumption, estimated mean plant age at 30 yr, with some plants estimated as older than 80 yr. Using a simulation model, the accuracy of age estimates was shown to vary with temporal variation in plant growth rate and plant size. Nonetheless, even a conservative approach suggested these estimates to be accurate to within 2 to 15 yr. While further development of the phytometric model would improve its reliability, the model remains a valuable tool for estimating plant ages in an environment where many related techniques can not be applied.
24551630|Caching decisions have been studied for many species, but large-scale variation of selective preferences due to environmental heterogeneity has rarely been examined. We investigated large-scale patterns of selective caching behavior in the American pika (Ochotona princeps), a non-hibernating generalist herbivore that caches vegetation in haypiles to serve as winter food. At 13 sites throughout the southern Rocky Mountains, we identified the three most common available and cached plant species and analyzed them for dietary quality. Selectivity at each site was measured as the difference between average quality of the most common cached and available vegetation. Pikas consistently cached materials of higher quality than the most common available vegetation. Selectivity for high nitrogen corresponded to quality of available plants and site summer temperature, whereas selectivity for high water content was negatively correlated with elevation. Our results indicate that pikas cache a variety of plant materials while using different selectivity cues, illustrating the complexity of pika caching behavior across a range of environmental conditions and forage values. Future studies on caching behavior should take into account differential selectivity due to environmental heterogeneity.
4095863|Despite an increasing interest in the study of functional diversity, there have been few attempts to link plant traits, habitat variation, and community structure in Alpine landscapes. These interrelationships were examined along a snowmelt and growing-season-length gradient determined by mesotopographical variations. The study site was chosen so as to encompass much of the floristic beta diversity encountered at the Alpine belt of the southwestern Alps. A three-table ordination technique, named RLQ, was used to unravel on a quantitative basis the co-structure of a plot-by-environmental-variable table, a plot-by-species table, and a species-by-traits table. The main covariations between traits and habitat were (1) an increased specific leaf area (SLA) and leaf nitrogen content on a mass basis
4095848|Thermokarst formation and vegetation change in central Yakutia, eastern Siberia, were reconstructed based on newly obtained AMS radiocarbon data and pollen records from four typical thermokarst depressions (alases). Radiocarbon ages of wood fragments, which are good indicators of the development of thermokarst depressions, suggest that they formed during the early Holocene. The result of dating at various locations implies that thermokarst in central Yakutia developed synchronously, at a time that regional paleoclimate records indicate warm and moist conditions prevailed. Major trends in pollen records from the four thermokarst deposits were similar. The predominant vegetation type during the thermokarst active phase was open larch and birch forest with herbaceous taxa. Grassland developed on areas exposed by a decrease in water levels of thermokarst lakes during the late Holocene.
41416434|In a warming climate, sexual reproduction may play an important role in plant community composition in arctic tundra. As temperatures increase and currently immobilized soil nutrients become available, flowering, fruiting, and germination conditions will likely improve. We examined how experimentally adding soil nutrients for 13 and 20 years affected species composition, flower and fruit production, seed dispersal, composition of the seed bank, and seedling establishment in a dry heath plant community in northern Alaska. Fertilizer addition significantly shifted adult community composition by decreasing lichens and evergreen shrubs and increasing abundance of a bunchgrass, Hierochloe alpina, and dwarf birch, Betula nana. More seeds were dispersed adjacent to nutrient amended plots, particularly of B. nana, and soil seed banks differed significantly between control and fertilized soils reflecting the adult communities in the field. Few seedlings were observed in any field plots. However, seeds of H. alpina likely played a role in the community shift because this species has few, small individuals in control plots, yet is densely packed in fertilized plots. B. nana, on the other hand, appears to be increasing in relative abundance via vegetative growth of existing individuals. Therefore, although sexual reproduction leading to seedling establishment is rare currently, as nutrients become more available in a warming climate, individuals may recruit from seed more often as long as space is available.
20181738|This study examined the influence of snowmelt, vascular plants, grazing, substrates, and soil characteristics on the distribution of lichen communities along an alpine tundra ridge in the Uinta Mountains of Utah. Percent cover of lichens, rocks, snow, and vascular plants were estimated at 18 study sites along an altitudinal transect. Vascular plant cover and species diversity were greatest at the lower elevation sites, and differences in plant communities were related to differences in rock cover and grazing. Lichens showed a similar trend, with rock cover, grazing, vascular plants, and timing of snowmelt all defining community structure. We hypothesize that domestic sheep have dispersed fragments of two lichen species from western Wyoming to grazed sites along the study transect. Generally, terricolous and epiphytic lichens differed between the lower and upper sites in species composition and growth-form distribution. Distribution of lichen growth forms was positively correlated with increasing rock cover. Late snowmelt areas were also distinguished by a defined group of lichens.
23359630|Due to observed interactions between Svalbard reindeer (Rangifer tarandus platyrhynchus) and polar bears (Ursus maritimus) during field work on Edgeya, Svalbard, we measured response distances for reindeer from a stalking polar bear and improvised five approaches from a person disguised as a polar bear for comparison with human encounters. The alert, flight initiation and escape distances were 1.6, 2.5 and 2.3 times longer, respectively, when Svalbard reindeer were encountered by a person disguised as a polar bear compared to a person in dark hiking gear. Population increase of polar bears on Svalbard and decrease in sea-ice cover in the Arctic region during summer probably results in more frequent interactions with reindeer on the archipelago. Similar reindeer response behavior from encounters with a polar bear and persons disguised as polar bears indicate a predator-prey relationship between the two species on Edgeya.
10.2307/1552493|Landform-sediment-process assemblages associated with four gorges and their corresponding downstream boulder fans in the alpine periglaciofluvial system of the Storutla river, Jotunheimen, southern Norway, are described. The potential volume of frost-weathered sediment excavated from the gorges is compared using a sediment-budget approach to calculate the volume of angular sediment within the fans accumulated during the Holocene. Fan volumes represent an estimated 18 to 53% of the total gorge volume. Allowing also for the volume of relatively small caliber material flushed through the system, 24 to 97% of the gorge volume is accounted for by an estimated minimum long-term Holocene rate of gorge excavation of 0.002 to 0.010 m<sup>3</sup> m<sup>-1</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup> (minimum long-term Holocene gorge incision rate of 0.15-0.39 mm yr<sup>-1</sup>). Most of the remaining gorge volume is attributed to substantial pre-Holocene subglacial gorge incision by meltwater action. These rates of Holocene periglaciofluvial erosion of bedrock appear to exceed those characteristic of temperate fluvial systems unaffected by tectonic uplift. The implied rates of frost weathering (macrogelivation) are less than those under optimum conditions in arctic-alpine environments but support the efficacy of frost weathering in locations susceptible to the annual freeze-thaw cycle.
41416449|Alpine ecosystems are generally nitrogen (N) limited with low rates of N mineralization. Herbivory may affect N cycling and N losses and thus long-term productivity of ecosystems. Using a controlled grazing experiment in a low-alpine region at Hol, southern Norway, with three density levels of sheep, we determined effects of grazing on in situ availability of inorganic N, potential N mineralization, and mobility of dissolved inorganic N (DIN) and dissolved organic N (DON) in soil water of O-horizons in grazing-preferred grassland habitats. In addition, we studied the within-season and spatial variation of these processes. The low alpine grasslands at Hol were characterized by small rates of N mineralization and relatively large plant demands for N. Significantly greater rates of potential N mineralization were found at sites with high sheep density compared to those with low density or no grazing. Effects of grazing on bioavailable N (as determined by buried PRS exchange resins) were greater at low as compared to high altitudes. At low altitudes, low sheep density reduced amounts of bioavailable N. Nitrogen concentration of plants as a proxy of N availability in soils revealed, however, no significant effects of grazing. There was a strong seasonal effect on inorganic N and DIN:DON ratios of the soil water, with decreasing values in the course of the growing season, probably due to increasing nutrient demand of plants and/or microbes. We conclude that grazing may significantly stimulate N-cycling, but not sufficiently to release the system from its strong N deficiency, as we found no evidence for short-term increased risk in N loss via soil water due to herbivore activity. Nitrogen removal through grazing is small compared to the total soil  pool and at high sheep density is about half of the N deposition. This suggests that grazing in grassland habitats in this low alpine ecosystem is sustainable from a nutrient point of view.
40305826|The distribution of soil mites was studied in the foreland of the Hardangerjkulen glacier in central south Norway, close to a glacier snout, which has been receding since 1750. Twenty sampling plots were distributed along a gradient spanning from 30 to 230 years, and five additional plots were in 10,000-year-old soil nearby. To standardize the microhabitat, all 320 soil cores (each 10 cm 2 and 3 cm deep) were taken in Salix herbacea vegetation. The main focus was on oribatids, and most juveniles were identified to species. Two small, parthenogenetic species were pioneers, with high abundance in young soil: Tectocepheus velatus and Liochthonius cf. sellnickU although their dominance values decreased sharply with time. The youngest soils also contained unidentified Actinedida and Gamasidae, and pitfall traps revealed the rather large, predatory actinedid species Podothrombium strandi. The number of oribatid species increased gradually with soil age. The oldest soil contained 19 oribatid species, but only six of them, all in low densities, were unique to this soil. Parthenogenetic species were present in all age classes of soil. Although there exist few earlier studies on mite succession in glacial foreland soil, mites are clearly among the earliest colonizers along receding glaciers.
1552428|Despite the international reputation of Lesotho's severely eroded landscape, there have been no previous quantitative accounts of soil erosion processes and associated consequences from the alpine belt. This paper examines sedimentological, geomorphological, and geoecological controls and processes following gully development within alpine mires in eastern Lesotho. Contemporary gully extension is controlled by exposure to various sedimentary sequences, by gully sidewall crack development, and by topographic aspect. Significant vertical gully denudation rates of 8 cm (mineral sediment) to 13 cm (peat) were recorded over an 18-mo period. During a 5-d field experiment in July 1999, the continuously frozen south-facing gully walls recorded considerable horizontal movement of peat blocks (avg. = 19.8 mm/5 d), whereas needle ice--induced horizontal particle movement rates on north-facing walls averaged 10.2 mm/5 d. Soil moisture transect data show a pronounced reduction in surface soil moisture toward and between the gullied areas of a mire. The percentage of moisture loss toward midwinter was found to be greater between the gullies (47.4%) than in the adjoining zones, where moisture loss averaged 33.6%. Similarly, vegetation transects indicate a reduction in vegetation cover at the drier and more intensely burrowed (by Otomys, or "ice rats") zones close to the gullies. Invasive dwarf Karroid shrubs (e.g., Chrysocoma ciliata) are now establishing themselves alongside gullies, burrowed sites, and fringe areas of mires. We found that dryland plant invasions around grazing posts and heavily grazed areas on the slopes subsequently spread along alpine hydrological systems, particularly where gully erosion has created a suitable habitat.
41240399|Tree-ring width and glacier mass balance are two highly sensitive climatic proxies which are often used as indicators of biological and geophysical changes in high-altitude ecosystems. Tree-ring data have been widely used to reconstruct past temperatures and also to reconstruct past glacier mass balance. Here we show that tree-ring chronologies from a high-altitude Pinus cembra L. dendroclimatic network and glaciers from the same region in the European Alps have non-stationary responses to air temperature, and have also been responding non-proportionally to temperature extremes in recent decades. Both ring-width chronologies and the mass-balance series of some glaciers from the same region have shown an increasing sensitivity to summer (JJA) temperatures. Our results demonstrate that the sensitivity to climate of tree-ring chronologies and glacier mass balance may change over time and has been increasing in recent decades, posing some limitations to tree-ring-based glacier mass-balance reconstruction. Moreover, we found these reconstructions in the European Alps are more reliable for large rather than for small glaciers, and may not be able to reveal years of extreme ablation that could have occurred in the past.
23359623|Variability of midday net ecosystem CO 2 exchange (NEE) and respiration was measured using a transect of closed system chambers spanning transitions from channel fen, permafrost plateau, and ombrotrophic flat bog land cover types during the spring melt season (26 April6 June 2008). The primary objective was to compare fluxes from different land cover types and topographic variability within zones adjacent to and including rapid permafrost thaw. During this period, the bog was the greatest net source of CO 2 to the atmosphere, followed by plateau, and fen. NEE was slightly positive (indicating CO 2 loss to the atmosphere) during the snowmelt period (average = 0.009  0.004 mg CO 2 m -2 s -1 ), and increased to 0.025  0.012 mg CO 2 m -2 s -1 , on average, possibly due to soil thaw and increased microbial activity within two days of completely snow-free conditions. Near surface soil temperature and depth to the water table were the most significant controls of soil and ground cover CO 2 fluxes within chambers at all sites (p < 0.05). Analysis of historical aerial photographs and satellite imagery of the area from 1947 to 2008 indicates that plateaus are converting more rapidly into bogs than fen, where 73% of plateau areas (since 1970) that thawed had become bogs (as opposed to 27% conversion into fen). Future research requires establishment of a full ecosystem or land cover greenhouse gas and soil nutrient exchange/transfer program, including CO 2 and water fluxes as well as dissolved organic and inorganic C, and CH 4 losses from the soil. These results contribute to a better understanding of northern soil and ground-cover carbon exchanges as greater areas of permafrost plateaus collapse and form bogs.
1552289| Lengthening of the growing season at high latitudes, observed by satellites with the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI), has been ascribed to climate warming. To test this assumption, and to verify whether changes in vegetation greenness are quantitative or qualitative, we experimentally warmed patches of High Arctic tundra with infrared heating in Northeast Greenland. By analyzing digital images of the vegetation, changes in cover were distinguished from changes in senescence. During the season, experimental warming significantly increased green cover, for example, at the time of peak cover, the total green cover was enhanced from 59.1 to 67.3%. The dominant wavelength (hue) reflected by our tundra plots shifted from yellow-green to yellow. Experimental warming with 2.5C delayed this hue-shift by 15 d. The results demonstrate that higher summer temperatures do not only promote plant growth at these latitudes but also retard and/or postpone the senescence process, contrary to indications from previous research that late-season phenology in the High Arctic is governed by photoperiod. 
10.2307/1552583| Using miniature thermistors with integrated data loggers, the decrease in summer lake surface water temperature (LSWT) with increasing altitude a.s.l. was investigated in 10 Swiss Alpine lakes located between 613 m a.s.l. and 2339 m a.s.l. The LSWTs exhibit essentially the same short-term structure as regional air temperature, but are about 3 to 5C higher than the air temperature at the altitude of the lake. LSWTs decrease approximately linearly with increasing altitude at a rate slightly greater than the surface air temperature lapse rate. Diel variations in LSWT are large, implying that single water temperature measurements are unlikely to be representative of the mean. Local factors will affect LSWT more than they affect air temperature, possibly resulting in severe distortion of the empirical relationship between the two. Several implications for paleoclimate reconstruction studies result. (1) Paleolimnologically reconstructed LSWTs are likely to be higher than the air temperatures prevailing at the altitude of the lake. (2) Lakes used for paleoclimate reconstruction should be selected to minimize local effects on LSWT. (3) The calibration of organism-specific quantitative paleotemperature inference models should not be based on single water temperature measurements. (4) Consideration should be given to calibrating such models directly against air temperature rather than water temperature. (5) The primary climate effect on the aquatic biota of high-altitude lakes may be mediated by the timing of the ice cover. 
23359381|Alaska's arctic glaciers have retreated and thinned during recent decades, and glaciers in the central Brooks Range are no exception. Digital elevation models (DEMs) reconstructed from topographic maps (from 1970 and 1973) were differenced from a 2001 interferometric synthetic aperture radar DEM to calculate the volume and mass changes of 107 glaciers covering 42 km 2 (1970/1973) in the central Brooks Range, Alaska, U.S.A. For each glacier the 1970/1973 DEM was 3-D co-registered (horizontal and vertical) to maximize agreement between the non-glacierized terrains of both DEMs. Over the period 19702001, total ice volume loss was 0.69  0.06 km 3 corresponding to a mean (area-weighted) specific mass balance rate of -0.54  0.05 m w.e. a -1 ( uncertainty). The arithmetic mean of all glaciers' specific mass balance rates was -0.47  0.27 m w.e. a -1 ( 1 std. dev.). A value of -0.52  0.36 m w.e. a -1 ( 1 std. dev.) was found when 3-D co-registration is performed over the entire domain instead of individually for each glacier, indicating the importance of proper co-registration. Glacier area, perimeter, boundary compactness, mean elevation, and mean slope were correlated with specific balance rates, suggesting that large, low-elevation, elongated and shallow sloped glaciers had more negative balance rates than small, high-elevation, circular, and steep glaciers. A subsample of 36 glaciers showed a mean area reduction of 26  16% ( 1 std. dev.) over 35 years.
25642092|We examined sediment melt-migration dynamics in the ice cover of Lake Fryxell, Taylor Valley, McMurdo Dry Valleys, Antarctica, using a combination of laboratory experiments, field observations, and modeling. The specific objectives were to determine the thermal conditions required for sediment melt and how sediment migration rates vary with meteorological forcings and ice microstructure. These characteristics are relevant to the influence of climate change on lake ice structure and ecosystem processes in polar regions. Sediment began melting through laboratory ice at -2 C in simulated summer conditions, with warmer ice producing faster melt rates. An energy balance model, supported by our laboratory experiments, demonstrated that subsurface sediment can melt down to an equilibrium depth of 2 m in two years. Field experiments and modeling revealed that surficial sediment melts at about half the rate of subsurface sediment because of heat losses to shallow, cold ice and the cold, dry atmosphere. Gravity flow of sediment along grain boundaries was pronounced in laboratory ice warmer than -1 C. This mechanism produced a flux of 0.1 g m hr, a significant value relative to published benthic sedimentation rates for these lakes indicating an important sediment sorting mechanism.
10.2307/1552411|An analysis of variability in the winter mass balance (WMB) of 22 glaciers in the Northern Hemisphere indicates two primary modes of variability that explain 46% of the variability among all glaciers. The first mode of variability characterizes WMB variability in Northern and Central Europe and the second mode primarily represents WMB variability in northwestern North America, but also is related to variability in WMB of one glacier in Europe and one in Central Asia. These two modes of WMB variability are explained by variations in mesoscale atmospheric circulation which are driving forces of variations in surface temperature and precipitation. The first mode is highly correlated with the Arctic Oscillation Index, whereas the second mode is highly correlated with the Southern Oscillation Index. In addition, the second mode of WMB variability is highly correlated with variability in global winter temperatures. This result suggests some connection between global temperature trends and WMB for some glaciers.
20181797|We investigated vegetation structure and microenvironments on bare volcanic soil covered by scoria above the forest limit on Mt. Fuji, central Japan, to evaluate the effects of patches of a pioneer dwarf shrub (Salix reinii) on the establishment of early successional tree seedlings (Larix kaempferi). We analyzed species distribution patterns and the associations among them, and compared the performance (growth and survivorship) of Larix seedlings and the local environment (temperature, solar radiation, soil surface stability, soil moisture, and nitrogen) inside and outside Salix patches. Larix displayed significantly clumped distribution, and the clumping was apparently associated with the preferential occurrence of Larix in Salix patches. Salix patches moderated severe microenvironmental factors, such as drought, high temperature, and movement of the soil surface. Salix patches promoted increased height and decreased root:shoot ratio, but not higher rate of biomass accumulation in Larix seedlings. Survival rate of L. kaempferi inside Salix patches was higher than that outside patches at the younger stage, but it was lower at the older stage after L. kaempferi emerged from the Salix crown. The results indicate S. reinii enhances seedling establishment and survival of young L. kaempferi, but may compete with it at later stages. The overall net effect of Salix patches on L. kaempferi is positive, and therefore S. reinii appears to accelerate succession from scoria bare land to pioneer woodland.
10.2307/1552600| Thirty-three debris fans and five small alpine basins on the south side of the rapidly uplifting Nanga Parbat Himalaya of northern Pakistan were assessed to determine how much alpine processes contribute to the overall denudation of the massif. A high-resolution digital elevation model was used to measure the volume of the small alpine fans and a few basins in the Rupal valley. These volumetric estimates, coupled with time-constraining dates from cosmogenic-nuclides of glacially exposed rocks and infrared-stimulated luminescence of sediments, indicate that estimated average denudation rates in these systems have been 2 mm yr<sup>-1</sup> over the past 4600 to 6000 yr since the last major deglaciation. This is similar to other estimates of rates of denudation in the Himalaya. 
24551612|Ecological succession and climate change are pushing tundra as well as Arctic and subarctic lowland plant communities toward increased woody vegetation cover. However, areas along the Hudson Bay Lowlands that are over-grazed by hyper-abundant lesser snow geese are experiencing drastic losses of grass, sedge, and woody cover. We assessed long-term changes in proportional ground cover and habitat patch characteristic at a subarctic supratidal marsh that was largely vacated by breeding snow geese over a decade ago. We found no evidence of habitat recovery. Rather, snow geese leave a legacy on the land that propagates degradation of habitat long after their direct removal of vegetation through foraging. Over a 35 year period, we documented a 46% reduction in graminoid cover and an 84% reduction in shrub cover, which led to smaller and more isolated patches of shrubs that many avian species depend upon for foraging and nesting. Recent experimental goose exclosures suggest that recovery of degraded habitat is possible, but habitat management at a large scale will require drastic reductions in lesser snow goose numbers.
10.2307/1552261|The West Mountains, west-central Idaho, were deglaciated before ca. 11,500 BP, as indicated by radiocarbon ages and Glacier Peak tephra, at several sites in cirques. Pollen analysis of a sediment core, and plant macrofossils from sediments recovered from the cirque at the head of Van Wyck Creek, indicate that a closed spruce-pine forest surrounded the site from ca. 11,500 to 9800 BP. Early in this period, spruce (probably krummholz) was already growing near the present-day altitudinal limit of large upright spruce. Hence, the climate during this period was significantly warmer than before 11,500 BP. Between ca. 9800 and 3200 BP the climate was warmer and drier than present. Pollen data indicate that from ca. 9300 to the time of Mazama tephra deposition (ca. 6700 BP), the climate was warmer and drier than at any time since 11,500 BP. From ca. 6700 to 3200 BP there was a small decrease in temperature with a minor increase in effective moisture. Beginning ca. 3200 BP, the climate was characterized by cooler temperatures and more mesic conditions. Modern plant communities were established by ca. 1500 BP.
10.2307/1552513| Testate amoebae communities across five different vegetation and soil types in a coastal region of Northeast Greenland were studied, in order to understand the distribution of these organisms with respect to habitat properties in this extreme environment. Thirty-eight taxa representing 12 genera were observed in 39 samples. About 43% of the testate amoebae belonged to a single species: Trinema lineare. Difflugia globulus and Centropyxis aerophila var. sphagnicola showed also high relative abundances. Average shell density/g dry weight was 35,000  21,000. Hierarchic-agglomerate classification revealed three assemblages. A Difflugia globulus--Centropyxis aerophila var. sphagnicola assemblage inhabited the soil from the Arctagrostis and Vaccinium vegetation type. This assemblage was associated with higher soil moisture content and a thicker active layer. The Centropyxis aerophila--Trinema complanatum assemblage, that was found in the soils beneath the Cassiope and Salix vegetation, was associated with lower soil moisture content. The assemblage found in soils beneath the Poa vegetation type was characterized by Trinema lineare and Euglypha rotunda and was associated with high organic content of the soils and a shallower active layer. These results suggest that testate amoebae assemblages are ecologically distinct across short distances in the high arctic soil habitats. 
23252814|For much of the 20th century, multiyear landfast sea ice (MLSI) formed a permanent ice cover in Yelverton Bay, Ellesmere Island. This MLSI formed following the removal of ice shelf ice from Yelverton Bay in the early 1900s, including the well-documented Ice Island T-3. The MLSI cover survived intact for 5560 years until 2005, when >690 km 2 (90%) of MLSI was lost from Yelverton Bay. Further losses occurred in 2008, and the last of the Yelverton Bay MLSI was lost in August 2010. Ground penetrating radar (GPR) transects and ice cores taken in June 2009 provide the first detailed assessment of MLSI in Yelverton Inlet, and indeed the last assessment now that it has all been replaced with first-year ice. A detailed history of ice shelf, glacier, and MLSI changes in Yelverton Bay since the early 1900s is presented using remotely sensed imagery (air photos, space-borne optical, and radar scenes) and ancillary evidence from in situ surveys. Recent changes in the floating ice cover here align with the broad-scale trend of long-term reductions in age and thickness of sea ice in the Arctic Ocean and Canadian Arctic Archipelago.
10.2307/1552559| We studied the composition of assemblages of fossil insects from the Quaternary in the high- altitude Lac Long Infrieur located at 2090 m a.s.l in the "Valle des Merveilles" (southern French Alps). The insect assemblages extracted from the lake sedimentary sequence were divided into five faunal units, which enable us to reconstruct the evolution of paleoenvironments from the Wrmian ice retreat to the present. Our results indicate that the periglacial desert was replaced by steppic environments, followed by the rise of the treeline and the establishment of a mature conifer forest, which ended in the final collapse of the forest cover. Human action was clearly responsible for this last event, but in contrast to other alpine sites, agropastoral activities around the lake itself were not clearly indicated by insect data. Comparisons between insect and pollen data for the same sedimentary sequence agreed in most cases, but these two approaches have a complementary value when they are applied on the same site. 
25642073|This study presents a new pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) ring-width chronology and a summer temperature reconstruction for the last 400 years from the Khibiny Low Mountains (Kola Peninsula, NW Russia). Pine trees from sites at the altitudinal timberline of Khibiny Mountains show pronounced climatic signals in tree-ring width. We found a strong positive correlation with summer temperature of JulyAugust (r = 0.58). The reconstruction shows lower summer temperatures from A.D. 1630 to 1840, a subsequent warming up to the mid-20th century and a cooling trend afterwards. According to our data, a temperature increase is observed during the past decade. The good coherence of multi-decadal to secular trends of our reconstruction and series of observed solar activity indicate that solar activity may have been one major driving factor of past climate on Kola Peninsula.
10.2307/1552387|Low temperatures and high sunlight, factors that are characteristic of high elevations, may lead to the low-temperature photoinhibition of photosynthesis (LTP). Exposure and photosynthetic responses to low temperature and high sunlight were compared among current-year seedlings of the conifers Abies lasiocarpa and Picea engelmannii, and the snowbank perennials Caltha leptosepala and Erythronium grandiflorum, in the alpine treeline ecotone. The ratio of silhouette (sunlit) to total leaf area of whole plants was greatest in A. lasiocarpa (0.33), 25% lower in P. engelmannii (0.25), and at least 36% lower in the snowbank perennials than for A. lasiocarpa. This indicated less structural avoidance of high sunlight in the conifer seedlings, particularly A. lasiocarpa. CO<sub>2</sub> assimilation (A<sub>sat</sub>) in A. lasiocarpa was reduced 40% due to frosts, high sunlight (22%), and their combination (90%). A<sub>sat</sub> was much less affected by frosts and high sunlight in P. engelmannii and especially the perennials. Following frost and high sunlight exposure, diurnal reductions in maximum photosynthetic efficiency, indicated by the chlorophyll fluorescence ratio F<sub>m</sub>/F<sub>m</sub>, corresponded to species differences in A<sub>sat</sub>. A substantially greater degree of slowly-reversible, or irreversible LTP (44% reduction in predawn F<sub>v</sub>/F<sub>m</sub>) occurred in the microclimate above snow for A. lasiocarpa compared to the other species. It appears that a higher resistance to LTP in the perennials may contribute to their greater occurrence in microsites with lower temperatures and higher sunlight compared to the conifer seedlings.
1552366|Remote sensing provides a viable alternative for mapping vegetation in the Arctic because it allows for the mapping of discontinuous distribution of cover types over different spatial scales. In this paper we present a statistical method to map the distribution of important cover types for the reindeer Rangifer tarandus during summer in northemmost Sweden using IRS 1D-LISS satellite imagery. We exemplify our method with modeling of the distribution of snowbed vegetation, the cover type used most intensively by the reindeer in the study area. An autologistic regression model that incorporates the spatial structure of the data is used to combine the field data and the satellite image data. The terrain effects in the satellite image are accounted for in the regressions using a digital elevation model (DEM). We produced a fine-scaled coverage depicting the probability of occurrence of snowbed vegetation as a continuous variable at the pixel level. The accuracy of mapping snowbed vegetation was 69-77%, depending on the data used. We conclude that small-scale, pixel-wise classification modeling may be useful for depicting sparsely occurring cover types, some of which may be important determinants of range quality for reindeer.
10.2307/1552510|Mapping of glacial drift sheets and examination of striae patterns throughout the Bunger Hills, suggests that the largely ice-free region records the imprint of several phases of ice sheet and outlet glacier expansion during the late Pleistocene. The oldest glacial drift identified in the Bunger Hills is the most extensive, and displays a weathering status that allows its discrimination from the moderately weathered Figurnoe drift. The latter drift is hummocky and preserves a series of high-level paleolake shorelines at the western end of modern Lake Figurnoe. Within the limits of the Figurnoe drift, the Apendiksi drift was mapped on the basis of its degree of morphological preservation and minimal surface and sub-surface drift weathering. Lobes of Apendiksi ice extended up to 8 km west of the modern ice sheet margin in the southern Bunger Hills. Advances of the Edisto Glacier are renamed the Edisto 1 to 3 in order of reducing relative age. The morphostratigraphic evidence suggests that the glacial history of the Bunger Hills is more complex than had previously been recognized, and emphasizes the need for detailed glacial geologic work in this and other ice-free coastal areas of eastern Antarctica.
4139075|The summer diets of a natural population of white-tailed ptarmigan (Lagopus leucurus), an herbivorous alpine grouse, in the Rocky Mountains and an introduced population in the Sierra Nevada were compared to determine if differences in alpine tundra plant communities affected nutritional intake. Foraging selections of 28 adult ptarmigan were recorded regarding number, amount, availability, nutritional, mineral and energy content of plant species eaten. The average diet of the Rocky Mountain ptarmigan was composed of nine plant species (99% g dry wt), while the average diet of the Sierra Nevada ptarmigan was composed of only two plant species, Salix anglorum and Carex jonesii (99% g dry wt). Although plant species eaten differed between the populations, the energy and lipid content of the diets were nearly identical. The diet of Sierra Nevada ptarmigan was 28% higher in protein and 13% lower in carbohydrate than the diet of Rocky Mountain ptarmigan, likely due to high consumption of Salix leaves and low consumption of flowers by the Sierra Nevada ptarmigan. Both populations exhibited sampling behavior (ingesting occasional bites from many species), which would allow ptarmigan to track changing resources in the highly variable alpine environment and may have enabled the introduced ptarmigan to identify a suitable diet.
24551609|We explored the importance of environmental drivers in structuring benthic macroinvertebrate communities along a spatial hierarchy (local to landscape scale) in Low Arctic stream systems that were previously unstudied. Macroinvertebrate communities from 29 sites in Low Arctic areas of northern Labrador and Qubec, Canada, were quantified by taxonomic structure and biological metrics. Environmental variables were quantified at site, reach, and catchment scales using field-collected data and geospatial information. The first three axes of Redundancy Analysis (RDA) ordinations explained 21.040.6% of the unconstrained variance in taxonomic structure and biological metrics. Biological data were most highly correlated with site-scale variables, but variables at each spatial scale were highly correlated with community structure. Across all scales, one of the strongest gradients involved environmental drivers that could be associated with habitat structure and instability. Abundance of the chironomid subfamily Diamesinae, a tolerant taxon in high-latitude and high-elevation systems, was highly positively associated with this habitat gradient. This hierarchical framework provides a knowledge base for the development of a sustainable long-term monitoring approach for Low Arctic aquatic ecosystems. By incorporating measures of environmental drivers at multiple spatial scales, future monitoring efforts may more effectively respond to current and future pressures on aquatic biodiversity.
20181747|Based on the Guliya, Dunde, and Dasuopu ice cores and direct observations, we investiagated the spatial and temporal variations in precipitation on the Tibetan Plateau over the past 500 yr. The variations in accumulation rates showed significant periodicities of 12.7, 7.6, 6.2, 5.4, 4.4, and 2.1 yr in the Guliya ice core, 9.5, 6.8, 5.7, and 2.1 yr in the Dunde ice core, and 12.3, 7.5, 6.3, 5.3, and 2.4 yr in the Dasuopu ice core. The periodicities displayed in these three ice core recordes are similar and correspond to the periodicities of the Quasi-Biennial Oscillation, the Southern Oscillation, the North Atlantic Oscillation, and the sunspot cycle. However, the accumulation rate from the Guliya and Dunde ice cores exhibited a generally decreasing trend, while the records from the Dasuopu ice core show a generally increasing trend over the entire period of interest. Our study also indicates that there is a strong negative correlation between the accumulation rates in the ice cores from the northern and southern Tibetan Plateau, especially on climatological (multi-decadal or longer) time-scales. Modern meteorological observation data suggest that a dividing line between the northern and southern Tibetan Plateau with respect to variations in precipitation is located at 32-33N. This dividing line coincides with other atmospheric, geographical, geological, and geophysical discontinuities. This suggests that interactions among these phenomena might help to understand the spatial patterns of climate over the Tibetan Plateau.
10.2307/1552504| To quantify the thermal effect of melting snow/ice surface on the lower atmospheric temperature, "sensitivity of climate index" () is used. This new index indicates the rate of decrease in the sensitivity of climate () over the melting snow/ice surface compared to that over the snow/ice-free surface.  (C/[Wm<sup>-2</sup>]) is defined as the mean daily air temperature range divided by the cumulative amount of solar radiation, in this study. Micrometeorological observations were carried out in various snow/ice cover situations, including seasonal snow cover, glaciers, and snowpatchs. The observations showed that when melt is occurring, the sensitivity of climate is reduced for all the cases tested, regardless of their geographical and climatic conditions. Using the sensitivity of climate index (), the thermal effect of surface melt is evaluated and compared among the various regions. Results show that the influence of surface melt on the lower atmosphere increases with the size of the snow/ice area. 
20181712|The extreme seasonality of the High Arctic creates very different flowering conditions for plants in areas of early and late snowmelt. Therefore, future reproductive responses to climate change may be dependent on the timing of snowmelt. We combined genetic, morphological, and long-term monitoring data on Dryas from a High Arctic hybrid zone of D. integrifolia and D. octopetala to assess whether climate variation influenced flowering differently in areas of early and late snowmelt, and whether this could have a genetic origin. We found a non-linear relationship between timing of snowmelt and flowering. The duration of the period between snowmelt and the onset of flowering (pre-floration interval) varied with the date of snowmelt. Shorter pre-floration intervals were associated with warmer average temperature during the pre-floration intervals in both early and late melting plots. However, the pre-floration interval was much shorter in early than in late plots at the same average temperature. Likewise, the interannual variation in flower abundance differed between early and late melting plots. Flower abundance was negatively influenced by frost after snowmelt in the year of flowering in early plots. In late plots, flower abundance was positively influenced by the length of the previous growing season. We identified two morpho-types in the study area, but their distribution and genetic differentiation was not related to the snowmelt gradient. We conclude that the different flowering responses found along the snowmelt gradient are a result of environmental variation. Based on our results and projected climatic change for the study area, we predict that the onset of flowering will advance and flower abundance will increase in areas of early snowmelt. In areas of late snowmelt, the onset of flowering will remain unchanged or be delayed and flower abundance will decrease.
4095882| The effects of artificial warming on shoot elongation of alpine dwarf pine (Pinus pumila) was studied near Mount Shogigashira summit, central Japan, from 2001 to 2003. A nylon windshield net enclosed two experimental plots, 2 X 2 m, each year at the start of the growing season (June, but late July in 2001). The nets were removed at the end of the growing season (late September or early October). Two plots, 1.5 X 1.5 m, without a net were set as controls. In September 2001, the daily mean air temperature differed little between the experimental and control plots: compared to the control plot, the maximum was 4.3C higher and the minimum was 1.7C lower in the experimental plot. The annual shoot elongation differed little between the experimental and control plots in 2001 and 2002, but it was greater in the experimental than in the control plot in 2003. Shoot elongation started in June and ended in August in both experimental and control plots, but the rate of the increase was greater in the experimental than in the control plot in 2003, and so shoots had greater elongation in 2003 in the experimental plot. Thus, artificial warming promoted shoot elongation by increasing the daily maximum temperature. 
1552288|Ice elevation changes since 1975 and ice areal changes since 1945 of glaciers in the southeastern part of the Southern Patagonia Icefield (SPI) are presented. Comparison of digital elevation models, GPS, and optical survey data revealed high thinning rates for all the ablation areas of the glaciers, with average values between 1.4 and 3.4 m a<sup>-1</sup> and maximum ice thinning of 7.6 m a<sup>-1</sup>. Ice elevation changes for the glacier accumulation areas were smaller than the estimated errors, and no significant trends could be detected. All the glaciers are retreating and shrinking considerably, with a total areal loss of 62.2 km<sup>2</sup>, which represents 8% of the total ice area of 1945. This trend is in agreement with other similar measurements carried out during recent decades for several glaciers of the SPI. The high thinning rates for the ablation areas of the SPI have been primarily interpreted as a result of the increase in temperature observed in the region, however, this warming trend is not large enough to account for all the ice thinning, indicating that dynamic factors could be important, especially in glaciers which have been thinning dramatically, allowing frontal calving fronts to reach nearly floating conditions. More measurements are needed to test and validate dynamic hypotheses related to glacier behavior in Patagonia.
24551600|Soil temperature and moisture are key determinants of abiotic and biotic processes in arctic-alpine regions. They are important links to understanding complex ecosystem dynamics under changing climate. The aims of this study were to (1) quantify fine-scale soil temperature and soil moisture variation, and (2) assess the influence of vegetation on soil temperature and moisture patterns in a northern European arctic-alpine environment. Inclusion of vegetation variables significantly improved models of soil temperature and moisture, despite abiotic variables (local topography and soil properties) being the most influential predictors. Temperature varied by 5 C and moisture by 50% (volumetric water content) over very short distances (1 m), reflecting the extreme spatial heterogeneity of thermal and hydrological conditions in these systems. These results thus highlight the biotic mediation of changes in abiotic conditions, showing how vegetation can strongly affect local habitat conditions at fine spatial scales in arctic-alpine environments.
41240394|Tasman Glacier is the largest glacier in the New Zealand Southern Alps. Despite a century of warming and down-wastage, the glacier remained at its Little Ice Age terminus until the late 20th century. Since then, a proglacial lake formed, and comparatively rapid calving retreat has been initiated. In this paper we use sequential satellite imagery to document terminus retreat, growth of supraglacial ponds, and expansion of the proglacial Tasman Lake. Between 2000 and 2008, the glacier terminus receded a maximum of c. 3.7 km on the western margin, and the ice-contact Tasman Lake expanded concomitantly. This northward expansion of Tasman Lake up-valley proceeded at a mean annual rate of 0.34  10 m a over 2000-2008, attaining a surface area of 5.96  10 m in May 2008, with a maximum depth of c. 240 m. Terminus retreat rates (U <sub>r</sub> ) vary in both space and time, with two distinct periods of calving retreat identified during the study period: 2000-2006 (mean U <sub>r</sub> = 54 m a) and 2007-2008 (mean U <sub>r</sub> = 144 m a). Terminus retreat can also be categorized into two distinct zones of activity: (1) the main ice cliff (MIC), and (2) the eastern embayment ice cliff (EEIC). During the period 2000-2006, and between 2006 and 2008 for the EEIC, the controlling process of ice loss at the terminus was iceberg calving resulting from thermal undercutting. In contrast, the retreat of the MIC between 2006 and 2008 was controlled by buoyancy-driven iceberg calving caused by decreasing overburden pressure as a result of supraglacial pond growth, increased water depth, and rainfall. The presence of a > 130-m-long subaqueous ice ramp projecting from the terminal ice cliff into the lake suggests complex interactions between the glacier and ice-contact lake during the 8-10 km of possible future calving retreat.
10.2307/1552404| The similarity over long distances of dendroecological pointer years (with extreme ring-widths) were studied at both regional and country scales in order to investigate the geographical extension of climate influences on tree-rings. Two common species, Norway spruce (Picea abies Karst.) and white fir (Abies alba Mill.) were compared. The regional study was carried out on 33 populations located in four alpine valleys along a climatic gradient of summer aridity (Tarentaise, Maurienne, and Brianonnais, in France, and Susa valley in Italy). For most of species and regions, several negative ring-width pointer years with abrupt growth reductions such as 1976, 1922, 1986, and 1944 were common (listed in order of decreasing importance). However, spruce growth was more reduced in 1948 than that of fir. At the country scale, some of the strongest positive (e.g., 1932, 1964, 1969) and negative (e.g., 1956, 1962, 1976, 1986) pointer years extended over the whole of France, whereas the geographic variability was explainable by the autoecology of species. At both studied scales, evident climatic interpretations such as severe winter frosts, unusual summer droughts, or excessive wet and cold springs can explain most of the negative pointer years. Conversely, most positive growth responses are caused by a local combination of favorable climatic factors rather than simple extreme events, and therefore are less efficient for wood dating. 
10.2307/1552214|The n-factor, or ratio of the seasonal degree-day sum at the soil surface to that in the air at standard screen height, has been used for more than 40 yr in engineering studies to parameterize the temperature regime at the ground surface. Conceptually, this index represents the complex energy balance at the surface as a single dimensionless number and has applications in ecology, climatology, and geocryology. Although the n-factor has been used theoretically to represent the thermal regime of undisturbed natural surfaces, lack of empirical data has hindered its widespread implementation. Nine ground and one air temperature series (1995-97) from each of ten 1-ha plots on the coastal plain and Brooks Range foothills of north-central Alaska were converted to thawing (summer) n-factors and analyzed to address within- and between-plot spatial and temporal variability. Although substantial microscale variation exists, n-factors corresponding to natural vegetation/soil classes are discernable. Incorporation of n-factor values in a standard solution for the depth of thaw resulted in significantly improved estimates of active-layer thickness throughout the study area. The n-factor has considerable potential for addressing problems involving near-surface climate dynamics over extensive regions and long time periods.
10.2307/1552386| Metrosideros polymorpha (Ohia), the dominant tree species in Hawaiian forest ecosystems, grows from sea level to treeline (2500 m). Carboxylation efficiency and area-based leaf N content were substantially higher at treeline than at lower elevations while leaf size and instantaneous photosynthetic nitrogen-use efficiency (PNUE) were substantially lower at treeline. For example, PNUE decreased from 45 mol CO<sub>2</sub> mol N<sup>-1</sup> at low elevation to 17.4 mol CO<sub>2</sub> mol N<sup>-1</sup> at high elevation. In contrast, average net CO<sub>2</sub> assimilation and integrated PNUE remained relatively constant along the elevation gradient despite suboptimal temperatures and decreased soil nitrogen availability at treeline. These and other homeostatic mechanisms allow M. polymorpha to maintain a relatively high level of growth-related activities at treeline despite frequent near- and below-freezing temperatures. High-elevation populations avoided freezing by supercooling apparently as a result of small leaves, reduced intercellular spaces, and low apoplastic water content in leaves. Ice nucleation temperatures were about -8.5C for leaves of treeline populations, 3C lower than those of low elevation populations. Irreversible tissue damage temperature decreased 7C from sea level to treeline. However, the decrease appeared to be only large enough to allow M. polymorpha trees to avoid leaf tissue damage due to freezing up to the current location of treeline. All of the above leaf traits in high-elevation populations serve to promote carbon gain in a nutrient and temperature limited environment as well as to avoid freezing by supercooling. 
25642087|In permafrost-affected sites, soil forming processes appear to be closely connected with organic matter (OM) accumulation. In this work OM composition and nutrient availability has been evaluated in a frost-affected soil located at 1200 m a.s.l. in Creux du Van (Switzerland), where patches of stunted Norway spruce trees adjacent to tall trees have been ascribed to the presence of sporadic alpine permafrost. Soil samples were collected under the stunted forest and in the adjacent tall forest and characterized for their chemical and physical characteristics. The main C and N forms have been determined and characterized. Under the stunted forest the soil samples showed a high total organic C/total N (TOC/TN) ratio and scarce microbial activity; humification processes were limited and humic acids revealed little oxidation, scarce incorporation of N-containing moieties, and high enrichment of lipids. 14C dating revealed the presence in the bulk samples of young organic material mixed with relatively old humic acids, probably due to cryoturbation processes. These latter processes appeared also responsible for the arrival of fresh litter material from Oi and Oe horizons into the Oa horizon of the stunted forest and for the consequent genesis of humic substances from a mix of old and fresh residues. From our findings there seems to exist a reciprocal influence of vegetation quality on the OM composition, and of OM decomposition on nutrition, as driven by the microclimatic conditions and physical processes, which in turn may contribute to keep the soil at an unstable developmental stage and limit the spruce growth.
40305858|We have estimated the erosion of sediment and organic carbon input from the Kara Sea coast based on extensive mapping, geologic and cryolithologic investigations of coastal zone and seafloor sediments, and revision of previously published data. The amount of coastal sediment eroded into the Kara Sea was determined to be approximately 35 million tons. Twenty-seven million tons are attributed to solid material, 7.6 million to thawed ground ice, 0.4 million to organic carbon, and 0.3 million to soluble salts. The estimate of organic carbon input presented herein is 2.5-fold less than previously published elsewhere. The majority of organic carbon in marine clayey deposits was found to be present in an adsorbed form. Its quantity corresponds to the content of clay particles in Pleistocene sediments. Organic carbon content in clay marine sediments remains unchanged during freeze-thaw processes, indicating that this form of carbon is stable unless thermoerosion is taking place.
25642095|We examine trends in surface air temperature for the San Juan Mountain region in southwestern Colorado from 1895 to 2005. Observations from both National Weather Service (NWS) and Snow Telemetry (SNOTEL) sites are analyzed. Results show a net warming of 1 C between 1895 and 2005. Most of this warming occurred between 1990 and 2005, when the region experienced rapid and secular increases in temperature. Between 1950 and 1985, there was a cooling trend in the region during which there were significant decreases in the maximum temperature (T max ) and almost no trend in the minimum temperature (T min ). This cooling trend appears to be, in part, associated with increases in atmospheric aerosols. Between 1990 and 2005, the large increases in temperature anomalies are strongly correlated at the NWS and SNOTEL sites. Annual increases in T max and T min are similar between 1990 and 2005; however, they generally show greater increases during summer and winter, respectively. Spatially, there are similar increases in T max and T min except in the central mountain region, where the increases in T min are larger and started earlier.
10.2307/1552480| The assemblages of visitors to angiosperms flowering at a montane and at a high alpine site in the Andes of Mendoza, Argentina (33-34S) were described and the plant-flower visitor matrices were analyzed and compared to other systems, in particular those located at a similar latitude on the western slope of the Andes. In the low-altitude (montane) habitat, 23 plant species had a total of 126 interactions with 71 taxa of insects and one hummingbird, and at the higher site 21 plants and 45 insect species had 83 interactions. Connectances of the visitor matrices were 7.6 and 8.7, respectively. Diptera and Hymenoptera dominated the visitor assemblages at both sites without change of proportions with altitude, while Lepidoptera significantly increased at the higher site. Flies were more species-rich than expected at the sites' latitude and more constant across altitudes than is usually observed. Lack of a significant decrease with altitude of (1) the frequency of Hymenoptera and (2) the number of interactions per plant were the main differences with a comparable gradient in the Chilean Andes. The proportion of self-compatible species increased with altitude; however, use of phylogenetically-independent contrasts showed that the prevalence of selfers at higher altitudes does not reflect a generalized reaction pattern but results from two speciose families (Asteraceae and Fabaceae) showing more self-compatibility at high altitudes. 
41416450|This study focused on simulated glacier surface conditions (simulated Surface Melt and liquid Precipitation available for supra-, en-, sub-, and proglacial flow processes [after vertical percolation and potential storage within the snowpack] [henceforth SMP]), internal water storage and release, and runoff from the Kangerlussuaq drainage area of the Greenland Ice Sheet (GrIS), West Greenland, for the period 2006/2007 to 2007/2008. GrIS winter accumulation and summer ablation processes, including SMP, was simulated on both daily and hourly time steps. Using hourly meteorological driving data produced more realistic meteorological conditions instead of daily-averaged data, in relation to snow and melt threshold surface processes, and produced 9-17% higher annual cumulative SMP. The difference between simulated SMP and observed catchment runoff showed a decreasing lag time through the summer, and a drainage system storage buildup through approximately June and early July of up to 0.29 x 10 m, and a storage release through approximately late July and August of up to 0.25 x 10 m. The simulated total Kangerlussuaq SMP for 2006/2007 and 2007/2008, indicated a reduction of 30%. This reduction in SMP occurred simultaneously with the reduction in the overall pattern of satellite-derived GrIS surface melt from 2007 to 2008.
40962402|We describe changes in vascular plant richness on 13 high mountain summits based on a historical study performed approximately 40 years ago. A summit is defined as the uppermost 30 m of the mountain tops. The altitudes of the summits range from 1512 to 1814 m. Data from neighboring climatologie stations showed higher mean values for July temperature (+0.7 C) and January temperature (+1.5 C), and mean annual precipitation had increased from 714 to 764.7 mm (7.1%) for the period from 1970 until 2009 compared with average data for the normal period (1961-1990). The total "top flora" had during this period increased by 19 taxa. On average, the increase in taxa richness was 18.9  8.4 per summit, representing an average increase of 90.2%. Woody species had an average upward movement of 7.3 m during the study period. The ongoing upward shift of common, ubiquitous alpine species has resulted in a floristic homogenization of the mountain summits, and thus increasing -diversity was accompanied by decreasing -diversity. The use of recorded plants as temperature indicators showed that average summer temperatures had increased by approximately 1.3 C during this period. Several of the newly established species indicate that the climate has become more humid. We assume that the recorded floristic changes are the result of ongoing climatic changes.
1552177| On a gentle leeward slope in a snowy forest limit in northern Honshu Island, Japan, mechanical damage by snow settlement and creep on Abies mariesii trees buried below the snowpack was examined to detect signs of the snow-damage effect on future survival and crown development. Damage types were recorded based on direct observation of crowns in 1996, a year of high snow accumulation exceeding 4.5 m, and 1997, a year of moderate snow accumulation. Of 153 trees examined, 63% were damaged in 1996 and 15% were damaged in 1997. The most destructive damage type was breakage of stems 5 cm in diameter, which occurred on eight trees in 1996 and three in 1997, resulting in foliage loss and death of some trees. The prevalent damage type was branch tearing at branch-stem junctions primarily within a height range of 4-6 m, which occurred on 171 branches in 1996 and 5 in 1997. Under snowy and windy conditions, stem breakage and branch tearing, caused by forces active within restricted layers of the snowpack, may reduce the future survival and crown development of A. mariesii buried below the snowpack in years of heavy snowfall. 
4095920|Nitrogen (N) fixation, denitrification, and ecosystem pools of nitrogen were measured in three subarctic ecosystem types differing in soil frost-heaving activity and vegetation cover.
4139071|This paper presents the results of a distributed surface energy balance model which is used to calculate season-long patterns of melt on a small valley glacier, Haut Glacier d'Arolla, Valais, Switzerland, under different summer meteorological conditions and winter snow depth distributions. The model uses a Digital Elevation Model of the glacier and the surrounding topography, together with meteorological data collected at a site in front of the glacier to determine hourly totals of the surface energy balance components, and hence melt, over the entire glacier surface throughout a melt season, with a spatial resolution of 20 m. From these results, the spatially averaged mass-balance/elevation profile for the glacier can be calculated. A cubic relationship with elevation gives the best fit to the calculated mass-balance curve. The shape of this profile varies with the imposed change in meteorological conditions, however, becoming increasingly "S" shaped for warmer or less snowy conditions. These mass-balance profile changes are due to the complex interplay between albedo variations due to different snow depths over the glacier surface (and eventual removal of the snow cover), the variations in solar energy receipts caused by slope and aspect variation over the glacier and the changing patterns of shading by the surrounding topography. The changes in mass-balance profile lead to maximum calculated mass-balance sensitivity to imposed change occurring at intermediate elevations on the glacier; the calculated equilibrium-line altitude (ELA) occurs at the upper end of this zone, resulting in very large calculated changes in the ELA for different climatic conditions.
40801766|In subarctic Sweden, recent decadal colonization and expansion of aspen (Populus tremula L.) were recorded. Over the past 100 years, aspen became c. 16 times more abundant, mainly as a result of increased sexual regeneration. Moreover, aspen now reach tree-size (> 2 m) at the alpine treeline, an ecotone that has been dominated by mountain birch (Betula pubescens ssp. czerepanovii) for at least the past 4000 years. We found that sexual regeneration in aspen probably occurred seven times or more within the last century. Whereas sexual regeneration occurred during moist years following a year with an exceptionally high June-July temperature, asexual regeneration was favored by warm and dry summers. Disturbance to the birch forest by cyclic moth population outbreaks was critical in aspen establishment in the subalpine area. At the treeline, aspen colonization was less determined by these moth outbreaks, and was mainly restricted by summer temperature. If summer warming persists, aspen spread may continue in subarctic Sweden, particularly at the treeline. However, changing disturbance regimes, future herbivore population dynamics and the responses of aspen's competitors birch and pine to a changing climate may result in different outcomes.
10.2307/1552502| Timing of cirque formation and the climate necessary to initiate glaciation are fundamental to the understanding of the landscape of the northern Scandinavian mountains. Empty cirques in the Rassepautasjtjkka massif are located near a glaciated area and thus appear near the glaciation limit. In order to investigate the climate conditions necessary for glacier formation in the cirques, we applied a spatially distributed temperature index melt model. After calibration under present climate conditions, the model was run with different combinations of increased initial winter snow cover and lowered summer air temperatures to assess the climate conditions needed for snow to survive summer and hence form a base for glaciation. Results indicate that a significant increase in precipitation or decrease in summer air temperature or a combination of both is necessary to initiate glaciation. Thus current climate conditions are far from favorable for glaciation. If summer temperature is decreased by 4C or winter snow cover is more than doubled, only 10% of cirque areas remain snow covered, which is considered as a minimum condition for glacier formation. According to climate reconstructions such conditions have not occurred during the Holocene suggesting that the cirques have not been glaciated during this period. Consequently glaciation of the cirques must have occurred during other parts of the glacial cycles. 
23359629|Relationships were determined between methane (CH 4 ) production and in situ conditions within the permafrost active layer during a single melt season at Stordalen, Sweden, with a specific emphasis on temperature sensitivity of methanogenesis. In situ temperature, moisture, pH, dissolved organic carbon, and CH 4 concentration data were measured at three contrasting active layer sites (sedge mire, Sphagnum mire, and ombrotrophic bog), and laboratory incubations of active layer material were subsequently employed to determine the sensitivity of CH 4 production to temperature. Q 10 values, describing the CH 4 production response of peat to a temperature change of 10 C, ranged from 1.9 to 3.5 and 2.4 to 5.8 for the sedge and Sphagnum mire sites, respectively. A wider review of the literature on Q 10 responses of methanogenesis in northern peatlands shows similar features to the temperature response of CH 4 production in the active layer at Stordalen. In general, Q 10 values are not significantly different in Arctic permafrost wetlands than non-Arctic northern wetlands; however, Sphagnum sites display Q 10 responses (mean Q 10 = 8) that are notably greater than that of wetter minerotrophic-sedge environments (mean Q 10 = 4.3). This finding has implications for the parameterization of Q 10 factors in numerical carbon cycling models, and suggests that the use of spatially variable Q 10 values could be a useful approach for more accurate modeling of CH 4 fluxes from northern wetlands under different climatic change scenarios.
10.2307/1552558|Growth of brown trout in the alpine lake Litlosvatn, 1172 m a.s.l. on the Hardangervidda mountain plateau in western Norway, has been studied in relation to annual variations in accumulated spring snow and date of ice-breaks during the period 1991-1998. The annual growth was negatively correlated with the spring snow depth. During the years 1992-1995, a period with mean spring snow depth at 275 cm, the observed average annual growth of the age-classes 6-8 was 3.5 cm, or a reduction of about 50% compared to years with much less snow in spring (1991 and 1996). Average spring snow depth during the period 1990-1999 was 220 cm, while the average for the period 1930-1979 was 169 cm. A further increase in winter precipitation, resulting in even more accumulated spring snow compared to the 1990-1999 level, would result in further reduction in growth of brown trout in the lake. Thus, the present catchable size of brown trout would probably not be reached, due to increased population density and an additional density dependent growth. A climate change, resulting in more snowfall in the whole alpine region of West Norway, as predicted by climate models, may therefore have an important negative effect on fish production and fisheries in a whole region.
4095865|The pedogenesis and interactions among soil, vegetation, and snow cover of four alpine snowbeds on silicate rocks in the Upper Engadine (Central Alps, Switzerland) were investigated. The long-lasting snow cover of snowbeds causes differences in pedogenesis and soil properties compared to adjacent alpine sward. Because of the drainage characteristics of the silicate parent material, pedogenesis of snowbeds varies. On well-drained parent material, percolating meltwater favors podzolization during snowmelt. On less permeable parent material, meltwater causes temporarily water-logged conditions. Thus, the snowbed soils show redoximorphic features such as iron concretions. Snowbed soils are classified as Inceptisols or Entisols. A more detailed differentiation is only possible at the soil family level. Outside the snowbeds, moder humus forms (Rhizic Leptomoder, Rhizic Mullmoder) are common, whereas inside the snowbeds, mull humus forms (Rhizomull) as well as moder humus forms (Leptomoder) occur.
25642069|Leaf area index (LAI) and total foliar nitrogen (TFN) are important canopy characteristics and crucial variables needed to simulate photosynthesis and ecosystem CO fluxes. Although plant communities dominated by Cassiope tetragona are widespread in the Arctic, LAI and TFN for this vegetation type have not been accurately quantified. We address this knowledge gap by (i) direct measurements of LAI and TFN for C. tetragona, and (ii) determining TFN-LAI and LAInormalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) relationships for typical C. tetragona tundras in the subarctic (Sweden) and High Arctic (Greenland and Svalbard). Leaves of C. tetragona are 26 mm long and closely appressed to their stems forming parallelepiped shoots. We determined the LAI of C. tetragona by measuring the area of the leaves while still attached to the stem, then doubling the resulting one-sided area. TFN was determined from leaf N and biomass. The LAI-NDVI and TFN-LAI relationships showed high correlation and can be used to estimate indirectly LAI and TFN. The LAI-NDVI relationship for C. tetragona vegetation differed from a generic LAI-NDVI relationship for arctic tundra, whereas the TFN-LAI relationship did not. Overall, the LAI of C. tetragona tundra ranged from 0.4 to 1.1 m m-2 and TFN from 1.4 to 1.7 g N m-2.
1552156| Multiproxy data from Little Swift Lake, an alpine lake in southwestern Alaska, provide evidence for pronounced late glacial and Holocene environmental change. An alpine glacier upvalley of Little Swift Lake retreated following the Younger Dryas chronozone, as evidenced by sedimentological changes in the lake record. Glacier retreat was accompanied by local and regional vegetation changes, including the expansion of Betula and contraction of Cyperaceae, in response to climatic amelioration. Warm, moist conditions between 9800 and 8000 cal yr B.P. supported abundant Betula shrubs and high lake and watershed productivity. Alnus rapidly expanded near Little Swift Lake while the region cooled between 8000 and 7500 cal yr B.P. Environmental changes at Little Swift Lake appear to have been roughly synchronous with similar changes elsewhere in southwestern Alaska, but late glacial and Holocene changes in other parts of Alaska were different in nature and timing. The complex spatial and temporal patterns of late glacial and Holocene environmental change throughout Alaska point to the importance of local- and regional-scale factors, especially controls on moisture availability, as modulators of site-specific responses to hemispheric- and global-scale climate forcing. 
24551718|Extrapolating biosphere-atmosphere CO2 flux observations to larger scales in space, part of the so-called "upscaling" problem, is a central challenge for surface-atmosphere exchange research. Upscaling CO2 flux in tundra is complicated by the pronounced spatial variability of vegetation cover. We demonstrate that a simple model based on chamber observations with a pan-Arctic parameterization accurately describes up to 75% of the observed temporal variability of eddy covariancemeasured net ecosystem exchange (NEE) during the growing season in an Abisko, Sweden, subarctic tundra ecosystem, and differed from NEE observations by less than 4% for the month of June. These results contrast with previous studies that found a 60% discrepancy between upscaled chamber and eddy covariance NEE sums. Sampling an aircraft-measured normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) map for leaf area index (L) estimates using a dynamic flux footprint model explained less of the variability of NEE across the late June to mid-September period, but resulted in a lower root mean squared error and better replicated large flux events. Findings suggest that ecosystem structure via L is a critical input for modeling CO2 flux in tundra during the growing season. Future research should focus on quantifying microclimate, namely photosynthetically active radiation and air temperature, as well as ecosystem structure via L, to accurately model growing season tundra CO2 flux at chamber and plot scales.
41416453|Since 26 September 2005 an Automatic Weather Station (AWS1 Forni) has been running on the ablation area of the largest Italian valley glacier, Forni, in the Ortles-Cevedale Group. A 4-year record (from 1 October 2005 to 30 September 2009) of air temperature, relative humidity, wind speed and direction, incoming and outgoing radiative fluxes, air pressure, liquid precipitation, and snow depth is considered. The meteorological data are analyzed to describe glacier surface conditions, to calculate the energy balance, and to evaluate the ice ablation amount. Snow accumulation was measured, thus permitting the estimation of the glacier point mass balance. An annual average amount of melt of -5.4  0.021 m w.e. was calculated and an annual average amount of accumulation of +0.7  0.006 m w.e. was measured at the AWS site. The annual average amount of mass balance was -4.7  0.023 m w.e. Our analyses show that surface conditions during summer and fall seasons are important in regulating glacier albedo and then mass balance. In particular, snow cover presence, due to a longer persistence of spring snow, summer snowfalls and earlier fall solid precipitation, drives the duration of the ice melt period.
10.2307/1552534|Climate-warming experiments in tundra require an accurate and repeatable technique for temperature increase, as temperatures are low and vegetation often heterogeneous. However, remote locations have constrained most studies to using uncontrolled, passive enclosures. Here we present an improved prototype of our Free Air Temperature Increase (FATI) system, an apparatus to elevate vegetation temperature in the open field by electronically modulated infrared irradiation. Three modifications are introduced to enhance precision and repeatability: (1) noncontact sensing of canopy temperature (T<sub>canopy</sub>) with semiconductors, (2) an optimizing device to attune individual FATI-units, and (3) high-speed data logging. Performance tests in the High Arctic tundra of northeast Greenland during autumn 1998 demonstrated more reproducible warming compared with the original system: average increments of canopy temperature ( T<sub>canopy</sub>) obtained in different patches of vegetation varied no more than 0.16C. Most fluctuation in  T<sub>canopy</sub> was also eliminated, with instantaneous values within 0.5C of the target increment of +2.5C for at least 87% of the time. Average warming in the upper soil layers was close to average  T<sub>canopy</sub>, and decreased gradually with depth from +2.7C at 2.5 cm to +2.0C at 20 cm below the surface (means for three FATI-units). The improved technique is not only of interest to investigations in the Arctic, but also to other applications which depend highly on accurate temperature control, for example, studies of climate-warming effect on ecosystem carbon balance or plant growth.
10.2307/1552448|Diatoms and other siliceous microfossils were examined from a 386-cm-long peat core, covering the last ca. 7200 yr, from north-central Siberia to gain insights into peatland developmental history, and to explore the potential of diatoms as proxy indicators in arctic peats. Diatom analyses of arctic peatlands are rare, and so one aspect of this study was to examine the sensitivity of diatom taxa in relation to independent paleoindicators already described from this core. Changes in the relative abundances of diatom taxa divided the core into four zones that closely tracked the ontogeny of the peatland from an open water environment (Zone I: benthic, alkaliphilic taxa), followed by fen environments (Zones II and III; epiphytic, acidophilic taxa), and finally to a better-drained, high-centered bog (Zone IV; aerophilic taxa). In addition to the diatom taxa, observations were made on the relative abundances of siliceous protozoan plates, chrysophyte cysts, and phytoliths. Both the diatoms and these other siliceous microfossils appeared to respond to changes in hydrology and moisture, as well as to fire episodes likely triggered by climatic change. This study demonstrates that diatoms and other siliceous microfossils from arctic peat deposits provide an important source of paleoenvironmental information that can strengthen interpretations derived from other commonly used indicators.
40305838|In 2007, the Anaktuvuk River Fire (ARF) became the largest recorded tundra fire on the North Slope of Alaska. The ARF burned for nearly three months, consuming more than 100,000 ha. At its peak in early September, the ARF burned at a rate of 7000 ha d. The conditions potentially responsible for this large tundra fire include modeled record high summer temperature and record low summer precipitation, a late-season high-pressure system located over the Beaufort Sea, extremely dry soil conditions throughout the summer, and sustained southerly winds during the period of vegetation senescence. Burn severity mapping revealed that more than 80% of the ARF burned at moderate to extreme severity, while the nearby Kuparuk River Fire remained small and burned at predominantly (80%) low severity. While this study provides information that may aid in the prediction of future large tundra fires in northern Alaska, the fact that three other tundra fires that occurred in 2007 combined to burn less than 1000 ha suggests site specific complexities associated with tundra fires on the North Slope, which may hamper the development of tundra fire forecasting models.
40305819|The present article explores the structure of and recent developments in research activities in the polar regions. Based on a bibliographic study of published papers indexed in the ISI Web of Science during the period 1981-2007, we have analyzed trends in publication, scientific disciplines and subdisciplines, coauthorship, and international collaboration within the field of polar research. We have uncovered several rather striking trends. Scientific output in terms of refereed publications has increased far more rapidly in polar research compared to science in general, quadrupling rather than doubling over the surveyed period. There is a nearly 1: 1 ratio between papers covering the Arctic relative to the Antarctic, with the vast majority within either the geosciences (40%) or biology (33%). There has been particularly a steep rise in the number of climate-related papers. The U.S.A. is by far the largest contributor to polar research on both the Arctic and the Antarctic, followed by Canada, the U.K., Germany, Norway, and Russia. The number of coauthored papers has grown markedly, reflecting geopolitical shifts and changing national and international funding priorities during the period. We believe our publication-based survey reveals interesting developments in scientific activities and international cooperation in general, and in polar science strategies and priorities in particular.
25642072|At least four active glaciers are present in the Prokletije Mountains of northern Albania. These glaciers exist at altitudes between 1980 and 2420 m a.s.l.well below the regional equilibrium line altitudeon shaded northeast-facing slopes prone to avalanche. Glacier-climate modeling suggests that these glaciers require annual accumulation of between 4137 and 5531 mm (water equivalent) to balance melting. A significant proportion of this accumulation is likely to be sourced from windblown snow and, in particular, avalanching snow. It is estimated that the total accumulation needed to balance melting is potentially up to twice the value received from direct precipitation. The presence of these glacierssome of the southernmost in Europeat altitudes well below the regional equilibrium line altitude, highlights the importance of local controls on glacier development.
20181786|This study attempts to model alpine tundra vegetation dynamics in a tundra region in the Qinghai Province of China in response to global warming. We used Raster-based cellular automata and a Geographic Information System to study the spatial and temporal vegetation dynamics. The cellular automata model is implemented with IDRISI's Multi-Criteria Evaluation functionality to simulate the spatial patterns of vegetation change assuming certain scenarios of global mean temperature increase over time. The Vegetation Dynamic Simulation Model calculates a probability surface for each vegetation type, and then combines all vegetation types into a composite map, determined by the maximum likelihood that each vegetation type should distribute to each raster unit. With scenarios of global temperature increase of 1 to 3C, the vegetation types such as Dry Kobresia Meadow and Dry Potentilla Shrub that are adapted to warm and dry conditions tend to become more dominant in the study area.
1552185|Antarctic Dry Valley ecosystems are among the most inhospitable soil ecosystems on earth with simple food webs and nearly undetectable fluxes of carbon (C) and nitrogen (N). Due to the lack of vascular plants, soil organic matter concentrations are extremely low, and it is unclear how much of the contemporary soil C budget is actively cycling or a legacy of paleolake production and sedimentation. While recent work indicates multiple sources of organic matter for dry valley soils, the composition and kinetics of organic pools remain poorly characterized. We examined soil organic matter pools and potential C and N turnover in soils from within six sites located across three hydrological basins of Taylor Valley, Antarctica that differed in surface age, microclimate and proximity to legacy (paleolake) sources of organic matter. We estimated potential C and N mineralization, and rate kinetics using gas exchange and repeated leaching techniques during 90-d incubations of surface soils collected from valley basin and valley slope positions in three basins of Taylor Valley. Soil organic C content was negatively correlated with the ages of underlying tills, supporting previous descriptions of legacy organic matter. Carbon and N mineralization generally followed 1st order kinetics and were well described by exponential models. Labile pools of C (90 d) were 10% of the total organic C in the upper 5 cm of the soil profile. Labile N was 50% of the total N in surface soils of Taylor Valley. These results show that a large proportion of soil C and particularly N are mineralizable under suitable conditions and suggest that a kinetically defined labile pool of organic matter is potentially active in the field during brief intervals of favorable microclimate. Climate variation changing the duration of these conditions may have potentially large effects on the small pools of C and N in these soils.
4095871|The study presented herein investigated the differences in stand structure of grazed and ungrazed subalpine forests and whether subalpine forests used for grazing satisfactorily protect against avalanches. In subalpine forests of Picea abies L. Karst and Larix decidua Miller, grazed and ungrazed plots of
10.2307/1552488|The vegetation of 30 undisturbed permanent quadrats on the steep coastal slopes of subantarctic Macquarie Island was recorded in 1980-81 and 1994-95, a period in which temperatures rose briefly then declined, precipitation increased and rabbit grazing pressure decreased. Previous investigators of the plant ecology of the island have suggested a successional sequence, in the absence of disturbance, towards total dominance of the two major plant species on the coastal slopes, the tall tussock-forming grass Poa foliosa and the megaherb Stilbocarpa polaris, with a concomitant reduction in the diversity of subordinate species. Our observations demonstrate a more complex reality. Dense tall tussock grassland became more open, resulting in an increase in quadrat species richness. The more open tussock grassland on the upper slopes became more dense, with a concomitant decrease in quadrat species richness. The large herb S. polaris changed little in its abundance over the period, perhaps reflecting a need for disturbance for its expansion. The opening of dense stands of P. foliosa may be part of a previously unrecorded endogenous successional process, while the closure of open stands of Poa could be a response to improved growth conditions, including relief from rabbit grazing and the relatively high temperatures in the initial years of monitoring, but may also be endogenous in origin.
20181793|This study explores the physical, chemical and microclimatological properties of soils along a High Arctic glacier foreland and adjacent moaine in relation to the development of biological soil crusts. We examine various edaphic properties: soil temperature, volumetric water content, organic carbon content, and texture in surface samples (1 cm) with and without a cover of biological soil crust as well as changes in nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, organic carbon, pH, volumetric water content, bulk density, and texture in crusted surfaces (&lt;1 cm) and soil cores (5 cm) along a chronosequence following deglaciation. Soil crusts developed within four years of deglaciation and subsequent peaks in crust cover and thickness coincided with an accumulation of nitrogen and organic carbon in the crust. Crusted surfaces had significantly higher volumetric water content, organic carbon, a greater silt and clay fraction, and lower temperature compared to uncrusted soils. A steady supply of water from glacier melt promoted rapid development of biological soil crusts, creating an edaphic environment with enhanced moisture and nutrient properties which contributed to the high rate of vascular plant succession previously observed on this foreland. Results presented in this study are compared with edaphic conditions at other circumpolar sites and glacier forelands.
1552431|Once thought of as inert, ice has been increasingly recognized as a habitat suitable for life. The landscape of the MCMurdo Dry Valleys (MCM) of Antarctica is dominated by glaciers, and glacier melt is the primary water source for life in soils, streams, and lakes. The glaciers, despite their cold and lifeless appearance, offer functioning habitats for life. The major objective of this study was to examine biogeochemical characteristics of miniecosystems present in cryoconite holes and to determine links to other components (soils, streams, and lakes) of the dry valley landscape. We examined cryoconite holes from 5 glaciers spanning the length of Taylor Valley, one of many valleys in the MCM. Cryoconite biotic communities were composed of the same species observed in streams and lakes, namely, cyanobacteria (Chlorococcus, Chroococcus, Crinalium, Oscillatoria, Nostoc, and Sprirulina), rotifers (Philodina gregaria and Cephalodella catellina), tardigrades (Acutuncus antarcticus and Hypsibius spp.), and ciliates. Biotic communities did not reflect the composition of the immediately surrounding environments, suggesting the effects of eolian mixing and transport of sediments and biota across the valley. Gradients of chemistry and biotic abundance in cryoconite holes reflected the position of each glacier in the valley. Nitrogen and organic carbon concentration patterns across glaciers potentially resulted from biological activities in cryoconite holes. Properties of holes were stable from one to the next sampling season, suggesting that changes of cryoconite hole properties develop on longer than yearly time scales.
4095899| The course of nitrogen fixation by moss-associated cyanobacteria in Svalbard (78N, 16E), Norway, was studied using the acetylene reduction assay. In situ field measurements of nitrogen fixation activity were conducted in six different types of moss-dominated arctic vegetation from the beginning of the snowmelt in early June to the end of July 1998. Concurrently, the water content of the soil/vegetation layer was determined and correlated with the nitrogen fixation rates. At all sites with diminishing water content during the summer season, nitrogen fixation activity was positively correlated with the amount of available water in the vegetation. At two sites, where water content of the vegetation was constantly higher than 80% (w/w) throughout the season, nitrogen fixation activity was correlated with temperature. Depending on the type of vegetation, nitrogen fixation became limited when the water status fell below a minimum threshold level. The most desiccation-tolerant vegetation for nitrogen fixation activity was the cryptobiotic crust, where nitrogen fixation decreased only after the water content of the soil/vegetation was less than 50% of the its fresh weight, while in the other types of vegetation nitrogen fixation stopped when water content was around 60%. The results from the present study confirm that, in arctic regions with low precipitation during the growing season, nitrogen fixation in different types of vegetation is mostly limited either to the period of snowmelt when water is sufficiently available, or to habitats that stay wet during summer. 
4095893|Locally derived ice is often observed to fill through-cutting rifts and uneven fronts in ice shelves. That ice may nucleate as fast ice at the shelf front, by growth at the sea surface within rifts, or by basal accretion. Here, we investigate the role of such ice in the flow of the Brunt Ice Shelf and adjacent Stancomb-Wills ice tongue, along the Caird Coast of Antarctica. Much of the shelf system is severely rifted, with locally derived ice filling the space between rift walls and around ice rafts. A series of numerical experiments that account for thermal properties of the different ices is used to investigate the influence of that mixture of sea and marine ice on the kinematics and dynamics of the shelf system. The simulations are constrained by a variety of satellite remote-sensing data. We find that the locally derived ice forms a dynamic connection between the ice tongue and the Caird Coast, effectively creating an embayment where no coastal embayment exists. This may have implications for the expansion of ice shelves along arctic coasts during past glaciations.
4095824|Effects of abiotic factors on daily and annual photosynthetic carbon gain were evaluated in Abies lasiocarpa and Picea engelmannii at three sites across an alpine treeline ecotone in the Medicine Bow Mountains of southeastern Wyoming (U.S.A.). In addition, the year 2001-2002 was characterized as an episodic drought (seventh driest year since 1895), including a winter that generated only 45% of normal snowpack. Both species had approximately 50% lower xylem water potentials and photosynthesis compared to previous studies for the same species and locale. In A. lasiocarpa, estimated total photosynthesis for the measurement period (A
41240406|Trends of Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) from 1982 to 2006 in the upper mountainous areas of three inland river basins (Shiyanghe, Heihe, and Shulehe, from east to west) in the Qilian Mountains, northwestern China, were analyzed based on the Global Inventory Monitoring and Modeling Studies (GIMMS) NDVI data. The relationships between NDVI and climatic factors such as air temperature, precipitation, and evaporation were also analyzed. The results indicate that changes of NDVI over time had an obvious elevational difference. NDVI has decreased in the northern lower-elevation (<3000 m) areas, which account for 31% of the total area, and increased in the southern higher-elevation (3000-4100 m) areas, which occupy 32% of the total area. In addition, 37% of the area did not show an obvious change in NDVI and was distributed in the periglacial belts with elevations higher than 4100 m. The decrease of NDVI in the lower elevations was controlled by a decrease in precipitation and an increase in air temperatures, whereas the increase in the higher elevations was mainly controlled by an increase in air temperature alone. With a continuous increase in air temperature in the future, vegetation would suffer from more serious water stress in the elevations lower than 3000 m, but become more flourishing between 3000 and 4100 m in the Qilian Mountains. This information is critical for understanding how climate warming may affect hydrology and ecology in the Qilian Mountains and for managing water resources for the lowlands in the Hexi Corridor adjacent to the mountains.
10.2307/1552623| The thermal structure and hydrodynamics of supraglacial Tsho Rolpa Lake (2751N, 8629E) in the Nepal Himalaya were examined in the premonsoon of 1996. We continuously measured flow velocity, water temperature, and turbidity with moored self-recording current meters, temperature data loggers, and turbidimeters. Vertical measurements (every 0.2 m in depth) of water temperature and turbidity were also made by lowering a self-recording sonde. Tsho Rolpa Lake (surface area, 1.39 km<sup>2</sup> at present) has increased in size since late 1950s (surface area, 0.23 km<sup>2</sup> in 1958) by both glacial ice melt below the lake bottom and the retreat of the glacier terminus. Lake stratification is defined by suspended sediment concentration (SSC) rather than by temperature. The suspended sediment is mostly silt and clay (d < 15.6m), which is supplied by the meltwater discharge from a subaqueous tunnel portal into the lake at the glacier terminus. The sediment is transported to the deepest zone of the lake by underflows and diffused by advection by the other currents into the upper zone. The observations revealed that a diurnal valley wind produces a vertical water circulation in the quasi-isopycnal surface layer, which is about 27 m deep. This circulation transports the surface water, heated mostly by solar radiation, toward the glacier terminus and consequently forces relatively warm water (>5C) into continual contact with the glacier terminus. This warm water contact could induce calving of the upper glacier-ice by increasingly melting the subaqueous lower part. 
20181814|This study documents the spatiotemporal distribution of free-living nematodes in glacial-fed river reaches (Mll River, Austrian Alps), which is a widely neglected topic in glacial-fed stream research. Benthic nematodes of the meta- and hypokryal, in a lotic reach within a glacially formed floodplain and in the glacio-rhithral, were investigated in spring, summer, and autumn 2005. The overall nematofauna was diverse and dense with 77 species, H of 2.7, and mean abundance of 86 individuals per 10 cm. Nematode community parameters were significantly influenced by sites, but not by seasons. At the kryal sites, nematode overall mean abundances slightly increased from the metakryal (8 ind. per 10 cm) to the hypokryal (11 ind. per 10 cm), but species number decreased (from 15 species to 6 species). Nematodes became more dense and diverse in both the glacio-rhithral (overall mean: 49 ind. per 10 cm; 52 total species) and the floodplain reach (overall mean: 251 ind. per 10 cm; 65 total species). Species composition and dominant species differed among the four sites. Deposit feeders represented the dominant feeding type at each site. The lowest maturity index reflected the harsh character of the recently deglacierized meta- and hypokryal sites.
1552647|Daphnia was collected from five subarctic ponds which differed greatly in their DOC contents and, consequently, their underwater light (UV) climates. Irrespective of which Daphnia species was present, and contrary to expectations, the ponds with the lowest DOC concentrations (highest UV radiation levels) contained Daphnia with the highest eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) concentrations. In addition, EPA concentrations in these Daphnia generally decreased in concert with seasonally increasing DOC concentrations. Daphnia from three of the ponds was also tested for its tolerance to solar ultraviolet radiation (UVR) with respect to survival. Daphnia pulex from the clear water pond showed, by far, the best UV-tolerance, followed by D. longispina from the moderately humic and D. longispina from the very humic pond. In addition, we measured sublethal parameters related to UV-damage such as the degree to which the gut of Daphnia appeared green (as a measure of their ability to digest algae), and whether their guts appeared damaged. We developed a simple, noninvasive scoring system to quantify the proportion of the gut in which digestive processes were presumably active. This method allowed repeated measurement of the same animals over the course of the experiment. We demonstrated, for the first time, that sublethal damage of the gut precedes mortality caused by exposure to UVR. In a parallel set of experiments we fed UV-exposed and non-exposed algae to UV-exposed and non-exposed daphnids. UVR pretreatment of algae enhanced the negative effects of exposure to natural solar UV-irradiation in Daphnia. These UV-related effects were generally not specific to the species of Daphnia.
4095836|Turbulent sensible and latent heat exchanges play an important role in melting snow covers, contributing 30-40% of overall melt energy with daily values reaching over 50% on warm, cloudy days (Morris, 1989). The spatial variability of these turbulent fluxes across a basin and the relative importance of the differences is not well known. This paper specifically addresses small-scale variabilities in sensible and latent energy fluxes related to topographically induced wind speed variations. A simple wind model was used to simulate topographic effects on the surface wind field. Hourly wind observations were areally distributed by the model and used to calculate spatially variable sensible and latent turbulent heat fluxes for a small
10.2307/1552397| The Izas experimental catchment is located in the high Gllego Valley, Central Spanish Pyrenees, in an environment strongly affected by the presence of snow during at least six months of the year. Discharge and sediment transport variability are closely linked to snowmelt and to intense autumn rainfalls. Following 11 yr of data collection, the seasonal and interannual variability of sediment transport has been estimated, as well as the relative importance of bedload, suspended sediment and solutes. The results obtained show that the total sediment yield is relatively low (between 200 and 320 t km<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>) and that solutes represent more than 60% of the sediment exported. Bedload, which in other mountain catchments reaches a great quantity, represents here, in general, less than 30% of the total sediment yield. Seasonal and interannual sediment transport variability is very high, mainly depending on the intensity of autumnal rainfalls. 
1552330|The late Holocene history of eolian activity in a parabolic dune complex in the northern Chugach Mountains, Alaska, is reconstructed using 80 tree-ring dates and 5 radiocarbon ages. A radiocarbon age on detrital organics shows mobilization of sands about cal yr A.D. 1260. General forest growth over the dune field area indicates that this active interval was followed by dune stabilization by A.D. 1500. The present interval of dune migration activity, reconstructed from calendar dates and radiocarbon ages on buried trees, began as early as the late A.D. 1600s, was well under way by the mid-A.D. 1700s, and continues today at a diminishing rate. Intervals of increased eolian activity correspond with pulses of the Little Ice Age as reconstructed from a well-established glacial history for the region over the last 1000 yr. Century-scale cooling in climate appears to have forced dune activity through general geomorphic instabilities of nearby glacial and fluvial-lacustrine systems. Geomorphic activity includes a combination of dynamic fluvial incision of cutbanks and release of dormant dune sands, increased wind intensity, as well as internal feedback mechanisms associated with parabolic and blowout dune dynamics. Over the past 200 yr, average rates of dune migration between 1 to 3 m yr<sup>-1</sup> are estimated using tree-ring dating. Observations and tree ages along the dune margins suggest that vegetative cover may now be increasing and dune stabilization may be under way.
4139102|The nature of vegetation cover present in Beringia during the last glaciation remains unclear. Uncertainty rests partly with the limitations of conventional paleoecological methods. A lack of sufficient taxonomic resolution most notably associated with the grasses and sedges restricts the paleoecological inferences that can be made. Stable isotope measurements of subfossil plants are frequently used to enhance paleoenvironmental reconstructions. We present an investigation of the stable carbon isotope composition (
41240398|The marked change in above-ground forest stand structure with elevation towards the alpine treeline has been widely recognized, while studies on altitudinal effects on the root system are still scarce. We studied Norway spruce stands along a 700-m-long elevational transect at Mount Brocken (Harz Mountains, central Germany) to test the hypothesis that fine root dry mass partitioning shows an inverse response to elevation towards the treeline compared to above-ground biomass. Microclimate measurements revealed that thermal conditions at the treeline of Mount Brocken are closely comparable to other treeline sites around the world. Above-ground structure did not differ significantly among stands at lower and mid elevations, but tree height and stem biomass decreased strongly with elevation upslope. Fine root biomass increased with elevation by a factor of nearly two. Annual fine root production was found to be highest at mid elevation but was only 40% lower than this maximum at the treeline. Consequently, the ratio of fine root production to above-ground stem biomass increased by a factor of 2-3 with elevation, indicating a strong shift of below- versus above-ground carbon allocation towards the treeline. We hypothesize that the enlargement of the fine root system at cold sites represents an adaptation to the unfavorable soil conditions, such as impaired nutrient supply.
20181794|Melilotus alba and M. officinalis were introduced to Alaska in 1913 as potential forage crops. These species have become naturalized and are now invading large, exotic plant-free regions of Alaska. We determined distributions of M. alba and M. officinalis in Alaska from surveys conducted each summer from 2002 to 2005. Melilotus alba and M. officinalis occurred at 721 and 205 sites, respectively (39,756 total sites surveyed). The northward limit for M. alba and M. officinalis was 67.15N and 64.87N, respectively. Both species were strictly associated with soil disturbance. Melilotus alba extended no farther than 15 m from road edges except where M. alba on roadsides met river floodplains and dispersed downriver (Matanuska and Nenana Rivers). Melilotus has now reached the Tanana River, a tributary of the Yukon River. Populations on floodplains were most extensive on braided sections. On the Nenana River, soil characteristics did not differ between where M. alba was growing versus similar areas where it had not yet reached. The pH of river soils (7.9-8.3) was higher than highway soils (7.3). Upland taiga plant communities grow on acid soils which may protect them from invasion by Melilotus, which prefer alkaline soils; however, early succession communities on river floodplains are susceptible because soils are alkaline.
1552351|The Hess altitude h on a valley glacier is the altitude of that contour that is most nearly straight. The Kurowsky altitude k is the average of the glacier's minimum and maximum elevations. The glaciation level g of a glacierized region is the average of the elevations of the lowest glacierized and the highest unglacierized summits. We study the relationships between these morphological variables in well-mapped areas in Axel Heiberg Island, Nunavut, and in northern British Columbia, and also in a set of more widely distributed glaciers with well-known equilibrium-line altitudes e. We confirm that the relationships are strong, although their dispersion is considerable both for single glaciers and at the regional scale. On average h is 130 m below the long-term mean equilibrium line, k is slightly below it, and g is 200 m above it. There is very little morphoclimatic information in h that is not also conveyed by k, and since the latter is faster to measure and is already tabulated for tens of thousands of glaciers, its use is preferable. The glaciation level is less concordant. We suggest that it records interactions between landscape and climate on a somewhat slower time scale. The linear dependences of h on k and g, and of e on each of the 3 morphological estimators, have slopes slightly but significantly less than 1. This result is not yet understood.
10.2307/1552251|Considered from a functional ecological perspective, Antarctica's present-day terrestrial biota is the product of two sets of limiting factors: the continent's isolation from sources of immigrant propagules and the severe environmental stresses to which successful immigrants are exposed. The result is a low-diversity community composed almost entirely of stress-tolerant cryptogams, microarthropods, meiofauna, and microbes. In this paper a conceptual model is proposed that reduces the action of geographical isolation and environmental factors into a series of selection filters. It is argued that the low number of parameterizations needed to represent organism-environment interactions in Antarctica renders the simulation of macroscale patterns of species distributions a tractable proposition. Significantly, biotic interactions of the type that determine community structure at lower latitudes may be discounted. However, stochastic factors represent a source of "noise" that potentially reduce the model's predictive capability.
4139090| Historic climate data and repeat photographs were used to assess and document changes in alpine treeline and glacial recession in northwestern Yunnan, China. Results show that mean annual temperature in the last two decades of the 20th century has been increasing locally at a rate of 0.06 C yr (p < 0.001). Furthermore, the annual trend is a result of both summer- and wintertime warming (0.037 C yr, p < 0.001; and 0.036 C yr, p < 0.001, respectively). Additionally, a local drying trend (-3.80 mm yr; p < 0.001) was observed during the period 1955-1995. Repeat photos and supplemental measurements show that this warming is causing the retreat of glaciers and contributing to the elevational advance of alpine treeline. Fire, a traditional management tool used to halt the advance of woody species, has been suppressed since 1988. One consequence of these interactions is the encroachment of woody vegetation into alpine meadows, which will have negative impacts on plant species diversity and Tibetan livelihood. Two spatially and temporally distant anthropogenic actions, a rapidly warming climate and local land use policy, appear to be threatening both biodiversity and Tibetan livelihoods. Land managers need to recognize that global warming is occurring and adapt their conservation practices and policies to anticipate and be resilient to threats at all critical scales. 
23359622|Watersheds draining the Arctic Coastal Plain (ACP) of Alaska are dominated by permafrost and snowmelt runoff that create abundant surface storage in the form of lakes, wetlands, and beaded streams. These surface water elements compose complex drainage networks that affect aquatic ecosystem connectivity and hydrologic behavior. The 4676 km 2 Fish Creek drainage basin is composed of three watersheds that represent a gradient of the ACP landscape with varying extents of eolian, lacustrine, and fluvial landforms. In each watershed, we analyzed 2.5-m-resolution aerial photography, a 5-m digital elevation model, and river gauging and climate records to better understand ACP watershed structure and processes. We show that connected lakes accounted for 19 to 26% of drainage density among watersheds and most all channels initiate from lake basins in the form of beaded streams. Of the >2500 lakes in these watersheds, 33% have perennial streamflow connectivity, and these represent 66% of total lake area extent. Deeper lakes with over-wintering habitat were more abundant in the watershed with eolian sand deposits, while the watershed with marine silt deposits contained a greater extent of beaded streams and shallow thermokarst lakes that provide essential summer feeding habitat. Comparison of flow regimes among watersheds showed that higher lake extent and lower drained lake-basin extent corresponded with lower snowmelt and higher baseflow runoff. Variation in baseflow runoff among watersheds was most pronounced during drought conditions in 2007 with corresponding reduction in snowmelt peak flows the following year. Comparison with other Arctic watersheds indicates that lake area extent corresponds to slower recession of both snowmelt and baseflow runoff. These analyses help refine our understanding of how Arctic watersheds are structured and function hydrologically, emphasizing the important role of lake basins and suggesting how future lake change may impact hydrologic processes.
10.2307/1552388|Current hypotheses suggest xylem conduits of conifers cavitate as a result of low xylem water potentials during the growing season and as the combined result of low xylem water potentials and repeated freezing and thawing of the xylem during the winter. To investigate variation in resistance to xylem cavitation among evergreen and deciduous coniferous trees from different environments, we analyzed conifers from upper and lower treeline. Species from lower treeline (Larix occidentalis and Pinus contorta) exhibited higher resistances to xylem cavitation compared to species from upper treeline (Larix lyallii and Pinus albicaulis). At lower treeline, the deciduous conifer Larix occidentalis was more resistant to xylem cavitation than the evergreen Pinus contorta. None of the four species experienced losses in stem hydraulic conductivity greater than 5% during the growing season. During the winter, lower treeline species experienced between 8 and 15% loss in xylem conductivity compared to greater than 30% for upper treeline species. At upper treeline, losses in stem hydraulic conductivity were correlated with freeze-thaw events, mid-winter warming periods and decreased stem water contents. Wintertime xylem cavitation in the upper treeline environment was related to freezing and thawing events and the total time the xylem was above freezing.
40962398|The Collembola succession was studied in the Hardangerjokulen glacier foreland in south-central Norway. Twenty sampling plots 30 to 230 years of age were distributed along a chronosequence where a glacier snout had been receding since 1750. Also, five plots 10,000 years of age were sampled. All soil samples were taken in Salix herbcea vegetation, in order to standardize the microhabitat. The youngest zone (30-50 years) contained 14 springtail species, mainly large, surface active generalists. Additional pitfall catches here revealed considerable surface activity of several species, also on vegetation-free areas. Even a three-year-young moraine contained at least three springtail species. Most pioneers also occurred in older soils. The cumulative number of species increased rapidly up to about 70 years, at which age 72% of all species had been recorded. Only five species in low numbers were confined to 10,000-year-old soil. A high density of Folsomia quadrioculata and F. brevicauda was noted at 50-70 years of age, and of Tetracanthella brachyura at about 100 years. Compared to oribatid mites, a higher number of springtail species colonized pristine ground. While the two pioneer oribatids were parthenogenetic, the dominant springtail pioneers were bisexual. Springtails are among the earliest colonizers along receding glaciers.
4139116|Shrubs may act as nurse plants by facilitating the establishment and/or survival of under-story herbaceous plants under stressful conditions. Such interactions may promote the movement of montane species into alpine plant communities. We studied potential nurse effects of alpine willow shrubs (Salix spp.) on fireweed (Chamerion angustifolium) at three life history stages: seed, established seedling, and adult. Mechanisms for nurse effects were assessed at each stage by placing transplants into modified microsites containing shade and wind protection, as well as into unmanipulated microsites in open meadow and willow under-story habitats. Seedling establishment occurred only under the willow canopy and even there was extremely rare. Willows and experimental microcosms that simultaneously increased shade and reduced wind velocity strongly promoted over-winter survival of established seedlings and adults. All adult transplants surviving over the winter persisted over the subsequent growing season. For seedling transplants, extremely high mortality in exposed plots over the winter limited our power to experimentally detect nurse effects during the next growing season. Results suggest that by promoting persistent snow cover over the winter, willows enhance survival of fireweed at its upper range limit, potentially favoring its spread into alpine habitats.
1552326| Three arrays, each containing four funnel-shaped sediment traps, were deployed near the front of the Mller Ice Shelf, Lallemand Fjord, western Antarctic Penisula, in late austral summer 1998. Although the upper traps in each array were damaged or lost, eight others were recovered intact about 13 mo later. The mean flux of sediment was 1.4 to 2.9 mm a<sup>-1</sup> (1.67 to 3.5 kg m<sup>-2</sup> a<sup>-1</sup>) and showed little trend with respect to distance from the ice shelf or depth of water. Mean organic carbon and biogenic silica concentrations are 0.6 to 1.1% and 3.4 to 5.0%, respectively. Up to 50 microlaminae visible in x-radiographs probably indicate storm surges or the effect of spring tidal cycles. The sand content in most traps is 2 to 5 times lower in winter, reflecting reduced melt from icebergs and their limited mobility as they are held by sea ice. However, a secondary winter peak in very coarse sand is probably associated with eolian input during winter storms. Nitrogen is greater by 2 to 3 times in summer sediment, and organic carbon is up to 4 times greater. Biogenic silica shows less summer to winter difference, although the spring diatom bloom is represented by somewhat greater values in most traps. Summer values of isotopic organic carbon 13C and total nitrogen 15N are lower than winter values in response to heterotrophic removal of the lighter isotopes. 
24551712|Recent observations of divergence between tree growth at high-latitude sites and temperature, as well as the decline of yellow cedar [Callitropsis nootkatensis (D. Don) Oerst. ex D.P. Little] in southeast Alaska due to warming, emphasize a need to investigate nonstationary climate response of Alaskan coastal forests to warming in other tree species. Comparison of annual tree growth in mountain hemlock [Tsuga mertensiana (Bong.) Carrire] to mean monthly temperature and precipitation data from Sitka, Alaska, from A.D. 1830s to 1990s along an elevational transect reveals nonstationarity in tree growth response to climate that suggests an ongoing biome shift. We observe a marked weakening in the positive relationship between annual growth and warmer growth season temperatures at low-elevation hemlock sites, and a concurrent increase in growth and sensitivity at higher elevations coupled with increased correlation between growth and April precipitation at all sites along our transects. As previously observed with yellow cedar, the mechanism of the hemlock biome shift may be due to an increased susceptibility of roots to damage from late frosts resulting from earlier seasonal loss of protective snowpack.
4095887| Since the 1970s, a breeding colony of lesser snow geese (Chen caerulescens caerulescens L.) at La Prouse Bay, Manitoba, has grown 8% annually. This increase has led to significant loss of plant cover in all major salt- and freshwater coastal habitats between 1976 and 1997. A series of transects established in 1976 was resurveyed in 1997. Exposed sediment, extent and type of vegetative cover, and aquatic areas were recorded along transects using a classification of 12 a priori classes. Five regions within the colony were identified, and changes in vegetation cover differed among these and depended on unique combinations of vegetation class and year. Grubbing by geese has led to loss of graminoid plants, especially in intertidal and supratidal marshes. Exposed sediments have largely replaced previously vegetated areas since 1976. Species characteristic of disturbed sites have colonized exposed sediment with the most abundant species varying according to soil conditions. In intertidal marshes, willow cover declined in association with the development of hypersalinity after loss of the graminoid mat, but willow cover increased at the base of well-drained beach ridges and in a river delta with ample winter snow accumulation and freshwater flow in spring that protected ground vegetation. Most of the expected successional trends associated with isostatic uplift and changes in soil organic matter failed to occur because of intense goose foraging throughout the 20 years. The likelihood of sustained recovery of plant communities in the immediate coastal zone is very low, as long as goose numbers continue to increase. Indirect effects of vegetation loss (e.g., hypersalinity) and subsequent erosion of exposed sediments following grubbing will delay plant colonization and retard succession. 
10.2307/1552256|High-latitude ecosystems contain large soil carbon stocks. Climate change scenarios predict higher temperatures and changed precipitation pattern in the Arctic, which is likely to alter the ecosystem carbon (C) balance. With few exceptions most studies of the ecosystem C balance in the Arctic have taken place in wet ecosystems, and it has been shown that the CO<sub>2</sub> efflux is likely to increase if the moisture level declines. However, large areas in the Arctic contain dry tundra, which is likely to make a different contribution to the C fluxes than wet tundra. In this study we examined the seasonal variations in ecosystem CO<sub>2</sub> emission in a dry subarctic heath in northern Scandinavia. Soil moisture level during most of the season was below 250% dry weight of the soil, which is a moisture level below which previous research has shown that microbial activity becomes increasingly moisture limited. Along with measurements throughout the season of CO<sub>2</sub> emission from plants and soil, soil temperatures, and moisture levels, we added N, P, sugar, and cornstarch. Except for a strong response to sugar addition, the short-term effect of soil temperature and moisture on seasonal CO<sub>2</sub> emission was much stronger than the responses to the additions. A regression model showed that respiration rates also in this relatively dry tundra are strongly controlled primarily by soil moisture conditions. However, the CO<sub>2</sub> efflux is likely to increase with increased moisture levels and decrease with drying, which is contrary to expected responses in wet tundra.
10.2307/1552204| The influence of natural terrestrial disturbances on the limnology of northern lakes is little known, yet important for understanding the ecology of these remote ecosystems. The Rivire George Caribou Herd (RGCH) in northern Qubec has undergone a large population increase since the 1950s, which has been accompanied by pronounced impacts (i.e., degradation of vegetation cover, soil erosion) on terrestrial environments of the Rivire George region. The goal of our study was to evaluate if the increased caribou activity and resulting terrestrial impacts have been accompanied by impacts on adjacent aquatic ecosystems. We studied the recent diatom assemblages (i.e., about the last two centuries) preserved in six sediment cores taken from lakes located in the most heavily impacted region, and in one core from a lake showing little evidence of recent caribou activity in the catchment basin. Core chronologies based on <sup>210</sup>Pb dating techniques indicated that average mass sedimentation rates in this subarctic region were very low (0.0039 to 0.012 g cm<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>). Perhaps surprisingly, diatom assemblages from all seven cores showed very little change, indicating remarkably stable limnological conditions throughout the past 200 yr. The lack of a signal from caribou activity is most likely due to (1) short-term impacts being too transitory to be registered in the sediment record, and (2) long-term impacts not representing a significant perturbation outside the natural variability of these aquatic ecosystems. In contrast to other arctic regions, the limnological stability of our study sites suggests that recent climatic change impacts have been negligible in this region of northern Qubec, which seems to confirm climate model predictions that northern Qubec and Labrador will remain climatically stable under global warming scenarios. 
10.2307/1552588|A survey was made of the occurrence of Frankia, infective on Alnus, in some 40 soils from the whole circumpolar area. Some of these soils were also tested for the occurrence of Rhizobium infective on Trifolium pratense. Infectivity tests were performed by growing test seedlings in soil or soil suspensions. Frankia was detected only in very few soils, in spite of extended experimental periods. When nodulation took place, nodulation was observed in few test plants. Several of nodulated test seedlings never turned green, suggesting that Frankia was ineffective in N<sub>2</sub> fixation. An exception was soil from a site in the Faeroe Islands where nodulated Alnus had been introduced. This soil showed high nodulation ability and N<sub>2</sub> fixation was likely. It is suggested that lack of infective Frankia in the circumpolar soils studied may be because Frankia had not been spread to these sites, but does not necessarily mean that soil conditions are negative for Frankia. Infective Rhizobium was rare in the soils studied. Lack of infective root nodule bacteria in potential sites for soil reclamation calls for the need to inoculate the plants and also provides the opportunity for introduction of selected bacterial strains without competition from an endogeneous soil microflora.
1552564|Thaw lakes and drained thaw lake basins are ubiquitous on the Arctic Coastal Plain of Alaska. Basins are wet depositional environments, ideally suited for the accumulation and preservation of organic material. Much of this soil organic carbon (SOC) is currently sequestered in the near-surface permafrost but, under a warming scenario, could become mobilized. The relative age of 77 basins on the Barrow Peninsula was estimated using the degree of plant community succession and verified by radiocarbon-dating material collected from the base of the organic layer in 21 basins. Using Landsat-7+ imagery of the region, a neural network classifying algorithm was developed from basin age-dependent spectra and texture. About 22% of the region is covered by 592 lakes (>1 ha), and at least 50% of the land surface is covered by 558 drained lake basins. Analysis of cores collected from basins indicates that (1) organic layer thickness and the degree of organic matter decomposition generally increases with basin age, and (2) SOC in the surface organic layer tends to increase with basin age, but the relation for the upper 100 cm of soil becomes obscured due to cryoturbation, organic matter decomposition, and processes leading to ice enrichment in the upper permafrost.
20181743|Glacial retreat on the Tibetan Plateau and surrounding regions is characteristic since the 1960s and has intensified in the past 10 yr. The magnitude of glacial retreat is relatively small in the interior of the Tibetan Plateau and increases to the margins of the plateau, with the greatest retreat around the edges. Glacial retreat in this region is impacting the hydrological processes in the Tibetan Plateau and surrounding regions. The glacial retreat has caused an increase of more than 5.5% in river runoff from the plateau. In some areas, such as the Tarim River basin, the increase in river runoff is greater. Glacial retreat has also caused rising lake levels in the areas with large coverage of glaciers, such as the Nam Co Lake and Selin Co Lake areas. Rising lake levels are devastating grasslands and villages near the lakes.
1552426|Meziadin Lake (34 km<sup>2</sup>, 133 m maximum depth) is located on the east side of the Coast Mountains in northern British Columbia. Inflow from Strohn Creek is dominated by the nival flood, despite a glacier cover of 50.5 km<sup>2</sup> in the drainage basin. The nival flood generates turbid underflows in the lake that distribute sandy mud within 2 km of the point of inflow. During our study in 1999, turbidity currents and interflows along the thermocline continued intermittently through the summer, although the inflow of water and the suspended sediment loads decreased substantially. Sediment collected in traps throughout the lake indicate mass accumulation rates in the proximal region in excess of 200 g m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup> (11 mm) averaged over 69 d of observation during summer 1999, decreasing downlake to 1 g m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup> (0.06 mm) in the most distal region of the lake. The sediment trapped near the point of inflow has a strong mode of fine sand and is strongly negatively skewed, reflecting the competence of the turbidity currents. Texture of the sediments deposited on the lake floor decreases distally from material dominated by coarse silt and fine sand to clay sized material. Sub-bottom acoustic data document more than 180 m of accumulation in the proximal region, decreasing to <20 m distally, making the mean rates of accumulation since deglaciation (16 and 1.8 mm yr<sup>-1</sup>, respectively) somewhat greater than those at present. This decrease is associated with changing environmental conditions and diversion of a significant portion of the drainage basin associated with the retreat of Strohn Glacier in the 20th century.
10.2307/1552485|Plants respond to herbivory either by maximizing resource acquisition and compensatory growth or by minimizing loss of resources, e.g., by investing in chemical or structural defence. We studied the response to simulated browsing by the deciduous dwarf shrub, Salix polaris, on high Arctic Spitsbergen. Salix polaris is browsed by Svalbard reindeer, and its response to browsing may influence subsequent utilization. We compared leaf characteristics and flowering of S. polaris from areas with relatively short, intermediate, and long growing season, and their responses 1 yr after simulated browsing in early, mid, and late summer. Leaf numbers, total and individual biomass of leaves, and the number of inflorescences were greatly reduced the year after treatment. There was no increase in phenolics but a tendency to an increase in N content in the leaves of S. polaris 1 yr after treatment. Salix polaris showed little variation in the response to simulated browsing with local variation in resource availability (length of growing season) or with time of browsing. The results suggest that S. polaris responds to summer browsing the previous year by allocating resources to compensatory growth rather than to defence. For reindeer, browsing of S. polaris leads to a sizeable decrease in food quantity and, possibly, to a limited increase in food quality.
20181749|Monitoring of permafrost along the Qinghai-Tibet (Xizang) Highway shows that there is a large difference in the response of permafrost to climate change and to engineering construction. The change in cold (&lt;-1.5C) permafrost is greater than that in warm (-1.5C) permafrost under the effect of climate change, while the cold permafrost is less sensitive to the disturbances from engineering activities. However, warm permafrost is very sensitive to both climate warming and the impacts from engineering construction. This is because engineering construction has more immediate and direct impacts on the thermal and moisture regimes of underlying permafrost, and consequently greater influence than climate change during the first few years after engineering construction. Assuming constant annual rates of warming, the surface of cold permafrost would approach the warming due to engineering construction in 50 yr, while it would take about 20 yr in areas with warm permafrost. At a depth of 6 m, the temperature rise under engineered surfaces would be reached within 20 and 5-8 yr in cold and warm permafrost, respectively. Therefore, the warming immediately following disturbances of engineering construction would occur naturally in a few years under warm permafrost, but it would take decades for cold permafrost to have the similar thermal effects. Therefore, climate change will have more direct and immediate impacts on the thermal regime of warm permafrost and on the stability and reliability of engineering infrastructures above warm permafrost.
4139122|Fluvial processes play a crucial role in landscape development in periglacial regions. Geomorphological studies have yielded contrasting inferences about the importance of various environmental factors to drainage density. In this paper, 12 explanatory variables, based on relief, vegetation, soil, and rock type, were used to explain the controlling factors of drainage density in an area of 2880 km in subarctic Finland. Analyses were performed at multiple spatial scales (1, 4, 16, and 64 km) based on two novel statistical methods, namely generalized linear modeling (GLM) and hierarchical partitioning (HP). The results of the GLM and HP analyses were broadly concordant. Most of the variation in drainage density can be explained by soil and vegetation variables. Drainage density increased with proportion of rock and gravel soils and alpine vegetation, and decreased with peat cover. Variables based on topography and rock type explained only a small amount of the variation in drainage density. The results also confirm the profound influence of the spatial scale on the geomorphologic systems: factors influencing drainage density yield different results depending on the spatial scale at which drainage density is analyzed. The large data sets and the use of rigorous statistical techniques at four different scales add the confidence and generality for the present results.
4139091|To infer future changes in the distribution of tree species in response to climatic variability, we need an understanding of the recruitment dynamics and their climatic controls at the species' distribution limit. We studied the recruitment processes in an isolated population of Pinus uncinata Ram. located at the southwestern limit of the species' distribution in Europe (Iberian System, NE Spain). We assessed (1) the temporal patterns of pine recruitment, and (2) how climate influenced recruitment. To reconstruct the recent recruitment episodes and to assess the climatic influence on recruitment and radial growth we employed dendrochronological methods. We mapped, measured the size, and estimated the age of all P. uncinata individuals located within a 50 m x 40 m plot. Additional age data were obtained from individuals located in four nearby 20 m x 20 m plots. The main episodes of tree establishment (early 1960s, late 1980s) coincided with low radial growth during a period with reduced grazing pressure. Grazing pressure and tree recruitment were not related at the spatiotemporal scale of this study. High May, August, and September minimum temperatures and high April precipitation were positively associated with recruitment, whereas high maximum April and June temperatures were negatively associated with recruitment. The studied population was in equilibrium with climate until the late 1990s, one of the warmest decades in the 20th century, when recruitment decreased despite the availability of suitable sites for establishment and the presence of reproductive individuals. We suggest that latesummer temperatures might have a non-linear negative threshold effect on recruitment rather than a linear effect. Despite increasing evidence of climateinduced recruitment episodes in isolated cold mountain forests, threshold effects of temperature on recruitment may imply limited range shifts of these populations in response to climate warming.
41416431|Flowering phenology is a key life history trait that strongly influences reproductive success. We investigated the relationship between flowering phenology and functional traits of 48 alpine herb species using the Leaf-Height-Seed (LHS) scheme developed by Westoby (1998) to quantify the ecological strategy of the plant species. Phenological data were obtained by weekly observation of fifty 0.5 x 0.5 m quadrates. Specific leaf area (SLA), height, and seed size of 48 alpine herbs were measured. Comparative generalized estimating equations and generalized linear models suggested that flowering peak date was positively correlated with size of maternal plant (biomass and height) and negatively correlated with seed size. Species with a longer flowering period were smaller and produced bigger seeds than those with a short flowering season. Flowering peak date and duration were negatively correlated, although this correlation was mainly present in annuals, which are relatively rare in the alpine meadow. Relationships between flowering phenology and specific leaf area (SLA) were weak. There were only weak effects of phylogeny on the relationships between flowering phenology and functional traits. Wind-pollinated species flowered earlier than insect-pollinated species. Annuals flowered longer than perennials. Relationships between flowering phenology and functional traits indicate that there is a tradeoff between maternal and reproductive growth, and flowering time may underlie the correlation between plant height and seed size.
4139110|Understanding trophic interaction within deep-sea marine communities is critically important as commercial exploitation increases in the Arctic. Undoubtedly, the Arctic marine environment will be subject to the same environmental and human stressors as its southern counterparts and, as a result, community stability is vulnerable. The objectives of this study were to test the predictive power of environmental variables on fish community composition using redundancy analysis and to determine if this information could be used to differentiate distinct trophic communities throughout the Davis Strait/Baffin Bay region. This analysis used data collected in benthic surveys from 2000 to 2004, and results indicate that water temperature, latitude, and depth strongly influence the distribution of fish species in this region. Latitude and water temperature were strongly negatively correlated, and the majority of species were distributed along the low latitude/high temperature to high latitude/low temperature gradient. Some fish species were more highly correlated with depth. Proportions of most by-catch species differed between northern and southern regions at each depth range. Since community structure changes gradually along environmental gradients, perhaps it is more appropriate to describe the communities as shifting their trophic status along environmental gradients rather than as distinct communities with distinct food webs in a specific region of the Arctic.
10.2307/1552609|The pollination and reproductive ecology of Saxifraga stellaris was investigated in alpine southwest Norway. A breeding system analysis, with performance of controlled crosses, revealed that S. stellaris is self-compatible and that reproductive success after cross- and self-pollination is equal. Relative autodeposition efficiency (i.e. mean seed:ovule ratio in caged, nonmanipulated plants relative to mean seed:ovule ratio of control plants) was, however, low (0.29), suggesting that S. stellaris depends on insect visitation for maximum seed set. Seed set is not restricted by pollen availability, as indicated by a supplemental hand-pollination experiment. Plant size had a strong positive impact on ovule number, which in turn was positively correlated with seed number. Plant size also had a positive influence on seed weight. Seed weight was lowest for late-flowering plants, suggesting that shorter time for seed maturation and lower temperatures late in the season restrict seed weight. No correlations between flowering date and seed number were found, perhaps because the pollinators are relatively insensitive to temperature conditions and thus their activity does not change through the flowering season of S. stellaris.
1552433| The value of glacier fluctuations as indicators of climate change detection has been increasingly recognized in recent years. Tropical glaciers are of particular interest. The Cordillera Blanca in Per (7730W, 9S) is the largest glaciated area within the tropics. Its 20th-century fluctuations have been analyzed. The total ice coverage around 1990 was obtained using optical satellite data SPOT XS. Based on the 1990 results, inventories and estimates of the glaciation during the 20th century had to be corrected. The data in this paper illustrate the general ice retreat in the tropical Cordillera Blanca: 620 km<sup>2</sup> in 1990, 660-680 km<sup>2</sup> in 1970, and 800-850 km<sup>2</sup> in 1930. The 1930 value documents the extent of glaciation shortly after an intense advance in the 1920s. The Little Ice Age extent is estimated as 850-900 km<sup>2</sup>. The ice recession during the 20th century was not constant but was concentrated in two periods. Strong ice retreat occurred in the 1930s and 1940s and intermediate retreat from the mid-1970s until the end of the century. The ice coverage at the end of the 20th century is considered to be slightly below 600 km<sup>2</sup>. 
10.2307/1552481|We investigated the development of soil macrofauna and mesofauna in the successional chronosequence of an Alpine glacier foreland located above the treeline. Sampling transects 10 m long were established at eight successional stages from 4 to 150 yr of age since deglaciation, and in addition two reference sites in front of the terminal moraine. Within the first 50 yr, macrofauna biomass and mesofauna abundance increased rapidly, attaining levels typical for all older stages (macrofauna 0.5-7 g m<sup>-2</sup>, microarthropods 50-120 10<sup>3</sup> ind. m<sup>-2</sup>). Among the macrofauna nematoceran Diptera were dominant at most sites, only the early colonizing stages being dominated by carabid and lepidopteran larvae and enchytraeids. Acari were more abundant than Collembola. Temporal sequences of occurrence were documented for macrofauna families and for collembolan species. Successional age was the major determinant of community composition, additional influences being local variations in microclimatic conditions and soil properties. Biomass increased over the short alpine summer, but community composition remained largely constant. The high aggregation of soil fauna affected the precision of abundance estimates. An outline of the trophic structure of evolving soil communities is presented.
40305856|Exceptional and persistent warm temperatures recorded during July 2007 at Cape Bounty, Melville Island, Canada (7454' N, 10935' W), resulted in rapid and deep active layer formation. The thickened active layer, together with up to 10.8 mm of rainfall in late July, resulted in widespread active layer detachments across the West watershed during 23-31 July. Mapping indicates that approximately 1.9% of the watershed was directly impacted by disturbances. By contrast, only two small detachments occurred in the adjacent East watershed. The immediate fluvial impact of the detachments was primarily in the form of abrupt, short-lived rises in river turbidity, along with a more gradual increase in discharge and overall turbidity. Sediment transport pulses resulted from the hydrological connection of major detachment slides, most of which were upslope from the main channel. The largest detachment dammed the river over a length of 200 m, and resulted in an upstream pond and prolonged increased sediment transport. In total, the increased sediment transport during the last week of July amounted to an estimated 44.3 Mg, or 18% of the seasonal yield. While the detachments had an immediate and substantial impact on river conditions, erosion of unstable material is likely to have a sustained impact on watershed fluxes in future years.
4095821| Due to their remote location within the Russian High Arctic, little is known about the mass balance of ice caps on Severnaya Zemlya now and in the past. Such information is critical, however, to building a global picture of the cryospheric response to climate change. This paper provides a numerical analysis of the climate and mass balance of the Vavilov Ice Cap on October Revolution Island. Mass balance model results are compared with available glaciological and climatological data. A reference climate was constructed at the location of Vavilov Station, representing average conditions for the periods 1974-1981 and 1985-1988. The site of the station has a mean annual temperature of -16.5C, and an annual precipitation of 423 mm water equivalent. The mass balance model was calibrated to the measured mass balance, and tested against the time-dependent evolution of the englacial temperatures (to a depth of 15 m). The mass balance model was then converted to a distributed model for the entire Vavilov Ice Cap. Model results predict the spatial distribution of mass balance components over the ice cap. Processes involving refreezing of water are found to be critical to the ice cap's state of health. Superimposed ice makes up 40% of the total net accumulation, with the remaining 60% coming from firn that has been heavily densified by refreezing. 
1552377| New Zealand's alpine region is populated by many (613) species of vascular plants with a high endemism (93%). To investigate the potential impact of climate warming, we used species-area relations to estimate current and projected vascular plant floras and tested model sensitivity scaling from the whole world to small alpine regions. Within their limitations, these models show that if the present mean temperature of 0.6C higher than in 1900 were maintained, together with a large pool of exotic species, 40-70 species of native plants could become at risk. With a rise of 3C, an approximate expectation for the following 100 yr, the total New Zealand alpine vascular flora could reach 550-685 species and lose 200-300 indigenous alpine species, the rest being exotic. Fragmentation of alpine areas could, over millennia, favor speciation, but in the short term, the loss of 80% of existing alpine islands will severely increase extinction risks. These model projections will be modified by downward extension of species through unplanned vegetation destruction, or following deliberate vegetation clearance to create habitats favorable to alpine species, as well as through a number of other as yet unquantified factors. These projections are not predictions of extinctions but rather broad probabilities of risk to a whole flora. 
10.2307/1552624| Bulk organic 13C records are presented from five last glacial-Holocene transition lacustrine sequences (14-9 ka <sup>14</sup>C BP) on a north-south transect across the British Isles. The data confirm that bulk organic 13C is an amalgam of processes operating within the catchment and lake systems. Significant shifts in bulk organic 13C values are recorded across important climatic boundaries, though their synchroneity is questionable. Either the shifts are not observed at the sites or they do not appear to be synchronous, suggesting that site-specific factors play an important role. Potential controls are discussed within the context of climatic change in the North Atlantic region. 
1552329|This article presents paleobotanical and paleoclimatic reconstructions of the New Siberian Islands for the past 15,000 years based on data from Quaternary geology and archaeology collected in the late 1980s and early 1990s as part of research conducted by the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute, St. Petersburg, Russia. The data were obtained from 18 reference sites from Holocene and upper Pleistocene deposits on Kotelny Island, the largest island of the New Siberian Archipelago, and from the smaller and more northerly Zhokhov Island. Conclusions are also drawn from the composition of the avian fauna recovered during the excavations of the Zhokhov archaeological site on that island. The composition of bird species is an important source of information which helps interpret the results of palynological analysis because the birds are very sensitive indicators of changes in temperature and vegetation. The palynological analysis has revealed a sequence of 13 spore-pollen complexes that have been generalized as a scheme showing a broad sequence of events in the area of survey. The complexes belonging to the early Holocene time are markedly different from the others. The most favorable conditions occurred in the time span from 10,000 to 9000 BP. After 8000 yr ago the fluctuations were of lesser amplitude, and both their sequence and timing were close to those of Northern Europe, though there appear to be differences between the two areas in the range of variation.
4095912|The effect on photosynthetic capacity, photochemical efficiency of photosystem II (PSII), and frost resistance to environmental changes during winter in the evergreen alpine cushion plant Saxifraga paniculata were investigated at different altitudes. S. paniculata was more resistant to cold induced photoinhibition during midwinter than other evergreen subalpine species. Photochemical efficiency (F
41240420|Simultaneous measurements of soil temperature and moisture and related climate and vegetation variables at high altitudes are rare. Such knowledge is important to predict soil temperature and moisture across heterogeneous alpine landscapes and the impact of climate warming on alpine ecosystems. Based on the four-year observations in 12 plots across two contrasting timberline ecotones (north-facing Abies georgei var. smithii and south-facing Juniperus saltuaria timberlines of a valley) in the Sergyemla Mountains, we aimed to determine the role of altitude, aspect, climate, soil, and vegetation variables affecting the variability of soil temperature and moisture. The two timberlines had similar annual precipitation and seasonal mean air temperature, but the growing-season mean soil temperature differed by 0.8-1.0 K. The spring soil warming date was 20-30 days later on the north-facing slope than on the south-facing slope, which was associated with increased snow and vegetation covers on the north-facing slope. Slope aspect, canopy height, and leaf area index (LAI) rather than altitude were the major determining factors for spatial variability of seasonal mean soil temperatures across plots. A combination of aspect southness and canopy height/LAI explained 56-77% of the variations in the  20 cm mean soil temperatures for the year, growing season, and July across the 12 plots. In contrast, seasonal mean soil moistures did not correlate with altitude, aspect, and stand and soil variables. Furthermore, the  5 cm soil temprature amplitude in the growing season was much lower in the north-facing fir forest than in the south-facing juniper forest, suggesting an explanation for the distribution pattern of both species timberlines on opposite slopes of a valley in the Sergyemla Mountains.
23359385|This study reflects the growing demand for better understanding the response of alpine lake ecosystems to climate forcing. We combined continuous monitoring of water temperature with GIS-derived data, and modeled the lake surface water temperature (LSWT) and ice-cover characteristics of 18 Tatra Mountains lakes against altitude, lake morphometry, and local topography. The general trend in LSWTs was similar across all studied lakes and showed a high degree of coherence over the whole study period. The daily LSWTs were governed primarily by altitude and topographic shading represented by lake-specific total duration of direct solar radiation (TDDSR). Day-to-day variability of LSWTs was controlled mainly by the maximum depth of the lakes. The surface temperature of deeper lakes was more stable than the temperature of shallow ones. Topographic shading appeared to play an important role in the development and duration of ice-cover. Lakes with low TDDSR retained ice-cover longer than well insolated ones. This is the first time that the effect of topographic shading was explicitly considered in relation to the surface temperature and ice-cover timing of remote lakes. Including direct solar radiation as a model parameter would considerably improve predictions of temperature characteristics of high-altitude lakes. This may have potentially important implications for climate change studies as it could allow for site-specific modifications of temperatures in high-altitude lakes.
4139121|We studied the differences between areas undisturbed and disturbed by Ctenomys in the structure, diversity, and composition of a Puna desert plant community. We also studied differences in nutrient distribution in the soil produced by the activity of tuco-tucos. Within the plant community, plant and soil samples were taken from different sites, and at each site, both disturbed and undisturbed areas were sampled. We hypothesized that the activity of this rodent affected plant community structure, specific composition, diversity, and nutrient distribution (N, K, and P). Results at the plant population and community level and for soil nutrient concentration suggest that Ctenomys mendocinus could be a keystone species, capable of orienting the dynamics of the plant community studied in this ecosystem. Nevertheless, further manipulative experiments are necessary to confirm that the differences found between disturbed and undisturbed areas are indeed caused by the activity of Ctenomys.
1552303|This paper presents observations of summertime anti-winds monitored under ideal conditions in the Lake Tekapo hydro-catchment situated in the central Southern Alps, New Zealand. Onset and cessation of anti-winds was observed to coincide with the change in phase of the surface limbs of thermally generated valley and mountain winds under settled anti-cyclonic conditions. Anti-winds were best developed in the early morning before surface heating and associated convective mixing of the valley atmosphere began to mask the boundaries between the surface based limb of the mountain-valley wind and the corresponding anti-wind. By mid-day, the anti-valley wind exceeded the height of the surrounding ridgeline and became embedded in the topographically channeled gradient wind. Observations presented here have both theoretical and applied implications with regard to the development of thermally generated wind systems in deep alpine valleys, and their role in the dispersion of air pollution.
40305822|Spatial and temporal variation in mycorrhizal associations may significantly impact plant community dynamics. In this study we evaluated the distribution and abundance of mycorrhizal associations in alpine plant communities to gain a better understanding of the potential effects of microhabitat and host identity on plantfungus mutualisms. We surveyed the abundance of ectomycorrhizae (ECM) associated with Salix sp. and the abundance of arbuscular mycorrhizae (AMF) associated with Taraxacum ceratophorum, T. officinale, Polemonium viscosum, and P. delicatum in plots under willow canopies and in adjacent open meadows. AMF colonization of T ceratophorum, T. qfficinale, and P. viscosum was greater in open meadow than in understory habitats. Conversely, ECM abundance was greater in the willow understory than in the surrounding open meadow. AMF abundance in three of the four host species was negatively correlated with ECM abundance in the soil microsite. Taraxacum ceratophorum showed consistently high colonization by AMF regardless of habitat or ECM abundance. Our results suggest that willow-mediated heterogeneity in light and nutrient availability influence the distribution of AMF associations across the willow-meadow ecotone. Furthermore, species-specific plant life history traits related to growth strategies, carbon allocation patterns, and stress tolerance likely affect mycorrhizal dependence and interspecific variation in mycorrhizal associations.
1552161|Four independent studies of conifer growth between 1880 and 2002 in upper elevation forests of the central Sierra Nevada, California, U.S.A., showed correlated multidecadal and century-long responses associated with climate. Using tree-ring and ecological plot analysis, we studied annual branch growth of krummholz Pinus albicaulis; invasion by P. albicaulis and Pinus monticola into formerly persistent snowfields; dates of vertical branch emergence in krummholz P. albicaulis; and invasion by Pinus contorta into subalpine meadows. Mean annual branch growth at six treeline sites increased significantly over the 20th century (range 130-400%), with significant accelerations in rate from 1920 to 1945 and after 1980. Growth stabilized from 1945 to 1980. Similarly, invasion of six snowfield slopes began in the early 1900s and continued into snowfield centers throughout the 20th century, with significantly accelerated mean invasion from 1925 to 1940 and after 1980. Rate of snowfield invasion decreased between 1950 and 1975. Meadow invasion and vertical leader emergence showed synchronous, episodic responses. Pinus contorta invaded each of ten subalpine meadows in a distinct multidecadal pulse between 1945 and 1976 (87% of all trees) and vertical release in five krummholz P. albicaulis sites also occurred in one pulse between 1945 and 1976 (86% of all branches). These synchronies and lack of effect of local environments implicate regional climate control. Composite weather records indicated significant century-long increases in minimum monthly temperature and multidecadal variability in minimum temperature and precipitation. All ecological responses were significantly correlated with minimum temperature. Significant interactions among temperature, precipitation, Pacific Decadal Oscillation (PDO) indices, and multiyear variability in moisture availability further explained episodic ecological responses. Four multidecadal periods of the 20th century that are defined by ecological response (<1925; 1925-1944; 1945-1976; >1976) correlate with positive and negative PDO phases, as well as with steps in the rate of temperature increase. These diverse factors in spatially distributed upper-montane and treeline ecosystems respond directionally to century-long climate trends, and also exhibit abrupt and reversible effects as a consequence of interdecadal climate variability and complex interactions of temperature and moisture.
10.2307/1552556|This paper examines the longitudinal pattern of oligochaetes in the hyporheic and benthic layers of a glacial river (Val Roseg, Switzerland). We hypothesized that the spatial distribution of oligochaete communities would reflect changes in surface water/groundwater interactions along the river continuum. From June to November 1997 (4 dates), three hyporheic and three benthic samples were collected at 11 and 9 sites, respectively, located over a distance of 11 km from the glacier terminus. A two-ended member mixing model based on concentrations of sodium was used to determine changes in the relative proportions of glacial water and groundwater along the river. The longitudinal increase in the diversity and abundance of hyporheic assemblages of oligochaetes was closely linked to the convergence of groundwater and surface glacial water. The differential distribution of hyporheic and benthic assemblages suggested that the hyporheic corridor acted as the main upstream migration pathway for oligochaetes. In this glacial river, the hyporheic zone appeared as a source area from which benthic habitats presenting suitable environmental conditions could be colonized.
10.2307/1552587| Multivariate statistics are applied to data on low arctic flora and vegetation in an effort to compare and interpret information derived from contrasting field methods normally considered to be incompatible. Data were collected using two of the most widespread field techniques currently in use in the circumpolar North: (1) standardized sampling, using a point frame-based protocol; and (2) more traditional phytosociological methods. The comparison is based on simultaneous objective (quantitative) and subjective (qualitative) sampling of identical stands of vegetation at and north of the latitudinal treeline in the Yamal Region of Northwest Siberia. The species composition of vegetation on anthropogenic primary surfaces is emphasized, but undisturbed tundra was also sampled. One hundred and sixty-five quadrats (1  1 m) were analyzed together with 33 relevs (5  5 m) using detrended correspondence analysis (DCA). The ordination results revealed very good correlation within anthropogenic vegetation stands. However, in ordination diagrams derived from samples within undisturbed tundra, samples were clearly separated based on quadrat size because many non vascular taxa were missed in the large quadrats. 
4139084|The evolution of snow depth in the central Spanish Pyrenees was analyzed using measurements from 106 snow stakes over a period of 14 yr (1985-1999). Relationships were considered between the regional series of snow depths at the end of winter and in the middle of spring with respect to precipitation and temperature in previous months. Both variables explained a large percentage of the interannual variability in snowpack. The high correlation between climate parameters and snow depth series may help to better understanding snow evolution at different times of the year and to obtain a predicted series of snow depths for the period 1950-1999 from longer climate series. Snow depth decreased significantly during the second half of 20th century, probably because there was less precipitation from January to March. The decrease in winter precipitation seemed to be related with the positive trend of the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO) index during the same period.
4095902|We investigated the influence of nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) on
10.2307/1552527|Sodium metabolism was studied by isotope dilution techniques infree-ranging reindeer in the Jotunheimen mountain region of southern Norway. In the study three groups of animals were injected intravenously with <sup>22</sup>NaCl and bled 2-3 times per year. The study lasted from 184 to 993 d in the groups. Flow rates and half times of <sup>22</sup>Na in the plasma pool were calculated. The overall results showed half-times for <sup>22</sup>Na in winter of 301 d against 107 d in summer (mid May to early September). The difference in metabolic half time reflected large differences in the Na content of the diet. Sodium analyses of 485 plant samples from the study area, and diets constructed from published literature, showed that 1 kg dried summer diet would contain 6 to 7 mmol Na kg<sup>-1</sup> and 1 kg winter diet 4.4 mmol Na kg<sup>-1</sup>. Daily food intakes were calculated from dietary Na content and Na turnover estimates. Female reindeer with 70 kg body mass had an intake of 3.2 to 3.8 kg dry matter in summer and 1.8 kg in winter. We conclude that the Na supply in our area is marginal for reindeer, and that supplementation may enhance reindeer survival and productivity.
40305855|The distribution of mountain permafrost in the northern hemisphere depends on topographic and climatic factors, ranging from the maritime conditions of Iceland over transitional conditions in southern Norway to continental conditions in Mongolia, and from alpine mountains to paleic mountains. This study discusses the different environmental factors that govern permafrost distribution based on personal studies and a literature review. It is hypothesized that the thermal state of the ground is an important parameter to understand the time and spatial scale of sediment transfer and landscape development in cold mountainous regions. This is exemplified for the cases of rock walls, glacier forefields, rock glaciers, and the case of sediment remobilization due to glacier advance. The authors propose that thorough knowledge of the ground thermal regime is an important basis for addressing sediment budgets in space and time.
10.2307/1552259|Ski slope vegetation on Mount Hood, Oregon, U.S.A. was surveyed to assess vegetation that has developed under a constant disturbance regime and the environmental factors that are important in structuring the vegetation. Ski runs extend from 1200 to 2200 m on the south face of Mount Hood. TWINSPAN distinguished 17 plant communities including 4 above treeline and 13 below treeline; 3 of the latter also occur in the forest adjacent to the ski runs. Elevation, which is correlated to temperature, precipitation, depth of snowpack, and timing of snow melt, is the most important variable structuring the vegetation. Soil texture is also important. Distance to the forest boundary influences the vegetation only at lower elevations. Most of the slopes we examined were thickly vegetated, except above treeline where vegetation is typically sparse. Non-native species were detected only at the lowest elevations and were infrequently dominant. Non-native species cover and richness were correlated with percent bare area. Relative to ski runs in other areas, those on Mount Hood have little non-native species invasion, probably due to the harsh conditions prevalent on the ski runs and to a relative lack of bare areas, which occupy 17% of the runs below treeline. The relative scarcity of bare areas may be a result of the relatively great age of the ski runs (64 yr). Above treeline there was no detectable difference in vegetative composition on and off the ski run, probably due to extensive trampling of the vegetation in the summer.
10.2307/1552627|Three moraine complexes containing large rafts of fractured-bedrock formed by small cirque glaciers occur in Reindalen, Svalbard. Glaciotectonic landforms cored by rock rafts have been described from mid-latitude ice sheets of Pleistocene age in the past, but we believe this to be the first time large-scale bedrock rafts have been reported from moraines formed by small cirque glaciers. These moraine complexes consist of an imbricate stack of thrust slabs composed of fractured-bedrock and diamicton. Although the exact mechanism are unclear, we suggest that these moraines form by the displacement of subhorizontal strata within the cirque floor to form an initial stack of rock-cored thrust slabs, which subsequently confine the cirque glacier. Subsequent glacier advances, against this "barrier," establishes a strong compressive regime within the glacier snout, which leads to erosion and moraine development. Estimates of the thickness of the rock rafts are used to derive erosion rates, which are an order of magnitude greater than those previously reported for arctic regions.
4095944|We provide a description of the structural and thermal characteristics of snow cover in the Snowy Mountains of southeast Australia. Using the snow classification system developed by Sturm et al. (1995), the snow cover in the Snowy Mountains is classified primarily as maritime in areas where there is sufficient accumulation, and as ephemeral at lower elevations and on ablating aspects. Maritime snow is generally deep (>100 cm), with a density
41240415|Soil moisture has both direct and indirect effects on carbon dioxide (CO) exchange in tundra vegetation. It directly affects vegetation distribution and functioning, thus CO exchange at the leaf level, and it controls microbial decomposition influencing soil respiration. In this study we investigated CO exchange on a heterogeneous tundra landscape in the Canadian low arctic with the primary purpose of exploring the relationship between moisture variability and community level fluxes. CO exchange was measured with a portable chamber system, along with soil and air temperature. Biomass, leaf area, and foliar nitrogen were determined from harvested vegetation. Fluxes were compared in birch, tussock, heath, and sedge communities under different moisture regimes. Respiration and productivity were typically highest in wet or mesic groups, with fewer differences in net CO exchange. Across the soil moisture gradient, productivity and net CO exchange per unit leaf area and foliar nitrogen showed a significant negative linear trend. Respiration was limited in very dry and saturated soil, and soil temperature effects on respiration were seen only in mesic moisture conditions. These findings indicate that nutrient and temperature affects on fluxes can be at least partially explained within the framework of soil moisture availability.
20181720|The pollination ecology of small, short, and two-flowered Pedicularis muscoides subsp. himalayca was studied during its full blooming period in alpine areas of western Sichuan Province, China, part of the putative origin and diversification center of the genus. Pedicularis muscoides subsp. himalayca was notoribically pollinated exclusively by queens of four bumblebee species (Bombus Latr.) that foraged for nectar on flowers in an upright position. Of the four Bombus species, B. friseanus Smith occurred in the highest frequency and was the major pollinator of P. muscoides subsp. himalayca. It comprised 81% of the bumblebees collected on P. muscoides subsp. himalayca. Queen bumblebees stood on the ground while foraging on flowers, which has not previously been reported in other Pedicularis species. During the study period almost all the foragers were confined to the studied subspecies and very occasionally visited other associated blooming species at the study site. The low plant height; outcurved terminal flowers; short-tubed, erostrate, and copiously nectariferous flowers; corolla morphology; and highly synchronized short-blooming period of P. muscoides subsp. himalayca made this plant well adapted to pollination by queen bumblebees within a short growing season. Thus this study provides evidence for coadaptation between Pedicularis and bumblebee pollinators.
10.2307/1552206|We describe and analyze a complete 1-yr data set from an automatic weather station (AWS) located on the snout of the Morteratschgletscher, Switzerland. The AWS stands freely on the glacier surface and measures pressure, windspeed, wind direction, air temperature and humidity, incoming and reflected solar radiation, incoming and outgoing longwave radiation, snow temperature, and change in surface height (giving melt rates and snow accumulation). The wind is downglacier most of the time. As expected for a flow of katabatic origin, for air temperatures above the melting point we find a correlation between windspeed and temperature. We evaluate all significant components of the surface energy flux. For a (constant) turbulent exchange coefficient of 0.00153 (reference height 3.5 m) we obtain a perfect match between calculated and measured ice melt. The sensible heat flux is positive (towards the glacier surface) all the time with the largest values on fine summer days (daily mean values are typically 100 W m<sup>-2</sup> on the warmest days). The latent heat flux is small and negative in winter. In summer it is mainly positive (condensation), but negative values also occur. Altogether about 75% of the melt energy is supplied by radiation (shortwave and longwave) and 25% by the turbulent fluxes.
20181708|Much of the low Arctic is covered with shrubs that are partially buried by snow in winter and become exposed during melt. This study presents measurements and modeling of shortwave radiation reflection and extinction by a deciduous shrub canopy emerging from a melting snowcover in the mountains of the Yukon Territory, Canada. Shrubs shade most of the snow surface at low solar elevation angles, so only a fraction of the incoming radiation reaches the surface, but there is greater direct shortwave transmission to the surface in gaps between shrubs for higher solar elevations. A simple model is developed to incorporate the changing contributions of sun-lit gaps, shaded gaps, and shrubs to the landscape-averaged (areal) transmission and reflection of shortwave radiation. The areal transmissivity and albedo in this model are lower than in a two-stream approximation that neglects gap shading. A simple shadow parameterization is proposed for calculating shrub tundra snowmelt rates and surface energy balances in hydrological and land-surface models.
1552162|The construction and maintenance of roads in the Australian Alps has caused profound disturbance to the natural existing soil and vegetation, as well as the introduction and proliferation of exotic plant species. This study examined three ecotypes associated with roads. These ecotypes were tested for differences in soil characteristics and occurrence of different plant species. Differences in chemical and physical soil properties were found between road verges and adjacent native vegetation areas. Soils from natural areas had higher humus levels, less gravel and sand, higher levels of nutrients, and higher pH and electrical conductivity than road verges. A relationship was found between soil properties and the occurrence of different exotic plant species along roadsides. Exotics dominated in areas along the road verge and road drainage lines. The dominant exotic found in these ecotypes was Achillea millefolium (yarrow). These ecotypes were characterized by high water and sediment wash off, which had significantly higher soil pH and exchangeable levels of calcium and potassium than natural areas and disturbed areas without yarrow.
20181837|Infrared differential thermal analysis (IDTA) was used to study ice propagation and whole plant freezing patterns in dehardened intact individuals of various alpine plant species, including a shrub (Rhodedendron ferrugineum), a herbaceous plant (Senecio incanus), a cushion plant (Silene acaulis), and two graminoids (Poa alpina and Juncus trifidus). Freezing patterns differed markedly among species and reflected peculiarities of the shoot structure and the vascular system. In graminoids, each single leaf required a separate ice nucleation event, as the polystele prevents ice propagation between leaves via the stem. Additionally, enhanced supercooling resulted in a temperature range of whole plant freezing of up to 10C, which corroborates the high summer frost resistance of graminoids. This could have ecological significance for frost survival. In contrast, in dicotyledonous species one nucleation event was usually sufficient for whole plant freezing. Controlled ice-seeding experiments on leaves with droplets of water and bacterial water suspension (Pseudomonas syringae) showed that ice propagation into the leaf tissue from the surface was inhibited as long as the leaves were undamaged. The rate of ice propagation in veins was significantly higher at lower temperatures and reached up to 24 cm s in J. trifidus, which is much higher than reported in earlier findings. Ice propagation in graminoids was much faster, which may indicate that ice propagates within the protoxylem lacunae of large vessels.
20181782|Tree growth is generally limited by temperature in cold climates and by water availability in arid zones. Establishment in altitudinal treeline ecotones depends on the temperature, but may be very sensitive to water availability as well. We studied the effect of climate and land use on the colonization and growth of Pinus cembra in the treeline ecotone of the dry Central Swiss Alps; one site was influenced by timber harvest and cattle activity and another one was undisturbed. Stands were sampled at three elevations: in the forest and the lower and upper parts of the treeline ecotone. The age structure was similar in all sites, ranging from uneven-aged (forest) to more even-aged, with recent densification and upslope expansion of the treeline ecotone. However, recruitment started at the treeline around 1850 (the end of the Little Ice Age) in the undisturbed site, simultaneously with an increase of tree-ring growth, but about 60 years later at the other site, after cattle grazing decreased. These results, and the positive correlation of radial growth with summer and previous autumn temperatures indicated that, in this altitudinal treeline ecotone, growth and establishment are mainly linked to temperature. However, drought stress was visible in the lowest stands, with a positive correlation of growth with rainfall during the previous autumn and December, and in August of the growing season. This could limit growth in a future warmer climate.
4139073|We collected ground-penetrating radar data at 10 sites along the Kuparuk River and its main tributary, the Toolik River, to detect unfrozen water beneath river ice. We used 250 MHz and 500 MHz antennas to image both the ice-water interface and the river channel in late April 2001, when daily high temperatures were consistently below freezing and river ice had attained its maximum seasonal thickness. The presence of water below the river ice appears as a strong, horizontal reflection observed in the radar data and is confirmed by drill hole data. A downstream transition occurs from ice that is frozen to the bed, called bedfast ice, to ice that is floating on unfrozen water, called floating ice. This transition in ice type corresponds to a downstream change in channel size that was detected in previously conducted hydraulic geometry surveys of the Kuparuk River. We propose a conceptual model wherein the downstream transition from bedfast ice to floating ice is responsible for an observed step change in channel size due to enhanced bank erosion in large channels by floating ice.
23252812|Nitrification and denitrification are key microbiological processes in the soil nitrogen cycle and are the main biological sources of N 2 O emissions from soils. In this work, we measured gross nitrification and denitrification rates of northern Tibet alpine grassland ecosystems during the growing season and evaluated the influence of soil environmental factors. The results showed that the soil inorganic nitrogen concentration and gross nitrification and denitrification rates of both alpine meadow and alpine steppe varied obviously across the season. During the growing season mean values of gross nitrification and denitrification rates of the alpine meadow site were 3.0 and 2.3 times greater than those of the alpine steppe site, respectively. Both gross nitrification and denitrification rates were not significantly correlated with the determined soil characteristics which include soil microbial biomass, inorganic nitrogen, and soil temperature, except that gross nitrification seemed associated with the microsite where soil moisture was higher. Our results demonstrate that soil moisture can explain partly the higher soil nitrogen (N) transformation rates in alpine meadow sites, but soil N transformation microorganisms and enzyme activities studies covering prolonged observation periods are still needed to clarify the key soil environmental factors that control gross nitrification and denitrification processes in alpine grassland ecosystems.
20181711|The present extent of glacier ice on Bylot Island, Arctic Canada, is mapped using high-resolution Landsat 7 ETM+ satellite imagery. The island is 43% ice covered, with 4783 km of ice. Most ice is centered on the northwest-southeast-trending Byam Martin Mountains, flowing outward as radial valley glaciers and piedmont lobes. The largest glacier is 49 km long and 6.5 km wide. The majority of glaciers terminate on land, but many have margins ending in lakes and two calve into the sea. The late summer snowline, mapped from satellite imagery, is highest along the southern and central parts of the island at about 1050 m, with lower values along the east-northeastern margin of the ice down to about 700 m. These snowline-elevation differences suggest a predominant moisture source from the northeast. Several valley glaciers and piedmont lobes have deformed medial moraines and ice-surface foliation suggesting past surge activity. Ten glaciers are interpreted to be of possible surge-type. The modern extent of glaciers is compared with that of two earlier time intervals. First, we have mapped glacier margins in several areas of Bylot Island from aerial photographs acquired in 1958 and 1961. Secondly, former positions of ice fronts are mapped from moraine systems deposited during the Neoglacial maximum and identified on satellite data. Glaciers have retreated from 0.9 to 1.8 km since the Neoglacial maximum about 120 years ago, with most retreat occurring between 1958/1961 and 2001. Approximately 253 km or 5% of the 1958/1961 ice-covered area has been lost. Overall, marked glacier retreat has occurred, although a few glaciers, possibly of surge-type, show small readvances. This retreat is consistent with observed climate warming in the Canadian Arctic, especially since the 1960s.
23359627|Cold season respiration may significantly affect arctic terrestrial ecosystem annual net carbon balances. Here, the influences of vegetation type, experimentally deepened snow, and interannual climatic variation on total cold season CO 2 efflux were investigated in a Canadian low arctic site containing dry heath, tall birch understory, birch hummock, and wet sedge ecosystems. Total efflux ranged from 34 to 126 g CO 2 -C m -2 among the vegetation types, with the tall birch understory respiring at least twice that of the birch hummock and four times that of either the dry heath or wet sedge. This variation did not correlate with soil temperature differences alone, but instead was attributed to ecosystem-specific interactions between snow depth, vegetation canopy cover, soil temperature, and moisture, as well as differences in plant biomass and litter production. Respiration from the birch hummock site was twice as high in 2006/2007 (the year of relatively warm fall and late winter soil temperature phases) as compared to 2004/2005, and was enhanced by the snow fence treatment only in the latter year. Together, these data demonstrate that cold season CO 2 release differs substantially among tundra vegetation types, and strongly suggest that these effluxes can significantly offset growing season carbon gains, resulting in annual net carbon losses in some years.
1552328| Subalpine grasslands in the western Alps are currently facing major environmental changes induced by pastoral disuse. In such a context, the rapid spread of a shrub (Alnus viridis [Chaix] DC.) is expected to threaten biodiversity. The aim of this study was to assess the impact of its cover on vascular plant diversity. Data collected at several local levels (108 plots) in a representative area detected a linear decrease in species richness across an increasing A. viridis (green alder) cover gradient, whereas alder-stand -diversity at the community level was particularly singular. We used constrained ordination methods based on Principal Components Analysis to partial out substantial variance explained by spatial structure of samples. The resulting partial Redundancy Analysis accounted for 62.3% of the initial inertia, and the environmental effect by A. viridis cover was identified as a major cause of variance in the whole species ordination (16.1%). The expansion of A. viridis on subalpine grasslands causes considerable environmental changes which have mostly a negative effect on the conservation of vascular plant diversity in the inner part of the western Alps. However, A. viridis appears to contribute to the diversity of the subalpine belt by inducing a peculiar floristic composition. 
1552332|This paper contains an analysis of magnitude and frequency of avalanches in relation to terrain and forest cover variables. The analysis was applied to 194 avalanche paths in four avalanche areas along highways in British Columbia with approximately 25,000 avalanches recorded. The magnitude and frequency for the avalanche paths were estimated from data collected along the highways by avalanche technicians. Results show that mean magnitude and mean frequency are weakly correlated for a set of avalanche paths in an avalanche area. In addition, with magnitude and frequency viewed as response variables, magnitude and frequency correlate with different sets of predictor variables from one area to another. This paper contains the first comparison of variables which correlate with magnitude and frequency from one avalanche area to another. The results show that previous studies conducted for single areas are simplistic. However, there is some consistency between areas. Avalanche frequency is most directly related to terrain steepness and snow supply. Average avalanche magnitude appears related to terrain steepness, starting zone, and track confinement and the scale (e.g., total vertical drop of the path) with only indirect evidence for a link to snow supply.
41240403|Winter snowfall is increasing in many Arctic regions and climate models predict this trend will persist in the coming century. We examined the effects of two levels of increased winter snow accumulation on soil microclimate, plant and soil nutrient status, plant phenology and ecosystem CO exchange after five years of treatment in a widespread High Arctic ecosystem. Increased snow cover resulted in greater winter CO efflux, altered growing season soil nutrient availability and greater leaf nitrogen concentrations during the snow-free season. Modest increases in snow cover (+0.25 m above ambient) increased gross ecosystem photosynthesis (GEP) without increasing ecosystem respiration (ER), while the deepest snow cover (+0.75 m above ambient) increased both GEP and ER. The area of intermediate snow addition was a smaller source of CO to the atmosphere during the growing season when compared to the ambient and deep snow areas. The intermediate and deep snow areas apparently had similar effects on the functioning of the vegetation community (increased GEP), but divergent effects on the soil microbial respiration, as evidenced by the changes in ER. This nonlinear response to increasing snow depth demonstrates the potential for complex High Arctic ecosystem responses to changes in winter precipitation.
4095884|Willows (Salix spp.) are important riparian plants along high elevation streams of western North America, but the hydrologic conditions needed for initial recruitment are not well defined. A replicated plot experiment was used to determine the effects of (1) elevation above the stream (high, middle, or low), (2) soil texture (sand or gravel), (3) watering to simulate additional rainfall, and (4) an upstream water diversion on soil water content and first-year willow seedling survival along a subalpine reach of the Colorado River. Soil water content varied with elevation (F = 163.8, p < 0.001) and soil texture (F = 387.3, p < 0.001), while the effect of the watering treatment was not statistically significant. Soil water content controlled first-year willow seedling survival (
20181804|Soil frost formation, snow distribution, and winter/spring/summer terminal infiltration rates (TIRs) were quantified in Icelandic Andisols with contrasting vegetation cover types (grassland, spruce and birch woodland, lupine, and sparsely vegetated lava site). TIRs (mm h; determined with double-ring infiltrometers) were generally higher in unfrozen than in frozen soils (102-369 vs. 9-306, respectively in sandy soils; 28-94 vs. 3-72 in finer-textured soils) and differed between land cover types, being consistently highest in birch woodlands. TIR was an inverse function of soil frost depth. Lowest TIRs were associated with deep and dense soil frost, which formed in spruce woodland and grassland communities where snow depth was shallow. Results suggest conditions conductive to erosion by water are most likely to occur during winter warm spells and in spring in vegetation types where snow cover is low or ephemeral. Threefold increases in TIRs occurred one year after livestock grazing was discontinued, suggesting Andisols are hydrologically resilient where vegetation cover is relatively continuous and soil organic carbon content is high.
10.2307/1552217| This study documents the characteristics of upper montane forests within Cotacachi-Cayapas Ecological Reserve, a protected area in northern Ecuador. On Cotacachi Volcano, there are remnants of forest vegetation extending from about 3650 m down to a crater lake at 3150 m. We examined these forests at four sites located within a deep ravine; the forests were sampled with 50  10 m inventory plots placed at 100 m elevation intervals between 3630 and 3330 m. We noted changes in vegetation composition and structure along the altitudinal gradient, as well as variation in these parameters with distance from the forest edge. There were important differences in structure and composition with elevation, but some were unexpected and appear to be related to the influences of past anthropogenic disturbances. For example, the trees at the higher elevations were taller and more massive, suggesting they had not been cut or burned by escaped grassland fires, processes known to have occurred at lower elevations. Little evidence of edge effect was documented within the plots, which is expected if deforestation has converted most of the forest into edge habitat. These patterns may be typical of other remnant forests in the Andes, and provide a basis for understanding the nature of human impact on Andean forests. 
10.2307/1552415|We measured CO<sub>2</sub> flux, soil organic matter, and soil microbial biomass carbon in six high arctic tundra communities near Thule, Greenland, in July 1997, including polar desert, polar semidesert, and polar oasis ecosystems. Three of the four polar desert sites were in a contiguous toposequence originating at the receding margin of the Greenland ice cap and extending away from the ice approximately 400 m. The other sites ranged from 3 to 12 km from the ice margin. We measured net ecosystem CO<sub>2</sub> uptake in the polar desert ecosystem most distance from the ice sheet (1.2 g CO<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>) and in the polar semidesert ecosystem (0.3 g CO<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>), but net CO<sub>2</sub> loss in the polar oasis site and the three polar desert sites in the toposequence. Ecosystem respiration tended to be greatest in the ecosystems that have apparently been ice-free the longest, with efflux rates up to 3.7 g CO<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>. In the toposequence, soil organic matter was greatest adjacent to the icecap (3.10%) and decreased to 0.93% is the polar desert site 400 m from the ice. The polar semidesert and polar oases sites had 2.67 and 3.83% soil organic matter, respectively. Soil microbial biomass carbon ranged from about 1 mg C g<sup>-1</sup> soil in the polar oasis ecosystem to about 0.2 mg C g<sup>-1</sup> soil in one of the polar desert ecosystems but did not follow the patterns we found for soil organic matter. Our findings substantiate other recent studies showing significant CO<sub>2</sub> flux between high arctic ecosystems and the atmosphere, and suggest that carbon exchange in these systems merit consideration in circumarctic estimates of carbon flux.
20181736|Twelve profiles of alpine soils associated with well-developed, but currently inactive, sorted polygons were investigated in the Uinta Mountains of northeastern Utah. The summit upland in the Uintas does not appear to have been glaciated, and these soils are considerably older than those located in lower elevation glacial valleys. Profiles of soils from the polygon centers reveal a dark, organic-rich surface horizon developed in loamy loess overlying a series of redder, sandy B horizons locally exhibiting strongly developed platey structure and pockets of coarser sediment. Irregular and broken horizons at depth reflect extensive cryoturbation during episodes when the sorted polygons are active. Overall morphology and profile quantities of weathering products in these soils are similar to those previously reported for alpine tundra soils in the Uintas; however, the cryoturbated horizons are limited to soils in the patterned ground. A developmental model for these soils emphasizes the combined role of pedogenic processes operating during interglaciations (accumulation of organic matter and loess, translocation of silt and clay, chemical weathering) and periods of cryoturbation (distortion of horizons, redistribution of weathering products within the solum). Outstanding questions include the timing and relative duration of cryoturbation episodes, the timing of loess deposition, and the overall age of the soils.
40801761|A description is presented of the nearshore benthic community of Kasatochi Island 10-12 months after a catastrophic volcanic eruption in 2008. The eruption extended the coastline of the island approximately 400 m offshore, mainly along the south, southeast, and southwest shores, to roughly the 20 m isobath. Existing canopy kelp of Eualaria (Alaria) fistulosa, as well as limited understory algal species and associated fauna (e.g., urchin barrens) on the hard substratum were apparently buried following the eruption. Samples and observations revealed the substrate around the island in 2009 was comprised almost entirely of medium and coarse sands with a depauperate benthic community, dominated by opportunistic pontogeneiid amphipods. Comparisons of habitat and biological communities with other nearby Aleutian Islands, as well as with the Icelandic volcanic island of Surtsey, confirm dramatic reductions in flora and fauna consistent with an early stage of recovery from a large-scale disturbance event.
20181719|Methanotrophy (the bacterial oxidation of CH) in soils is the major biological sink for atmospheric CH. Here we present results from a study designed to quantify the role of the physical diffusion barrier to CH, through surface soils, as a factor affecting methanotrophy. We used the mountain birch forest-tundra heath ecotone in subarctic northern Sweden as our study system. Our results show that, although CH fluxes were generally low (around -20 mol mh; a net flux from atmosphere to soil), the two adjacent communities responded in contrasting ways to in situ experimental reduction of the diffusion barrier (removal of the top 50 mm of soil): Uptake increased by 40% in forest soil in association with the removal, whereas it decreased marginally (by 10%) in tundra heath. Investigations of the depth-distribution of CH oxidation in vitro revealed maximum rates at the top of the mineral soil for the forest site, whereas at the tundra heath this was more evenly spread throughout the organic horizon. The contrasting physicochemical properties and methanotroph activity in the organic horizons together explain the contrasting responses to the removal treatment. They also illustrate the potential role of vegetation for methane oxidation around this ecotone, exerted through its influence on the depth and properties of the organic horizons in these subarctic soils.
20181846|Using the High Sudetes as an example, we examined whether the position of the alpine treeline is in fact related to the heat load of the site, and whether the temperatures of the air and soil change along slopes with differing exposure to solar radiation. We hypothesized that if there are really strong exposure effects they must be expressed both in significant correlations between treeline elevation and heat load of respective sites and in distinct differences in root zone and tree top temperatures. We found that the highest positions of the alpine treeline were situated in places with the potentially highest heat load. Nevertheless, only weak exposure effects on the soil temperatures during the growing season were detected, both in the closed forest and in the tree groups. Further, air temperatures near the terminal shoots varied significantly less than soil temperatures; however, the margins of the closed forest were especially more favorable at the south-facing slopes. Winter soil temperatures did not seem to be generally more advantageous on sites with high heat load. Direct temperature measurements thus indicated that established positions of the alpine treeline are just slightly influenced by differences in heat load.
41416436|About 5.6% of the drainage area of the Tanana River, Alaska, is covered by mountainous glacierized regions, and most of the other area by forests (51%) and wetlands (9%) with discontinuous permafrost. The water discharge and sediment load from glacierized and non-glacierized regions within the drainage area were represented by observed data of the proglacial Phelan Creek and the non-glacial Chena River, respectively, which are both the tributaries of the Tanana River and ultimately drain to the Yukon river basin. In the glacier-melt periods of 2007 and 2008, the runoff rate and suspended sediment concentration in Phelan Creek was 15 times and 36 times as high as those in the non-glacial Chena River, respectively. As a result, the mean sediment yield in the glacier-melt periods of 2007 and 2008 for Phelan Creek (24.8 t km day) was estimated to be 640 times as high as that in the Chena River (0.039 t km day). Hence, the glacierized regions were considered to be a major source of the fluvial sediment. In order to quantify the contribution of water discharge and sediment load from the glacierized regions to those of the Tanana River, the time series of water discharge, Q, and sediment load, L, in the glacier-melt periods were simulated by a tank model coupled with the L-Q equations (Nash-Sutcliffe efficiency coefficients, 0.41 to 0.82). The model indicates that the glacier-melt discharge accounted for 26-57% of the Tanana discharge, while the sediment load from the glacierized regions solely accounted for 76-94% of the Tanana sediment load. The remaining contribution (6-24%) of the sediment load was probably due to the fluvial resuspension of glacial sediment deposited previously in the river channels.
24551602|Identifying the factors controlling tree mortality is key to understanding the effects of ongoing global change on treeline movement and species composition. One potentially significant but little studied factor that impacts the formation of treelines is mortality caused by snow fungi. We studied the mortality patterns of Pinus cembra, a typical treeline species of the Central Alps of Switzerland, in two plantations located on opposite slopes of the Dischma valley (Northeast [NE] and Southwest [SW]) above the current treeline. In 1975, 33,000 P. cembra trees were planted at the NE site and 550 trees at the smaller SW site. All trees have been periodically monitored for survival since then. After 30 years, only ca. 5% of all P. cembra trees survived in both plantations. Two species of pathogenic snow fungus, Gremmeniella abietina and Phacidium infestans, were major mortality agents for saplings. High rates of infection by Gremmeniella corresponded to late snowmelt and high ratios of rainfall to temperature. High rates of infection by Phacidium corresponded to earlier snowmelt and were spatially associated with P. cembra mature trees that had been present in the area before the time of planting. We provide experimental evidence that snow fungi are a primary cause of sapling tree mortality at treeline. Although additional evidence from different geographic regions and more natural treeline distributions is needed, our results suggest that the prevalence of snow fungi may prevent establishment of trees above the current treeline at present, and under future climate scenarios.
40801760|Kasatochi Island, home to a rich community of largely marine-dependent fauna, erupted with little warning on 7-8 August 2008 and buried the island under up to 30 m of tephra. We visited the island during the summer of 2009 to examine the effects of the eruption on local wildlife. The abundance of sea lions and many seabird species in 2009 was comparable to pre-eruption estimates, suggesting that adult mortality was low for these species. In contrast, shorebirds and passerines formerly breeding on the island were not observed in 2009 and probably perished in the eruption. The largest direct effect of the eruption to individual animals was probably mortality of chicks, with an estimated total 20,000-40,000 young birds lost. Indirect effects on wildlife consisted of loss of foraging habitat for species that relied on former terrestrial, intertidal, or nearshore-subtidal habitat and the near-total destruction of all former nesting habitats for most species. Although several species attempted to breed in 2009, all except Steller's sea lions failed due to lack of suitable breeding sites. The recovery of wildlife at Kasatochi will depend on erosion of the tephra layer blanketing the island to re-expose former breeding habitat.
24551719|We compared in three shallow Alaskan Arctic lakes physical properties of bulk sediment and the fine-scale (1 mm increments to 20 mm sediment depth) vertical distribution of dissolved O2, scalar irradiance, chlorophyll a, and radiocarbon assimilation by microphytobenthos to better understand the structural and functional significance of this community. Sediments showed water contents of 8698%, and dry bulk densities of 0.0120.146 g cm3, depending on depth. Chlorophyll a displayed no clear vertical pattern, suggesting mixing of surface layers and showed lakewise averages of 5.123.7 g cm3. Sediments were oxic to 1.55.5 mm and showed attenuation coefficients of 1.172.07 mm1 for photon scalar irradiance. Photosynthetic activity was localized near the sediment surface, as 5781% of H14CO3 added to intact cores was recovered in the 02 mm zone. Only 2644% of the chlorophyll a in vertical profiles was sited in the euphotic zone, but microphytobenthos in underlying, aphotic sediments immediately photosynthesized at or near rates for the surface sediment when artificially irradiated. Area-based chlorophyll a in the euphotic plus photosynthetically capable aphotic microphytobenthos was 62105 times higher than that of the phytoplankton, pointing to the potential importance of benthic autotrophs to Arctic lake food webs.
4139103|Bilchenok Glacier is a surging glacier in the Kamchatka Peninsula, Russia, which most recently surged in 1982 and is currently in its quiescent phase. Field research in 1998 revealed an ogive-like repeated pattern of transverse ridges and intervening gently sloping ice at the surface of the ablation area of this glacier. It was also observed that most of the glacial surface was covered by volcanic rocks and ash, and the debris thickness on the ridges was more than 1 m, whereas the gently sloping ice was covered by thin debris. We posit that the pattern of the debris thickness is caused by the unique conditions of Bilchenok Glacier, namely, the restricted position of its debris supply at the foot of the rock walls beside the icefall and its surging behavior. The distance between the ridges might indicate the total horizontal displacement attributable to surges. The dependence of the ablation rate on the debris thickness can result in a highly undulating ice surface between the ridge and the gently sloping ice. We estimate the effect of the debris thickness on the ice surface profile using a simple model and this model successfully predicts that high ice relief can be caused by different ablation rates in the debris cover thickness.
4095946|Pollination ecology and habitat preference of Pedicularis species were studied in a transitional zone between subalpine coniferous forests and alpine meadows in north-western Sichuan of China. Pedicularis species exhibited apparent preferences for different microhabitats. Species with long rostrate and contorted galea were nectarless and their mean corolla tube length ranged from 7 to 50 mm while species without long rostrate and contorted galea produced nectar and their corolla tube length averaged from 8 to 18 mm. Bumblebees were the sole pollinators of the studied species and five bee species pollinated seven Pedicularis species with one species pollinating all the Pedicularis species. Pollinators that visited nectariferous species had longer tongues than those that visited nectarless species and they spent longer time on nectariferous than on nectarless species. All Pedicularis species except for P. rex subsp. lipskyana were pollinated by worker bees. Pedicularis rex subsp. lipskyana was pollinated nototribically by worker, male and queen bumblebees through stigmatic contact with residual pollen on the left side of the bee's head. Morphology of pollinators, rather than pollinator species, may play the key role in diversification of Pedicularis. Microhabitats rather than pollination may be the separation barrier in propagation. Factors contributing to high diversity of Pedicularis need further study.
10.2307/1552447|Carbon and peat accumulation rates over the past 1200 yr were measured in relation to permafrost aggradation, maturity, ground fires, and degradation in a peatland with discontinuous permafrost near Fort Simpson, N.W.T., Canada. The White River volcanic ash layer, deposited 1200 yr ago, was used as a chronostratigraphic marker to compare peat and carbon accumulation among peat cores collected along transects over a consistent period of time. The aggradation of permafrost results in a change from unfrozen bog to forested peat plateau, and approximate decreases of 50 and 65% in carbon and vertical peat accumulation rates, respectively. Carbon and peat accumulation continue to decrease significantly with both increasing permafrost maturity and the number of ground fires. The transition from peat plateau to collapse bog through internal permafrost degradation results in up to a 72 and 200% increase in carbon and vertical peat accumulation rates, respectively. Permafrost degradation at the margins of a peat plateau can result in the formation of collapse fens, in which vertical peat accumulation increases significantly yet the carbon accumulation rates remain similar to the peat plateau. A warming climate may result in a shift towards higher carbon accumulation rates in peatlands associated with bog vegetation following peat plateau collapse, yet warmer peat temperatures, greater soil aeration, greater rates of peat decomposition, and an increase in burning may provide limits to the increase.
25642079|Several members of the subgenus Amphilaena (Saussurea; Asteraceae) growing at high elevations in the Himalayan region have semi-translucent bracts covering their inflorescences, the function of which is not fully understood. We investigated the thermal benefits of these bracts in Saussurea velutina in situ in the Hengduan Mountains, SW China, and compared the reflectance spectra and anatomical characters of bracts and rosette leaves in the laboratory. After removal of bracts in the field the average inflorescence daytime temperature was 2.5 C colder than in control plants with intact bracts. Manually opened treatment inflorescences grew slower and set significantly fewer seeds than control inflorescences with bracts intact. The mesophyll of bracts is a single cell layer with a lower reflectance in the infrared range than rosette leaves. We show that the semi-translucent bracts in S. velutina function to ensure warmer temperatures for floral and seed development at high elevations in the Hengduan Mountains.
4095842| Proglacial areas in the Alps usually cover a time span of deglaciation of about 150 years (time since the end of the "Little Ice Age" in the 1850s). In these proglacial areas soils have started to develop. In view of the foreseeable climate change, the time factor is of growing interest with respect to the landscape and consequently the soil development. We investigated soil changes (primarily on the basis of soil types) in the proglacial area Morteratsch (Swiss Alps) to derive time trends that can be used as a basis for spatial modeling. Differences in the soil development could be primarily interpreted in view of the time scale and topography (landscape shape, slope, aspect). Data was managed with GIS and regression analyses. Input data sets were the digital soil map, the glacial states, and the digital elevation model. The calculations were done raster based (GRID, 20 m resolution). After about 20 years the first signs of soil development could be found. Around 25% of the area of the valley floor is covered with weakly developed Skeletic/Lithic Leptosol after about 30 years of deglaciation. One hundred years of soil development led to a strong decrease of the Skeletic/Lithic Leptosol in favor of the Humi-Skeletic Leptosol and Ranker. Fluvisols and Cambisols play a subordinate role also after 100-150 years. Undisturbed and fast soil evolution was measured in flat positions and on slopes up to about 14. In general, the various landforms also correlated well with soil evolution. One of the most surprising facts was that the weathering between south- and north-facing sites differed distinctly, with the north-facing sites having the higher weathering rates. Soil moisture seems to be a decisive factor in weathering. Thicker snow packs probably inhibit or reduce soil frost and allow larger fluxes of snowmelt water to infiltrate into already moist profiles. Slope, exposure and to a lesser extent also the landform determined the soil development: these influences could be quantified using regression analyses. These analyses serve as a basis for further spatio-temporal modeling. 
20181746|Annual accumulation records covering the period A.D. 1952-1998 were reconstructed using a 29.5-m ice core from the col of the Lanong Glacier (5850 m a.s.l.) on the eastern saddle of Mt. Nyainqentanglha, southern Tibetan Plateau. Using NCEP/NCAR Reanalysis data, we explore the relationships between this ice-core accumulation record and primary components of the climate system. Linear correlation analysis between annual accumulation and climate components for the 47-yr overlap period indicates that annual accumulation variations are closely correlated with sea-surface and 500-mb air temperature over the North Indian Ocean and atmospheric circulation (surface pressure and geopotential height) over Asia (r &gt; 0.34, P &lt; 0.01). An intensification of atmospheric circulation and increase of sea-surface and air temperatures, resulting in intensified moisture availability and moisture transport, have been a major cause for the increase of ice-core accumulation over the Mt. Nyainquentanglha region since the 1980s.
10.2307/1552218| Growth and development of two populations of Phleum alpinum L. from South Georgia (5420S) and the Rondane Mountains in Norway (6142N) were studied in controlled environment in order to test the feasibility of transequatorial migration of this bipolar species. The South Georgia population flowered more sparsely, but had much higher vegetative reproduction capacity than the Rondane population. Both had an obligatory low temperature and/or short day (SD) requirement for inflorescence initiation. Although heading and inflorescence development were enhanced by long days (LD) and higher temperature, neither population had any obligatory LD requirement for flowering. No adaptation in the flowering requirements would thus have been required for a step by step migration of this bipolar species on mountain tops across the equator. Relative growth rate (RGR) and dry matter production per plant were stimulated by LD in both populations, despite reduction in photosynthetic capacity and chlorophyll content compared with SD conditions. The main driving force for increased production in LD was LD-stimulation of individual and total leaf area which more than compensated for reduced photosynthesis per unit leaf area. Relative growth rate, photosynthetic capacity, and chlorophyll content were less in South Georgia than Rondane plants, while specific leaf area and shoot/root ratio were higher in the former. Chlorophyll a/b ratios were always higher in South Georgia than Rondane plants while they increased markedly with decreasing temperature, and were always higher under SD than LD conditions in both population. Possible consequences for photosystem acclimation are discussed. 
23359383|In this study, we use the coupled photosynthesis-stomatal conductance model of Collatz et al. (1991) to simulate the current canopy carbon dioxide exchange of a heterogeneous tundra ecosystem in European Russia. For the parameterization, we used data obtained from in situ leaf level measurements in combination with meteorological data from 2008. The modeled CO 2 fluxes were compared with net ecosystem exchange (NEE), measured by the eddy covariance technique during the snow-free period in 2008. The findings from this study indicated that the main state parameters of the exchange processes were leaf area index (LAI) and Rubisco capacity (V cmax ). Furthermore, this ecosystem was found to be functioning close to its optimum temperature regarding carbon accumulation rates. During the modeling period from May to October, the net assimilation was greater than the respiration, leading to a net accumulation of 58 g C m -2 . The model results suggest that the tundra ecosystem could change from a carbon sink to a carbon source with a temperature rise of only 23 C. This is due to the fact that, in the continental Arctic, a global warming of a few degrees might restrict the net assimilation, due to high temperatures, whereas the respiration is predicted to be enhanced. However, future changes in vegetation composition and growth, along with acclimation to the new thermal regime, might facilitate the assimilation to counterbalance the carbon losses.
1552174| The effects of ultraviolet radiation on plant frost hardiness were studied at two subarctic experimental sites, namely Abisko (northern Sweden, 68N) and Sodankyl (northern Finland, 67N). The Abisko treatment mimicked 15% ozone depletion and had been running for 7 yr. The investigated plant species was bilberry (Vaccinium myrtillus L.). The Sodankyl treatment consisted of lingonberry (V. vitis-idaea) and seedlings of mountain birch (Betula pubescens ssp. czerepanovii), which were exposed to both elevated UV-B and UV-A radiation in a modulated system corresponding to about 20% loss of the ozone layer. The frost hardiness tests in the Sodankyl experiment were carried out after UV exposure for one growing season. The frost hardiness of bilberry in Abisko was marginally decreased as a consequence of elevated UV-B exposure similarly to the frost hardiness of lingonberry and mountain birch in the Sodankyl experiment in August. The work provides evidence for rather than against a reducing effect of ultraviolet radiation on plant frost hardiness. The results suggest that elevated UV-A radiation probably reduces plant frost hardiness more efficiently than UV-B radiation. 
4095875|Alpine lakes are often highly transparent to ultraviolet (UV) wavelengths, which has led to the suggestion that a deep chlorophyll maximum (DCM) results in these systems from UV avoidance by phytoplankton. However, an alternative explanation is that the formation of the DCM is primarily driven by greater nutrient availability below the thermocline in these oligotrophic systems. We investigated the location of the chlorophyll maximum over spatial and temporal scales in a set of high-elevation lakes in the Beartooth Mountains (Montana/Wyoming). The position of the DCM was compared to a suite of physical and chemical variables across systems. Chlorophyll was strongly correlated to a suite of nitrogen variables, whereas correlations with UV parameters were not consistently observed. We also conducted an experiment with the natural phytoplankton assemblage from the DCM in Beartooth Lake; both UV exposure and nutrient additions were tested in a factorial design. The UV-exposed treatment and the control had the same final total phytoplankton biovolume, while the nutrient addition treatment had a final biovolume ten times as great. These results suggest that, as in other oligotrophic aquatic systems, greater nutrient availability in the hypolimnion leads to the development of the DCM in alpine lakes.
20181742|The Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) derived from NOAA AVHRR Global Vegetation Index (GVI) for Lhasa area in the central Tibetan Plateau from 1985 to 1999 and its relationship with climate conditions (precipitation and temperature) are established in this study. Climate data from the Lhasa meteorological station provided by the Tibet Climate Data Center are used for this analysis. The NDVI-derived vegetation growth patterns show very strong seasonal cycles and interannual variations. The growing season length varies between years. The correlation between NDVI and precipitation (r = 0.75, P &lt; 0.01) in Lhasa area is higher than the correlation between NDVI and temperature (r = 0.63, P &lt; 0.01), suggesting that NDVI is more sensitive to precipitation than temperature in this semiarid climate zone. Furthermore, the time series of NDVI demonstrate a positive trend from 1985 to 1999, which means that the vegetation biomass present on land surface is increasing. This trend is strongly correlated to increased rainfall and temperature from mid-1980s to 1990s in the Lhasa area of the Tibetan Plateau.
4095846|We studied the diurnal activity patterns of the African ice rat Otomys sloggetti robertsi, a murid rodent endemic to the harsh alpine and sub-alpine habitats of southern Africa. The taxon is poorly adapted physiologically to cold conditions, and we investigated whether the activity of free-living O. s. robertsi is modified by prevailing environmental conditions. O. s. robertsi displayed a bimodal diurnal activity profile in summer, retreating into underground burrows during the middle of the day when ambient temperatures and solar radiation levels were at their highest. In contrast, during winter, O. s. robertsi displayed a unimodal activity profile by spending most of the day foraging aboveground and extending its foraging bouts for about half an hour after sunset. More time was spent foraging than basking in winter compared to summer. Levels of foraging decreased and levels of basking increased during periods of snow cover, although runways beneath the snow could have provided access routes to foraging areas. O. s. robertsi activity is dictated by environmental conditions seasonally, time of the day, and the absence or presence of snow, and the taxon responds to these conditions by trading off between behaviors critical for meeting thermoregulatory requirements.
10.2307/1552526|Grazing activities and densities of muskoxen in Sverdrup Pass, Central Ellesmere Island, were investigated by use of an automatic camera monitoring system from May to August, 1987 and by direct observation from March to May 1988. Average seasonal density of muskoxen was 6.4  1.9 (S.E.M.) animals  km<sup>-2</sup> resulting in an average of 48.3  5.1 (S.E.M.) % of available shoots grazed in meadow stands. These figures far surpass previous estimates of density or impact of muskoxen in the High Arctic. It shows that in some high arctic plant communities herbivores can reach high densities and have a high impact, even though aerial survey counts of large areas indicate low average animal densities. Muskoxen selected wet and mesic meadow communities between April and August, except in late June and late July of 1987, when willow herb fields were chosen. In March and early April of 1988 muskoxen grazed valley slopes with little snow cover and little vegetation. In total, 82.8% of the grazing time between 18 May and 18 August 1987, was spent in meadows, despite the fact that these communities covered only 31% of the study area. Muskoxen were therefore highly selective grazers.
20181765|Mammalian herbivores in arctic tundra often alter plant species composition and lichen abundance, with effects dependent on grazing season and herbivore preference. We investigated how long-term mammal exclosures designed to exclude large mammals (caribou) alone, large and medium-sized mammals (e.g., ground squirrels), or all mammals (including voles and lemmings) affected lichen abundance and species composition as well as the vascular plant community. The exclosures were partly established in combination with long-term soil nutrient additions to investigate the interaction between mammal activity and nutrient availability. Our study was conducted in dry heath tundra in northern Alaska, dominated by dwarf evergreen shrubs and lichens. Excluding mammals for 17 years allowed the lichen community to increase in biomass, particularly within the genus Cladonia, which also had more intrageneric diversity in the exclosures; after 10 years, results were subtler. Fertilization, however, almost eliminated the lichens, regardless of herbivore treatment. This coincided with a dramatic shift in vascular vegetation toward a more palatable grass-dominated community, similar to studies of other arctic heaths. Our results suggest that with greater soil nutrient availability that occurs with climate warming, lichens will decrease in abundance, and this effect may be exacerbated by increased mammalian herbivory.
20181717|Fresh snow samples were collected following seven snow accumulation events along an altitudinal transect of the Robertson Valley. This glacierized valley is on the eastern slopes of the Canadian Rockies at the Continental Divide and receives precipitation from both westerly (Pacific) air masses and from easterly (upslope) systems. Snow samples were collected over two winter seasons and were analyzed for O, revealing altitudinal gradients that ranged from -0.3/100 m to +1.8/100 m. Five of seven snow events had positive (inverse) isotopic gradients with altitude: O enrichment at higher altitudes. Surface and upper-air meteorological data were analyzed to classify the type of weather systems bringing precipitation to the area for each accumulation event. Three storm classifications were developed: westerly, upslope, and mixed/ northwesterly systems. Positive O-elevation gradients were found under strong westerly and northwesterly flow, when the Robertson Valley acts as a leeward slope, while more conventional negative gradients correspond with upslope flow, when easterly winds make the Robertson Valley a windward snow deposition environment. We interpret the inverse isotopic gradients as evidence of ongoing Rayleigh distillation as westerly systems cross the Continental Divide. Position on the Rayleigh distillation curve had a strong influence on the magnitude of O-elevation gradients.
40962404|We studied sexual segregation in an endangered alpine ungulate, Sierra Nevada bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis sierrae) in the Sierra Nevada, California, U.S.A., during winter 2005-2006. We tested hypotheses for sexual segregation to better understand that phenomenon and to obtain information critical for the conservation of these rare mammals. Females foraged in larger groups that were closer to escape terrain than did males. Areas used by males had higher biomass of vegetation and were less open than areas used by females. Males foraged more efficiently in larger groups, whereas females foraged more efficiently when close to escape terrain. Females exhibited a higher bite rate than did males. Males traveled farther per day and in more open terrain than did females. Sexes of bighorn sheep also differed in their dietary niches. Those niches differed most where sexes of bighorn sheep overlapped more in spatial distribution, and differed less where spatial separation was more pronounced. These outcomes are most parsimoniously explained by the gastrocentric and prdation hypotheses. In addition, sexes of bighorn sheep behaved as if they were separate species by exhibiting avoidance on one niche axis (space) when there was overlap on another axis (diet). Management and conservation plans must consider the disparate requirements of males and females to help assure the viability of these endangered mountain ungulates.
40305840|Snowpack evolution and glacier ice surface temperatures were studied on the Indren glacier (Northwestern Alps, Italy) under different meteorological conditions: in winter 2002-2003, rich in snow from the beginning of the season, and in winter 2005-2006, poor in snow until February. Periodical snow profiles were made to measure the physical properties of snow, while data loggers measured the snow/ice interface temperature. Furthermore, in winter 2002-2003, the influence on the snowpack evolution of an artificial increase in the snow density was evaluated. During the season rich in snow there was a prevalence of rounded crystals originated by melt-freeze metamorphism, while in the season poor in snow depth hoar and faceted crystals prevailed, due to the higher temperature gradient. From these two winter seasons, it appeared that a deep snow cover of at least 100 cm was able to maintain the snow/ice temperature at around -5C until the snow cover reached isothermal conditions, whereas, during the winter of 2005-2006, the shallow depth of snow did not allow basal temperature to reach an equilibrium value and the snow/ice interface temperature oscillated between -2 and -8C. The altered snow density had no effect on the snow/ice interface temperature, whereas it caused a delay in the time of reaching isothermal conditions, thus allowing snow cover on the glacier to persist longer.
1552159| Pine latewood width, density, and stable carbon isotope ratios were measured at two sites, separated in altitude by 400 m, close to the forest limit on a south-facing slope in the western French Alps. The signal to noise ratio in the 13C series from each site is higher than that of either of the growth proxies. When the sites are combined, the high-frequency climate signal in the 13C series is enhanced, whereas in both the ring width and density series it is weakened. Because regional climate dominates over local site conditions, 13C ratios from long pine chronologies will provide a better indicator of past climate than either ring widths or densities. At dry Alpine sites, 13C values are controlled mainly by stomatal conductance, which is linked to summer moisture stress and thus antecedent precipitation. 
20181754|The soil thermal regime of the Tibetan Plateau is modeled by applying a one-dimensional heat transfer model with phase change. The two main forcing variables are surface air temperature, from the ERA-40 reanalysis, and snow depth, derived from passive microwave satellite data. Daily fields of soil temperature are simulated, ranging from the soil surface down to 30 m depth, and the horizontal grid cell resolution is 25 km  25 km. Results are presented for three different soil moisture regimes. The trend analysis is based on daily fields of active-layer depth (ALD) for the period January 1980 through December 2001. Significant positive ALD trends for all Tibetan permafrost regions are simulated in response to positive air temperature trends, with the strongest trend for the northern Tibetan Plateau (+1.4 cm yr). Significant trends can reach +4 cm yr locally. The day of year when ALD was reached shows strong interannual variation, and significant trends occur for smaller areas than for ALD. As an application, the active-layer deepening is presented along the tracks of the Qinghai-Tibet railroad line that has recently been completed.
41240405|For numerous climate studies, snowpack density is used to determine snow water equivalent from snow depth (or the reverse) or to determine snow surface albedo through the characterization of aging snow covers. In addition, high spring snowpack water content (and thus density) can act as a catalyst for wet avalanches. Surprisingly, there are few empirical studies that focus on spring snowpack density. In this study, spring snowpack densities in the western United States are statistically related to four variables that characterize the antecedent winter conditions: (1) mean air temperature for days without snowfall, (2) the fraction of precipitation falling as snow, (3) total precipitation, and (4) mean snowfall density. Areal composite regression analysis for the western United States indicates a highly significant (p = 0.005) positive relationship between winter precipitation total and April 1 snowpack density. This relationship weakens in lower elevation regions and coastal regions where warmer winter temperatures are conducive to more frequent rain events and melt events which affect snowpack density and ablate snow cover. These empirical results are supported by a simple snowpack model. The significant positive relationship between precipitation and density is likely due to increased densification rates through gravitational compaction from the presence of greater snow water equivalent resulting from more snowfall.
20181739|The Uinta Mountains form a crossroads of forests and woodlands in the central Rocky Mountains. Although no tree species is endemic to the area, all species characteristic of the central Rocky Mountains are found there, and the ranges of several other species terminate in the Uinta Mountains and the surrounding area. The peninsula-like shape, east-west orientation, and complex terrain of the range create a wide variety of potential forest sites that contrast with other ranges in the central Rockies. As a result, the Uinta Mountains are home to sites of unexpectedly high tree species diversity. Throughout most of the range, vegetation is organized in predictable zones that are characteristic of the Intermountain West; the range exhibits excellent vegetation zonation. However, across much of the northern slope several important species are absent, resulting in unexpectedly low diversity and "missing" vegetation zones. In this paper we provide an overview of the forest ecology and biogeography of the Uinta Mountains and update the local model for vegetation zonation. We also consider some possible explanations for the unexpected vegetation patterns and identify opportunities for future research.
10.2307/1552603|Recent high-resolution meteorological data from the Pennines of northern England are used to study temporal variation in surface temperature lapse rates. A regression approach uncovers significant relationships between lapse rates and solar input, mean temperature, vertical mixing (modeled through wind speed), and atmospheric moisture (specific and relative humidity). Prediction of lapse rates is successful, especially during spring, summer, and autumn, with mean r<sup>2</sup> above 0.66 (66%). Lapse rates are shallower for higher mean temperatures and for a moister atmosphere, but steeper under increased daytime solar input. At night windy conditions increase lapse rate. In addition, synoptic influences upon lapse rate are investigated. The diurnal lapse rate cycle increases under anticyclonic influences and when flow strength is weak. Southerly airflows have shallower lapse rates. Application of the above to consider possible climate change suggests that lapse rates should be shallower in a warmer moister atmosphere, but that synoptic controls are equally influential.
40305841|An experiment was conducted in arctic tundra to evaluate the role of reindeer grazing, trampling, and feces and urine deposition in nutrient turnover and primary production. Grazing was simulated by mowing, trampling by the impact of a wooden pole, and waste product deposition by the application of fertilizer. In the first year, aboveground primary production increased with simulated grazing in the fertilized plots and decreased with simulated grazing in the unfertilized plots; this indicates a higher regrowth capacity at higher nutrient levels. However, nitrogen mineralization and primary production were mainly determined by the input or removal of nutrients and, therefore, decreased in plots that were grazed but not fertilized and increased in plots that were fertilized but not grazed. Simulated trampling decreased the depth of the moss layer and increased soil temperatures, but the higher temperatures increased N mineralization only in unmowed plots, and the increased nitrogen availability was not translated into increased primary production. Since aboveground and belowground net primary production in plots with simulated grazing was the same as in plots without simulated animal activity, this study indicates that an entire trophic level can be supported with no apparent effect on primary production.
4095847|An extensive suite of physical oceanographic, remotely sensed, and water quality measurements, collected from 2001 through 2004 in two ice-marginal lakes at Bering Glacier, Alaska-Berg Lake and Vitus Lake-show that each has a unique circulation controlled by their specific physical forcing within the glacial system. Conductivity profiles from Berg Lake, perched 135 m a.s.l., show no salt in the lake, but the temperature profiles indicate an apparently unstable situation, the 4 C density maximum is located at 10 m depth, not at the bottom of the lake (90 m depth). Subglacial discharge from the Steller Glacier into the bottom of the lake must inject a suspended sediment load sufficient to marginally stabilize the water column throughout the lake. In Vitus Lake, terminus positions derived from satellite imagery show that the glacier terminus rapidly retreated from 1995 to the present resulting in a substantial expansion of the volume of Vitus Lake. Conductivity and temperature profiles from the tidally influenced Vitus Lake show a complex four-layer system with diluted (~50%) seawater in the bottom of the lake. This lake has a complex vertical structure that is the result of convection generated by ice melting in salt water, stratification within the lake, and freshwater entering the lake from beneath the glacier and surface runoff. Four consecutive years, from 2001 to 2004, of these observations in Vitus Lake show little change in the deep temperature and salinity conditions, indicating limited deep water renewal. The combination of the lake level measurements with discharge measurements, through a tidal cycle, by an acoustic Doppler Current Profiler (ADCP) deployed in the Seal River, which drains the entire Bering system, showed a strong tidal influence but no seawater entry into Vitus Lake. The ADCP measurements combined with lake level measurements established a relationship between lake level and discharge, which when integrated over a tidal cycle, gives a tidally averaged discharge ranging from 1310 to
41240418|The hydrological and geomorphic functioning of high-mountain catchments is heavily influenced by snow accumulation and melt processes, which condition the timing and characteristics of discharges, solute outputs, and suspended sediment and bedload transport. We report here the transport of suspended sediment and solutes during the snowmelt period in a small experimental catchment in the subalpine belt of the Central Spanish Pyrenees. The seasonality of hydrological and sediment responses throughout the year was investigated using daily data of discharge, suspended sediment transport and solute outputs of the hydrological years 2003/2004 and 2005/2006. The study demonstrated the importance of the snowmelt period in terms of runoff production, and solute and suspended sediment yield: whereas precipitation during the snowmelt period (2-2.5 months) represented 10-13% of annual precipitation, discharge and suspended sediment transport accounted for up to 50% and 60%, respectively, and solute output approximately 40-50%. Solute transport dominated throughout the snowmelt period, whereas suspended sediment transport mostly occurred during the second phase of the snowmelt period (June), when an expanding area of the catchment was free from snow. The moderate daily increases in discharge, which were related to day-night temperature fluctuations, were insufficient to transport bedload material. Hourly data were used for preliminary assessment of the relationships among discharge, suspended sediment, and solute concentration, which provided insights into sediment sources and delivery mechanisms. Thus, during snowmelt-related events, the sediment mobilized was most probably derived from areas near or within the channel. In contrast, during events involving both snowmelt and rainfall, the gully system near the divide contributed to sediment load. The solute concentration was inversely related to water discharge, with higher concentrations during the first half of the snowmelt period (May) than during the second half (June). The results of this study demonstrate the key role of snow accumulation and melting processes in controlling the hydrological dynamics and patterns of particulate and solute mobilization in high-mountain environments. Future changes in snow volume and duration will affect the timing of snowmeltrelated spring high flows, as well as soil erosion and transport.
4139117|The optimum pH of two species of snow algae from Upstate New York were assessed by studying three axenic strains of Chloromonas tughillensis in a pH range of 3.0-7.0 and three non-axenic strains of Cr. chenangoensis in a pH range of 3.0-8.0. Growth was examined at 0.5 pH intervals. Cell counts at the termination of the experiments differed among strains and among pH intervals in individual strains for both species, and strains of Cr. tughillensis responded differently to changes in pH (p <0.001) while strains of Cr. chenangoensis did not (p=0.193). Cell counts and absorbance data for Cr. tughillensis indicated an optimum pH of 4.9-6.1 using regression analysis. Strains of Cr. chenangoensis exhibited higher but insignificantly different counts between pH 7.0 and 8.0 with maxima at pH 7.5, but pH optima were not determined. When the range was expanded to include pH 8.5-9.0, an optimal pH of 7.0-8.0 was determined for strain CU 722B, and this is the first snow alga reported to have an optimum alkaline pH. The highest absorbance values, however, occurred between pH 3.0-4.5 and pH 7.0-8.0. The pH values recorded in the field were 5.0-5.3 for Cr. tughillensis and 6.7-7.6 for Cr. chenangoensis.
4095844|We report on the geochemistry of soil and bryophyte-laden sediment and on the biogeochemistry of willows growing in an undisturbed volcanogenic massive sulfide deposit in the Alaska Range ecoregion of east-central Alaska. We also describe an unusual bryophyte assemblage found growing in the acidic metal-rich waters that drain the area. Ferricrete-cemented silty alluvial sediments within seeps and streams are covered with the liverwort Gymnocolea inflata whereas the mosses Polytrichum commune and P. juniperinum inhabit the area adjacent to the water and within the splash zone. Both the liverwort-encrusted sediment and Polytrichum thalli have high concentrations of major and trace metal cations (e.g., A1, As, Cu, Fe, Hg, La, Mn, Pb, and Zn). Soils in the area do not reflect the geochemical signature of the mineral deposit and we postulate they are influenced by the chemistry of eolian sediments derived from outside the deposit area. The willow, Salix pulchra, growing mostly within and adjacent to the larger streams, has much higher concentrations of A1, As, Cd, Cr, Fe, La, Pb, and Zn when compared to the same species collected in non-mineralized areas of Alaska. The Cd levels are especially high and are shown to exceed, by an order of magnitude, levels demonstrated to be toxic to ptarmigan in Colorado. Willow, growing in this naturally occurring metal-rich Red Mountain alteration zone, may adversely affect the health of browsing animals.
4139097| Recent evidence suggests that biogeochemical processes in the Arctic during late winter and spring-thaw strongly affect the annual cycling of carbon and nutrients, indicating high susceptibility to climate change. We therefore examined the carbon and nutrient dynamics in a sub-arctic heath and a birch forest with high temporal resolution from March until snowmelt at both ambient and experimentally increased snow depths. Ecosystem respiration (ER) from mid-March to snowmelt at ambient snow was high, reaching 99  19 (birch) and 67  1.4 g C m (heath). Enhanced snow depth by about 20-30 cm increased ER by 77-157% during late winter but had no effects during spring-thaw. ER rates at the birch site were poorly described by classic firstorder exponential models (R = 0.06-0.10) with temperature as a single variable, but model fit improved considerably by including the supply of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) or nitrogen (DON) in the model (R = 0.40-0.47). At the heath, model fit with temperature as the single variable was better (R = 0.38-0.52), yet it improved when the supply of DOC or DON was included (R = 0.65-0.72). Microbial carbon decreased by 43% within a few days after the first soil freezethaw event, while microbial nitrogen and phosphorus decreased more slowly. Because soil inorganic nitrogen and phosphorus concentrations were low, nutrients released from lysed microbial cells may have been sequestered by surviving microbes or by plants resuming growth. The fast change in microbial biomass and the dependence of ER on substrate availability stress the need for high temporal resolution in future research on ecosystem carbon and nutrient dynamics at snowmelt in order to make robust models of their turnover. 
24551603|Microorganisms such as Bacteria and Archaea play important roles in the Arctic food web and biogeochemical cycles. Nevertheless, knowledge of microbial community composition in Greenland waters is scarce, and information on microorganisms associated with Arctic zooplankton species is virtually non-existent. We compared free-living microbial communities with those associated with two key copepod species (Calanus finmarchicus and Metridia longa) along a salinity gradient from the deep waters beyond Fyllas Banke to the inner part of Godthbsfjord, West Greenland, in summer 2008. Using genetic fingerprinting we found that free-living Bacteria (in particular Alphaproteobacteria) and Archaea varied with environmental factors and formed different communities along the fjord. Microbial communities associated with the two copepod species were clearly different from those in the ambient water. Surprisingly, Archaea could not be detected on the copepods. Our results show that zooplankton form "microbial islands" in the Arctic pelagic realm with a distinctive community composition and presumably functionality different from the free-living Bacteria. Changes in intensity and timing of meltwater runoff due to global warming are expected to affect these microbial assemblages differently, with potentially significant ramifications for Arctic food webs and biogeochemistry.
4095832|
               
4139111|The study area spans the 15-km-wide ecotone between coastal tundra and open subarctic forest near Churchill, Manitoba, Canada. Study sites include Black Spruce Wetland, White Spruce Forest, Burned Forest, Forest-tundra Tree Island, and Tundra. These ecosystems are representative of ones that dominate the circumpolar north. Mid-winter snowpack characteristics were measured during 2002, 2003, and 2004, including depth, density, and snow water equivalent. These studies reveal differences induced by changing vegetation characteristics and associated microclimates. Despite the dramatic differences in canopy, the post-fire forest snowpack differed little from that of the unburned forests. Interannual variations were much less than intersite variations in most snowpack characteristics. These studies are intended to be repeated annually in order to establish a longitudinal study of snowpack variation across the Arctic treeline during a period of predicted dramatic change in climate.
4095826|The rock-dwelling pikas of Asia and North America are suitable model species for studying foraging strategies of small generalist herbivores, because they collect and store green parts of plants for winter. In the past, contents of these stores were subjected to numerous studies but researchers differed in opinions on selective versus opportunistic plant-gathering by pikas. We analyzed plant species composition and their shares (%) in caches and in surrounding habitats in six territories of Ochotona hyperborea in Siberian mountains. We applied Ivlev's Electivity Index for assessing selectivity. We found that some plant species were evindently preferred and others avoided by caching pikas. Among the former, many were rich in secondary compounds, while among the latter, evergreen tuft-forming plants prevailed. Our data conform to earlier findings on selective foraging by the American pika Ochotona princeps, and prove great similarty in winter diet of both species. We discuss possible cues used by rock-dwelling pika species to choose which plants to collect, and suggest that their harvesting strategy is most economic in harsh high-mountains habitats.
1552158|The concentration and fluorescence characteristics of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) from surface waters in glacial and nonglacial catchments were used to investigate the provenance of DOC and flow routing of runoff from glacial and nonglacial environments. Seasonal trends in DOC concentration and fluorescence in the Bow River indicate that DOC in nonglacial runoff originates primarily from soil and plant organic matter that is flushed to the stream by shallow subsurface flow at the onset of snowmelt. Snowmelt in ice-free areas of the glacial catchment also appears to be routed through the shallow subsurface, but this snowmelt runoff has much less contact with organic soils or litter, than snowmelt runoff from the nonglacial catchment. The fluorescence of DOC in the Glacial stream in summer (when most runoff originates from ice-covered areas), suggests that DOC from glaciated regions is more "microbial" in character than that derived from ice-free areas. Summer rainstorms in the Glacial catchment flushed DOC derived from catchment soils and plants by displacing concentrated pre-event waters from the shallow subsurface to the stream.
10.2307/1552238|The input of nutrients into arctic polar deserts, aided by some physical processes, can result in localized areas of high biological productivity--"micro-oases." We examined the vegetation cover, and microbial and nematode abundance in the polar desert and in 38 micro-oases at the Haughton impact crater, Devon Island, Arctic Canada. Our sites were split between the alluvial terraces along the banks of the Haughton River and the breccia deposits resulting from the asteroid or comet impact 22 Myr ago that flank the alluvial terraces. The alluvial terraces have a vegetation cover that ranges from 2 to 11% depending on substrate and water availability with a species richness of 5 in most locations. The vegetation cover on the breccia is much lower, between 0.02 and 3% depending on water availability. The micro-oases on both substrates support between 2 and 98% cover, but they are smaller and more sparsely distributed than similar features found in the Truelove Lowland, Devon Island, and on Bathurst Island. Microbial and nematode numbers were an order of magnitude greater inside the micro-oases compared to outside. Micro-oases are often dominated by a particular species, resulting in well-defined groups of micro-oases that were separated by TWINSPAN analysis. The micro-oases at Haughton Crater provide insights into the process of colonization of a substrate resulting from an asteroid or comet impact and the unique biological characteristics of such substrates.
10.2307/1552262|Characterizing rockfall travel distances over a broad scale is time-consuming and expensive if a detailed numerical model is used that must account for varying boulder size and shape. In this paper four models are developed that utilize simple terrain parameters in order to predict extreme rockfall runout distances. Of these models, three are statistical and the fourth is a simple dynamics model. The results of our model testing suggest that a statistical model is advantageous if one wishes to determine rockfall hazard over a broad area quickly and effectively. In particular, the runout ratio approach is particularly useful at low exceedance probabilities because of the positively skewed distribution used. However, this model would appear to be more sensitive to the underlying data than other techniques. Consequently, the favored model may well depend upon the amount of data available from a given region.
1552180|Roughly 70% of the tundra north of the Brooks Range, Alaska, can be classified as moist nonacidic (39%) and moist acidic tundra (31%). We investigated the differences in energy partitioning and carbon balance among these two important landscape types. Despite structural differences in plant growth forms, moss cover, and soil pH, the sensible and latent heat fluxes were quite similar. However, aerodynamic properties (i.e. roughness length), ground heat flux, and CO<sub>2</sub> flux were significantly different: aerodynamic roughness of moist acidic tundra was 2.1 times higher than, and ground heat flux was 36% lower than the values obtained from moist nonacidic tundra. Daily carbon balance showed 26% more net CO<sub>2</sub> uptake (with 34% greater ecosystem respiration and 30% greater gross primary production) in moist acidic tundra. The greater respiration rate in moist acidic tundra was explained by differences in surface soil temperatures, whereas the rate of gross primary production was only half of what was expected from observed differences in leaf area index. These differences suggest that understanding the controls of CO<sub>2</sub> exchange in nonacidic moist tundra vegetation will be critical for determining the carbon budget of the Low Arctic region.
4095843| Climate change due to anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases is predicted to increase the average surface temperature. The most evident soil changes in the Alps will occur in proglacial areas where already existing young soils (with an age in most cases of up to 150 years) will continuously develop and new soils will form due to glacier retreat. Based on existing soil chronosequence data and statistical analyses in the proglacial area Morteratsch (Switzerland), the present-day state of the soils as well as their future development in the next 100 years in the existing and new proglacial area has been modeled taking the retreat of the glacier into consideration. The present-day as well as the future soil distribution was modeled using a probabilistic approach. Several soil characteristics have been modeled such as the pH value, the skeleton content, and the soil depth relevant to plant growth. To model soil properties in a future proglacial area (that is now covered by ice), the glacier-bed morphology had to be modeled. The calculations were performed using the cubic Non-Uniform Rational B-Spline (NURBS) curve to parameterize the course of a branch in flow direction. With the help of the ice cap and relief factor the thickness of the glacier was modeled. Climate change was introduced numerically by changing the mass balance of the glacier. For the area of interest a temperature increase of +1.6C by the year 2050 and +3C by the year 2100 can be assumed (according to the scenario A1B of IPCC). In the upper part of the proglacial area mostly Skeletic/Lithic Leptosols and Humi-Skeletic Leptosols will be found. In flat parts close to the main river, additional Fluvisols will develop. A considerable part of the upper proglacial area does not have any soil cover. Lithic/Skeletic to Humi-Skeletic Leptosols are modeled on the young lateral moraines. Chronosequences were vital to make any (4D) predictions of soil evolution in the proglacial area. The statistically and probabilistically based model also had, however, its weaknesses. The problems are related to the sediment properties in the glacier bed and the stability of new moraines. 
23359390|The reliability of Cassiope tetragona as temperature proxy might be restricted by influence on growth of precipitation and amount of Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR). Carbon-13 discrimination () in C 3 -plants is generally influenced by temperature and precipitation and can therefore potentially record important additional climatic information. We doubled precipitation and reduced PAR (-43%), during four and two growing seasons, respectively, at a high arctic site in Svalbard. Differences in discrimination in leaves from separate light, and thus temperature, regimes (sun-facing and soil-facing leaves) were also assessed. A -chronology (19752008) in annual shoot length increments was developed. C. tetragona growth did not respond to enhanced precipitation and only slightly to PAR-reduction. Discrimination against carbon-13 was stronger in leaves and shoots receiving extra precipitation and weaker in sun-exposed leaves compared to soil-facing leaves. The annual climate signal in the -chronology was strongly smoothed by secondary radial growth. Our results show that the temperature signal in C. tetragona is hardly disturbed by changes in summer precipitation or PAR, which confirms its suitability as temperature proxy. The experimental evidence for the sensitivity of carbon-13 discrimination in C. tetragona to precipitation and temperature changes shows its potential as proxy for hydrological changes in the polar semi-desert.
4095921|To determine if canopy gaps offer "safe sites" for recruitment and persistence of arctic-alpine plants, we compared seedling densities in frost boils and closed vegetation, and examined persistence of Diapensia lapponica within frost boils. Seedling density was greater within frost boils, and D. lapponica numbers increased in resurveyed frost boils, suggesting persistence. Lower seed bank size combined with higher seedling numbers confirmed that frost boils represent favorable sites for germination.
41416433|In this study, we analyzed the effect of topography, particularly slope, on the expansion rates and population dynamics of Echinospartum horridum at small spatial and temporal scales in the grassland communities of Ordesa-Monte Perdido National Park (OMPNP) (NE Spain). E. horridum is a thorny cushion dwarf, endemic of Spain and south of France, forming dense mono-specific large patches difficult to be penetrated by other plants and large herbivores once it is established. Between 2005 and 2007, we collected demographic parameters from 300 marked plants of E. horridum that were distributed in the center and the edge of four patches. At the patch edge, two of the four patches had a high slope (<10) and two had a low slope (10), whereas at the patch centers the slope was high (18-30). To calculate invasion speed, we use aerial photographs from 1981 and 2003. Plants in the center of patches had lower growth rates, fewer flowers, and higher crown death rates than did the plants at edge of patches. Slope influenced significantly invasion rates: the speed of expansion was lowest on gentle slopes, probably because of competition with grass. The speed of diffusion from 1981 to 2003 varied from 2.09 m yr on the steep slopes to 1.93 m yr on the shallow slope. Plant dynamics at patch edges suggest that colonization by E. horridum will continue in the grasslands of the OMPNP.
1552372|Data for Rhizocarpon agg. thalli at the Illecillewaet Glacier in British Columbia were used to see whether a single growth curve could provide accurate age estimates on either side of the Continental Divide, to determine whether modern and historical growth rates are similar, and to test a published model that estimates lichen age from short-term radial growth rates. A lichen growth curve was developed for Rhizocarpon agg. using thallussize data from 14 tree-ring and historically dated substrates. Comparison of this curve with one developed on similar materials 250 km north of this location found similar growth rates for the first 150 yr but slightly faster growth over the next 150 yr at the Illecillewaet site. Radial growth was also measured annually at an average of five points at 105 Rhizocarpon agg. thalli to see if direct-measurement data could be used to reliably estimate lichenometric ages. Radial growth from 1996-2000 ranged between 0.262 and 0.412 mm yr<sup>-1</sup> and showed large variation within and between thalli. Mathematical analysis found that radial growth was not a positive function of the radius, and linear regression incorrectly predicted that growth rates increase with thallus size. Ages estimated by linear extrapolation of the 4-yr mean growth rate were ca. 10 yr less than those estimated by the indirectly calibrated growth curve on surfaces <200 yr old. Progressively less accurate minimum estimates were obtained using linear extrapolation of radial growth rates for old surfaces and thalli >60-mm diameter. These findings lend support to the assumption that modern growth rates of Rhizocarpon lichens averaged over several years can potentially provide close estimates of lichenometric age.
1552636| As a part of the national Norwegian monitoring program, long-term surveys of contaminants have been carried out at the Zeppelin atmospheric research station (Ny-lesund, Svalbard) since the early 1990s. In the present study, all obtained data have been summarized and analyzed in order to review possible temporal trends for selected atmospheric contaminants at Svalbard. The following heavy metals were determined in aerosols: Pb, Cd, Hg, Cu, Zn, Cr, Ni, Co, Mn, V, and As. Only Ni showed a decreasing trend in the concentrations over the past decade. Organochlorine compounds in combined gaseous phase and aerosol samples evaluated were the following: -HCH (hexachlorocyclohexane), -HCH, HCB (hexachlorobenzene), and sum-DDT (dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane). Only those organochlorines exhibiting significant statistically confirmed temporal trends were chosen for the present comparison. Thus, although polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) as well as chlordanes are routinely monitored at the Zeppelin station, they were not considered for the here presented report because no clear trends were determined. Therefore all, but sum-DDT showed significant decreasing trends, correlating well with the national and international governmental regulations. 
1552367| Pollen and macrofossils were analyzed at two sites above today's treeline (or tree limit) in the Swiss Central Alps (Gouill Lor, 2503 m a.s.l., and Lengi Egga, 2557 m a.s.l.) to test two contrasting hypotheses about the natural formation of timberline (the upper limit of closed forest) in the Alps. Our results revealed that Pinus cembra--Larix decidua forests near timberline were rather closed between 9000 and 2500 B.C. (9600-4000 <sup>14</sup>C yr BP), when timberline fluctuations occurred within a belt 100-150 m above today's tree limit. The treeline ecocline above timberline was characterized by the mixed occurrence of tree, shrub, dwarf-shrub, and herbaceous species, but it did not encompass more than 100-150 altitudinal meters. The uppermost limit reached by timberline and treeline during the Holocene was ca. 2420 and 2530 m, respectively, i.e., about 120 to 180 m higher than today. Between 3500 and 2500 B.C. (4700-4000 <sup>14</sup>C yr BP) timberline progressively sank by about 300 m, while treeline was lowered only ca. 100 m. This change led to an enlargement of the treeline-ecocline belt (by ca. 300 m) after 2500 B.C. (4000 <sup>14</sup>C yr BP). Above the treeline ecocline, natural meadows dominated by dwarf shrubs (e.g., Salix herbacea) and herbaceous species (e.g., Helianthemum, Taraxacum, Potentialla, Leontodon t., Cerastium alpinum t., Cirsium spinosissimum, Silene exscapa t., and Saxifraga stellaris) have been present since at least 11,000 cal yr ago. In these meadows tree and tall shrub species (>0.5 m) never played a major role. These results support the conventional hypothesis of a narrow ecocline with rather sharp upper timberline and treeline boundaries and imply that today's treeless alpine communities in the Alps are close to a natural stage. Pollen (percentages and influx), stomata, and charcoal data may be useful for determining whether or not a site was treeless. Nevertheless, a reliable and detailed record of past local vegetation near and above timberline is best achieved through the inclusion of macrofossil analysis. 
1552567|Postindustrial rises in CO<sub>2</sub> have the potential to confound the interpretation of climatically sensitive tree-ring chronologies. Increased growth rates observed during the 20th century in strip-bark trees have been attributed to CO<sub>2</sub> fertilization. Absent in the debate of CO<sub>2</sub> effects on tree growth are spatially explicit analyses that examine the proximate mechanisms that lead to changes in rates of tree growth. Twenty-seven pairs of strip-bark and companion entire-bark trees were analyzed in a spatially explicit framework for abiotic environmental correlates. The strip-bark tree locations were not random but correlated to an abiotic proxy for soil moisture. The strip-bark trees showed a characteristic increase in growth rates after about 1875. Furthermore, the difference in growth rates between the strip-bark trees and entire-bark companions increased with increasing soil moisture. A possible mechanism for these findings is that CO<sub>2</sub> is affecting water-use efficiency, which in turn affects tree-ring growth. These results point to the importance of accounting for microsite variability in analyzing the potential role of CO<sub>2</sub> in governing growth responses.
41416428|Productivity of a managed grazing system is dependent upon both the grazing strategy of ungulates and decisions made by humans. Herds of domestic reindeer (Rangifer tarandus tarandus) graze on discrete ranges of the Seward Peninsula, Alaska with variable production rates. We show that the N natural abundance of reindeer forages vary significantly and the N value of collagen deposited in antler bone from spring until ossification was significantly correlated with the N signature of the diet. Calf weight in June was related to isotopie signatures in antler and soft tissue of adult females, and was inversely correlated with the absolute differential between summer and winter serum N values. This observation suggests that female reindeer with smaller calves had catabolized more body protein during winter than females in adjacent herds. Moreover, in herds with smaller calves, female reindeer consumed proportionately more shrubs in early spring resulting in a strong relationship between  signatures of antler collagen deposited in May and calf weight. These data suggest female reindeer catabolizing relatively more body protein during winter may attempt to compensate by increasing consumption of high-protein catkins and leaf buds of shrubs during May. Herders with relatively smaller calves in their herds may be able to improve protein balance of reproductive females and thus increase calf productivity by increasing access to shrub habitats during spring.
20181838|What do members of the general public know about polar regions, and how much do they care? Who knows or cares? This paper explores data from the General Social Survey (GSS), which in 2006 questioned a representative sample of more than 1800 U.S. adults about their knowledge and opinions concerning polar regions. The polar survey items were modeled on long-running GSS assessments of general science knowledge and opinions, recently summarized in the U.S. National Science Board's report Science and Engineering Indicators 2008. Polar knowledge proves to be limited but certainly not absent among survey respondents. Polar knowledge, general science knowledge, and education--together with individual background characteristics (age, sex, income)--predict policy-relevant opinions. Political orientation filters the impacts of education, and also shows consistent, significant effects across all the polar opinion questions. These 2006 GSS polar results will provide a baseline for comparison when the questions are repeated on a 2010 survey, after the International Polar Year concludes.
10.2307/1552253| Concentrations of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) and phytoplankton biomass (chlorophyll-a and biovolume) were measured during a survey of 57 high-mountain lakes of the Austrian Alps ranging from 1970 to 2890 m a.s.l. in elevation. Glacier-fed lakes had lower DOC (mean: 0.39 mg L<sup>-1</sup>) than lakes not fed by glaciers (mean: 0.70 mg L<sup>-1</sup>). Concentrations of DOC decreased with lake elevation and was 64% lower in lakes located between 2600 and 2800 (mean = 0.51, median = 0.47 mg L<sup>-1</sup>) than between 1970 and 2200 m a.s.l. (mean = 1.40, median = 1.10 mg L<sup>-1</sup>). Chlorophyll-a concentrations ranged from 0.2 to 10.6 g L<sup>-1</sup> with a typical deep water maximum found in transparent lakes and a maximum close to the surface in glacier-fed lakes. Chlorophyll-a and direct estimations of biomass were highly significant correlated among lakes (r = 0.938, P < 0.001). DOC concentrations and chlorophyll-a were not significantly correlated (P > 0.05). The potential impact of climatic warming on the underwater ultraviolet radiation (UVR) was assessed on the basis of expected changes in concentration of the two most important factors controlling the attenuation of UVR in the water column of alpine lakes not fed by glaciers, i.e. the chromophoric DOC and phytoplankton. Considering a scenario of further climatic warming in the Alps, we hypothesize that the attenuation of underwater UVR will increase mainly as a consequence of higher inputs of allochthonous DOC to surface waters of alpine lakes. Application of an empirical model based on the attenuation of underwater UVR by DOC, indicated that between 25 and 50% of the lakes studied can be considered as sensitive to UVR, i.e., the value of the 1% UV attenuation depth was higher than the lake maximum depth. 
1552314|A long-term proxy record of glacier mass balance was developed for Colonel Foster and Septimus glaciers on Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada. This was accomplished by analyzing the radial growth characteristics of climatically-sensitive mountain hemlock trees (Tsuga mertensiana), and by comparing this response with mass balance records from four glaciers in the Pacific Northwest. A strong (negative) relationship between the two records for the period 1966-1994 provides the basis for a mass balance reconstruction extending back to 1600. The reconstruction is in general agreement with information derived from dated moraine sequences at the two glaciers on Vancouver Island, and it has potential applicability to glaciers in adjacent areas of coastal Pacific North America. Our results highlight the likely influence of the Pacific Decadal Oscillation (PDO) on glacier dynamics during the mid- to late-Little Ice Age (LIA) and provide the groundwork for long-term glaciohydrologic studies.
20181815|We examined the influence of leaf size on forage selection by collared pikas (Ochotona collaris) living in alpine meadows in the Yukon Territory, Canada, by comparing the winter diets of individually recognized pikas to the available vegetation within their territories and by conducting cafeteria-style preference experiments. Pikas consistently preferred forage with larger leaves in the cafeteria trials. They also collected larger leaves from deciduous shrubs and graminoid species compared to other plant types such as lichens and evergreen shrubs for their winter diets. Pikas assessed differences in leaf size when selecting their winter diets and this appears to be an energetically efficient foraging strategy for surviving seasonal food scarcity.
4095915|High mountain environments are highly stressful for insect survival. It has been suggested that small microtopographic variations generating less stressful microclimatic conditions than the surrounding environment would provide more suitable sites for insect development. Cushion plants represent one of the life forms best adapted to the extreme alpine habitats. Cushion plants can modify microclimatic conditions within and under their canopy, generating less severe microsites than the surrounding environment. In this study, we characterized the microclimatic modifications made by the cushion plants Azorella monantha and Laretia acaulis and examine their role as microclimatic shelters for two species of high Andean coleopterans (Coccinelidae): Eriopis connexa and Hippodamia variegata at 3200 m a.s.l. in the Andes of central Chile. Results showed that the cushion species create microhabitats with higher availability of water and less oscillating temperatures. However, the intensity of modifications was higher in A. monantha compared to L. acaulis. The abundance of the two ladybird beetle species was higher within cushions than outside, although E. connexa showed higher abundances compared to H. variegata. However, a habitat selection experiment in a greenhouse showed that under milder temperature conditions ladybird beetles species do not prefer cushions. This suggests that in the harsh alpine climate, cushion plants may act as microclimatic shelters since they reduce stressful environmental conditions, allowing greater abundances of coleopterans than in the surrounding environment.
1552434| This paper shows the results of chemical and crystallographic analyses carried out on a core drilled within the frontal part of the Foscagno rock glacier in the Italian Alps. We use 58 vertical thin sections spaced along the massive ice core, found between depths of 2.5 and 7.65 m, to describe the ice fabric of the core. We also discuss the results of chemical analyses of more than 50 samples. The lower part of the massive ice core between 4 and 7.65 m shows a mean crystal size of 1.5 cm and a crystal shape predominantly elongated along the horizontal plane with c-axes. These characteristics are similar to those of firn ice. In contrast, the upper core between 2.5 and 4 m displays vertical elongation of large bubbles, indicating superimposed ice and the influence of melting and refreezing processes. The presence of a seasonal signal in sulfate distribution and the strong correlation between sodium and chloride in the lower part of the core confirm cold firnification without appreciable phase changes. This well-preserved glacier ice body is probably younger than 2200  60 yr B.P., a minimum age for the rock glacier as indicated by the <sup>14</sup>C age of a buried paleosoil, although the possibility that it may be older age cannot be excluded. The glacier ice body seems to be a relict of a former glacier preserved within a larger permafrost body that characterizes almost all of the rock glacier and also occurs beneath the massive ice. This finding points out that different types of ice can be preserved within a single rock glacier, reflecting a complex geological and paleoclimatic history. 
40801686|Temperature is one of the major abiotic factors influencing distribution and productivity of alpine plant species. Although some edaphic parameters (e. g. soil acidity) have also been suggested as determinants in the spatial distribution of alpine vegetation, there is little background on the importance of soil chemical properties in altitudinal gradients, particularly in the high Andes. The present study determined whether soil chemical properties affect spatial distribution and abundance of alpine plants in an altitudinal gradient in the Andes of central Chile, emphasizing metal content. A direct gradient analysis took place at Yerba Loca Natural Sanctuary (YLNS), based on a geobotanical sampling conducted in 73 sites distributed from 1970 to 3330 m a. s. l. According to a Canonical Correspondence Analysis, the main soil chemical factors that explain the pattern of compositional variation of high Andean vegetation are, besides altitude, total soil copper (Cu) content, percentage of soil organic matter, and available phosphorus and nitrogen. An analysis of shoot Cu content conducted in 19 plant species found in sites with highest soil Cu contents (> 250 mg kg-) showed high levels of Cu in their shoots (> 100 mg kg- ).These results demonstrate species or ecotypes with optimal distribution in soils with high Cu contents, such as Armeria martima, Trisetum lasiolepis, and Montiopsis potentilloides, which may have tolerance to this metal.
20181836|Research conducted with the communities of Igloolik, Ulukhaktok, and Churchill in northern Canada documents increasing exposure to hazards associated with ice use for hunting and travel. This trend is related to changing ice conditions. Instrumental records show later ice freeze-up and earlier breakup since the late 1970s, increasing temperatures, and changes in weather in the case study communities. Elders and mature community members, drawing upon their traditional knowledge, describe similar changes in ice and other climate-related conditions in recent years. These changes are increasing the risks of utilizing the ice for hunting and travel and they are reducing access to traditional food. Change in risk-taking behavior among users of the ice has also been documented in Igloolik and Ulukhaktok over the last few decades and has shaped the implications of more recent changes in ice conditions. Comparison between the communities reveals uneven consequences of changing ice conditions which is linked to the nature of ice use, local physiological setting, and community socio-cultural dynamics.
10.2307/1552470|Relationships between flowering phenology and fruit-set of 10 ericaceous species were studied in three alpine fellfields in the Taisetsu Mountains, northern Japan. Flowering season varied from late May to early August among species. There was a positive correlation between flowering time and fruit-set under natural conditions. Pollinator exclusion by net-bagging and hand-pollination revealed that very low fruit-set in early-flowering species was caused by severe pollen limitation, while late-flowering species tended to have high fruit-set with slight pollen limitation. Such seasonal patterns reflect the changes in seasonal activity of pollinating insects, which are highly influenced by ambient temperature. A similar research program was conducted in a subarctic heathland in northern Sweden with almost similar species composition. In Sweden, however, there was no positive correlation between flowering time and fruit-set. The difference between the alpine fellfields and the subarctic heathland may be caused by the specific seasonal pattern of temperature change in either region. A steep increase in air temperature from early to mid-summer in the alpine fellfields in Japan may cause an increase in pollinator availability with progress of season.
10.2307/1552621| This study examined the potential of infrared (IRSL) and red (RSL) stimulated luminescence to provide ages for fine-grained polymineral extracts from sublittoral strata from deglacial-emergence sequences on Brggerhalvya, Linnedalen, and Kapp Ekholm, west Spitsbergen. IRSL analyses of modern and ca. 12-ka-old sediment indicate that residual levels defined after 10 and 60 min of filtered sunlight provide close minimum and maximum age estimates, respectively, whereas full solar resetting gave age overestimates by 2 to 18 ka. Although red stimulation yields concordant ages for modern and Holocene sediments, RSL is not currently as robust a geochronometer as IRSL, but is a complementary measure to evaluate IRSL age estimates. Sublittoral strata from the penultimate deglacial sequence (Episode B) on Brggerhalvya gave IRSL and RSL ages of ca. 80  10 ka and presumably correlative strata from Kapp Ekholm and Linnedalen yielded IRSL ages of ca. 70  10 ka. Pre-penultimate deglacial event sediments (Episode C) from Brggerhalvya gave bracketing average IRSL ages of 118  17 and 153  21 ka. IRSL analyses for Formation B at Kapp Ekholm is less definitive with average minimum and maximum ages of 117  19 ka and 195  13 ka; the latter age is favored, although it is substantially older than a previously reported age of ca. 120 ka. IRSL is a more consistent geochronometer for dating waterlain sediments from Spitsbergen than TL, but there still remains considerable variability in the extent of solar resetting of IRSL of sublittoral sediments, that erodes precision particularly for ages <50 ka. These new luminescence age estimates indicate deglacial events at ca. 70, 140, and potentially at 190 ka that generally correspond to the early and later parts of Oxygen Isotope Stage 5 and late Stage 7. The inferred timing of deglacial events indicate that demise of a marine-based Barents Sea ice sheet may be associated with rising global sea level into an interglacial or an interstadial, rather than purely radiative forcing. 
24551628|Subsistence in northern regions with cold climate and long winters relies to a large extent on fuelwood access and logistics. The preferred sources of fuelwood in pre-industrial times in northern Scandinavia were dead standing Scots pine trees. To assess historical impacts of Sami settlement sites on surrounding forests, and effects of burning wood on living conditions inside their huts, we burned pine wood in a Sami tent hut during winter, as realistically as possible, then analyzed fuelwood consumption, temperatures, and CO levels inside it. Hourly wood consumption rates ranged from 5.0 to 7.4 kg, corresponding to an estimated average annual consumption of ca. 22,000 kg or 42 m3 per hut. The smoke created by the fire and the low indoor temperature at the periphery of the hut limited the comfortable living space to approximately a third of the total space. We estimate that areas up to 300 m from settlements were used for fuelwood collection, but deliberate, recurring tree girdling to produce snags suitable for fuelwood might have reduced this area. Overall, the landscape impact of settlements was low, affecting less than 2.2% of the utilized lands. We conclude that experimental simulations of historical resource uses can provide valuable quantitative data for verifying or challenging qualitative interpretations and thoroughly modeling human effects on ecosystems over time.
10.2307/1552532|Sea-level variation in Hudson Bay is examined using tide-gauge data from Churchill, Manitoba. Statistical analysis shows that 43% of the variation in this record is the result of variation in the local Churchill River discharge. Evidence is also found for the delayed effect of advective lag of discharge from James Bay on Churchill sea level. Increase in the seasonal amplitude of sea level after 1975 is the result of anthropogenically induced river diversion. Long-term changes, particularly an increase in the rate of sea-level drop from 1970 to 1985, is not likely the result of changes in local discharge, but is possibly the result of thermal contraction of the world ocean due to short-term cooling from 1960 to 1975. We speculate that changes in atmospheric conditions related to the North Atlantic Oscillation since 1970 may also affect sea-level changes in Hudson Bay.
1552371| Tree-ring analysis from Abies densa growing at the treeline in the Eastern Himalayan region reveals that temperature during late summer (July-September) plays a significant role in controlling the growth of this tree. Mean temperature of each year for these three months has been reconstructed based on this ring-width data. This record goes back to A.D. 1507; however data prior to A.D. 1757 are questionable because they are based on only one sample. The reconstructed temperature series for the last 237 yr shows annual to multiyear fluctuations punctuated with cool and warm periods. The warmest and coolest 10-yr periods of the entire span occurred in 1978-1987 (+0.25C) and 1801-1810 (-0.31C), respectively. 
4095911|Low-elevation glaciers in coastal regions of Alaska, the Canadian Arctic, individual ice caps around the Greenland ice sheet, and the Patagonia Ice Fields have an aggregate glacier area of about
1552184|The development and maintenance of several types of visually striking vegetation patterns are controlled by positive feedback between pattern and process. These patterns are particularly common at ecotones, where the influence of positive feedback may affect the position and dynamics of the boundary between the adjacent biotic communities. In this study, I use dendrochronology to examine the role of feedback between existing trees and the establishment and survival of seedlings in the advancement of linear, finger-like strips of subalpine forest in Glacier National Park, Montana. A general upslope, windward to leeward pattern of older trees followed by progressively younger trees was evident in all sample transects, although in some cases this pattern repeated several times along the length of a transect, with each repetition originating leeward of boulders. Overall advancement rates varied from 0.28 to 0.62 m yr<sup>-1</sup>. The oldest trees established in the early to mid-1700s, but establishment and advancement increased rapidly after 1850, and peaked in the early 1900s. In addition, almost all seedlings established within 5 m downwind of existing trees between 1700 and 1850, while establishment beyond this distance was common after 1850. These patterns suggest that existing trees facilitate leeward seedling establishment and survival, by depositing wind-blown snow. These seedlings in turn modify their leeward environment, thus allowing forest advancement in a linear pattern. Feedback was critical for the survival of seedlings before 1800, and strongly controlled advancement between about 1800 and 1850, but appears to have had little effect on establishment patterns since that time. The importance of feedback between pattern and process may change over time and space as a result of changes in climatic conditions or biotic surroundings.
4139119|Climate change may bring about geochemical changes in arctic regions as a result of increasing thaw depth. In order to better understand current watershed geochemistry and mineral weathering and provide a basis for predicting the geochemical effects of active-layer thickness increase, we examined elemental chemistry and ${87}^Sr/{86}^Sr$ of streams and sequential and total digests of soils, permafrost, and soil parent materials from seven glacial deposit surfaces of varying geomorphic ages in arctic Alaska in the vicinity of the Philip Smith Mountains quadrangle ($69\circN$, $150\circW$). We found overall greater exchangeable K concentrations, exchangeable and acid digestible P and Ca concentrations, acid digestible and total Ca/Na and Ca/Sr, and lower acid digestible ${87}^Sr/{86}^Sr$ in permafrost than in active-layer mineral soil. Of the surfaces with similar parent material, stream and soil data suggest that weathering has progressively depleted calcium carbonate in the active layer with increasing surface age. Our results suggest that increasing thaw depth will lead to increasing carbonate and Ca supply to soils and streams, as well as spatially variable increases in P and K supply. Geochemical differences between active-layer soil and permafrost suggest the possibility of using stream geochemistry to detect changes in active-layer thickness in watersheds.
4095897|An alpine fellfield community on granite substrate (elevation 3750 m) near the University of California Barcroft Laboratory in the White Mountains of eastern California was studied during the 2000 growing season to determine whether classic perennial life forms can be treated as plant functional groups. A series of 1-m
1552182| A process geomorphological investigation was started in 1999 to study present denudation rates and the mutual relationship of chemical and mechanical fluvial denudation in periglacial environments. Latnjavagge (9 km<sup>2</sup>; 950-1440 m a.s.l.; 6820N, 1830E) was chosen as a representative drainage basin of the arctic-oceanic mountain area in northernmost Swedish Lapland. Atmospheric solute inputs, chemical denudation, and mechanical fluvial denudation were analyzed. During the arctic summer field seasons of 2000, 2001, and 2002 measurements of daily precipitation, solute concentrations in precipitation, and in melted snow cores, taken before snowmelt, were recorded. In addition, solute and suspended sediment concentrations in creeks were analyzed, and bedload tracer movements were registered during the entire summer seasons (end of May until beginning of September). Results show a mean annual chemical denudation net rate of 5.4 t km<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup> in the entire catchment. Chemical denudation in Latnjavagge is less than one third of chemical denudation rates reported for Krkevagge (Swedish Lapland) but seems to be at a similar level as in a number of other subarctic, arctic, and alpine environments. Mechanical fluvial denudation is lower than chemical denudation. Most sediment transport in channels occurs in the early summer season during a few days with snowmelt generated runoff peaks. The main sediment sources in the drainage basin are mobilized channel bed pavements exposing fines, ice patches/fields, and material mobilized by slush flows. The calculated mean mechanical fluvial denudation rate is 2.3 t km<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup> at the inlet of lake Latnjajaure, situated in Latnjavagge close to the outlet of the valley. A very stable vegetation cover and rhyzosphere in this environment mainly explain the low value. The mean mechanical fluvial denudation rate at the outlet of the entire Latnjavagge drainage basin, below lake Latnjajaure, is only 0.8 t km<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>. Both chemical and mechanical fluvial denudation show low intensity. The results from Latnjavagge support the contention that chemical denudation is a somewhat important denudational process in periglacial environments. 
10.2307/1552472|Variation in spatial pattern and its consequences for intraspecific associations, regeneration, and allometric relationships in a population of Pinus canariensis was studied along an altitudinal gradient at the treeline on the west-northwest slope of Pico del Teide (Mount Teide) in Tenerife, Canary Islands. We sampled 11 plots (20 by 20 m), situated 30 m a.s.l. apart along a 4380 m transect which ran from the treeline at (2020 m a.s.l.) to the forest interior (1720 m a.s.l.). In each plot, we recorded height, diameter at breast height (DBH) and location of all tree stems (>130 cm in height), number of seedlings and saplings, and percent cover of vegetation layers. Stand basal area and maximum tree height decreased with altitude. The spatial distribution of P. canariensis was characterized by increasing regularity with tree size irrespective of altitude. The decrease in intensity of clumping with tree-size and the uniform pattern in older stages indicated intraspecific resource competition. The tree response to increasing altitude was largely associated with restricted height growth. At the treeline, the trees similar in diameter to those of lower-altitude sites were substantially shorter. The seedling and sapling density decreased significantly with increased altitude and increased in stands with increased basal area and canopy cover. Tree density along the altitudinal transect was similar, but trees at high-altitudes were shorter with smaller crowns, thus creating less favorable conditions for seedling and sapling survival. The positive or facilitating relationship between canopy trees and seedlings and saplings suggests that environmental factors (here stressful conditions) perform a key role in seedling establishment. Our results suggest that competitive relationships among canopy trees play a key role in generating stand structure.
41416426|Wind-blown mineral dust derived from the crustal surface is an important atmospheric component affecting the Earth's radiation budget. Deposition of dust particles was measured in snow on Glacier No. 72, Mount Tuomuer, in the western Tian Shan, China. The mean concentration of dust particles (measured as the number of particles) with 0.57 < d < 26 m in the snow pack is 706  10 mL;, with a mean mass concentration of 3806 g kg207B. Dust number size stribution showed the dominant particles with d < 2 m, while volume size distribution showed single-modal structures having volume median diameters from 3 to 25? m. Results were compared with data from other sites in the Tian Shan and various Northern Hemisphere sites. A backward trajectory model was also employed to examine the transport process of dust particles in this region. Most of the air mass originated from southern China, e.g., the Taklimakan Deserts in springtime, during the Asian dust period. Transport of dust from southern Chinese deserts to adjacent mountains is in agreement with a growing body of evidence on the importance of dust inputs to alpine regions.
40801764|Tundra soils contain large amounts of organic carbon (C) that might become available to microbial decomposition as soils warm. To elucidate the C sources currently sustaining CO emissions from striped tundra soils (soil respiration) in Northwest Greenland, we studied the seasonal pattern and radiocarbon (C) signature of soil respiration and of CO within the pore space, respired from roots and non-root-associated microbes, and of bulk soil organic matter. Old C pools are present in the topsoil of both barren ridges (1000-5000 yrs) and vegetated troughs (modern to 600 yrs). Before leaf-out, soil respiration was depleted in C relative to atmospheric CO, root and microbial respiration within the topsoil, demonstrating a substantial contribution of C fixed before 1950. As the growing season progressed, the contribution of older C pools decreased, but remained apparent in the soil respiration from ridges and in pore space CO. Soil respiration from troughs became dominated by recently fixed C. As the active layer deepens with permafrost thaw, buried C may become an increasingly larger component of soil respiration. Detecting microbial decomposition of older C pools requires continuous monitoring of soil and microbial respiration and better constraints on soil C pools.
4095829| Small (1  m diameter) sorted patterned ground features were studied on the Little Ice Age forelands of three Jotunheimen glaciers. Patterned ground appears to be most active near the ice margins, declining in intensity of activity with distance from the glaciers. Vegetation and soil development are negligible within patterned ground that is "Recent" (decadal time frame). Significant (P < 0.05) fine scale differences in vegetation and soil development occur within patterned ground on terrain ~70 yr in age, with patterned ground borders having higher values of vegetation cover and thicker soils than that in patterned ground centers. With increasing age of terrain and patterned ground, soil development and vegetation encroach inward toward patterned ground centers, implying that a short-term, active periglacial zone exists near the ice margin, decaying with time and glacier retreat. Specifically, terrain that has been deglaciated for ~70 years and is approximately ~350-500 m from the ice margin shows a significant decline in frost activity, allowing for the initiation of pedogenesis and vegetation colonization. 
1552181|In naturally harsh environments, such as arctic-alpine regions, even low levels of anthropogenic pollution appear to have detrimental impacts on plants. We studied the symptoms induced by metal and acid rain treatments in the ultrastructure of Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris) needles in one of the northernmost pine stands in the world at the Kevo Subarctic Research Station, Finland. Adult Scots pines at their natural growing site were irrigated during 1991-1996 with (1) water, (2) acid (pH 3), (3) copper and nickel (below CuNi), (4) Cu and Ni combined with acid, or (5) left unirrigated. The two youngest needle age classes were sampled in September 1996 for microscopy and elemental analyses, and the three youngest needle age classes for an evaluation of visible injuries. The CuNi treatment increased significantly both Ni and Cu concentrations. The accumulation of Cu in C + 1 needles was enhanced by acid addition. CuNi addition did not increase visible injuries, but significantly more ultrastructural dark accumulations and swollen thylakoids were seen in CuNi-treated C + 1 needles. The results show that, even in a seemingly harsh environment, pines are able to resist acid and metal-induced stress for a few years. However, tree growth is likely to suffer in the long run because the injuries seen in older needles suggest that the total capacity of the photosynthetic machinery is likely to decrease.
1552352| I replicated and analyzed six photographs taken in A.D. 1870 near the subalpine forestalpine tundra ecotone in the northern Uinta Mountains to quantify changes in the distribution of vegetation. Three dramatic differences were noted. First, the historical photographs document a treeline 60 to 180 m (mean of 100 m) lower than at present, with greater depression on west-facing slopes. Given the modern lapse rate for mean July temperature (6.9C km<sup>-1</sup>), this difference corresponds to a temperature depression in A.D. 1870 of 0.4 to 1.2C (mean of 0.7C). Second, timberline forests in A.D. 1870 were significantly (P < 0.01) less dense, with tree densities approximately half those measured in the modern photographs. Third, the area of floodplain meadows decreased 75% from A.D. 1870 to the present. Because the original photographs were taken within a few decades of the end of the Little Ice Age, ca. A.D. 1850, I assumed that differences in vegetation distribution documented in the repeat photographs represent the biotic response to climate warming over the past 130 yr. This analysis provides an independent estimate of the magnitude of growing season temperature depression during the Little Ice Age. 
4139089|We investigate which bedrock-derived soil nutrients are most important for the floristic composition and diversity of alpine, exposed, rocky habitats in North Norway, and whether the widely used pH parameter is a good estimate of soil chemical conditions in the middle alpine belt. Vegetation at 17 sites was recorded using the grid frequency method. Differences in the diversity of vascular plants, bryophytes, and lichens on the different substrates were compared using Shannon's diversity index. Local soil consisted of weathered material from one of five bedrock categories: carbonate rocks, calcareous mica schist, noncalcareous mica schist, mafic rocks, and felsic rocks. Particle size, loss on ignition, pH, and levels of calcium, magnesium, potassium, phosphorus, and nitrogen were measured in soil samples. Canonical Correspondence Analysis showed that soil pH and bedrock derived phosphorus in the soil influence the floristic composition. Randomization tests further indicated that the floristic variation explained by bedrock derived phosphorus was not correlated with soil pH. Thus, the pH measure should be used with caution for the characterization of soil conditions. Vegetation growing directly in soil derived from carbonate rocks is distinct from communities on other calcareous soils. Species at such sites should be referred to as carbonate specialists rather than lime demanding.
10.2307/1552535|The Inuit of late 18th-century Labrador lived in large communal houses, participated in long-distance trade networks, and maintained relatively elaborate economic and political organizations. For 25 yr archaeologists and ethnohistorians have debated the significance of these characteristics. Some propose that these practices are indicators of stress resulting from deteriorated environmental conditions, others see them as signs of economic success due, in part, to exploitation of Europeans visiting the coast. This paper examines the convergence of environment, history, and culture in late 18th-century Labrador. The authors argue that the Inuit experienced generally stable and moderate climatic conditions at this time. They were able to live with a degree of security, even accumulate surpluses, as a result of their flexible social and economic structure and the natural resources available to them. During this same period, Europeans visited Labrador in growing numbers and Moravian missionaries established mission stations amongst the Inuit. The Europeans' presence presented the Inuit with economic opportunities, while also posing significant spiritual and social threats. The Inuit responded by amplifying and elaborating some of their cultural practices in order to secure economic advantages, but also as a form of social resistance. Paleoenvironmental, ethnohistorical, and archaeological data indicate that late 18th-century Labrador Inuit enjoyed economic success while experiencing profound social distress.
4095874|The response of high arctic ecosystems' carbon dioxide exchange to changing climate is uncertain and may be important from a climate-change perspective. In this study, the net ecosystem carbon dioxide exchange during four growing seasons is examined by combining measurements and modeling from a high arctic fen in northeastern Greenland. The summer-season net ecosystem exchange shows large interannual variations, fluctuating from an uptake of
4095931|A 35 year chronology from 1965 to 2000 of the deposition of wind-blown sediment is constructed from snowpits for coastal southern Victoria Land, Antarctica. Analysis of local meteorology, contemporary eolian sedimentation, and mineralogy confirm a Victoria Valley provenance, while the presence of volcanic tephra is ascribed to an Erebus volcanic province source. Winter foehn winds associated with anticyclonic circulation are considered responsible for transporting fine-grained sediment from the snow- and ice-free Victoria Valley east toward the coast, while cyclonic storms transport tephra north along the Scott Coast. No trend could be identified in the occurrence of either tephra or wind-blown sediments sourced from the Victoria Valley and retrieved from the snowpits excavated on the Victoria Lower and Wilson Piedmont Glaciers. We infer this to indicate that the region has not undergone a significant change in weather patterns for at least the last 35 years. Our results also confirm the McMurdo Dry Valleys as a regionally significant source of wind-blown sediment.
20181820|This study examines current subglacial biogeochemical weathering models using PHREEQCi, a computer-based speciation mass-balance (SMB) model, parameterized using hydrochemical and mineralogical field data from Haut Glacier d'Arolla, Switzerland. The aim is to investigate the utility of SMB models for quantifying subglacial biogeochemical mechanisms, and the mathematical and thermodynamic robustness of current subglacial weathering models in a temporally variable, spatially heterogeneous hydrological and geochemical subglacial environment. The chemical evolution of meltwaters between their source in the supraglacial environment and their output from the hydroglacial system as bulk meltwaters are modeled, and compared with in situ meltwaters collected from the base of boreholes drilled to the glacier bed. SMB modeling produced a broad range of weathering outcomes, but delivered no unique weathering scenario which could account for the observed changes in water chemistry between input and output waters over the ablation season. Organic carbon oxidation and sulfide oxidation by dissolved O, coupled to carbonate dissolution and incongruent silicate dissolution, could account for seasonal changes in meltwater chemistry, supporting current subglacial biogeochemical weathering models. Atmospheric CO was not required under any weathering scenario, and organic carbon and atmospheric CO dissolution was only possible in one weathering scenario, at a mass ratio of 10:1, further suggesting that CO-driven dissolution is unimportant in subglacial environments. This investigation indicates the utility of SMB models applied to subglacial hydrological systems for determining geochemical and biogeochemical processes and interpreting water quality.
1552574|We studied relationships between vegetation, substrate texture, and surface movement velocity in two active rock glaciers in the Central Alps (northern Italy). We also compared the vegetation on the two active rock glaciers with that of adjacent stable areas and with that of an inactive rock glacier. The vegetation patterns on the two active rock glaciers differed sharply from those on the stable areas nearby and on the inactive rock glacier with respect to both total plant cover and floristic composition. Surface movement on the two active rock glaciers ranged from 0-5 to 35-40 cm yr<sup>-1</sup> and was largely independent of slope inclination. The most unstable sites were almost free of mosses and lichens and were characterized by vascular species tolerating surface instability in virtue of varying morphological adaptations. However, the distributional pattern of vascular species could not be directly related to surface instability but depended on a combination of substrate texture and movement intensity.
10.2307/1552602|The influence of river-catchment hydrological interactions on discharge patterns, lotic ecosystem size, and surface water chemistry were investigated in a glacial floodplain of the Swiss Alps (Val Roseg). Discharge, the extent and form of the stream network, specific conductance, and concentrations of major ions were measured periodically at multiple sites across the floodplain from August 1996 to January 1998. These data are used to (1) describe the seasonal cycle of contraction and expansion of the floodplain channel network and (2) identify hydrochemical tracers for detecting different sources and pathways of water. The seasonal changes in discharge, spatiotemporal patterns of channel length, and water chemistry within the floodplain are linked to the shifting dominance of different hydrologic reservoirs and flow paths within the catchment. During the expansion phase in spring, snowmelt is the main source of water for the entire floodplain, although it circulates via subsuface pathways on the catchment slopes before entering the floodplain. Peak discharge and maximum expansion of the channel network in summer are associated with the melting of the glaciers. Englacial water enters the floodplain mainly via surface flow paths and is distributed across the floodplain via surface connectivity and shallow groundwater pathways. During the contraction phase in autumn, seepage of subglacial water from the main channel is the primary water source for the upper floodplain. In the lower floodplain, surface flow is sustained by upwelling of deep alluvial and hillslope groundwaters. The relative contribution of deep groundwaters increases during winter, a phase of low discharge and maximum contraction of the channel network.
1552562| Diatoms from Sawtooth Lake (7920N, 8151W) on the Fosheim Peninsula in Central Ellesmere Island, Canada were analyzed to assess the temporal extent and magnitude of climatic change in the High Arctic during the late Holocene. Diatom results from the sediment cores show an absence of diatoms throughout the last 2.5 ka (4.6 m) until the 1920s. However, ca. 1926 (5.3-cm depth), a rapid colonization of diatoms in the lake occurred. Within the uppermost section of the core (1920 to 1997), the diatom flora shift from a small Fragilaria-dominated assemblage to a more diverse assemblage that is dominated by large planktonic taxa (e.g., Cyclotella bodanica) and large raphid benthic species. The postglacial nature of this assemblage suggests a decrease in ice cover and a concomitant increase in light and nutrient availability for diatom growth over the last 75 yr. Of particular significance is this absence of diatoms prior to the 1920s, which indicates that environmental conditions of the last 75 yr are unlike any of the previous 2500 yr. 
23252810|The authors propose a model of glacial mass balance based on correlations with meteorological observations and data from climate re-analysis. The minimum input data required include the following: average monthly temperature on the glacier and in its vicinity during summertime for a reference time period, average monthly air temperature, and average precipitation total at the nearest weather station or from re-analysis. This model was used to hindcast the mass balance and its components at Werenskioldbreen (southern Svalbard) over the period 19122005. The hindcast specific mass balance was then used to estimate the change in the thickness of the snout of Werenskioldbreen over the period 19581990. These results were compared with results obtained using a cartographic method. Comparing the topographic maps, the glacier front lowered 28.7 m on average over 32 years. The average difference in the calculation of the change in glacier thickness between these two methods amounted to 3.7 m (based on meteorological data) and 0.2 m (using ERA-40). The discrepancy of less than 13% confirmed that the method is a reasonably accurate way of predicting past glacier mass balance. The proposed method can find a broad application in hindcasting the mass balances of small Svalbard glaciers where observation data are scarce or nonexistent.
20181709|Ozone in interstitial air was studied in the seasonal, mid-latitude snowpack at a subalpine forest site at Niwot Ridge, Colorado, from January to June 2004. Sampling techniques were developed for continuous, vertical gradient measurements of ozone and temperature at four depths in the snowpack. During this time period, ozone in ambient air ranged from 15 to 80 ppbv, while in the snowpack ozone mixing ratios generally were below 5 ppbv, showed little variability, and decreased to less than 10% of ambient air levels within the first 10-20 cm below the surface. This ozone gradient (ambient air-snowpack air) appeared to be independent of solar radiation cycles. These findings are in contrast to similar studies in the polar snowpack, where a much deeper penetration of ozone into the snowpack and strong dependencies of the ozone gradient on incoming solar radiation levels has been reported. These observations imply that ozone levels in the seasonal, mid-latitude snowpack are determined by different processes, and overall are lower than in the year-round snowpack. A new question that needs to be addressed is to what degree these contrasting findings are caused by differences in the physical properties of these snowpacks (which will affect gas exchange processes), their chemical composition, and by the influence of the substrate below the snow and soil-snowpack-atmosphere gas exchange processes.
1552301| Colobanthus quitensis is one of only two vascular plant species that occur in the Antarctic islands. We evaluated morphological and physiological traits and survival after freezing in individuals of C. quitensis collected in two populations: one from the Andes of central Child and the other from the maritime Antarctic. We addressed whether these populations are ecotypes in terms of shoot morphology and physiology, and cold resistance. We also evaluated genetic differentiation at the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) regions. Under controlled growing conditions, Andean plants had longer and narrower leaves and longer peduncles. However, shoot biomass was similar in both populations. There was a 1.17% sequence divergence of ITS regions between populations. Survival to freezing at temperatures from 0 to -16C was not different in nonacclimated plants. After cold-acclimation at 4C, freezing tolerance was greater in Antarctic plants. Both Andean and Antarctic plants increased soluble sugars with increasing acclimation time, but it did not differ between populations. Shoot water content decreased with acclimation time in both populations, but Antarctic plants maintained slightly higher water contents after cold exposure. Shoot growth did not differ during acclimation. The studied populations of C. quitensis represent different morphological and cold resistant ecotypes despite their genetic similarity. However, the mechanistic basis of the higher survival to freezing of Antarctic plants was not elucidated. 
10.2307/1552273|To determine the modern relationship between pollen and stomate deposition and vegetation, surface sediments from 26 lakes along the Lena River in northeastern Siberia were analyzed for pollen and conifer stomate content. The lakes sampled, crossed a vegetation gradient from tundra, forest-tundra, to closed boreal forest. The pollen spectra of tundra lakes are dominated by Betula and Alnus. Cyperaceae and Poaceae are also abundant. Forest-tundra lakes are dominated by Betula and Alnus, but contain lower percentages of Artemisia than tundra lakes. Forest pollen spectra are also dominated by Betula and Alnus pollen, however, forest lakes contain greater percentages of Larix pollen. Principal components analysis indicates that forest and tundra sites were distinct from one another, but considerable overlap exists between forest-tundra and forest and tundra pollen assemblages. Larix stomates were abundant in all samples from regions where trees are currently present except for one lake. Small numbers of Larix stomates were found in tundra lakes, likely due to the redeposition of older material from eroding peat banks. It is likely that this process also contributed some older pollen to modern lake sediments as well. Principal components analysis was used to compare fossil samples from a lake-sediment core to the modern spectra. Early Holocene vegetation assemblages, dominated by herb and Betula shrub tundra and subsequent Larix forests, do not have modern pollen analogs in the lower Lena River region. Modern pollen analogs developed after 6 ka BP, when forest vegetation developed around the site. This was gradually replaced by modern tundra after 3.5 ka BP.
41240438|Environmental conditions associated with climate change, such as earlier snowmelt, warmer spring temperatures, and increased soil mineralization, have resulted in shifts in the timing of plant phenological events. We assessed the effects of fertilizer and herbivory on the phenology of 7 plant species from a boreal forest understory using long-term experimental plots in the southwest Yukon. Fertilizer and fencing treatments were initiated in 1990, and discontinued in half of each plot in 2000. There were few effects on phenology of either fertilizer or fencing. In some species, fertilizer affected the final phenological stage reached, but the presence and direction of the effect was species-dependent. Epilobium angustifolium was the only species where the timing of phenological stages responded to fertilization; early phenological stages were advanced with fertilizer. First leaf expansion for Arctostaphylos uva-ursi occurred earlier in fenced plots, although this effect disappeared in plots where the fencing treatment had been discontinued. We conclude that previously observed changes in species abundance with fertilizer treatments are likely not caused by changes in the phenology of these species, and are more likely due to fertilization imposed changes in vegetative growth.
10.2307/1552243|Sphagnum bogs that were monitored over a 15-yr period showed significant changes in the abundance of diagnostic species. At plots ungrazed by cattle, the major bog species Sphagnum cristatum, Caltha introloba, and Carex gaudichaudiana increased significantly in cover. No such increases occurred in grazed plots. There were few changes in cover of the main structural vegetation types--closed heathland, low open heathland, and open herbfield on stony pavements. Sphagnum and the main herbfield species, Oreobolus pumilio and Caltha introloba, were dislodged and shifted over unvegetated stony pavements by snowmelt runoff, snowpack movement, and cattle trampling. Experiments using Sphagnum transplants showed this species capable of colonizing pavements by establishing on other plants. Survival and growth of transplants were significantly greater on low compared with high water flow (high energy) sites. Grazing and trampling by cattle significantly reduced survival of transplants, thus disrupting the colonization of pavements; firstly, by directly reducing the survival and growth of Sphagnum and other colonists; and secondly, by preventing the formation of barriers to water flow that would facilitate colonization. We propose a successional dynamic based on some of the processes operating in the open herbfield and stony pavements of Sphagnum bogs.
1552312| An ecological study of the freshwater testate amoebae (Protozoa, Rhizopoda) on the subantarctic island le de la Possession (Crozet Archipelago) revealed 85 taxa, belonging to 21 genera. Twenty-two taxa belonged to the genus Difflugia, typical for freshwater habitats whereas the genus Trinema showed the highest relative abundance. A cluster analysis revealed two communities: a Difflugiella crenulata assemblage and a Trinema lineare--T. enchelys assemblage. These communities, together with the results of a RDA analysis, represented a clear geographical separation on the island. The Difflugiella crenulata assemblage typified locations, with a high specific conductance and neutral to alkaline pH values, on the western part of the island. Aquatic habitats in the larger valleys on the eastern side of le de la Possession, with a low conductivity and slightly acid pH values, were characterized by the Trinema assemblage. Weighted averaging and calibration were used to develop a statistical transfer function to infer the pH of freshwater bodies from the testate amoebae assemblages. The model is usable over a pH range of 5 to 9. 
10.2307/1552242|Long-term data from six sites in treeless subalpine and alpine vegetation in central Tasmania are used to document change in vegetation cover and life form dominance over time. All sites have been disturbed by burning and domestic stock grazing in the past. Although burning ceased at least 8 yr before initial measurements were taken, stock grazing still occurs at one site, and rabbits and native vertebrate herbivores (mainly wallabies) graze throughout the region. Vegetation cover increased across all sites over a 5- to 23-yr period at an average annual increment of approximately 1%. There was no significant relationship between the initial cover of bare ground and change in bare ground over time for most of the sites. Annual increases in vegetation cover were least in locations grazed by rabbits and native vertebrate herbivores and where domestic stock still grazed. Exclosures grazed only by rabbits had an intermediate rate of increase. Vegetation cover was found to increase most in ungrazed exclosures. The rates of increase in vegetation cover suggest that, in the absence of fire, it is a matter of decades before cover will be almost complete in the area.
41240413|For over 100 years, mountain treelines have been the subject of varied research endeavors and remain a strong area of investigation. The purpose of this paper is to examine aspects of the epistemology of mountain treeline researchthat is, to investigate how knowledge on treelines has been acquired and the changes in knowledge acquisition over time, through a review of fundamental questions and approaches. The questions treeline researchers have raised and continue to raise have undoubtedly directed the current state of knowledge. A continuing, fundamental emphasis has centered on seeking the general cause of mountain treelines, thus seeking an answer to the question, "What causes treeline?" with a primary emphasis on searching for ecophysiological mechanisms of low-temperature limitation for tree growth and regeneration. However, treeline research today also includes a rich literature that seeks local, landscape-scale causes of treelines and reasons why treelines vary so widely in three-dimensional patterns from one location to the next, and this approach and some of its consequences are elaborated here. In recent years, both lines of research have been motivated greatly by global climate change. Given the current state of knowledge, we propose that future research directions focused on a spatial approach should specifically address cross-scale hypotheses using statistics and simulations designed for nested hierarchies; these analyses will benefit from geographic extension of treeline research.
4095923| Critical revision is presented of taxa comprising 27 verified species of Rhagidiidae from the Alps. Assemblages of endemic, Palearctic, and Holarctic Rhagidiidae inhabiting montane stony debris in the tztal Alps, North Tyrol, Austria, consist of 2 to 9 species, and Poecilophysis pseudoreflexa is the most abundant and widely distributed species. The highest species richness and endemism are in the mid-alpine zone (2400-2600 m a.s.l.) and the high alpine zone (2600-2800 m a.s.l.). A particular assemblage of rhagidiids of low diversity occurred in voids of a bare scree slope. Cluster and numerical multivariate analyses revealed that (1) the different altitudinal niches of a majority of common species overlap, but some species become rare with increasing altitude; (2) additional species of rhagidiid mites might be expected to be found in special, previously uncollected microhabitats; (3) rhagidiid mites having some affinities to specific environmental factors can be distinguished; (4) the altitudinal gradient proved to be the significant complex environmental factor influencing the occurrence of mites; (5) moisture proved to influence abundance of mites but has no direct relation to species identity; and (6) in contrast, dryness proved to be bound with the occurrence of particular species of rhagidiid mites. 
4095936|Atmospheric nitrogen (N) fixation is a key N input to arctic ecosystems, but relatively few estimates of annual N-fixation rates are available. We measured N-fixation of plant-soil cores by the acetylene reduction technique at different topographic positions in an upland tundra watershed, Imnavait Creek, through two growing seasons in order to evaluate spatial and temporal variation in N-fixation. We also examined the effects of light and temperature on N-fixation to estimate annual N-fixation rates of surface soil in this watershed using field meteorological data. Surface soil at Imnavait Creek had significant acetylene reduction potential throughout the watershed (generally 6 to
1552569|In a factorial field experiment we increased the temperature (Open Top Chambers) and nutrients (nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium [NPK]) to simulate predicted future climate changes and studied the growth response of the acrocarpous bryophyte Pohlia wahlenbergii (Bryaceae) in a wet snowbed environment. The species shows a positive growth-length response to added nutrients and increased temperature. The stronger response to nutrients indicates a strong limitation of nutrients in the snowbed environment. There was an immediate response to nutrient treatment, whereas the temperature response was delayed. The growth response shows a clear interaction between temperature and nutrients. The immediate positive growth response is interpreted as a function of the wet habitat, since water makes the added nutrients immediately available to the plants. The growth form changed toward a more lax (loose) and desiccation-intolerant form with added nutrients. In a climate change scenario based on these results we hypothesize that bryophyte response will depend on the water availability from precipitation and from meltwater. In a drier environment we predict that bryophytes will become more constrained toward areas with a high continuity of meltwater, whereas increased precipitation may compensate for any changes in growth form, which would be positive for bryophytes.
20181816|Information about the annual carbon fluxes of fen and meadow ecosystems in alpine environments is rare. We studied the influence of photosynthetic active radiation (PAR), plant green area index (GAI), soil temperature, and water-filled pore space (wfps) on the net CO emission at four alpine sites (one meadow and three fen sites) differing in water balance and plant community. Measurements over two years were made in the Eastern Alps, Austria, including two snow-free periods and two snow periods. During snow-free periods, net CO gain during daylight periods (
1552646|This study investigates effects of reducing the ambient UV radiation on gas exchange and chlorophyll fluorescence of two shrub species, Salix arctica and Vaccinium uliginosum, in a high arctic heath in Northeast Greenland in July and August. On two sites films, Mylar and Lexan, were used to reduce UV-B radiation and UV-B + A radiation, respectively. A UV transparent film, Teflon, and no film were used as controls. Field measurements showed that the plants under Teflon, Mylar, and Lexan received approximately 91, 39, and 17% of the ambient UV-B irradiance, respectively. Reduced UV radiation increased maximal photochemical efficiency (F<sub>v</sub>/F<sub>m</sub>) in both species. The responses varied in significance according to species, sites and time of growing season. Net assimilation (P<sub>n</sub>), measured as net CO<sub>2</sub> uptake, was not significantly affected. But over the whole growing season stomatal conductance and intercellular CO<sub>2</sub> were decreased by both UV treatments. The underlying mechanisms for these results are discussed. PAR-irradiance had a negative influence on the absolute values of F<sub>v</sub>/F<sub>m</sub>. A positive correlation was found between F<sub>v</sub>/F<sub>m</sub> and P<sub>n</sub> measured at ambient CO<sub>2</sub>-level. It is concluded that it cannot be excluded, that the observed short-term effects could result in long-term negative effects on growth and survival for the investigated species.
40305823|Lakes may serve as sentinels for the impacts of changing climate in alpine areas. In the Rocky Mountain region, 2002 was a year with extremely low snowpack. We examined the summer phytoplankton community in Green Lake 4 for a 6-year period that included the summer of 2002. The phytoplankton community variation was examined in the context of the changes in physical and chemical properties of Green Lake 4. The physical changes associated with the 2002 drought included warmer surface water temperatures and greater hydraulic residence times; whereas the chemical changes included higher concentrations of acid neutralizing capacity (ANC) and major ions. During the summer of 2002 the phytoplankton community was dominated by Synedra sp. and Ankyra sp.; two previously rare species. The growth of Synedra sp. was sufficient to cause a decrease in silica concentrations, which has not been observed in other summers in the water quality monitoring record. The results of a redundancy analysis (RDA) indicated that concentrations of major ions and ANC were aligned with Synedra sp. and Ankyra sp. during the 2002 drought year. Following the 2002 drought year, Chrysococcus sp. and Chlorococcum sp., which became abundant, were aligned with nitrate in the RDA. These results indicate that the response of the phytoplankton community to the extreme drought was most strongly correlated with water quality changes that occurred, rather than temperature and hydraulic residence time. The dominant species in the post-drought phytoplankton community were found to be associated with nitrate, which is brought to the watershed by atmospheric deposition and may represent an anthropogenic driver of phytoplankton community composition.
20181745|A 107-cm-long lake core was drilled in South Hongshan Lake (3510N, 8004E, 5060 m a.s.l.) shows 150 yr of environmental change as inferred from ostracoda assemblages. Four species of ostracoda, which belong to four genera, have been identified. The ostracoda distribution in the core can be divided into six ostracoda assemblages as follows: OA1--Ilyocypris biplicata-Limnocythere inopinata assemblage; OA2--Limnocythere inopinata-Leucocythere mirabilis assemblage; OA3--Leucocythere mirabilis-Limnocythere inopinata assemblage, in which dominant species is Limnocythere inopinata; OA4--Nearly ostracoda free; OA5--Eucypris inflata-Limnocythere inopinata assemblage; and OA6--Limnocythere inopinata changes from dominant to sole species. These ostracoda assemblages, together with other proxies, imply the following environmental sequence for the past 150 yr in the study area. Shallow moving water appears in A.D. 1850-1884, followed by a warm-humid climate in 1884-1922. Lake level decreased and water temperature supported maximum ostracoda growth in 1922-1946, followed by cooling conditions in 1946-1960. From 1960 to 1980, declining lake level is closely linked with local precipitation. The period since 1982 is characterized by less precipitation and continuous aridity under warming climatic conditions.
20181716|The availability of seeds and microsites are limiting factors for many plant species of different vegetation types. We have investigated the existence of such limitations in two habitats, an alpine heath and a subalpine birch forest, where abiotic factors are hypothesized to be the main determining factor of plant species distributions. Both habitats are characterized by a short growing season and cold temperatures, and the alpine heath is also constrained by low productivity. A seed addition experiment including six vascular plants, selected by different functional traits and occurrence, showed that seed limitation was an important factor in these habitats. Removal of the aboveground biomass (controlled disturbance) increased germination only for some species. The effect of reindeer presence was found to be of less importance, probably due to low and varying densities of reindeer. To conclude, we found that seed limitation was the most important factor limiting the distribution of our studied species in the two alpine environments.
10.2307/1552467|Patterns of nematode population dynamics in an extreme environment were studies in the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica. Nematode populations are sensitive to soil disturbance and are useful indicators of environmental change. We hypothesized that the pristine soil environments of Antarctica that are suitable for life would support stable both spatially and temporally nematode populations. We established three sampling sites across an elevation gradient in Taylor Valley and sampled each site at larger and smaller spatial scales three-times over a 6-yr period (1993, 1995, and 1999). Nematode variables and soil moisture were significantly different among years. Soil moisture, nematode abundance, and life cycle parameters varied also with elevation, but not spatial scale at the grid size over the 6 yr. Generally, soil moisture declined during the time of the study and was greatest at the lowest elevation. Throughout the 6 yr, Scottnema lindsayae was most abundant at the highest elevation and dominated all sites, while Eudorylaimus antarcticus was most abundant at the lowest elevation. Plectus antarcticus was present only at the lowest elevation. While Scottnema was negatively correlated with soil moisture, Eudorylaimus and Plectus showed a positive relationship. Similarities among nematode species in life cycle characteristics (e.g., long life cycles and low reproductive rates) may indicate adaptive strategy for survival in the Dry Valleys soil environments. The differences, however, may indicate species specific sensitivity to changes in the soil characteristics such as moisture. Temporal variation of variables describing nematode populations in Antarctic soil suggests the nematode species respond to short-term climate variation and, thus, may be affected by long-term climate change.
20181803|Chemical weathering in soils has not been studied extensively in high-latitude regions. Loess sequences with modern soils and paleosols are present in much of subarctic Alaska, and allow an assessment of present and past chemical weathering. Five sections were studied in detail in the Fairbanks, Alaska, area. Paleosols likely date to mid-Pleistocene interglacials, the last interglacial, and early-to-mid-Wisconsin interstadials. Ratios of mobile (Na, Ca, Mg, Si) to immobile (Ti or Zr) elements indicate that modern soils and most interstadial and interglacial paleosols are characterized by significant chemical weathering. NaO/TiO is lower in modern soils and most paleosols compared to parent loess, indicating depletion of plagioclase. In the clay fraction, smectite is present in Tanana and Yukon River source sediments, but is absent or poorly expressed in modern soils and paleosols, indicating depletion of this mineral also. Loss of both plagioclase and smectite is well expressed in soils and paleosols as lower SiO/TiO. Carbonates are present in the river source sediments, but based on CaO/TiO, they are depleted in soils and most paleosols (with one exception in the early-to-mid-Wisconsin period). Thus, most soil-forming intervals during past interglacial and interstadial periods in Alaska had climatic regimes that were at least as favorable to mineral weathering as today, and suggest boreal forest or acidic tundra vegetation.
25642098|We estimated the abundance of voles, or vole nests, in four different experiments in the Boreal forest understory in the southwestern Yukon to test if voles were attracted to fertilizer. In one experiment we counted vole nests in plots that had been fertilized or not fertilized for 4 years; in a second we counted trapped voles in plots that has been fertilized, or not, for 13 years; and in two others we counted the number of vole visits to Longworth traps baited with fertilizer. There were significantly more over-winter nests in the fertilized plots. In a June trapping session, more voles were captured in fertilized plots than unfertilized plots and voles entered locked-open traps and removed fertilizer. The results demonstrate a relationship between fertilizer and voles. Whether voles are attracted to the fertilizer alone or the higher quality feed it produces remains unclear. A plausible, yet untested, hypothesis is that the voles were consuming the fertilizer as a source of micro- or macronutrients.
10.2307/1552582| Glaciological research was carried out in November and December 1996 in the accumulation area of Glaciar Nef, an eastward-facing glacier from Hielo Patagnico Norte (Northern Patagonia Icefield), South America. A 14.5-m-deep firn core (9.7 m water equivalent: w.e.) was obtained at 1500 m a.s.l., and air temperature and melting rate were also measured. Values of 18O of 1- or 2-cm-thick samples in the upper 6 m of the firn fluctuated from -16 to -10%, which are explained by variations in 18O of precipitation. Below 6 m in the firn, 18O was almost constant, due to percolation of large amounts of meltwater. It was considered that the upper 6 m was deposited during the prior winter; thus winter balance in 1996 was derived as +3.5 m w.e. Based on the measurement results and climatic data, winter and summer ablations were estimated at 0.0 and 3.4 m w.e., respectively, and summer accumulation at 2.1 m w.e. Then, net balance in the calendar year 1996 was estimated at about +2.2 m w.e. Comparison with previous studies and candidate drilling sites are also discussed. 
4095840|In the Central Greater Caucasus Mountains, Georgia, Betula litwinowii (birch) occurs on north-facing slopes of east-west ridgelines that extend upward to high mountain peaks, forms the alpine timberline at higher elevation, and reaches its highest treeline limit only when associated with the broadleaf evergreen shrub, Rhododendron caucasicum. This association might generate an ecological facilitation of either temperatures or sky exposure, both of which have been related to the altitudes at which timberlines/treelines occur. At the lowest site (2072 m) the greatest abundance of birch seedlings (up to 2.3 seedlings/m
20181780|Glacier retreat has been widespread on Heard Island, an isolated 2745-m-high volcano in the southern Indian Ocean, since the first observations in 1947. This study represents the first quantification of the mass loss of a Heard Island glacier. Brown Glacier is 4.8 km long and is land terminating. A digital elevation model for the glacier was developed using a combination of static and kinematic differentially corrected GPS surveys and hand-held GPS elevations, and together with ground penetrating radar, was used to estimate the glacier's catchment area boundary. The 1947 extent of the glacier was estimated from an aerial photograph. The total ice covered area has decreased from an estimated 6.18  10 m in 1947 to 4.38  10 m in 2004. This corresponds to a loss of 29% of the original area. During the same period the ice volume decreased by an estimated 1.743  10 m (3.06  10 m a), equating to an average thickness change of -0.50 m a. The mass loss is consistent with limited temperature observations in the area that indicate a +0.9 C warming over the same time span. Meteorological observations combined with an energy balance model demonstrate the impact of foehn winds on the mass balance of the upper slopes of the glacier. Between December 2000 and December 2003, repeat differentially corrected GPS surface surveys revealed an average surface change of -9.9 m in the ablation area and -5.9 m in the accumulation area, translating to an ice loss of 8.0  10 m a, or more than double the 57 year average rate. There is no indication of an increase in geothermal heat flux that could explain an ice loss of this magnitude. The increase in the rate of ice loss suggests the glacier is reacting to ongoing changes in climatic conditions rather than approaching steady state.
10.2307/1552483|High-elevation areas in the Rocky Mountain treeline ecotone exhibit heterogeneous snow distribution resulting from interactions among topography, vegetation, and wind. Our study area--Libby Flats--is a gently arched ridge at 3200 m a.s.l. in the Medicine Bow Mountains, Wyoming. The Libby Flats snow season (October-May) features sub-freezing temperatures, abundant snow, and strong westerly winds (averaging 10 m s<sup>-1</sup>). While relief is gentle on Libby Flats, it, together with islands of krummholz and flagged trees, produces snow depths ranging from 0 to 7 m. These variable snow depths have important feedbacks on the occurrence of trees and vegetation, as well as direct controls on ecosystem properties. To better understand the factors controlling these interactions, snow distribution patterns were measured and modeled over a 6.25 km<sup>2</sup> area on Libby Flats during the 1997-98 snow season. Snow-depth observations during the snow season were compared with results from the SnowTran-3D model. These tests demonstrated that the model closely reproduces the observed snow distribution patterns and adequately represents snow depths at a 5 m spatial resolution on Libby Flats. Simulation experiments demonstrate the relative importance of wind speeds, precipitation, and vegetation in the natural system.
10.2307/1552471|We examined effects of annual snowfall fluctuation on tree growth and establishment in a mature stand (ca. 200 yr old) of Japanese subalpine Abies mariesii Mast. near upper forest-limits at leeward site. Relatively tall and aged fir trees (>5 m, >100 yr old) retained various scars of past mechanical damage due to snow pressures, e.g., multiple-, tip dieback- and broken-stems, and canopy anomaly. Ring-width pattern analysis showed that these deformed trees mostly experienced abrupt growth reduction. Some events of such abrupt growth reduction occurred simultaneously just after winters with heavy snowfall (e.g., mid-1960s), indicating that the A. mariesii trees often suffered from snow damage due to settlement force of excess snowpack. Particularly, in snowy winters, mechanical breakage of branches was likely to occur intensively at the height of 1 to 3 m above the maximum snowpack level of normal snowfall winters (ca. 3 m). On the other hand, some aged, but suppressed, trees sharply enhanced their growth rates simultaneously after such period of the intensive snow damage. This indicated that the snow damage upon the relatively tall trees sometimes facilitated regeneration of nearby shaded-trees by creating small-scale gaps. The snow-induced disturbance events may have occurred at about 10-yr intervals during the last half of 20th century. Our findings suggested that population dynamics of A. mariesii near its upper forest-limit, especially located at leeward and snowy site, was closely affected by the repetitive events of snow damage following snowy winters: the event primarily acted as a major limiting factor for canopy development of individuals, and sometimes triggered growth of suppressed-trees.
20181752|With mesoscale data from a high-resolution numerical model, this paper analyzes the impact of the complex mesoscale terrain at the eastern edge of the Tibetan Plateau on the formation and development of a local severe storm. The result shows that the dynamic blocking effect of the Tibetan Plateau terrain affects the moisture transfer channel in this heavy rain scenario and brings about the formation of a strong watervapor convergence center in northwest Sichuan and the upper branch of Huang He (Yellow River). The terrain structure of the east side of the Tibetan Plateau places a high energy tongue and energy front in the lower layer of the troposphere of Sichuan Basin and helps establish unstable potential energy stratification in the lower troposphere of the Sichuan Basin. The accumulation of water vapor in the lower troposphere in the Sichuan Basin is the major reason for the establishment of unstable potential energy stratification. The steep terrain of the east side of Tibetan Plateau strengthens the ascendant motion. The strongest updraft movement occurred in the convergence area of the vertical shear of east and west wind and the steep landform, stimulating the unsteady release of energy and rapid development of the strong convection. The process is also accompanied by a mesoscale vortex in the east side of the Plateau. The most significant thermal and dynamic feature of this heavy rain scenario is that high temperature, high humidity, and strong vorticity columns appear only in the lower troposphere, which is very different from Mei-Yu. ("Mei-Yu" in Chinese and "Baiu" in Japanese refers to the frontal precipitation caused by Mei-Yu front, a persistent east-west zone of disturbed weather during early summer which is quasi-stationary and stretches from the east China coast, across Taiwan, and eastward into the Pacific Ocean south of Japan.)
10.2307/1552278| Groundwaters, surface runoff and river discharge have been studied at the Fish Hole area of the Big Fish River catchment, near Aklavik, N.W.T., to quantify the seasonal variations in groundwater contributions to baseflow in a permafrost basin. Geochemical and isotope methods are used to distinguish three principal water types: (1) subpermafrost Na-Cl thermal waters (16C) discharging from bedrock along the river, (2) shallow, Ca-SO<sub>4</sub> groundwaters, and (3) low-salinity, Ca-HCO<sub>3</sub>, suprapermafrost drainage. Cl and SO<sub>4</sub> concentrations in river water show that baseflow is largely derived from groundwater sources (Na-Cl and Ca-SO<sub>4</sub> components), with less than 30% contributed from surface water runoff in any season. Thermal groundwaters discharge year-round at a calculated 1.6 m<sup>3</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>. The shallow, Ca-SO<sub>4</sub> groundwater is the dominant component of baseflow in summer but is absent in winter baseflow. Discharge analysis based on a single flow measurement (25.5 m<sup>3</sup> s<sup>-1</sup> in June, 1997) and Cl-dilution allows calculation of total river discharge. This is shown to vary from a low of 2.2 m<sup>3</sup> s<sup>-1</sup> in the winter, to 1050 m<sup>3</sup> s<sup>-1</sup> during early spring melt. 
1552305|Plant species with morphological features that enable the age of individuals to be estimated are potentially useful for understanding past environmental conditions. Here, the size and growth rate of the cushion plant, Azorella selago Hook. (Apiaceae), are examined to determine if an accurate and reliable age can be assigned to individual plants using the phytometric model detailed by Frenot et al. (1993). Plant size, growth rate, epiphyte load, nearest-neighbor characteristics, and spatial position (used as a surrogate, to encompass a range of abiotic conditions to which plants were exposed) were measured at three sites. Additionally, variation in some of these variables was quantified across three altitudinal transects. Relationships were examined using regression, trend surface and partial regression approaches. Growth rate was independent of plant size, differed between sites, and was related to abiotic as well as other biotic factors. As a result, the phytometric model's age estimates may be biased by environmental variables. The results of the phytometric model, albeit in the absence of support for one assumption, estimated mean plant age at 30 yr, with some plants estimated as older than 80 yr. Using a simulation model, the accuracy of age estimates was shown to vary with temporal variation in plant growth rate and plant size. Nonetheless, even a conservative approach suggested these estimates to be accurate to within 2 to 15 yr. While further development of the phytometric model would improve its reliability, the model remains a valuable tool for estimating plant ages in an environment where many related techniques can not be applied.
24551630|Caching decisions have been studied for many species, but large-scale variation of selective preferences due to environmental heterogeneity has rarely been examined. We investigated large-scale patterns of selective caching behavior in the American pika (Ochotona princeps), a non-hibernating generalist herbivore that caches vegetation in haypiles to serve as winter food. At 13 sites throughout the southern Rocky Mountains, we identified the three most common available and cached plant species and analyzed them for dietary quality. Selectivity at each site was measured as the difference between average quality of the most common cached and available vegetation. Pikas consistently cached materials of higher quality than the most common available vegetation. Selectivity for high nitrogen corresponded to quality of available plants and site summer temperature, whereas selectivity for high water content was negatively correlated with elevation. Our results indicate that pikas cache a variety of plant materials while using different selectivity cues, illustrating the complexity of pika caching behavior across a range of environmental conditions and forage values. Future studies on caching behavior should take into account differential selectivity due to environmental heterogeneity.
4095863|Despite an increasing interest in the study of functional diversity, there have been few attempts to link plant traits, habitat variation, and community structure in Alpine landscapes. These interrelationships were examined along a snowmelt and growing-season-length gradient determined by mesotopographical variations. The study site was chosen so as to encompass much of the floristic beta diversity encountered at the Alpine belt of the southwestern Alps. A three-table ordination technique, named RLQ, was used to unravel on a quantitative basis the co-structure of a plot-by-environmental-variable table, a plot-by-species table, and a species-by-traits table. The main covariations between traits and habitat were (1) an increased specific leaf area (SLA) and leaf nitrogen content on a mass basis
4095848|Thermokarst formation and vegetation change in central Yakutia, eastern Siberia, were reconstructed based on newly obtained AMS radiocarbon data and pollen records from four typical thermokarst depressions (alases). Radiocarbon ages of wood fragments, which are good indicators of the development of thermokarst depressions, suggest that they formed during the early Holocene. The result of dating at various locations implies that thermokarst in central Yakutia developed synchronously, at a time that regional paleoclimate records indicate warm and moist conditions prevailed. Major trends in pollen records from the four thermokarst deposits were similar. The predominant vegetation type during the thermokarst active phase was open larch and birch forest with herbaceous taxa. Grassland developed on areas exposed by a decrease in water levels of thermokarst lakes during the late Holocene.
41416434|In a warming climate, sexual reproduction may play an important role in plant community composition in arctic tundra. As temperatures increase and currently immobilized soil nutrients become available, flowering, fruiting, and germination conditions will likely improve. We examined how experimentally adding soil nutrients for 13 and 20 years affected species composition, flower and fruit production, seed dispersal, composition of the seed bank, and seedling establishment in a dry heath plant community in northern Alaska. Fertilizer addition significantly shifted adult community composition by decreasing lichens and evergreen shrubs and increasing abundance of a bunchgrass, Hierochloe alpina, and dwarf birch, Betula nana. More seeds were dispersed adjacent to nutrient amended plots, particularly of B. nana, and soil seed banks differed significantly between control and fertilized soils reflecting the adult communities in the field. Few seedlings were observed in any field plots. However, seeds of H. alpina likely played a role in the community shift because this species has few, small individuals in control plots, yet is densely packed in fertilized plots. B. nana, on the other hand, appears to be increasing in relative abundance via vegetative growth of existing individuals. Therefore, although sexual reproduction leading to seedling establishment is rare currently, as nutrients become more available in a warming climate, individuals may recruit from seed more often as long as space is available.
20181738|This study examined the influence of snowmelt, vascular plants, grazing, substrates, and soil characteristics on the distribution of lichen communities along an alpine tundra ridge in the Uinta Mountains of Utah. Percent cover of lichens, rocks, snow, and vascular plants were estimated at 18 study sites along an altitudinal transect. Vascular plant cover and species diversity were greatest at the lower elevation sites, and differences in plant communities were related to differences in rock cover and grazing. Lichens showed a similar trend, with rock cover, grazing, vascular plants, and timing of snowmelt all defining community structure. We hypothesize that domestic sheep have dispersed fragments of two lichen species from western Wyoming to grazed sites along the study transect. Generally, terricolous and epiphytic lichens differed between the lower and upper sites in species composition and growth-form distribution. Distribution of lichen growth forms was positively correlated with increasing rock cover. Late snowmelt areas were also distinguished by a defined group of lichens.
23359630|Due to observed interactions between Svalbard reindeer (Rangifer tarandus platyrhynchus) and polar bears (Ursus maritimus) during field work on Edgeya, Svalbard, we measured response distances for reindeer from a stalking polar bear and improvised five approaches from a person disguised as a polar bear for comparison with human encounters. The alert, flight initiation and escape distances were 1.6, 2.5 and 2.3 times longer, respectively, when Svalbard reindeer were encountered by a person disguised as a polar bear compared to a person in dark hiking gear. Population increase of polar bears on Svalbard and decrease in sea-ice cover in the Arctic region during summer probably results in more frequent interactions with reindeer on the archipelago. Similar reindeer response behavior from encounters with a polar bear and persons disguised as polar bears indicate a predator-prey relationship between the two species on Edgeya.
10.2307/1552493|Landform-sediment-process assemblages associated with four gorges and their corresponding downstream boulder fans in the alpine periglaciofluvial system of the Storutla river, Jotunheimen, southern Norway, are described. The potential volume of frost-weathered sediment excavated from the gorges is compared using a sediment-budget approach to calculate the volume of angular sediment within the fans accumulated during the Holocene. Fan volumes represent an estimated 18 to 53% of the total gorge volume. Allowing also for the volume of relatively small caliber material flushed through the system, 24 to 97% of the gorge volume is accounted for by an estimated minimum long-term Holocene rate of gorge excavation of 0.002 to 0.010 m<sup>3</sup> m<sup>-1</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup> (minimum long-term Holocene gorge incision rate of 0.15-0.39 mm yr<sup>-1</sup>). Most of the remaining gorge volume is attributed to substantial pre-Holocene subglacial gorge incision by meltwater action. These rates of Holocene periglaciofluvial erosion of bedrock appear to exceed those characteristic of temperate fluvial systems unaffected by tectonic uplift. The implied rates of frost weathering (macrogelivation) are less than those under optimum conditions in arctic-alpine environments but support the efficacy of frost weathering in locations susceptible to the annual freeze-thaw cycle.
41416449|Alpine ecosystems are generally nitrogen (N) limited with low rates of N mineralization. Herbivory may affect N cycling and N losses and thus long-term productivity of ecosystems. Using a controlled grazing experiment in a low-alpine region at Hol, southern Norway, with three density levels of sheep, we determined effects of grazing on in situ availability of inorganic N, potential N mineralization, and mobility of dissolved inorganic N (DIN) and dissolved organic N (DON) in soil water of O-horizons in grazing-preferred grassland habitats. In addition, we studied the within-season and spatial variation of these processes. The low alpine grasslands at Hol were characterized by small rates of N mineralization and relatively large plant demands for N. Significantly greater rates of potential N mineralization were found at sites with high sheep density compared to those with low density or no grazing. Effects of grazing on bioavailable N (as determined by buried PRS exchange resins) were greater at low as compared to high altitudes. At low altitudes, low sheep density reduced amounts of bioavailable N. Nitrogen concentration of plants as a proxy of N availability in soils revealed, however, no significant effects of grazing. There was a strong seasonal effect on inorganic N and DIN:DON ratios of the soil water, with decreasing values in the course of the growing season, probably due to increasing nutrient demand of plants and/or microbes. We conclude that grazing may significantly stimulate N-cycling, but not sufficiently to release the system from its strong N deficiency, as we found no evidence for short-term increased risk in N loss via soil water due to herbivore activity. Nitrogen removal through grazing is small compared to the total soil  pool and at high sheep density is about half of the N deposition. This suggests that grazing in grassland habitats in this low alpine ecosystem is sustainable from a nutrient point of view.
40305826|The distribution of soil mites was studied in the foreland of the Hardangerjkulen glacier in central south Norway, close to a glacier snout, which has been receding since 1750. Twenty sampling plots were distributed along a gradient spanning from 30 to 230 years, and five additional plots were in 10,000-year-old soil nearby. To standardize the microhabitat, all 320 soil cores (each 10 cm 2 and 3 cm deep) were taken in Salix herbacea vegetation. The main focus was on oribatids, and most juveniles were identified to species. Two small, parthenogenetic species were pioneers, with high abundance in young soil: Tectocepheus velatus and Liochthonius cf. sellnickU although their dominance values decreased sharply with time. The youngest soils also contained unidentified Actinedida and Gamasidae, and pitfall traps revealed the rather large, predatory actinedid species Podothrombium strandi. The number of oribatid species increased gradually with soil age. The oldest soil contained 19 oribatid species, but only six of them, all in low densities, were unique to this soil. Parthenogenetic species were present in all age classes of soil. Although there exist few earlier studies on mite succession in glacial foreland soil, mites are clearly among the earliest colonizers along receding glaciers.
1552428|Despite the international reputation of Lesotho's severely eroded landscape, there have been no previous quantitative accounts of soil erosion processes and associated consequences from the alpine belt. This paper examines sedimentological, geomorphological, and geoecological controls and processes following gully development within alpine mires in eastern Lesotho. Contemporary gully extension is controlled by exposure to various sedimentary sequences, by gully sidewall crack development, and by topographic aspect. Significant vertical gully denudation rates of 8 cm (mineral sediment) to 13 cm (peat) were recorded over an 18-mo period. During a 5-d field experiment in July 1999, the continuously frozen south-facing gully walls recorded considerable horizontal movement of peat blocks (avg. = 19.8 mm/5 d), whereas needle ice--induced horizontal particle movement rates on north-facing walls averaged 10.2 mm/5 d. Soil moisture transect data show a pronounced reduction in surface soil moisture toward and between the gullied areas of a mire. The percentage of moisture loss toward midwinter was found to be greater between the gullies (47.4%) than in the adjoining zones, where moisture loss averaged 33.6%. Similarly, vegetation transects indicate a reduction in vegetation cover at the drier and more intensely burrowed (by Otomys, or "ice rats") zones close to the gullies. Invasive dwarf Karroid shrubs (e.g., Chrysocoma ciliata) are now establishing themselves alongside gullies, burrowed sites, and fringe areas of mires. We found that dryland plant invasions around grazing posts and heavily grazed areas on the slopes subsequently spread along alpine hydrological systems, particularly where gully erosion has created a suitable habitat.
41240399|Tree-ring width and glacier mass balance are two highly sensitive climatic proxies which are often used as indicators of biological and geophysical changes in high-altitude ecosystems. Tree-ring data have been widely used to reconstruct past temperatures and also to reconstruct past glacier mass balance. Here we show that tree-ring chronologies from a high-altitude Pinus cembra L. dendroclimatic network and glaciers from the same region in the European Alps have non-stationary responses to air temperature, and have also been responding non-proportionally to temperature extremes in recent decades. Both ring-width chronologies and the mass-balance series of some glaciers from the same region have shown an increasing sensitivity to summer (JJA) temperatures. Our results demonstrate that the sensitivity to climate of tree-ring chronologies and glacier mass balance may change over time and has been increasing in recent decades, posing some limitations to tree-ring-based glacier mass-balance reconstruction. Moreover, we found these reconstructions in the European Alps are more reliable for large rather than for small glaciers, and may not be able to reveal years of extreme ablation that could have occurred in the past.
23359623|Variability of midday net ecosystem CO 2 exchange (NEE) and respiration was measured using a transect of closed system chambers spanning transitions from channel fen, permafrost plateau, and ombrotrophic flat bog land cover types during the spring melt season (26 April6 June 2008). The primary objective was to compare fluxes from different land cover types and topographic variability within zones adjacent to and including rapid permafrost thaw. During this period, the bog was the greatest net source of CO 2 to the atmosphere, followed by plateau, and fen. NEE was slightly positive (indicating CO 2 loss to the atmosphere) during the snowmelt period (average = 0.009  0.004 mg CO 2 m -2 s -1 ), and increased to 0.025  0.012 mg CO 2 m -2 s -1 , on average, possibly due to soil thaw and increased microbial activity within two days of completely snow-free conditions. Near surface soil temperature and depth to the water table were the most significant controls of soil and ground cover CO 2 fluxes within chambers at all sites (p < 0.05). Analysis of historical aerial photographs and satellite imagery of the area from 1947 to 2008 indicates that plateaus are converting more rapidly into bogs than fen, where 73% of plateau areas (since 1970) that thawed had become bogs (as opposed to 27% conversion into fen). Future research requires establishment of a full ecosystem or land cover greenhouse gas and soil nutrient exchange/transfer program, including CO 2 and water fluxes as well as dissolved organic and inorganic C, and CH 4 losses from the soil. These results contribute to a better understanding of northern soil and ground-cover carbon exchanges as greater areas of permafrost plateaus collapse and form bogs.
1552289| Lengthening of the growing season at high latitudes, observed by satellites with the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI), has been ascribed to climate warming. To test this assumption, and to verify whether changes in vegetation greenness are quantitative or qualitative, we experimentally warmed patches of High Arctic tundra with infrared heating in Northeast Greenland. By analyzing digital images of the vegetation, changes in cover were distinguished from changes in senescence. During the season, experimental warming significantly increased green cover, for example, at the time of peak cover, the total green cover was enhanced from 59.1 to 67.3%. The dominant wavelength (hue) reflected by our tundra plots shifted from yellow-green to yellow. Experimental warming with 2.5C delayed this hue-shift by 15 d. The results demonstrate that higher summer temperatures do not only promote plant growth at these latitudes but also retard and/or postpone the senescence process, contrary to indications from previous research that late-season phenology in the High Arctic is governed by photoperiod. 
10.2307/1552583| Using miniature thermistors with integrated data loggers, the decrease in summer lake surface water temperature (LSWT) with increasing altitude a.s.l. was investigated in 10 Swiss Alpine lakes located between 613 m a.s.l. and 2339 m a.s.l. The LSWTs exhibit essentially the same short-term structure as regional air temperature, but are about 3 to 5C higher than the air temperature at the altitude of the lake. LSWTs decrease approximately linearly with increasing altitude at a rate slightly greater than the surface air temperature lapse rate. Diel variations in LSWT are large, implying that single water temperature measurements are unlikely to be representative of the mean. Local factors will affect LSWT more than they affect air temperature, possibly resulting in severe distortion of the empirical relationship between the two. Several implications for paleoclimate reconstruction studies result. (1) Paleolimnologically reconstructed LSWTs are likely to be higher than the air temperatures prevailing at the altitude of the lake. (2) Lakes used for paleoclimate reconstruction should be selected to minimize local effects on LSWT. (3) The calibration of organism-specific quantitative paleotemperature inference models should not be based on single water temperature measurements. (4) Consideration should be given to calibrating such models directly against air temperature rather than water temperature. (5) The primary climate effect on the aquatic biota of high-altitude lakes may be mediated by the timing of the ice cover. 
23359381|Alaska's arctic glaciers have retreated and thinned during recent decades, and glaciers in the central Brooks Range are no exception. Digital elevation models (DEMs) reconstructed from topographic maps (from 1970 and 1973) were differenced from a 2001 interferometric synthetic aperture radar DEM to calculate the volume and mass changes of 107 glaciers covering 42 km 2 (1970/1973) in the central Brooks Range, Alaska, U.S.A. For each glacier the 1970/1973 DEM was 3-D co-registered (horizontal and vertical) to maximize agreement between the non-glacierized terrains of both DEMs. Over the period 19702001, total ice volume loss was 0.69  0.06 km 3 corresponding to a mean (area-weighted) specific mass balance rate of -0.54  0.05 m w.e. a -1 ( uncertainty). The arithmetic mean of all glaciers' specific mass balance rates was -0.47  0.27 m w.e. a -1 ( 1 std. dev.). A value of -0.52  0.36 m w.e. a -1 ( 1 std. dev.) was found when 3-D co-registration is performed over the entire domain instead of individually for each glacier, indicating the importance of proper co-registration. Glacier area, perimeter, boundary compactness, mean elevation, and mean slope were correlated with specific balance rates, suggesting that large, low-elevation, elongated and shallow sloped glaciers had more negative balance rates than small, high-elevation, circular, and steep glaciers. A subsample of 36 glaciers showed a mean area reduction of 26  16% ( 1 std. dev.) over 35 years.
25642092|We examined sediment melt-migration dynamics in the ice cover of Lake Fryxell, Taylor Valley, McMurdo Dry Valleys, Antarctica, using a combination of laboratory experiments, field observations, and modeling. The specific objectives were to determine the thermal conditions required for sediment melt and how sediment migration rates vary with meteorological forcings and ice microstructure. These characteristics are relevant to the influence of climate change on lake ice structure and ecosystem processes in polar regions. Sediment began melting through laboratory ice at -2 C in simulated summer conditions, with warmer ice producing faster melt rates. An energy balance model, supported by our laboratory experiments, demonstrated that subsurface sediment can melt down to an equilibrium depth of 2 m in two years. Field experiments and modeling revealed that surficial sediment melts at about half the rate of subsurface sediment because of heat losses to shallow, cold ice and the cold, dry atmosphere. Gravity flow of sediment along grain boundaries was pronounced in laboratory ice warmer than -1 C. This mechanism produced a flux of 0.1 g m hr, a significant value relative to published benthic sedimentation rates for these lakes indicating an important sediment sorting mechanism.
10.2307/1552411|An analysis of variability in the winter mass balance (WMB) of 22 glaciers in the Northern Hemisphere indicates two primary modes of variability that explain 46% of the variability among all glaciers. The first mode of variability characterizes WMB variability in Northern and Central Europe and the second mode primarily represents WMB variability in northwestern North America, but also is related to variability in WMB of one glacier in Europe and one in Central Asia. These two modes of WMB variability are explained by variations in mesoscale atmospheric circulation which are driving forces of variations in surface temperature and precipitation. The first mode is highly correlated with the Arctic Oscillation Index, whereas the second mode is highly correlated with the Southern Oscillation Index. In addition, the second mode of WMB variability is highly correlated with variability in global winter temperatures. This result suggests some connection between global temperature trends and WMB for some glaciers.
20181797|We investigated vegetation structure and microenvironments on bare volcanic soil covered by scoria above the forest limit on Mt. Fuji, central Japan, to evaluate the effects of patches of a pioneer dwarf shrub (Salix reinii) on the establishment of early successional tree seedlings (Larix kaempferi). We analyzed species distribution patterns and the associations among them, and compared the performance (growth and survivorship) of Larix seedlings and the local environment (temperature, solar radiation, soil surface stability, soil moisture, and nitrogen) inside and outside Salix patches. Larix displayed significantly clumped distribution, and the clumping was apparently associated with the preferential occurrence of Larix in Salix patches. Salix patches moderated severe microenvironmental factors, such as drought, high temperature, and movement of the soil surface. Salix patches promoted increased height and decreased root:shoot ratio, but not higher rate of biomass accumulation in Larix seedlings. Survival rate of L. kaempferi inside Salix patches was higher than that outside patches at the younger stage, but it was lower at the older stage after L. kaempferi emerged from the Salix crown. The results indicate S. reinii enhances seedling establishment and survival of young L. kaempferi, but may compete with it at later stages. The overall net effect of Salix patches on L. kaempferi is positive, and therefore S. reinii appears to accelerate succession from scoria bare land to pioneer woodland.
10.2307/1552600| Thirty-three debris fans and five small alpine basins on the south side of the rapidly uplifting Nanga Parbat Himalaya of northern Pakistan were assessed to determine how much alpine processes contribute to the overall denudation of the massif. A high-resolution digital elevation model was used to measure the volume of the small alpine fans and a few basins in the Rupal valley. These volumetric estimates, coupled with time-constraining dates from cosmogenic-nuclides of glacially exposed rocks and infrared-stimulated luminescence of sediments, indicate that estimated average denudation rates in these systems have been 2 mm yr<sup>-1</sup> over the past 4600 to 6000 yr since the last major deglaciation. This is similar to other estimates of rates of denudation in the Himalaya. 
24551612|Ecological succession and climate change are pushing tundra as well as Arctic and subarctic lowland plant communities toward increased woody vegetation cover. However, areas along the Hudson Bay Lowlands that are over-grazed by hyper-abundant lesser snow geese are experiencing drastic losses of grass, sedge, and woody cover. We assessed long-term changes in proportional ground cover and habitat patch characteristic at a subarctic supratidal marsh that was largely vacated by breeding snow geese over a decade ago. We found no evidence of habitat recovery. Rather, snow geese leave a legacy on the land that propagates degradation of habitat long after their direct removal of vegetation through foraging. Over a 35 year period, we documented a 46% reduction in graminoid cover and an 84% reduction in shrub cover, which led to smaller and more isolated patches of shrubs that many avian species depend upon for foraging and nesting. Recent experimental goose exclosures suggest that recovery of degraded habitat is possible, but habitat management at a large scale will require drastic reductions in lesser snow goose numbers.
10.2307/1552261|The West Mountains, west-central Idaho, were deglaciated before ca. 11,500 BP, as indicated by radiocarbon ages and Glacier Peak tephra, at several sites in cirques. Pollen analysis of a sediment core, and plant macrofossils from sediments recovered from the cirque at the head of Van Wyck Creek, indicate that a closed spruce-pine forest surrounded the site from ca. 11,500 to 9800 BP. Early in this period, spruce (probably krummholz) was already growing near the present-day altitudinal limit of large upright spruce. Hence, the climate during this period was significantly warmer than before 11,500 BP. Between ca. 9800 and 3200 BP the climate was warmer and drier than present. Pollen data indicate that from ca. 9300 to the time of Mazama tephra deposition (ca. 6700 BP), the climate was warmer and drier than at any time since 11,500 BP. From ca. 6700 to 3200 BP there was a small decrease in temperature with a minor increase in effective moisture. Beginning ca. 3200 BP, the climate was characterized by cooler temperatures and more mesic conditions. Modern plant communities were established by ca. 1500 BP.
10.2307/1552513| Testate amoebae communities across five different vegetation and soil types in a coastal region of Northeast Greenland were studied, in order to understand the distribution of these organisms with respect to habitat properties in this extreme environment. Thirty-eight taxa representing 12 genera were observed in 39 samples. About 43% of the testate amoebae belonged to a single species: Trinema lineare. Difflugia globulus and Centropyxis aerophila var. sphagnicola showed also high relative abundances. Average shell density/g dry weight was 35,000  21,000. Hierarchic-agglomerate classification revealed three assemblages. A Difflugia globulus--Centropyxis aerophila var. sphagnicola assemblage inhabited the soil from the Arctagrostis and Vaccinium vegetation type. This assemblage was associated with higher soil moisture content and a thicker active layer. The Centropyxis aerophila--Trinema complanatum assemblage, that was found in the soils beneath the Cassiope and Salix vegetation, was associated with lower soil moisture content. The assemblage found in soils beneath the Poa vegetation type was characterized by Trinema lineare and Euglypha rotunda and was associated with high organic content of the soils and a shallower active layer. These results suggest that testate amoebae assemblages are ecologically distinct across short distances in the high arctic soil habitats. 
23252814|For much of the 20th century, multiyear landfast sea ice (MLSI) formed a permanent ice cover in Yelverton Bay, Ellesmere Island. This MLSI formed following the removal of ice shelf ice from Yelverton Bay in the early 1900s, including the well-documented Ice Island T-3. The MLSI cover survived intact for 5560 years until 2005, when >690 km 2 (90%) of MLSI was lost from Yelverton Bay. Further losses occurred in 2008, and the last of the Yelverton Bay MLSI was lost in August 2010. Ground penetrating radar (GPR) transects and ice cores taken in June 2009 provide the first detailed assessment of MLSI in Yelverton Inlet, and indeed the last assessment now that it has all been replaced with first-year ice. A detailed history of ice shelf, glacier, and MLSI changes in Yelverton Bay since the early 1900s is presented using remotely sensed imagery (air photos, space-borne optical, and radar scenes) and ancillary evidence from in situ surveys. Recent changes in the floating ice cover here align with the broad-scale trend of long-term reductions in age and thickness of sea ice in the Arctic Ocean and Canadian Arctic Archipelago.
10.2307/1552559| We studied the composition of assemblages of fossil insects from the Quaternary in the high- altitude Lac Long Infrieur located at 2090 m a.s.l in the "Valle des Merveilles" (southern French Alps). The insect assemblages extracted from the lake sedimentary sequence were divided into five faunal units, which enable us to reconstruct the evolution of paleoenvironments from the Wrmian ice retreat to the present. Our results indicate that the periglacial desert was replaced by steppic environments, followed by the rise of the treeline and the establishment of a mature conifer forest, which ended in the final collapse of the forest cover. Human action was clearly responsible for this last event, but in contrast to other alpine sites, agropastoral activities around the lake itself were not clearly indicated by insect data. Comparisons between insect and pollen data for the same sedimentary sequence agreed in most cases, but these two approaches have a complementary value when they are applied on the same site. 
25642073|This study presents a new pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) ring-width chronology and a summer temperature reconstruction for the last 400 years from the Khibiny Low Mountains (Kola Peninsula, NW Russia). Pine trees from sites at the altitudinal timberline of Khibiny Mountains show pronounced climatic signals in tree-ring width. We found a strong positive correlation with summer temperature of JulyAugust (r = 0.58). The reconstruction shows lower summer temperatures from A.D. 1630 to 1840, a subsequent warming up to the mid-20th century and a cooling trend afterwards. According to our data, a temperature increase is observed during the past decade. The good coherence of multi-decadal to secular trends of our reconstruction and series of observed solar activity indicate that solar activity may have been one major driving factor of past climate on Kola Peninsula.
10.2307/1552387|Low temperatures and high sunlight, factors that are characteristic of high elevations, may lead to the low-temperature photoinhibition of photosynthesis (LTP). Exposure and photosynthetic responses to low temperature and high sunlight were compared among current-year seedlings of the conifers Abies lasiocarpa and Picea engelmannii, and the snowbank perennials Caltha leptosepala and Erythronium grandiflorum, in the alpine treeline ecotone. The ratio of silhouette (sunlit) to total leaf area of whole plants was greatest in A. lasiocarpa (0.33), 25% lower in P. engelmannii (0.25), and at least 36% lower in the snowbank perennials than for A. lasiocarpa. This indicated less structural avoidance of high sunlight in the conifer seedlings, particularly A. lasiocarpa. CO<sub>2</sub> assimilation (A<sub>sat</sub>) in A. lasiocarpa was reduced 40% due to frosts, high sunlight (22%), and their combination (90%). A<sub>sat</sub> was much less affected by frosts and high sunlight in P. engelmannii and especially the perennials. Following frost and high sunlight exposure, diurnal reductions in maximum photosynthetic efficiency, indicated by the chlorophyll fluorescence ratio F<sub>m</sub>/F<sub>m</sub>, corresponded to species differences in A<sub>sat</sub>. A substantially greater degree of slowly-reversible, or irreversible LTP (44% reduction in predawn F<sub>v</sub>/F<sub>m</sub>) occurred in the microclimate above snow for A. lasiocarpa compared to the other species. It appears that a higher resistance to LTP in the perennials may contribute to their greater occurrence in microsites with lower temperatures and higher sunlight compared to the conifer seedlings.
1552366|Remote sensing provides a viable alternative for mapping vegetation in the Arctic because it allows for the mapping of discontinuous distribution of cover types over different spatial scales. In this paper we present a statistical method to map the distribution of important cover types for the reindeer Rangifer tarandus during summer in northemmost Sweden using IRS 1D-LISS satellite imagery. We exemplify our method with modeling of the distribution of snowbed vegetation, the cover type used most intensively by the reindeer in the study area. An autologistic regression model that incorporates the spatial structure of the data is used to combine the field data and the satellite image data. The terrain effects in the satellite image are accounted for in the regressions using a digital elevation model (DEM). We produced a fine-scaled coverage depicting the probability of occurrence of snowbed vegetation as a continuous variable at the pixel level. The accuracy of mapping snowbed vegetation was 69-77%, depending on the data used. We conclude that small-scale, pixel-wise classification modeling may be useful for depicting sparsely occurring cover types, some of which may be important determinants of range quality for reindeer.
10.2307/1552510|Mapping of glacial drift sheets and examination of striae patterns throughout the Bunger Hills, suggests that the largely ice-free region records the imprint of several phases of ice sheet and outlet glacier expansion during the late Pleistocene. The oldest glacial drift identified in the Bunger Hills is the most extensive, and displays a weathering status that allows its discrimination from the moderately weathered Figurnoe drift. The latter drift is hummocky and preserves a series of high-level paleolake shorelines at the western end of modern Lake Figurnoe. Within the limits of the Figurnoe drift, the Apendiksi drift was mapped on the basis of its degree of morphological preservation and minimal surface and sub-surface drift weathering. Lobes of Apendiksi ice extended up to 8 km west of the modern ice sheet margin in the southern Bunger Hills. Advances of the Edisto Glacier are renamed the Edisto 1 to 3 in order of reducing relative age. The morphostratigraphic evidence suggests that the glacial history of the Bunger Hills is more complex than had previously been recognized, and emphasizes the need for detailed glacial geologic work in this and other ice-free coastal areas of eastern Antarctica.
4139075|The summer diets of a natural population of white-tailed ptarmigan (Lagopus leucurus), an herbivorous alpine grouse, in the Rocky Mountains and an introduced population in the Sierra Nevada were compared to determine if differences in alpine tundra plant communities affected nutritional intake. Foraging selections of 28 adult ptarmigan were recorded regarding number, amount, availability, nutritional, mineral and energy content of plant species eaten. The average diet of the Rocky Mountain ptarmigan was composed of nine plant species (99% g dry wt), while the average diet of the Sierra Nevada ptarmigan was composed of only two plant species, Salix anglorum and Carex jonesii (99% g dry wt). Although plant species eaten differed between the populations, the energy and lipid content of the diets were nearly identical. The diet of Sierra Nevada ptarmigan was 28% higher in protein and 13% lower in carbohydrate than the diet of Rocky Mountain ptarmigan, likely due to high consumption of Salix leaves and low consumption of flowers by the Sierra Nevada ptarmigan. Both populations exhibited sampling behavior (ingesting occasional bites from many species), which would allow ptarmigan to track changing resources in the highly variable alpine environment and may have enabled the introduced ptarmigan to identify a suitable diet.
24551609|We explored the importance of environmental drivers in structuring benthic macroinvertebrate communities along a spatial hierarchy (local to landscape scale) in Low Arctic stream systems that were previously unstudied. Macroinvertebrate communities from 29 sites in Low Arctic areas of northern Labrador and Qubec, Canada, were quantified by taxonomic structure and biological metrics. Environmental variables were quantified at site, reach, and catchment scales using field-collected data and geospatial information. The first three axes of Redundancy Analysis (RDA) ordinations explained 21.040.6% of the unconstrained variance in taxonomic structure and biological metrics. Biological data were most highly correlated with site-scale variables, but variables at each spatial scale were highly correlated with community structure. Across all scales, one of the strongest gradients involved environmental drivers that could be associated with habitat structure and instability. Abundance of the chironomid subfamily Diamesinae, a tolerant taxon in high-latitude and high-elevation systems, was highly positively associated with this habitat gradient. This hierarchical framework provides a knowledge base for the development of a sustainable long-term monitoring approach for Low Arctic aquatic ecosystems. By incorporating measures of environmental drivers at multiple spatial scales, future monitoring efforts may more effectively respond to current and future pressures on aquatic biodiversity.
20181747|Based on the Guliya, Dunde, and Dasuopu ice cores and direct observations, we investiagated the spatial and temporal variations in precipitation on the Tibetan Plateau over the past 500 yr. The variations in accumulation rates showed significant periodicities of 12.7, 7.6, 6.2, 5.4, 4.4, and 2.1 yr in the Guliya ice core, 9.5, 6.8, 5.7, and 2.1 yr in the Dunde ice core, and 12.3, 7.5, 6.3, 5.3, and 2.4 yr in the Dasuopu ice core. The periodicities displayed in these three ice core recordes are similar and correspond to the periodicities of the Quasi-Biennial Oscillation, the Southern Oscillation, the North Atlantic Oscillation, and the sunspot cycle. However, the accumulation rate from the Guliya and Dunde ice cores exhibited a generally decreasing trend, while the records from the Dasuopu ice core show a generally increasing trend over the entire period of interest. Our study also indicates that there is a strong negative correlation between the accumulation rates in the ice cores from the northern and southern Tibetan Plateau, especially on climatological (multi-decadal or longer) time-scales. Modern meteorological observation data suggest that a dividing line between the northern and southern Tibetan Plateau with respect to variations in precipitation is located at 32-33N. This dividing line coincides with other atmospheric, geographical, geological, and geophysical discontinuities. This suggests that interactions among these phenomena might help to understand the spatial patterns of climate over the Tibetan Plateau.
10.2307/1552504| To quantify the thermal effect of melting snow/ice surface on the lower atmospheric temperature, "sensitivity of climate index" () is used. This new index indicates the rate of decrease in the sensitivity of climate () over the melting snow/ice surface compared to that over the snow/ice-free surface.  (C/[Wm<sup>-2</sup>]) is defined as the mean daily air temperature range divided by the cumulative amount of solar radiation, in this study. Micrometeorological observations were carried out in various snow/ice cover situations, including seasonal snow cover, glaciers, and snowpatchs. The observations showed that when melt is occurring, the sensitivity of climate is reduced for all the cases tested, regardless of their geographical and climatic conditions. Using the sensitivity of climate index (), the thermal effect of surface melt is evaluated and compared among the various regions. Results show that the influence of surface melt on the lower atmosphere increases with the size of the snow/ice area. 
20181712|The extreme seasonality of the High Arctic creates very different flowering conditions for plants in areas of early and late snowmelt. Therefore, future reproductive responses to climate change may be dependent on the timing of snowmelt. We combined genetic, morphological, and long-term monitoring data on Dryas from a High Arctic hybrid zone of D. integrifolia and D. octopetala to assess whether climate variation influenced flowering differently in areas of early and late snowmelt, and whether this could have a genetic origin. We found a non-linear relationship between timing of snowmelt and flowering. The duration of the period between snowmelt and the onset of flowering (pre-floration interval) varied with the date of snowmelt. Shorter pre-floration intervals were associated with warmer average temperature during the pre-floration intervals in both early and late melting plots. However, the pre-floration interval was much shorter in early than in late plots at the same average temperature. Likewise, the interannual variation in flower abundance differed between early and late melting plots. Flower abundance was negatively influenced by frost after snowmelt in the year of flowering in early plots. In late plots, flower abundance was positively influenced by the length of the previous growing season. We identified two morpho-types in the study area, but their distribution and genetic differentiation was not related to the snowmelt gradient. We conclude that the different flowering responses found along the snowmelt gradient are a result of environmental variation. Based on our results and projected climatic change for the study area, we predict that the onset of flowering will advance and flower abundance will increase in areas of early snowmelt. In areas of late snowmelt, the onset of flowering will remain unchanged or be delayed and flower abundance will decrease.
4095882| The effects of artificial warming on shoot elongation of alpine dwarf pine (Pinus pumila) was studied near Mount Shogigashira summit, central Japan, from 2001 to 2003. A nylon windshield net enclosed two experimental plots, 2 X 2 m, each year at the start of the growing season (June, but late July in 2001). The nets were removed at the end of the growing season (late September or early October). Two plots, 1.5 X 1.5 m, without a net were set as controls. In September 2001, the daily mean air temperature differed little between the experimental and control plots: compared to the control plot, the maximum was 4.3C higher and the minimum was 1.7C lower in the experimental plot. The annual shoot elongation differed little between the experimental and control plots in 2001 and 2002, but it was greater in the experimental than in the control plot in 2003. Shoot elongation started in June and ended in August in both experimental and control plots, but the rate of the increase was greater in the experimental than in the control plot in 2003, and so shoots had greater elongation in 2003 in the experimental plot. Thus, artificial warming promoted shoot elongation by increasing the daily maximum temperature. 
1552288|Ice elevation changes since 1975 and ice areal changes since 1945 of glaciers in the southeastern part of the Southern Patagonia Icefield (SPI) are presented. Comparison of digital elevation models, GPS, and optical survey data revealed high thinning rates for all the ablation areas of the glaciers, with average values between 1.4 and 3.4 m a<sup>-1</sup> and maximum ice thinning of 7.6 m a<sup>-1</sup>. Ice elevation changes for the glacier accumulation areas were smaller than the estimated errors, and no significant trends could be detected. All the glaciers are retreating and shrinking considerably, with a total areal loss of 62.2 km<sup>2</sup>, which represents 8% of the total ice area of 1945. This trend is in agreement with other similar measurements carried out during recent decades for several glaciers of the SPI. The high thinning rates for the ablation areas of the SPI have been primarily interpreted as a result of the increase in temperature observed in the region, however, this warming trend is not large enough to account for all the ice thinning, indicating that dynamic factors could be important, especially in glaciers which have been thinning dramatically, allowing frontal calving fronts to reach nearly floating conditions. More measurements are needed to test and validate dynamic hypotheses related to glacier behavior in Patagonia.
24551600|Soil temperature and moisture are key determinants of abiotic and biotic processes in arctic-alpine regions. They are important links to understanding complex ecosystem dynamics under changing climate. The aims of this study were to (1) quantify fine-scale soil temperature and soil moisture variation, and (2) assess the influence of vegetation on soil temperature and moisture patterns in a northern European arctic-alpine environment. Inclusion of vegetation variables significantly improved models of soil temperature and moisture, despite abiotic variables (local topography and soil properties) being the most influential predictors. Temperature varied by 5 C and moisture by 50% (volumetric water content) over very short distances (1 m), reflecting the extreme spatial heterogeneity of thermal and hydrological conditions in these systems. These results thus highlight the biotic mediation of changes in abiotic conditions, showing how vegetation can strongly affect local habitat conditions at fine spatial scales in arctic-alpine environments.
41240394|Tasman Glacier is the largest glacier in the New Zealand Southern Alps. Despite a century of warming and down-wastage, the glacier remained at its Little Ice Age terminus until the late 20th century. Since then, a proglacial lake formed, and comparatively rapid calving retreat has been initiated. In this paper we use sequential satellite imagery to document terminus retreat, growth of supraglacial ponds, and expansion of the proglacial Tasman Lake. Between 2000 and 2008, the glacier terminus receded a maximum of c. 3.7 km on the western margin, and the ice-contact Tasman Lake expanded concomitantly. This northward expansion of Tasman Lake up-valley proceeded at a mean annual rate of 0.34  10 m a over 2000-2008, attaining a surface area of 5.96  10 m in May 2008, with a maximum depth of c. 240 m. Terminus retreat rates (U <sub>r</sub> ) vary in both space and time, with two distinct periods of calving retreat identified during the study period: 2000-2006 (mean U <sub>r</sub> = 54 m a) and 2007-2008 (mean U <sub>r</sub> = 144 m a). Terminus retreat can also be categorized into two distinct zones of activity: (1) the main ice cliff (MIC), and (2) the eastern embayment ice cliff (EEIC). During the period 2000-2006, and between 2006 and 2008 for the EEIC, the controlling process of ice loss at the terminus was iceberg calving resulting from thermal undercutting. In contrast, the retreat of the MIC between 2006 and 2008 was controlled by buoyancy-driven iceberg calving caused by decreasing overburden pressure as a result of supraglacial pond growth, increased water depth, and rainfall. The presence of a > 130-m-long subaqueous ice ramp projecting from the terminal ice cliff into the lake suggests complex interactions between the glacier and ice-contact lake during the 8-10 km of possible future calving retreat.
10.2307/1552404| The similarity over long distances of dendroecological pointer years (with extreme ring-widths) were studied at both regional and country scales in order to investigate the geographical extension of climate influences on tree-rings. Two common species, Norway spruce (Picea abies Karst.) and white fir (Abies alba Mill.) were compared. The regional study was carried out on 33 populations located in four alpine valleys along a climatic gradient of summer aridity (Tarentaise, Maurienne, and Brianonnais, in France, and Susa valley in Italy). For most of species and regions, several negative ring-width pointer years with abrupt growth reductions such as 1976, 1922, 1986, and 1944 were common (listed in order of decreasing importance). However, spruce growth was more reduced in 1948 than that of fir. At the country scale, some of the strongest positive (e.g., 1932, 1964, 1969) and negative (e.g., 1956, 1962, 1976, 1986) pointer years extended over the whole of France, whereas the geographic variability was explainable by the autoecology of species. At both studied scales, evident climatic interpretations such as severe winter frosts, unusual summer droughts, or excessive wet and cold springs can explain most of the negative pointer years. Conversely, most positive growth responses are caused by a local combination of favorable climatic factors rather than simple extreme events, and therefore are less efficient for wood dating. 
10.2307/1552214|The n-factor, or ratio of the seasonal degree-day sum at the soil surface to that in the air at standard screen height, has been used for more than 40 yr in engineering studies to parameterize the temperature regime at the ground surface. Conceptually, this index represents the complex energy balance at the surface as a single dimensionless number and has applications in ecology, climatology, and geocryology. Although the n-factor has been used theoretically to represent the thermal regime of undisturbed natural surfaces, lack of empirical data has hindered its widespread implementation. Nine ground and one air temperature series (1995-97) from each of ten 1-ha plots on the coastal plain and Brooks Range foothills of north-central Alaska were converted to thawing (summer) n-factors and analyzed to address within- and between-plot spatial and temporal variability. Although substantial microscale variation exists, n-factors corresponding to natural vegetation/soil classes are discernable. Incorporation of n-factor values in a standard solution for the depth of thaw resulted in significantly improved estimates of active-layer thickness throughout the study area. The n-factor has considerable potential for addressing problems involving near-surface climate dynamics over extensive regions and long time periods.
10.2307/1552386| Metrosideros polymorpha (Ohia), the dominant tree species in Hawaiian forest ecosystems, grows from sea level to treeline (2500 m). Carboxylation efficiency and area-based leaf N content were substantially higher at treeline than at lower elevations while leaf size and instantaneous photosynthetic nitrogen-use efficiency (PNUE) were substantially lower at treeline. For example, PNUE decreased from 45 mol CO<sub>2</sub> mol N<sup>-1</sup> at low elevation to 17.4 mol CO<sub>2</sub> mol N<sup>-1</sup> at high elevation. In contrast, average net CO<sub>2</sub> assimilation and integrated PNUE remained relatively constant along the elevation gradient despite suboptimal temperatures and decreased soil nitrogen availability at treeline. These and other homeostatic mechanisms allow M. polymorpha to maintain a relatively high level of growth-related activities at treeline despite frequent near- and below-freezing temperatures. High-elevation populations avoided freezing by supercooling apparently as a result of small leaves, reduced intercellular spaces, and low apoplastic water content in leaves. Ice nucleation temperatures were about -8.5C for leaves of treeline populations, 3C lower than those of low elevation populations. Irreversible tissue damage temperature decreased 7C from sea level to treeline. However, the decrease appeared to be only large enough to allow M. polymorpha trees to avoid leaf tissue damage due to freezing up to the current location of treeline. All of the above leaf traits in high-elevation populations serve to promote carbon gain in a nutrient and temperature limited environment as well as to avoid freezing by supercooling. 
25642087|In permafrost-affected sites, soil forming processes appear to be closely connected with organic matter (OM) accumulation. In this work OM composition and nutrient availability has been evaluated in a frost-affected soil located at 1200 m a.s.l. in Creux du Van (Switzerland), where patches of stunted Norway spruce trees adjacent to tall trees have been ascribed to the presence of sporadic alpine permafrost. Soil samples were collected under the stunted forest and in the adjacent tall forest and characterized for their chemical and physical characteristics. The main C and N forms have been determined and characterized. Under the stunted forest the soil samples showed a high total organic C/total N (TOC/TN) ratio and scarce microbial activity; humification processes were limited and humic acids revealed little oxidation, scarce incorporation of N-containing moieties, and high enrichment of lipids. 14C dating revealed the presence in the bulk samples of young organic material mixed with relatively old humic acids, probably due to cryoturbation processes. These latter processes appeared also responsible for the arrival of fresh litter material from Oi and Oe horizons into the Oa horizon of the stunted forest and for the consequent genesis of humic substances from a mix of old and fresh residues. From our findings there seems to exist a reciprocal influence of vegetation quality on the OM composition, and of OM decomposition on nutrition, as driven by the microclimatic conditions and physical processes, which in turn may contribute to keep the soil at an unstable developmental stage and limit the spruce growth.
40305858|We have estimated the erosion of sediment and organic carbon input from the Kara Sea coast based on extensive mapping, geologic and cryolithologic investigations of coastal zone and seafloor sediments, and revision of previously published data. The amount of coastal sediment eroded into the Kara Sea was determined to be approximately 35 million tons. Twenty-seven million tons are attributed to solid material, 7.6 million to thawed ground ice, 0.4 million to organic carbon, and 0.3 million to soluble salts. The estimate of organic carbon input presented herein is 2.5-fold less than previously published elsewhere. The majority of organic carbon in marine clayey deposits was found to be present in an adsorbed form. Its quantity corresponds to the content of clay particles in Pleistocene sediments. Organic carbon content in clay marine sediments remains unchanged during freeze-thaw processes, indicating that this form of carbon is stable unless thermoerosion is taking place.
25642095|We examine trends in surface air temperature for the San Juan Mountain region in southwestern Colorado from 1895 to 2005. Observations from both National Weather Service (NWS) and Snow Telemetry (SNOTEL) sites are analyzed. Results show a net warming of 1 C between 1895 and 2005. Most of this warming occurred between 1990 and 2005, when the region experienced rapid and secular increases in temperature. Between 1950 and 1985, there was a cooling trend in the region during which there were significant decreases in the maximum temperature (T max ) and almost no trend in the minimum temperature (T min ). This cooling trend appears to be, in part, associated with increases in atmospheric aerosols. Between 1990 and 2005, the large increases in temperature anomalies are strongly correlated at the NWS and SNOTEL sites. Annual increases in T max and T min are similar between 1990 and 2005; however, they generally show greater increases during summer and winter, respectively. Spatially, there are similar increases in T max and T min except in the central mountain region, where the increases in T min are larger and started earlier.
10.2307/1552480| The assemblages of visitors to angiosperms flowering at a montane and at a high alpine site in the Andes of Mendoza, Argentina (33-34S) were described and the plant-flower visitor matrices were analyzed and compared to other systems, in particular those located at a similar latitude on the western slope of the Andes. In the low-altitude (montane) habitat, 23 plant species had a total of 126 interactions with 71 taxa of insects and one hummingbird, and at the higher site 21 plants and 45 insect species had 83 interactions. Connectances of the visitor matrices were 7.6 and 8.7, respectively. Diptera and Hymenoptera dominated the visitor assemblages at both sites without change of proportions with altitude, while Lepidoptera significantly increased at the higher site. Flies were more species-rich than expected at the sites' latitude and more constant across altitudes than is usually observed. Lack of a significant decrease with altitude of (1) the frequency of Hymenoptera and (2) the number of interactions per plant were the main differences with a comparable gradient in the Chilean Andes. The proportion of self-compatible species increased with altitude; however, use of phylogenetically-independent contrasts showed that the prevalence of selfers at higher altitudes does not reflect a generalized reaction pattern but results from two speciose families (Asteraceae and Fabaceae) showing more self-compatibility at high altitudes. 
41416450|This study focused on simulated glacier surface conditions (simulated Surface Melt and liquid Precipitation available for supra-, en-, sub-, and proglacial flow processes [after vertical percolation and potential storage within the snowpack] [henceforth SMP]), internal water storage and release, and runoff from the Kangerlussuaq drainage area of the Greenland Ice Sheet (GrIS), West Greenland, for the period 2006/2007 to 2007/2008. GrIS winter accumulation and summer ablation processes, including SMP, was simulated on both daily and hourly time steps. Using hourly meteorological driving data produced more realistic meteorological conditions instead of daily-averaged data, in relation to snow and melt threshold surface processes, and produced 9-17% higher annual cumulative SMP. The difference between simulated SMP and observed catchment runoff showed a decreasing lag time through the summer, and a drainage system storage buildup through approximately June and early July of up to 0.29 x 10 m, and a storage release through approximately late July and August of up to 0.25 x 10 m. The simulated total Kangerlussuaq SMP for 2006/2007 and 2007/2008, indicated a reduction of 30%. This reduction in SMP occurred simultaneously with the reduction in the overall pattern of satellite-derived GrIS surface melt from 2007 to 2008.
40962402|We describe changes in vascular plant richness on 13 high mountain summits based on a historical study performed approximately 40 years ago. A summit is defined as the uppermost 30 m of the mountain tops. The altitudes of the summits range from 1512 to 1814 m. Data from neighboring climatologie stations showed higher mean values for July temperature (+0.7 C) and January temperature (+1.5 C), and mean annual precipitation had increased from 714 to 764.7 mm (7.1%) for the period from 1970 until 2009 compared with average data for the normal period (1961-1990). The total "top flora" had during this period increased by 19 taxa. On average, the increase in taxa richness was 18.9  8.4 per summit, representing an average increase of 90.2%. Woody species had an average upward movement of 7.3 m during the study period. The ongoing upward shift of common, ubiquitous alpine species has resulted in a floristic homogenization of the mountain summits, and thus increasing -diversity was accompanied by decreasing -diversity. The use of recorded plants as temperature indicators showed that average summer temperatures had increased by approximately 1.3 C during this period. Several of the newly established species indicate that the climate has become more humid. We assume that the recorded floristic changes are the result of ongoing climatic changes.
1552177| On a gentle leeward slope in a snowy forest limit in northern Honshu Island, Japan, mechanical damage by snow settlement and creep on Abies mariesii trees buried below the snowpack was examined to detect signs of the snow-damage effect on future survival and crown development. Damage types were recorded based on direct observation of crowns in 1996, a year of high snow accumulation exceeding 4.5 m, and 1997, a year of moderate snow accumulation. Of 153 trees examined, 63% were damaged in 1996 and 15% were damaged in 1997. The most destructive damage type was breakage of stems 5 cm in diameter, which occurred on eight trees in 1996 and three in 1997, resulting in foliage loss and death of some trees. The prevalent damage type was branch tearing at branch-stem junctions primarily within a height range of 4-6 m, which occurred on 171 branches in 1996 and 5 in 1997. Under snowy and windy conditions, stem breakage and branch tearing, caused by forces active within restricted layers of the snowpack, may reduce the future survival and crown development of A. mariesii buried below the snowpack in years of heavy snowfall. 
4095920|Nitrogen (N) fixation, denitrification, and ecosystem pools of nitrogen were measured in three subarctic ecosystem types differing in soil frost-heaving activity and vegetation cover.
4139071|This paper presents the results of a distributed surface energy balance model which is used to calculate season-long patterns of melt on a small valley glacier, Haut Glacier d'Arolla, Valais, Switzerland, under different summer meteorological conditions and winter snow depth distributions. The model uses a Digital Elevation Model of the glacier and the surrounding topography, together with meteorological data collected at a site in front of the glacier to determine hourly totals of the surface energy balance components, and hence melt, over the entire glacier surface throughout a melt season, with a spatial resolution of 20 m. From these results, the spatially averaged mass-balance/elevation profile for the glacier can be calculated. A cubic relationship with elevation gives the best fit to the calculated mass-balance curve. The shape of this profile varies with the imposed change in meteorological conditions, however, becoming increasingly "S" shaped for warmer or less snowy conditions. These mass-balance profile changes are due to the complex interplay between albedo variations due to different snow depths over the glacier surface (and eventual removal of the snow cover), the variations in solar energy receipts caused by slope and aspect variation over the glacier and the changing patterns of shading by the surrounding topography. The changes in mass-balance profile lead to maximum calculated mass-balance sensitivity to imposed change occurring at intermediate elevations on the glacier; the calculated equilibrium-line altitude (ELA) occurs at the upper end of this zone, resulting in very large calculated changes in the ELA for different climatic conditions.
40801766|In subarctic Sweden, recent decadal colonization and expansion of aspen (Populus tremula L.) were recorded. Over the past 100 years, aspen became c. 16 times more abundant, mainly as a result of increased sexual regeneration. Moreover, aspen now reach tree-size (> 2 m) at the alpine treeline, an ecotone that has been dominated by mountain birch (Betula pubescens ssp. czerepanovii) for at least the past 4000 years. We found that sexual regeneration in aspen probably occurred seven times or more within the last century. Whereas sexual regeneration occurred during moist years following a year with an exceptionally high June-July temperature, asexual regeneration was favored by warm and dry summers. Disturbance to the birch forest by cyclic moth population outbreaks was critical in aspen establishment in the subalpine area. At the treeline, aspen colonization was less determined by these moth outbreaks, and was mainly restricted by summer temperature. If summer warming persists, aspen spread may continue in subarctic Sweden, particularly at the treeline. However, changing disturbance regimes, future herbivore population dynamics and the responses of aspen's competitors birch and pine to a changing climate may result in different outcomes.
10.2307/1552502| Timing of cirque formation and the climate necessary to initiate glaciation are fundamental to the understanding of the landscape of the northern Scandinavian mountains. Empty cirques in the Rassepautasjtjkka massif are located near a glaciated area and thus appear near the glaciation limit. In order to investigate the climate conditions necessary for glacier formation in the cirques, we applied a spatially distributed temperature index melt model. After calibration under present climate conditions, the model was run with different combinations of increased initial winter snow cover and lowered summer air temperatures to assess the climate conditions needed for snow to survive summer and hence form a base for glaciation. Results indicate that a significant increase in precipitation or decrease in summer air temperature or a combination of both is necessary to initiate glaciation. Thus current climate conditions are far from favorable for glaciation. If summer temperature is decreased by 4C or winter snow cover is more than doubled, only 10% of cirque areas remain snow covered, which is considered as a minimum condition for glacier formation. According to climate reconstructions such conditions have not occurred during the Holocene suggesting that the cirques have not been glaciated during this period. Consequently glaciation of the cirques must have occurred during other parts of the glacial cycles. 
23359629|Relationships were determined between methane (CH 4 ) production and in situ conditions within the permafrost active layer during a single melt season at Stordalen, Sweden, with a specific emphasis on temperature sensitivity of methanogenesis. In situ temperature, moisture, pH, dissolved organic carbon, and CH 4 concentration data were measured at three contrasting active layer sites (sedge mire, Sphagnum mire, and ombrotrophic bog), and laboratory incubations of active layer material were subsequently employed to determine the sensitivity of CH 4 production to temperature. Q 10 values, describing the CH 4 production response of peat to a temperature change of 10 C, ranged from 1.9 to 3.5 and 2.4 to 5.8 for the sedge and Sphagnum mire sites, respectively. A wider review of the literature on Q 10 responses of methanogenesis in northern peatlands shows similar features to the temperature response of CH 4 production in the active layer at Stordalen. In general, Q 10 values are not significantly different in Arctic permafrost wetlands than non-Arctic northern wetlands; however, Sphagnum sites display Q 10 responses (mean Q 10 = 8) that are notably greater than that of wetter minerotrophic-sedge environments (mean Q 10 = 4.3). This finding has implications for the parameterization of Q 10 factors in numerical carbon cycling models, and suggests that the use of spatially variable Q 10 values could be a useful approach for more accurate modeling of CH 4 fluxes from northern wetlands under different climatic change scenarios.
10.2307/1552558|Growth of brown trout in the alpine lake Litlosvatn, 1172 m a.s.l. on the Hardangervidda mountain plateau in western Norway, has been studied in relation to annual variations in accumulated spring snow and date of ice-breaks during the period 1991-1998. The annual growth was negatively correlated with the spring snow depth. During the years 1992-1995, a period with mean spring snow depth at 275 cm, the observed average annual growth of the age-classes 6-8 was 3.5 cm, or a reduction of about 50% compared to years with much less snow in spring (1991 and 1996). Average spring snow depth during the period 1990-1999 was 220 cm, while the average for the period 1930-1979 was 169 cm. A further increase in winter precipitation, resulting in even more accumulated spring snow compared to the 1990-1999 level, would result in further reduction in growth of brown trout in the lake. Thus, the present catchable size of brown trout would probably not be reached, due to increased population density and an additional density dependent growth. A climate change, resulting in more snowfall in the whole alpine region of West Norway, as predicted by climate models, may therefore have an important negative effect on fish production and fisheries in a whole region.
4095865|The pedogenesis and interactions among soil, vegetation, and snow cover of four alpine snowbeds on silicate rocks in the Upper Engadine (Central Alps, Switzerland) were investigated. The long-lasting snow cover of snowbeds causes differences in pedogenesis and soil properties compared to adjacent alpine sward. Because of the drainage characteristics of the silicate parent material, pedogenesis of snowbeds varies. On well-drained parent material, percolating meltwater favors podzolization during snowmelt. On less permeable parent material, meltwater causes temporarily water-logged conditions. Thus, the snowbed soils show redoximorphic features such as iron concretions. Snowbed soils are classified as Inceptisols or Entisols. A more detailed differentiation is only possible at the soil family level. Outside the snowbeds, moder humus forms (Rhizic Leptomoder, Rhizic Mullmoder) are common, whereas inside the snowbeds, mull humus forms (Rhizomull) as well as moder humus forms (Leptomoder) occur.
25642069|Leaf area index (LAI) and total foliar nitrogen (TFN) are important canopy characteristics and crucial variables needed to simulate photosynthesis and ecosystem CO fluxes. Although plant communities dominated by Cassiope tetragona are widespread in the Arctic, LAI and TFN for this vegetation type have not been accurately quantified. We address this knowledge gap by (i) direct measurements of LAI and TFN for C. tetragona, and (ii) determining TFN-LAI and LAInormalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) relationships for typical C. tetragona tundras in the subarctic (Sweden) and High Arctic (Greenland and Svalbard). Leaves of C. tetragona are 26 mm long and closely appressed to their stems forming parallelepiped shoots. We determined the LAI of C. tetragona by measuring the area of the leaves while still attached to the stem, then doubling the resulting one-sided area. TFN was determined from leaf N and biomass. The LAI-NDVI and TFN-LAI relationships showed high correlation and can be used to estimate indirectly LAI and TFN. The LAI-NDVI relationship for C. tetragona vegetation differed from a generic LAI-NDVI relationship for arctic tundra, whereas the TFN-LAI relationship did not. Overall, the LAI of C. tetragona tundra ranged from 0.4 to 1.1 m m-2 and TFN from 1.4 to 1.7 g N m-2.
1552156| Multiproxy data from Little Swift Lake, an alpine lake in southwestern Alaska, provide evidence for pronounced late glacial and Holocene environmental change. An alpine glacier upvalley of Little Swift Lake retreated following the Younger Dryas chronozone, as evidenced by sedimentological changes in the lake record. Glacier retreat was accompanied by local and regional vegetation changes, including the expansion of Betula and contraction of Cyperaceae, in response to climatic amelioration. Warm, moist conditions between 9800 and 8000 cal yr B.P. supported abundant Betula shrubs and high lake and watershed productivity. Alnus rapidly expanded near Little Swift Lake while the region cooled between 8000 and 7500 cal yr B.P. Environmental changes at Little Swift Lake appear to have been roughly synchronous with similar changes elsewhere in southwestern Alaska, but late glacial and Holocene changes in other parts of Alaska were different in nature and timing. The complex spatial and temporal patterns of late glacial and Holocene environmental change throughout Alaska point to the importance of local- and regional-scale factors, especially controls on moisture availability, as modulators of site-specific responses to hemispheric- and global-scale climate forcing. 
24551718|Extrapolating biosphere-atmosphere CO2 flux observations to larger scales in space, part of the so-called "upscaling" problem, is a central challenge for surface-atmosphere exchange research. Upscaling CO2 flux in tundra is complicated by the pronounced spatial variability of vegetation cover. We demonstrate that a simple model based on chamber observations with a pan-Arctic parameterization accurately describes up to 75% of the observed temporal variability of eddy covariancemeasured net ecosystem exchange (NEE) during the growing season in an Abisko, Sweden, subarctic tundra ecosystem, and differed from NEE observations by less than 4% for the month of June. These results contrast with previous studies that found a 60% discrepancy between upscaled chamber and eddy covariance NEE sums. Sampling an aircraft-measured normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) map for leaf area index (L) estimates using a dynamic flux footprint model explained less of the variability of NEE across the late June to mid-September period, but resulted in a lower root mean squared error and better replicated large flux events. Findings suggest that ecosystem structure via L is a critical input for modeling CO2 flux in tundra during the growing season. Future research should focus on quantifying microclimate, namely photosynthetically active radiation and air temperature, as well as ecosystem structure via L, to accurately model growing season tundra CO2 flux at chamber and plot scales.
41416453|Since 26 September 2005 an Automatic Weather Station (AWS1 Forni) has been running on the ablation area of the largest Italian valley glacier, Forni, in the Ortles-Cevedale Group. A 4-year record (from 1 October 2005 to 30 September 2009) of air temperature, relative humidity, wind speed and direction, incoming and outgoing radiative fluxes, air pressure, liquid precipitation, and snow depth is considered. The meteorological data are analyzed to describe glacier surface conditions, to calculate the energy balance, and to evaluate the ice ablation amount. Snow accumulation was measured, thus permitting the estimation of the glacier point mass balance. An annual average amount of melt of -5.4  0.021 m w.e. was calculated and an annual average amount of accumulation of +0.7  0.006 m w.e. was measured at the AWS site. The annual average amount of mass balance was -4.7  0.023 m w.e. Our analyses show that surface conditions during summer and fall seasons are important in regulating glacier albedo and then mass balance. In particular, snow cover presence, due to a longer persistence of spring snow, summer snowfalls and earlier fall solid precipitation, drives the duration of the ice melt period.
10.2307/1552534|Climate-warming experiments in tundra require an accurate and repeatable technique for temperature increase, as temperatures are low and vegetation often heterogeneous. However, remote locations have constrained most studies to using uncontrolled, passive enclosures. Here we present an improved prototype of our Free Air Temperature Increase (FATI) system, an apparatus to elevate vegetation temperature in the open field by electronically modulated infrared irradiation. Three modifications are introduced to enhance precision and repeatability: (1) noncontact sensing of canopy temperature (T<sub>canopy</sub>) with semiconductors, (2) an optimizing device to attune individual FATI-units, and (3) high-speed data logging. Performance tests in the High Arctic tundra of northeast Greenland during autumn 1998 demonstrated more reproducible warming compared with the original system: average increments of canopy temperature ( T<sub>canopy</sub>) obtained in different patches of vegetation varied no more than 0.16C. Most fluctuation in  T<sub>canopy</sub> was also eliminated, with instantaneous values within 0.5C of the target increment of +2.5C for at least 87% of the time. Average warming in the upper soil layers was close to average  T<sub>canopy</sub>, and decreased gradually with depth from +2.7C at 2.5 cm to +2.0C at 20 cm below the surface (means for three FATI-units). The improved technique is not only of interest to investigations in the Arctic, but also to other applications which depend highly on accurate temperature control, for example, studies of climate-warming effect on ecosystem carbon balance or plant growth.
10.2307/1552448|Diatoms and other siliceous microfossils were examined from a 386-cm-long peat core, covering the last ca. 7200 yr, from north-central Siberia to gain insights into peatland developmental history, and to explore the potential of diatoms as proxy indicators in arctic peats. Diatom analyses of arctic peatlands are rare, and so one aspect of this study was to examine the sensitivity of diatom taxa in relation to independent paleoindicators already described from this core. Changes in the relative abundances of diatom taxa divided the core into four zones that closely tracked the ontogeny of the peatland from an open water environment (Zone I: benthic, alkaliphilic taxa), followed by fen environments (Zones II and III; epiphytic, acidophilic taxa), and finally to a better-drained, high-centered bog (Zone IV; aerophilic taxa). In addition to the diatom taxa, observations were made on the relative abundances of siliceous protozoan plates, chrysophyte cysts, and phytoliths. Both the diatoms and these other siliceous microfossils appeared to respond to changes in hydrology and moisture, as well as to fire episodes likely triggered by climatic change. This study demonstrates that diatoms and other siliceous microfossils from arctic peat deposits provide an important source of paleoenvironmental information that can strengthen interpretations derived from other commonly used indicators.
40305838|In 2007, the Anaktuvuk River Fire (ARF) became the largest recorded tundra fire on the North Slope of Alaska. The ARF burned for nearly three months, consuming more than 100,000 ha. At its peak in early September, the ARF burned at a rate of 7000 ha d. The conditions potentially responsible for this large tundra fire include modeled record high summer temperature and record low summer precipitation, a late-season high-pressure system located over the Beaufort Sea, extremely dry soil conditions throughout the summer, and sustained southerly winds during the period of vegetation senescence. Burn severity mapping revealed that more than 80% of the ARF burned at moderate to extreme severity, while the nearby Kuparuk River Fire remained small and burned at predominantly (80%) low severity. While this study provides information that may aid in the prediction of future large tundra fires in northern Alaska, the fact that three other tundra fires that occurred in 2007 combined to burn less than 1000 ha suggests site specific complexities associated with tundra fires on the North Slope, which may hamper the development of tundra fire forecasting models.
40305819|The present article explores the structure of and recent developments in research activities in the polar regions. Based on a bibliographic study of published papers indexed in the ISI Web of Science during the period 1981-2007, we have analyzed trends in publication, scientific disciplines and subdisciplines, coauthorship, and international collaboration within the field of polar research. We have uncovered several rather striking trends. Scientific output in terms of refereed publications has increased far more rapidly in polar research compared to science in general, quadrupling rather than doubling over the surveyed period. There is a nearly 1: 1 ratio between papers covering the Arctic relative to the Antarctic, with the vast majority within either the geosciences (40%) or biology (33%). There has been particularly a steep rise in the number of climate-related papers. The U.S.A. is by far the largest contributor to polar research on both the Arctic and the Antarctic, followed by Canada, the U.K., Germany, Norway, and Russia. The number of coauthored papers has grown markedly, reflecting geopolitical shifts and changing national and international funding priorities during the period. We believe our publication-based survey reveals interesting developments in scientific activities and international cooperation in general, and in polar science strategies and priorities in particular.
25642072|At least four active glaciers are present in the Prokletije Mountains of northern Albania. These glaciers exist at altitudes between 1980 and 2420 m a.s.l.well below the regional equilibrium line altitudeon shaded northeast-facing slopes prone to avalanche. Glacier-climate modeling suggests that these glaciers require annual accumulation of between 4137 and 5531 mm (water equivalent) to balance melting. A significant proportion of this accumulation is likely to be sourced from windblown snow and, in particular, avalanching snow. It is estimated that the total accumulation needed to balance melting is potentially up to twice the value received from direct precipitation. The presence of these glacierssome of the southernmost in Europeat altitudes well below the regional equilibrium line altitude, highlights the importance of local controls on glacier development.
20181786|This study attempts to model alpine tundra vegetation dynamics in a tundra region in the Qinghai Province of China in response to global warming. We used Raster-based cellular automata and a Geographic Information System to study the spatial and temporal vegetation dynamics. The cellular automata model is implemented with IDRISI's Multi-Criteria Evaluation functionality to simulate the spatial patterns of vegetation change assuming certain scenarios of global mean temperature increase over time. The Vegetation Dynamic Simulation Model calculates a probability surface for each vegetation type, and then combines all vegetation types into a composite map, determined by the maximum likelihood that each vegetation type should distribute to each raster unit. With scenarios of global temperature increase of 1 to 3C, the vegetation types such as Dry Kobresia Meadow and Dry Potentilla Shrub that are adapted to warm and dry conditions tend to become more dominant in the study area.
1552185|Antarctic Dry Valley ecosystems are among the most inhospitable soil ecosystems on earth with simple food webs and nearly undetectable fluxes of carbon (C) and nitrogen (N). Due to the lack of vascular plants, soil organic matter concentrations are extremely low, and it is unclear how much of the contemporary soil C budget is actively cycling or a legacy of paleolake production and sedimentation. While recent work indicates multiple sources of organic matter for dry valley soils, the composition and kinetics of organic pools remain poorly characterized. We examined soil organic matter pools and potential C and N turnover in soils from within six sites located across three hydrological basins of Taylor Valley, Antarctica that differed in surface age, microclimate and proximity to legacy (paleolake) sources of organic matter. We estimated potential C and N mineralization, and rate kinetics using gas exchange and repeated leaching techniques during 90-d incubations of surface soils collected from valley basin and valley slope positions in three basins of Taylor Valley. Soil organic C content was negatively correlated with the ages of underlying tills, supporting previous descriptions of legacy organic matter. Carbon and N mineralization generally followed 1st order kinetics and were well described by exponential models. Labile pools of C (90 d) were 10% of the total organic C in the upper 5 cm of the soil profile. Labile N was 50% of the total N in surface soils of Taylor Valley. These results show that a large proportion of soil C and particularly N are mineralizable under suitable conditions and suggest that a kinetically defined labile pool of organic matter is potentially active in the field during brief intervals of favorable microclimate. Climate variation changing the duration of these conditions may have potentially large effects on the small pools of C and N in these soils.
4095871|The study presented herein investigated the differences in stand structure of grazed and ungrazed subalpine forests and whether subalpine forests used for grazing satisfactorily protect against avalanches. In subalpine forests of Picea abies L. Karst and Larix decidua Miller, grazed and ungrazed plots of
10.2307/1552488|The vegetation of 30 undisturbed permanent quadrats on the steep coastal slopes of subantarctic Macquarie Island was recorded in 1980-81 and 1994-95, a period in which temperatures rose briefly then declined, precipitation increased and rabbit grazing pressure decreased. Previous investigators of the plant ecology of the island have suggested a successional sequence, in the absence of disturbance, towards total dominance of the two major plant species on the coastal slopes, the tall tussock-forming grass Poa foliosa and the megaherb Stilbocarpa polaris, with a concomitant reduction in the diversity of subordinate species. Our observations demonstrate a more complex reality. Dense tall tussock grassland became more open, resulting in an increase in quadrat species richness. The more open tussock grassland on the upper slopes became more dense, with a concomitant decrease in quadrat species richness. The large herb S. polaris changed little in its abundance over the period, perhaps reflecting a need for disturbance for its expansion. The opening of dense stands of P. foliosa may be part of a previously unrecorded endogenous successional process, while the closure of open stands of Poa could be a response to improved growth conditions, including relief from rabbit grazing and the relatively high temperatures in the initial years of monitoring, but may also be endogenous in origin.
20181793|This study explores the physical, chemical and microclimatological properties of soils along a High Arctic glacier foreland and adjacent moaine in relation to the development of biological soil crusts. We examine various edaphic properties: soil temperature, volumetric water content, organic carbon content, and texture in surface samples (1 cm) with and without a cover of biological soil crust as well as changes in nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, organic carbon, pH, volumetric water content, bulk density, and texture in crusted surfaces (&lt;1 cm) and soil cores (5 cm) along a chronosequence following deglaciation. Soil crusts developed within four years of deglaciation and subsequent peaks in crust cover and thickness coincided with an accumulation of nitrogen and organic carbon in the crust. Crusted surfaces had significantly higher volumetric water content, organic carbon, a greater silt and clay fraction, and lower temperature compared to uncrusted soils. A steady supply of water from glacier melt promoted rapid development of biological soil crusts, creating an edaphic environment with enhanced moisture and nutrient properties which contributed to the high rate of vascular plant succession previously observed on this foreland. Results presented in this study are compared with edaphic conditions at other circumpolar sites and glacier forelands.
1552431|Once thought of as inert, ice has been increasingly recognized as a habitat suitable for life. The landscape of the MCMurdo Dry Valleys (MCM) of Antarctica is dominated by glaciers, and glacier melt is the primary water source for life in soils, streams, and lakes. The glaciers, despite their cold and lifeless appearance, offer functioning habitats for life. The major objective of this study was to examine biogeochemical characteristics of miniecosystems present in cryoconite holes and to determine links to other components (soils, streams, and lakes) of the dry valley landscape. We examined cryoconite holes from 5 glaciers spanning the length of Taylor Valley, one of many valleys in the MCM. Cryoconite biotic communities were composed of the same species observed in streams and lakes, namely, cyanobacteria (Chlorococcus, Chroococcus, Crinalium, Oscillatoria, Nostoc, and Sprirulina), rotifers (Philodina gregaria and Cephalodella catellina), tardigrades (Acutuncus antarcticus and Hypsibius spp.), and ciliates. Biotic communities did not reflect the composition of the immediately surrounding environments, suggesting the effects of eolian mixing and transport of sediments and biota across the valley. Gradients of chemistry and biotic abundance in cryoconite holes reflected the position of each glacier in the valley. Nitrogen and organic carbon concentration patterns across glaciers potentially resulted from biological activities in cryoconite holes. Properties of holes were stable from one to the next sampling season, suggesting that changes of cryoconite hole properties develop on longer than yearly time scales.
4095899| The course of nitrogen fixation by moss-associated cyanobacteria in Svalbard (78N, 16E), Norway, was studied using the acetylene reduction assay. In situ field measurements of nitrogen fixation activity were conducted in six different types of moss-dominated arctic vegetation from the beginning of the snowmelt in early June to the end of July 1998. Concurrently, the water content of the soil/vegetation layer was determined and correlated with the nitrogen fixation rates. At all sites with diminishing water content during the summer season, nitrogen fixation activity was positively correlated with the amount of available water in the vegetation. At two sites, where water content of the vegetation was constantly higher than 80% (w/w) throughout the season, nitrogen fixation activity was correlated with temperature. Depending on the type of vegetation, nitrogen fixation became limited when the water status fell below a minimum threshold level. The most desiccation-tolerant vegetation for nitrogen fixation activity was the cryptobiotic crust, where nitrogen fixation decreased only after the water content of the soil/vegetation was less than 50% of the its fresh weight, while in the other types of vegetation nitrogen fixation stopped when water content was around 60%. The results from the present study confirm that, in arctic regions with low precipitation during the growing season, nitrogen fixation in different types of vegetation is mostly limited either to the period of snowmelt when water is sufficiently available, or to habitats that stay wet during summer. 
4095893|Locally derived ice is often observed to fill through-cutting rifts and uneven fronts in ice shelves. That ice may nucleate as fast ice at the shelf front, by growth at the sea surface within rifts, or by basal accretion. Here, we investigate the role of such ice in the flow of the Brunt Ice Shelf and adjacent Stancomb-Wills ice tongue, along the Caird Coast of Antarctica. Much of the shelf system is severely rifted, with locally derived ice filling the space between rift walls and around ice rafts. A series of numerical experiments that account for thermal properties of the different ices is used to investigate the influence of that mixture of sea and marine ice on the kinematics and dynamics of the shelf system. The simulations are constrained by a variety of satellite remote-sensing data. We find that the locally derived ice forms a dynamic connection between the ice tongue and the Caird Coast, effectively creating an embayment where no coastal embayment exists. This may have implications for the expansion of ice shelves along arctic coasts during past glaciations.
4095824|Effects of abiotic factors on daily and annual photosynthetic carbon gain were evaluated in Abies lasiocarpa and Picea engelmannii at three sites across an alpine treeline ecotone in the Medicine Bow Mountains of southeastern Wyoming (U.S.A.). In addition, the year 2001-2002 was characterized as an episodic drought (seventh driest year since 1895), including a winter that generated only 45% of normal snowpack. Both species had approximately 50% lower xylem water potentials and photosynthesis compared to previous studies for the same species and locale. In A. lasiocarpa, estimated total photosynthesis for the measurement period (A
41240406|Trends of Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) from 1982 to 2006 in the upper mountainous areas of three inland river basins (Shiyanghe, Heihe, and Shulehe, from east to west) in the Qilian Mountains, northwestern China, were analyzed based on the Global Inventory Monitoring and Modeling Studies (GIMMS) NDVI data. The relationships between NDVI and climatic factors such as air temperature, precipitation, and evaporation were also analyzed. The results indicate that changes of NDVI over time had an obvious elevational difference. NDVI has decreased in the northern lower-elevation (<3000 m) areas, which account for 31% of the total area, and increased in the southern higher-elevation (3000-4100 m) areas, which occupy 32% of the total area. In addition, 37% of the area did not show an obvious change in NDVI and was distributed in the periglacial belts with elevations higher than 4100 m. The decrease of NDVI in the lower elevations was controlled by a decrease in precipitation and an increase in air temperatures, whereas the increase in the higher elevations was mainly controlled by an increase in air temperature alone. With a continuous increase in air temperature in the future, vegetation would suffer from more serious water stress in the elevations lower than 3000 m, but become more flourishing between 3000 and 4100 m in the Qilian Mountains. This information is critical for understanding how climate warming may affect hydrology and ecology in the Qilian Mountains and for managing water resources for the lowlands in the Hexi Corridor adjacent to the mountains.
10.2307/1552623| The thermal structure and hydrodynamics of supraglacial Tsho Rolpa Lake (2751N, 8629E) in the Nepal Himalaya were examined in the premonsoon of 1996. We continuously measured flow velocity, water temperature, and turbidity with moored self-recording current meters, temperature data loggers, and turbidimeters. Vertical measurements (every 0.2 m in depth) of water temperature and turbidity were also made by lowering a self-recording sonde. Tsho Rolpa Lake (surface area, 1.39 km<sup>2</sup> at present) has increased in size since late 1950s (surface area, 0.23 km<sup>2</sup> in 1958) by both glacial ice melt below the lake bottom and the retreat of the glacier terminus. Lake stratification is defined by suspended sediment concentration (SSC) rather than by temperature. The suspended sediment is mostly silt and clay (d < 15.6m), which is supplied by the meltwater discharge from a subaqueous tunnel portal into the lake at the glacier terminus. The sediment is transported to the deepest zone of the lake by underflows and diffused by advection by the other currents into the upper zone. The observations revealed that a diurnal valley wind produces a vertical water circulation in the quasi-isopycnal surface layer, which is about 27 m deep. This circulation transports the surface water, heated mostly by solar radiation, toward the glacier terminus and consequently forces relatively warm water (>5C) into continual contact with the glacier terminus. This warm water contact could induce calving of the upper glacier-ice by increasingly melting the subaqueous lower part. 
20181814|This study documents the spatiotemporal distribution of free-living nematodes in glacial-fed river reaches (Mll River, Austrian Alps), which is a widely neglected topic in glacial-fed stream research. Benthic nematodes of the meta- and hypokryal, in a lotic reach within a glacially formed floodplain and in the glacio-rhithral, were investigated in spring, summer, and autumn 2005. The overall nematofauna was diverse and dense with 77 species, H of 2.7, and mean abundance of 86 individuals per 10 cm. Nematode community parameters were significantly influenced by sites, but not by seasons. At the kryal sites, nematode overall mean abundances slightly increased from the metakryal (8 ind. per 10 cm) to the hypokryal (11 ind. per 10 cm), but species number decreased (from 15 species to 6 species). Nematodes became more dense and diverse in both the glacio-rhithral (overall mean: 49 ind. per 10 cm; 52 total species) and the floodplain reach (overall mean: 251 ind. per 10 cm; 65 total species). Species composition and dominant species differed among the four sites. Deposit feeders represented the dominant feeding type at each site. The lowest maturity index reflected the harsh character of the recently deglacierized meta- and hypokryal sites.
1552647|Daphnia was collected from five subarctic ponds which differed greatly in their DOC contents and, consequently, their underwater light (UV) climates. Irrespective of which Daphnia species was present, and contrary to expectations, the ponds with the lowest DOC concentrations (highest UV radiation levels) contained Daphnia with the highest eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) concentrations. In addition, EPA concentrations in these Daphnia generally decreased in concert with seasonally increasing DOC concentrations. Daphnia from three of the ponds was also tested for its tolerance to solar ultraviolet radiation (UVR) with respect to survival. Daphnia pulex from the clear water pond showed, by far, the best UV-tolerance, followed by D. longispina from the moderately humic and D. longispina from the very humic pond. In addition, we measured sublethal parameters related to UV-damage such as the degree to which the gut of Daphnia appeared green (as a measure of their ability to digest algae), and whether their guts appeared damaged. We developed a simple, noninvasive scoring system to quantify the proportion of the gut in which digestive processes were presumably active. This method allowed repeated measurement of the same animals over the course of the experiment. We demonstrated, for the first time, that sublethal damage of the gut precedes mortality caused by exposure to UVR. In a parallel set of experiments we fed UV-exposed and non-exposed algae to UV-exposed and non-exposed daphnids. UVR pretreatment of algae enhanced the negative effects of exposure to natural solar UV-irradiation in Daphnia. These UV-related effects were generally not specific to the species of Daphnia.
4095836|Turbulent sensible and latent heat exchanges play an important role in melting snow covers, contributing 30-40% of overall melt energy with daily values reaching over 50% on warm, cloudy days (Morris, 1989). The spatial variability of these turbulent fluxes across a basin and the relative importance of the differences is not well known. This paper specifically addresses small-scale variabilities in sensible and latent energy fluxes related to topographically induced wind speed variations. A simple wind model was used to simulate topographic effects on the surface wind field. Hourly wind observations were areally distributed by the model and used to calculate spatially variable sensible and latent turbulent heat fluxes for a small
10.2307/1552397| The Izas experimental catchment is located in the high Gllego Valley, Central Spanish Pyrenees, in an environment strongly affected by the presence of snow during at least six months of the year. Discharge and sediment transport variability are closely linked to snowmelt and to intense autumn rainfalls. Following 11 yr of data collection, the seasonal and interannual variability of sediment transport has been estimated, as well as the relative importance of bedload, suspended sediment and solutes. The results obtained show that the total sediment yield is relatively low (between 200 and 320 t km<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>) and that solutes represent more than 60% of the sediment exported. Bedload, which in other mountain catchments reaches a great quantity, represents here, in general, less than 30% of the total sediment yield. Seasonal and interannual sediment transport variability is very high, mainly depending on the intensity of autumnal rainfalls. 
1552330|The late Holocene history of eolian activity in a parabolic dune complex in the northern Chugach Mountains, Alaska, is reconstructed using 80 tree-ring dates and 5 radiocarbon ages. A radiocarbon age on detrital organics shows mobilization of sands about cal yr A.D. 1260. General forest growth over the dune field area indicates that this active interval was followed by dune stabilization by A.D. 1500. The present interval of dune migration activity, reconstructed from calendar dates and radiocarbon ages on buried trees, began as early as the late A.D. 1600s, was well under way by the mid-A.D. 1700s, and continues today at a diminishing rate. Intervals of increased eolian activity correspond with pulses of the Little Ice Age as reconstructed from a well-established glacial history for the region over the last 1000 yr. Century-scale cooling in climate appears to have forced dune activity through general geomorphic instabilities of nearby glacial and fluvial-lacustrine systems. Geomorphic activity includes a combination of dynamic fluvial incision of cutbanks and release of dormant dune sands, increased wind intensity, as well as internal feedback mechanisms associated with parabolic and blowout dune dynamics. Over the past 200 yr, average rates of dune migration between 1 to 3 m yr<sup>-1</sup> are estimated using tree-ring dating. Observations and tree ages along the dune margins suggest that vegetative cover may now be increasing and dune stabilization may be under way.
4139102|The nature of vegetation cover present in Beringia during the last glaciation remains unclear. Uncertainty rests partly with the limitations of conventional paleoecological methods. A lack of sufficient taxonomic resolution most notably associated with the grasses and sedges restricts the paleoecological inferences that can be made. Stable isotope measurements of subfossil plants are frequently used to enhance paleoenvironmental reconstructions. We present an investigation of the stable carbon isotope composition (
41240398|The marked change in above-ground forest stand structure with elevation towards the alpine treeline has been widely recognized, while studies on altitudinal effects on the root system are still scarce. We studied Norway spruce stands along a 700-m-long elevational transect at Mount Brocken (Harz Mountains, central Germany) to test the hypothesis that fine root dry mass partitioning shows an inverse response to elevation towards the treeline compared to above-ground biomass. Microclimate measurements revealed that thermal conditions at the treeline of Mount Brocken are closely comparable to other treeline sites around the world. Above-ground structure did not differ significantly among stands at lower and mid elevations, but tree height and stem biomass decreased strongly with elevation upslope. Fine root biomass increased with elevation by a factor of nearly two. Annual fine root production was found to be highest at mid elevation but was only 40% lower than this maximum at the treeline. Consequently, the ratio of fine root production to above-ground stem biomass increased by a factor of 2-3 with elevation, indicating a strong shift of below- versus above-ground carbon allocation towards the treeline. We hypothesize that the enlargement of the fine root system at cold sites represents an adaptation to the unfavorable soil conditions, such as impaired nutrient supply.
20181794|Melilotus alba and M. officinalis were introduced to Alaska in 1913 as potential forage crops. These species have become naturalized and are now invading large, exotic plant-free regions of Alaska. We determined distributions of M. alba and M. officinalis in Alaska from surveys conducted each summer from 2002 to 2005. Melilotus alba and M. officinalis occurred at 721 and 205 sites, respectively (39,756 total sites surveyed). The northward limit for M. alba and M. officinalis was 67.15N and 64.87N, respectively. Both species were strictly associated with soil disturbance. Melilotus alba extended no farther than 15 m from road edges except where M. alba on roadsides met river floodplains and dispersed downriver (Matanuska and Nenana Rivers). Melilotus has now reached the Tanana River, a tributary of the Yukon River. Populations on floodplains were most extensive on braided sections. On the Nenana River, soil characteristics did not differ between where M. alba was growing versus similar areas where it had not yet reached. The pH of river soils (7.9-8.3) was higher than highway soils (7.3). Upland taiga plant communities grow on acid soils which may protect them from invasion by Melilotus, which prefer alkaline soils; however, early succession communities on river floodplains are susceptible because soils are alkaline.
1552351|The Hess altitude h on a valley glacier is the altitude of that contour that is most nearly straight. The Kurowsky altitude k is the average of the glacier's minimum and maximum elevations. The glaciation level g of a glacierized region is the average of the elevations of the lowest glacierized and the highest unglacierized summits. We study the relationships between these morphological variables in well-mapped areas in Axel Heiberg Island, Nunavut, and in northern British Columbia, and also in a set of more widely distributed glaciers with well-known equilibrium-line altitudes e. We confirm that the relationships are strong, although their dispersion is considerable both for single glaciers and at the regional scale. On average h is 130 m below the long-term mean equilibrium line, k is slightly below it, and g is 200 m above it. There is very little morphoclimatic information in h that is not also conveyed by k, and since the latter is faster to measure and is already tabulated for tens of thousands of glaciers, its use is preferable. The glaciation level is less concordant. We suggest that it records interactions between landscape and climate on a somewhat slower time scale. The linear dependences of h on k and g, and of e on each of the 3 morphological estimators, have slopes slightly but significantly less than 1. This result is not yet understood.
10.2307/1552251|Considered from a functional ecological perspective, Antarctica's present-day terrestrial biota is the product of two sets of limiting factors: the continent's isolation from sources of immigrant propagules and the severe environmental stresses to which successful immigrants are exposed. The result is a low-diversity community composed almost entirely of stress-tolerant cryptogams, microarthropods, meiofauna, and microbes. In this paper a conceptual model is proposed that reduces the action of geographical isolation and environmental factors into a series of selection filters. It is argued that the low number of parameterizations needed to represent organism-environment interactions in Antarctica renders the simulation of macroscale patterns of species distributions a tractable proposition. Significantly, biotic interactions of the type that determine community structure at lower latitudes may be discounted. However, stochastic factors represent a source of "noise" that potentially reduce the model's predictive capability.
4139090| Historic climate data and repeat photographs were used to assess and document changes in alpine treeline and glacial recession in northwestern Yunnan, China. Results show that mean annual temperature in the last two decades of the 20th century has been increasing locally at a rate of 0.06 C yr (p < 0.001). Furthermore, the annual trend is a result of both summer- and wintertime warming (0.037 C yr, p < 0.001; and 0.036 C yr, p < 0.001, respectively). Additionally, a local drying trend (-3.80 mm yr; p < 0.001) was observed during the period 1955-1995. Repeat photos and supplemental measurements show that this warming is causing the retreat of glaciers and contributing to the elevational advance of alpine treeline. Fire, a traditional management tool used to halt the advance of woody species, has been suppressed since 1988. One consequence of these interactions is the encroachment of woody vegetation into alpine meadows, which will have negative impacts on plant species diversity and Tibetan livelihood. Two spatially and temporally distant anthropogenic actions, a rapidly warming climate and local land use policy, appear to be threatening both biodiversity and Tibetan livelihoods. Land managers need to recognize that global warming is occurring and adapt their conservation practices and policies to anticipate and be resilient to threats at all critical scales. 
23359622|Watersheds draining the Arctic Coastal Plain (ACP) of Alaska are dominated by permafrost and snowmelt runoff that create abundant surface storage in the form of lakes, wetlands, and beaded streams. These surface water elements compose complex drainage networks that affect aquatic ecosystem connectivity and hydrologic behavior. The 4676 km 2 Fish Creek drainage basin is composed of three watersheds that represent a gradient of the ACP landscape with varying extents of eolian, lacustrine, and fluvial landforms. In each watershed, we analyzed 2.5-m-resolution aerial photography, a 5-m digital elevation model, and river gauging and climate records to better understand ACP watershed structure and processes. We show that connected lakes accounted for 19 to 26% of drainage density among watersheds and most all channels initiate from lake basins in the form of beaded streams. Of the >2500 lakes in these watersheds, 33% have perennial streamflow connectivity, and these represent 66% of total lake area extent. Deeper lakes with over-wintering habitat were more abundant in the watershed with eolian sand deposits, while the watershed with marine silt deposits contained a greater extent of beaded streams and shallow thermokarst lakes that provide essential summer feeding habitat. Comparison of flow regimes among watersheds showed that higher lake extent and lower drained lake-basin extent corresponded with lower snowmelt and higher baseflow runoff. Variation in baseflow runoff among watersheds was most pronounced during drought conditions in 2007 with corresponding reduction in snowmelt peak flows the following year. Comparison with other Arctic watersheds indicates that lake area extent corresponds to slower recession of both snowmelt and baseflow runoff. These analyses help refine our understanding of how Arctic watersheds are structured and function hydrologically, emphasizing the important role of lake basins and suggesting how future lake change may impact hydrologic processes.
10.2307/1552388|Current hypotheses suggest xylem conduits of conifers cavitate as a result of low xylem water potentials during the growing season and as the combined result of low xylem water potentials and repeated freezing and thawing of the xylem during the winter. To investigate variation in resistance to xylem cavitation among evergreen and deciduous coniferous trees from different environments, we analyzed conifers from upper and lower treeline. Species from lower treeline (Larix occidentalis and Pinus contorta) exhibited higher resistances to xylem cavitation compared to species from upper treeline (Larix lyallii and Pinus albicaulis). At lower treeline, the deciduous conifer Larix occidentalis was more resistant to xylem cavitation than the evergreen Pinus contorta. None of the four species experienced losses in stem hydraulic conductivity greater than 5% during the growing season. During the winter, lower treeline species experienced between 8 and 15% loss in xylem conductivity compared to greater than 30% for upper treeline species. At upper treeline, losses in stem hydraulic conductivity were correlated with freeze-thaw events, mid-winter warming periods and decreased stem water contents. Wintertime xylem cavitation in the upper treeline environment was related to freezing and thawing events and the total time the xylem was above freezing.
40962398|The Collembola succession was studied in the Hardangerjokulen glacier foreland in south-central Norway. Twenty sampling plots 30 to 230 years of age were distributed along a chronosequence where a glacier snout had been receding since 1750. Also, five plots 10,000 years of age were sampled. All soil samples were taken in Salix herbcea vegetation, in order to standardize the microhabitat. The youngest zone (30-50 years) contained 14 springtail species, mainly large, surface active generalists. Additional pitfall catches here revealed considerable surface activity of several species, also on vegetation-free areas. Even a three-year-young moraine contained at least three springtail species. Most pioneers also occurred in older soils. The cumulative number of species increased rapidly up to about 70 years, at which age 72% of all species had been recorded. Only five species in low numbers were confined to 10,000-year-old soil. A high density of Folsomia quadrioculata and F. brevicauda was noted at 50-70 years of age, and of Tetracanthella brachyura at about 100 years. Compared to oribatid mites, a higher number of springtail species colonized pristine ground. While the two pioneer oribatids were parthenogenetic, the dominant springtail pioneers were bisexual. Springtails are among the earliest colonizers along receding glaciers.
4139116|Shrubs may act as nurse plants by facilitating the establishment and/or survival of under-story herbaceous plants under stressful conditions. Such interactions may promote the movement of montane species into alpine plant communities. We studied potential nurse effects of alpine willow shrubs (Salix spp.) on fireweed (Chamerion angustifolium) at three life history stages: seed, established seedling, and adult. Mechanisms for nurse effects were assessed at each stage by placing transplants into modified microsites containing shade and wind protection, as well as into unmanipulated microsites in open meadow and willow under-story habitats. Seedling establishment occurred only under the willow canopy and even there was extremely rare. Willows and experimental microcosms that simultaneously increased shade and reduced wind velocity strongly promoted over-winter survival of established seedlings and adults. All adult transplants surviving over the winter persisted over the subsequent growing season. For seedling transplants, extremely high mortality in exposed plots over the winter limited our power to experimentally detect nurse effects during the next growing season. Results suggest that by promoting persistent snow cover over the winter, willows enhance survival of fireweed at its upper range limit, potentially favoring its spread into alpine habitats.
1552326| Three arrays, each containing four funnel-shaped sediment traps, were deployed near the front of the Mller Ice Shelf, Lallemand Fjord, western Antarctic Penisula, in late austral summer 1998. Although the upper traps in each array were damaged or lost, eight others were recovered intact about 13 mo later. The mean flux of sediment was 1.4 to 2.9 mm a<sup>-1</sup> (1.67 to 3.5 kg m<sup>-2</sup> a<sup>-1</sup>) and showed little trend with respect to distance from the ice shelf or depth of water. Mean organic carbon and biogenic silica concentrations are 0.6 to 1.1% and 3.4 to 5.0%, respectively. Up to 50 microlaminae visible in x-radiographs probably indicate storm surges or the effect of spring tidal cycles. The sand content in most traps is 2 to 5 times lower in winter, reflecting reduced melt from icebergs and their limited mobility as they are held by sea ice. However, a secondary winter peak in very coarse sand is probably associated with eolian input during winter storms. Nitrogen is greater by 2 to 3 times in summer sediment, and organic carbon is up to 4 times greater. Biogenic silica shows less summer to winter difference, although the spring diatom bloom is represented by somewhat greater values in most traps. Summer values of isotopic organic carbon 13C and total nitrogen 15N are lower than winter values in response to heterotrophic removal of the lighter isotopes. 
24551712|Recent observations of divergence between tree growth at high-latitude sites and temperature, as well as the decline of yellow cedar [Callitropsis nootkatensis (D. Don) Oerst. ex D.P. Little] in southeast Alaska due to warming, emphasize a need to investigate nonstationary climate response of Alaskan coastal forests to warming in other tree species. Comparison of annual tree growth in mountain hemlock [Tsuga mertensiana (Bong.) Carrire] to mean monthly temperature and precipitation data from Sitka, Alaska, from A.D. 1830s to 1990s along an elevational transect reveals nonstationarity in tree growth response to climate that suggests an ongoing biome shift. We observe a marked weakening in the positive relationship between annual growth and warmer growth season temperatures at low-elevation hemlock sites, and a concurrent increase in growth and sensitivity at higher elevations coupled with increased correlation between growth and April precipitation at all sites along our transects. As previously observed with yellow cedar, the mechanism of the hemlock biome shift may be due to an increased susceptibility of roots to damage from late frosts resulting from earlier seasonal loss of protective snowpack.
4095887| Since the 1970s, a breeding colony of lesser snow geese (Chen caerulescens caerulescens L.) at La Prouse Bay, Manitoba, has grown 8% annually. This increase has led to significant loss of plant cover in all major salt- and freshwater coastal habitats between 1976 and 1997. A series of transects established in 1976 was resurveyed in 1997. Exposed sediment, extent and type of vegetative cover, and aquatic areas were recorded along transects using a classification of 12 a priori classes. Five regions within the colony were identified, and changes in vegetation cover differed among these and depended on unique combinations of vegetation class and year. Grubbing by geese has led to loss of graminoid plants, especially in intertidal and supratidal marshes. Exposed sediments have largely replaced previously vegetated areas since 1976. Species characteristic of disturbed sites have colonized exposed sediment with the most abundant species varying according to soil conditions. In intertidal marshes, willow cover declined in association with the development of hypersalinity after loss of the graminoid mat, but willow cover increased at the base of well-drained beach ridges and in a river delta with ample winter snow accumulation and freshwater flow in spring that protected ground vegetation. Most of the expected successional trends associated with isostatic uplift and changes in soil organic matter failed to occur because of intense goose foraging throughout the 20 years. The likelihood of sustained recovery of plant communities in the immediate coastal zone is very low, as long as goose numbers continue to increase. Indirect effects of vegetation loss (e.g., hypersalinity) and subsequent erosion of exposed sediments following grubbing will delay plant colonization and retard succession. 
10.2307/1552256|High-latitude ecosystems contain large soil carbon stocks. Climate change scenarios predict higher temperatures and changed precipitation pattern in the Arctic, which is likely to alter the ecosystem carbon (C) balance. With few exceptions most studies of the ecosystem C balance in the Arctic have taken place in wet ecosystems, and it has been shown that the CO<sub>2</sub> efflux is likely to increase if the moisture level declines. However, large areas in the Arctic contain dry tundra, which is likely to make a different contribution to the C fluxes than wet tundra. In this study we examined the seasonal variations in ecosystem CO<sub>2</sub> emission in a dry subarctic heath in northern Scandinavia. Soil moisture level during most of the season was below 250% dry weight of the soil, which is a moisture level below which previous research has shown that microbial activity becomes increasingly moisture limited. Along with measurements throughout the season of CO<sub>2</sub> emission from plants and soil, soil temperatures, and moisture levels, we added N, P, sugar, and cornstarch. Except for a strong response to sugar addition, the short-term effect of soil temperature and moisture on seasonal CO<sub>2</sub> emission was much stronger than the responses to the additions. A regression model showed that respiration rates also in this relatively dry tundra are strongly controlled primarily by soil moisture conditions. However, the CO<sub>2</sub> efflux is likely to increase with increased moisture levels and decrease with drying, which is contrary to expected responses in wet tundra.
10.2307/1552204| The influence of natural terrestrial disturbances on the limnology of northern lakes is little known, yet important for understanding the ecology of these remote ecosystems. The Rivire George Caribou Herd (RGCH) in northern Qubec has undergone a large population increase since the 1950s, which has been accompanied by pronounced impacts (i.e., degradation of vegetation cover, soil erosion) on terrestrial environments of the Rivire George region. The goal of our study was to evaluate if the increased caribou activity and resulting terrestrial impacts have been accompanied by impacts on adjacent aquatic ecosystems. We studied the recent diatom assemblages (i.e., about the last two centuries) preserved in six sediment cores taken from lakes located in the most heavily impacted region, and in one core from a lake showing little evidence of recent caribou activity in the catchment basin. Core chronologies based on <sup>210</sup>Pb dating techniques indicated that average mass sedimentation rates in this subarctic region were very low (0.0039 to 0.012 g cm<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>). Perhaps surprisingly, diatom assemblages from all seven cores showed very little change, indicating remarkably stable limnological conditions throughout the past 200 yr. The lack of a signal from caribou activity is most likely due to (1) short-term impacts being too transitory to be registered in the sediment record, and (2) long-term impacts not representing a significant perturbation outside the natural variability of these aquatic ecosystems. In contrast to other arctic regions, the limnological stability of our study sites suggests that recent climatic change impacts have been negligible in this region of northern Qubec, which seems to confirm climate model predictions that northern Qubec and Labrador will remain climatically stable under global warming scenarios. 
10.2307/1552588|A survey was made of the occurrence of Frankia, infective on Alnus, in some 40 soils from the whole circumpolar area. Some of these soils were also tested for the occurrence of Rhizobium infective on Trifolium pratense. Infectivity tests were performed by growing test seedlings in soil or soil suspensions. Frankia was detected only in very few soils, in spite of extended experimental periods. When nodulation took place, nodulation was observed in few test plants. Several of nodulated test seedlings never turned green, suggesting that Frankia was ineffective in N<sub>2</sub> fixation. An exception was soil from a site in the Faeroe Islands where nodulated Alnus had been introduced. This soil showed high nodulation ability and N<sub>2</sub> fixation was likely. It is suggested that lack of infective Frankia in the circumpolar soils studied may be because Frankia had not been spread to these sites, but does not necessarily mean that soil conditions are negative for Frankia. Infective Rhizobium was rare in the soils studied. Lack of infective root nodule bacteria in potential sites for soil reclamation calls for the need to inoculate the plants and also provides the opportunity for introduction of selected bacterial strains without competition from an endogeneous soil microflora.
1552564|Thaw lakes and drained thaw lake basins are ubiquitous on the Arctic Coastal Plain of Alaska. Basins are wet depositional environments, ideally suited for the accumulation and preservation of organic material. Much of this soil organic carbon (SOC) is currently sequestered in the near-surface permafrost but, under a warming scenario, could become mobilized. The relative age of 77 basins on the Barrow Peninsula was estimated using the degree of plant community succession and verified by radiocarbon-dating material collected from the base of the organic layer in 21 basins. Using Landsat-7+ imagery of the region, a neural network classifying algorithm was developed from basin age-dependent spectra and texture. About 22% of the region is covered by 592 lakes (>1 ha), and at least 50% of the land surface is covered by 558 drained lake basins. Analysis of cores collected from basins indicates that (1) organic layer thickness and the degree of organic matter decomposition generally increases with basin age, and (2) SOC in the surface organic layer tends to increase with basin age, but the relation for the upper 100 cm of soil becomes obscured due to cryoturbation, organic matter decomposition, and processes leading to ice enrichment in the upper permafrost.
20181743|Glacial retreat on the Tibetan Plateau and surrounding regions is characteristic since the 1960s and has intensified in the past 10 yr. The magnitude of glacial retreat is relatively small in the interior of the Tibetan Plateau and increases to the margins of the plateau, with the greatest retreat around the edges. Glacial retreat in this region is impacting the hydrological processes in the Tibetan Plateau and surrounding regions. The glacial retreat has caused an increase of more than 5.5% in river runoff from the plateau. In some areas, such as the Tarim River basin, the increase in river runoff is greater. Glacial retreat has also caused rising lake levels in the areas with large coverage of glaciers, such as the Nam Co Lake and Selin Co Lake areas. Rising lake levels are devastating grasslands and villages near the lakes.
1552426|Meziadin Lake (34 km<sup>2</sup>, 133 m maximum depth) is located on the east side of the Coast Mountains in northern British Columbia. Inflow from Strohn Creek is dominated by the nival flood, despite a glacier cover of 50.5 km<sup>2</sup> in the drainage basin. The nival flood generates turbid underflows in the lake that distribute sandy mud within 2 km of the point of inflow. During our study in 1999, turbidity currents and interflows along the thermocline continued intermittently through the summer, although the inflow of water and the suspended sediment loads decreased substantially. Sediment collected in traps throughout the lake indicate mass accumulation rates in the proximal region in excess of 200 g m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup> (11 mm) averaged over 69 d of observation during summer 1999, decreasing downlake to 1 g m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup> (0.06 mm) in the most distal region of the lake. The sediment trapped near the point of inflow has a strong mode of fine sand and is strongly negatively skewed, reflecting the competence of the turbidity currents. Texture of the sediments deposited on the lake floor decreases distally from material dominated by coarse silt and fine sand to clay sized material. Sub-bottom acoustic data document more than 180 m of accumulation in the proximal region, decreasing to <20 m distally, making the mean rates of accumulation since deglaciation (16 and 1.8 mm yr<sup>-1</sup>, respectively) somewhat greater than those at present. This decrease is associated with changing environmental conditions and diversion of a significant portion of the drainage basin associated with the retreat of Strohn Glacier in the 20th century.
10.2307/1552485|Plants respond to herbivory either by maximizing resource acquisition and compensatory growth or by minimizing loss of resources, e.g., by investing in chemical or structural defence. We studied the response to simulated browsing by the deciduous dwarf shrub, Salix polaris, on high Arctic Spitsbergen. Salix polaris is browsed by Svalbard reindeer, and its response to browsing may influence subsequent utilization. We compared leaf characteristics and flowering of S. polaris from areas with relatively short, intermediate, and long growing season, and their responses 1 yr after simulated browsing in early, mid, and late summer. Leaf numbers, total and individual biomass of leaves, and the number of inflorescences were greatly reduced the year after treatment. There was no increase in phenolics but a tendency to an increase in N content in the leaves of S. polaris 1 yr after treatment. Salix polaris showed little variation in the response to simulated browsing with local variation in resource availability (length of growing season) or with time of browsing. The results suggest that S. polaris responds to summer browsing the previous year by allocating resources to compensatory growth rather than to defence. For reindeer, browsing of S. polaris leads to a sizeable decrease in food quantity and, possibly, to a limited increase in food quality.
20181749|Monitoring of permafrost along the Qinghai-Tibet (Xizang) Highway shows that there is a large difference in the response of permafrost to climate change and to engineering construction. The change in cold (&lt;-1.5C) permafrost is greater than that in warm (-1.5C) permafrost under the effect of climate change, while the cold permafrost is less sensitive to the disturbances from engineering activities. However, warm permafrost is very sensitive to both climate warming and the impacts from engineering construction. This is because engineering construction has more immediate and direct impacts on the thermal and moisture regimes of underlying permafrost, and consequently greater influence than climate change during the first few years after engineering construction. Assuming constant annual rates of warming, the surface of cold permafrost would approach the warming due to engineering construction in 50 yr, while it would take about 20 yr in areas with warm permafrost. At a depth of 6 m, the temperature rise under engineered surfaces would be reached within 20 and 5-8 yr in cold and warm permafrost, respectively. Therefore, the warming immediately following disturbances of engineering construction would occur naturally in a few years under warm permafrost, but it would take decades for cold permafrost to have the similar thermal effects. Therefore, climate change will have more direct and immediate impacts on the thermal regime of warm permafrost and on the stability and reliability of engineering infrastructures above warm permafrost.
4139122|Fluvial processes play a crucial role in landscape development in periglacial regions. Geomorphological studies have yielded contrasting inferences about the importance of various environmental factors to drainage density. In this paper, 12 explanatory variables, based on relief, vegetation, soil, and rock type, were used to explain the controlling factors of drainage density in an area of 2880 km in subarctic Finland. Analyses were performed at multiple spatial scales (1, 4, 16, and 64 km) based on two novel statistical methods, namely generalized linear modeling (GLM) and hierarchical partitioning (HP). The results of the GLM and HP analyses were broadly concordant. Most of the variation in drainage density can be explained by soil and vegetation variables. Drainage density increased with proportion of rock and gravel soils and alpine vegetation, and decreased with peat cover. Variables based on topography and rock type explained only a small amount of the variation in drainage density. The results also confirm the profound influence of the spatial scale on the geomorphologic systems: factors influencing drainage density yield different results depending on the spatial scale at which drainage density is analyzed. The large data sets and the use of rigorous statistical techniques at four different scales add the confidence and generality for the present results.
4139091|To infer future changes in the distribution of tree species in response to climatic variability, we need an understanding of the recruitment dynamics and their climatic controls at the species' distribution limit. We studied the recruitment processes in an isolated population of Pinus uncinata Ram. located at the southwestern limit of the species' distribution in Europe (Iberian System, NE Spain). We assessed (1) the temporal patterns of pine recruitment, and (2) how climate influenced recruitment. To reconstruct the recent recruitment episodes and to assess the climatic influence on recruitment and radial growth we employed dendrochronological methods. We mapped, measured the size, and estimated the age of all P. uncinata individuals located within a 50 m x 40 m plot. Additional age data were obtained from individuals located in four nearby 20 m x 20 m plots. The main episodes of tree establishment (early 1960s, late 1980s) coincided with low radial growth during a period with reduced grazing pressure. Grazing pressure and tree recruitment were not related at the spatiotemporal scale of this study. High May, August, and September minimum temperatures and high April precipitation were positively associated with recruitment, whereas high maximum April and June temperatures were negatively associated with recruitment. The studied population was in equilibrium with climate until the late 1990s, one of the warmest decades in the 20th century, when recruitment decreased despite the availability of suitable sites for establishment and the presence of reproductive individuals. We suggest that latesummer temperatures might have a non-linear negative threshold effect on recruitment rather than a linear effect. Despite increasing evidence of climateinduced recruitment episodes in isolated cold mountain forests, threshold effects of temperature on recruitment may imply limited range shifts of these populations in response to climate warming.
41416431|Flowering phenology is a key life history trait that strongly influences reproductive success. We investigated the relationship between flowering phenology and functional traits of 48 alpine herb species using the Leaf-Height-Seed (LHS) scheme developed by Westoby (1998) to quantify the ecological strategy of the plant species. Phenological data were obtained by weekly observation of fifty 0.5 x 0.5 m quadrates. Specific leaf area (SLA), height, and seed size of 48 alpine herbs were measured. Comparative generalized estimating equations and generalized linear models suggested that flowering peak date was positively correlated with size of maternal plant (biomass and height) and negatively correlated with seed size. Species with a longer flowering period were smaller and produced bigger seeds than those with a short flowering season. Flowering peak date and duration were negatively correlated, although this correlation was mainly present in annuals, which are relatively rare in the alpine meadow. Relationships between flowering phenology and specific leaf area (SLA) were weak. There were only weak effects of phylogeny on the relationships between flowering phenology and functional traits. Wind-pollinated species flowered earlier than insect-pollinated species. Annuals flowered longer than perennials. Relationships between flowering phenology and functional traits indicate that there is a tradeoff between maternal and reproductive growth, and flowering time may underlie the correlation between plant height and seed size.
4139110|Understanding trophic interaction within deep-sea marine communities is critically important as commercial exploitation increases in the Arctic. Undoubtedly, the Arctic marine environment will be subject to the same environmental and human stressors as its southern counterparts and, as a result, community stability is vulnerable. The objectives of this study were to test the predictive power of environmental variables on fish community composition using redundancy analysis and to determine if this information could be used to differentiate distinct trophic communities throughout the Davis Strait/Baffin Bay region. This analysis used data collected in benthic surveys from 2000 to 2004, and results indicate that water temperature, latitude, and depth strongly influence the distribution of fish species in this region. Latitude and water temperature were strongly negatively correlated, and the majority of species were distributed along the low latitude/high temperature to high latitude/low temperature gradient. Some fish species were more highly correlated with depth. Proportions of most by-catch species differed between northern and southern regions at each depth range. Since community structure changes gradually along environmental gradients, perhaps it is more appropriate to describe the communities as shifting their trophic status along environmental gradients rather than as distinct communities with distinct food webs in a specific region of the Arctic.
10.2307/1552609|The pollination and reproductive ecology of Saxifraga stellaris was investigated in alpine southwest Norway. A breeding system analysis, with performance of controlled crosses, revealed that S. stellaris is self-compatible and that reproductive success after cross- and self-pollination is equal. Relative autodeposition efficiency (i.e. mean seed:ovule ratio in caged, nonmanipulated plants relative to mean seed:ovule ratio of control plants) was, however, low (0.29), suggesting that S. stellaris depends on insect visitation for maximum seed set. Seed set is not restricted by pollen availability, as indicated by a supplemental hand-pollination experiment. Plant size had a strong positive impact on ovule number, which in turn was positively correlated with seed number. Plant size also had a positive influence on seed weight. Seed weight was lowest for late-flowering plants, suggesting that shorter time for seed maturation and lower temperatures late in the season restrict seed weight. No correlations between flowering date and seed number were found, perhaps because the pollinators are relatively insensitive to temperature conditions and thus their activity does not change through the flowering season of S. stellaris.
1552433| The value of glacier fluctuations as indicators of climate change detection has been increasingly recognized in recent years. Tropical glaciers are of particular interest. The Cordillera Blanca in Per (7730W, 9S) is the largest glaciated area within the tropics. Its 20th-century fluctuations have been analyzed. The total ice coverage around 1990 was obtained using optical satellite data SPOT XS. Based on the 1990 results, inventories and estimates of the glaciation during the 20th century had to be corrected. The data in this paper illustrate the general ice retreat in the tropical Cordillera Blanca: 620 km<sup>2</sup> in 1990, 660-680 km<sup>2</sup> in 1970, and 800-850 km<sup>2</sup> in 1930. The 1930 value documents the extent of glaciation shortly after an intense advance in the 1920s. The Little Ice Age extent is estimated as 850-900 km<sup>2</sup>. The ice recession during the 20th century was not constant but was concentrated in two periods. Strong ice retreat occurred in the 1930s and 1940s and intermediate retreat from the mid-1970s until the end of the century. The ice coverage at the end of the 20th century is considered to be slightly below 600 km<sup>2</sup>. 
10.2307/1552481|We investigated the development of soil macrofauna and mesofauna in the successional chronosequence of an Alpine glacier foreland located above the treeline. Sampling transects 10 m long were established at eight successional stages from 4 to 150 yr of age since deglaciation, and in addition two reference sites in front of the terminal moraine. Within the first 50 yr, macrofauna biomass and mesofauna abundance increased rapidly, attaining levels typical for all older stages (macrofauna 0.5-7 g m<sup>-2</sup>, microarthropods 50-120 10<sup>3</sup> ind. m<sup>-2</sup>). Among the macrofauna nematoceran Diptera were dominant at most sites, only the early colonizing stages being dominated by carabid and lepidopteran larvae and enchytraeids. Acari were more abundant than Collembola. Temporal sequences of occurrence were documented for macrofauna families and for collembolan species. Successional age was the major determinant of community composition, additional influences being local variations in microclimatic conditions and soil properties. Biomass increased over the short alpine summer, but community composition remained largely constant. The high aggregation of soil fauna affected the precision of abundance estimates. An outline of the trophic structure of evolving soil communities is presented.
40305856|Exceptional and persistent warm temperatures recorded during July 2007 at Cape Bounty, Melville Island, Canada (7454' N, 10935' W), resulted in rapid and deep active layer formation. The thickened active layer, together with up to 10.8 mm of rainfall in late July, resulted in widespread active layer detachments across the West watershed during 23-31 July. Mapping indicates that approximately 1.9% of the watershed was directly impacted by disturbances. By contrast, only two small detachments occurred in the adjacent East watershed. The immediate fluvial impact of the detachments was primarily in the form of abrupt, short-lived rises in river turbidity, along with a more gradual increase in discharge and overall turbidity. Sediment transport pulses resulted from the hydrological connection of major detachment slides, most of which were upslope from the main channel. The largest detachment dammed the river over a length of 200 m, and resulted in an upstream pond and prolonged increased sediment transport. In total, the increased sediment transport during the last week of July amounted to an estimated 44.3 Mg, or 18% of the seasonal yield. While the detachments had an immediate and substantial impact on river conditions, erosion of unstable material is likely to have a sustained impact on watershed fluxes in future years.
4095821| Due to their remote location within the Russian High Arctic, little is known about the mass balance of ice caps on Severnaya Zemlya now and in the past. Such information is critical, however, to building a global picture of the cryospheric response to climate change. This paper provides a numerical analysis of the climate and mass balance of the Vavilov Ice Cap on October Revolution Island. Mass balance model results are compared with available glaciological and climatological data. A reference climate was constructed at the location of Vavilov Station, representing average conditions for the periods 1974-1981 and 1985-1988. The site of the station has a mean annual temperature of -16.5C, and an annual precipitation of 423 mm water equivalent. The mass balance model was calibrated to the measured mass balance, and tested against the time-dependent evolution of the englacial temperatures (to a depth of 15 m). The mass balance model was then converted to a distributed model for the entire Vavilov Ice Cap. Model results predict the spatial distribution of mass balance components over the ice cap. Processes involving refreezing of water are found to be critical to the ice cap's state of health. Superimposed ice makes up 40% of the total net accumulation, with the remaining 60% coming from firn that has been heavily densified by refreezing. 
1552377| New Zealand's alpine region is populated by many (613) species of vascular plants with a high endemism (93%). To investigate the potential impact of climate warming, we used species-area relations to estimate current and projected vascular plant floras and tested model sensitivity scaling from the whole world to small alpine regions. Within their limitations, these models show that if the present mean temperature of 0.6C higher than in 1900 were maintained, together with a large pool of exotic species, 40-70 species of native plants could become at risk. With a rise of 3C, an approximate expectation for the following 100 yr, the total New Zealand alpine vascular flora could reach 550-685 species and lose 200-300 indigenous alpine species, the rest being exotic. Fragmentation of alpine areas could, over millennia, favor speciation, but in the short term, the loss of 80% of existing alpine islands will severely increase extinction risks. These model projections will be modified by downward extension of species through unplanned vegetation destruction, or following deliberate vegetation clearance to create habitats favorable to alpine species, as well as through a number of other as yet unquantified factors. These projections are not predictions of extinctions but rather broad probabilities of risk to a whole flora. 
10.2307/1552624| Bulk organic 13C records are presented from five last glacial-Holocene transition lacustrine sequences (14-9 ka <sup>14</sup>C BP) on a north-south transect across the British Isles. The data confirm that bulk organic 13C is an amalgam of processes operating within the catchment and lake systems. Significant shifts in bulk organic 13C values are recorded across important climatic boundaries, though their synchroneity is questionable. Either the shifts are not observed at the sites or they do not appear to be synchronous, suggesting that site-specific factors play an important role. Potential controls are discussed within the context of climatic change in the North Atlantic region. 
1552329|This article presents paleobotanical and paleoclimatic reconstructions of the New Siberian Islands for the past 15,000 years based on data from Quaternary geology and archaeology collected in the late 1980s and early 1990s as part of research conducted by the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute, St. Petersburg, Russia. The data were obtained from 18 reference sites from Holocene and upper Pleistocene deposits on Kotelny Island, the largest island of the New Siberian Archipelago, and from the smaller and more northerly Zhokhov Island. Conclusions are also drawn from the composition of the avian fauna recovered during the excavations of the Zhokhov archaeological site on that island. The composition of bird species is an important source of information which helps interpret the results of palynological analysis because the birds are very sensitive indicators of changes in temperature and vegetation. The palynological analysis has revealed a sequence of 13 spore-pollen complexes that have been generalized as a scheme showing a broad sequence of events in the area of survey. The complexes belonging to the early Holocene time are markedly different from the others. The most favorable conditions occurred in the time span from 10,000 to 9000 BP. After 8000 yr ago the fluctuations were of lesser amplitude, and both their sequence and timing were close to those of Northern Europe, though there appear to be differences between the two areas in the range of variation.
4095912|The effect on photosynthetic capacity, photochemical efficiency of photosystem II (PSII), and frost resistance to environmental changes during winter in the evergreen alpine cushion plant Saxifraga paniculata were investigated at different altitudes. S. paniculata was more resistant to cold induced photoinhibition during midwinter than other evergreen subalpine species. Photochemical efficiency (F
41240420|Simultaneous measurements of soil temperature and moisture and related climate and vegetation variables at high altitudes are rare. Such knowledge is important to predict soil temperature and moisture across heterogeneous alpine landscapes and the impact of climate warming on alpine ecosystems. Based on the four-year observations in 12 plots across two contrasting timberline ecotones (north-facing Abies georgei var. smithii and south-facing Juniperus saltuaria timberlines of a valley) in the Sergyemla Mountains, we aimed to determine the role of altitude, aspect, climate, soil, and vegetation variables affecting the variability of soil temperature and moisture. The two timberlines had similar annual precipitation and seasonal mean air temperature, but the growing-season mean soil temperature differed by 0.8-1.0 K. The spring soil warming date was 20-30 days later on the north-facing slope than on the south-facing slope, which was associated with increased snow and vegetation covers on the north-facing slope. Slope aspect, canopy height, and leaf area index (LAI) rather than altitude were the major determining factors for spatial variability of seasonal mean soil temperatures across plots. A combination of aspect southness and canopy height/LAI explained 56-77% of the variations in the  20 cm mean soil temperatures for the year, growing season, and July across the 12 plots. In contrast, seasonal mean soil moistures did not correlate with altitude, aspect, and stand and soil variables. Furthermore, the  5 cm soil temprature amplitude in the growing season was much lower in the north-facing fir forest than in the south-facing juniper forest, suggesting an explanation for the distribution pattern of both species timberlines on opposite slopes of a valley in the Sergyemla Mountains.
23359385|This study reflects the growing demand for better understanding the response of alpine lake ecosystems to climate forcing. We combined continuous monitoring of water temperature with GIS-derived data, and modeled the lake surface water temperature (LSWT) and ice-cover characteristics of 18 Tatra Mountains lakes against altitude, lake morphometry, and local topography. The general trend in LSWTs was similar across all studied lakes and showed a high degree of coherence over the whole study period. The daily LSWTs were governed primarily by altitude and topographic shading represented by lake-specific total duration of direct solar radiation (TDDSR). Day-to-day variability of LSWTs was controlled mainly by the maximum depth of the lakes. The surface temperature of deeper lakes was more stable than the temperature of shallow ones. Topographic shading appeared to play an important role in the development and duration of ice-cover. Lakes with low TDDSR retained ice-cover longer than well insolated ones. This is the first time that the effect of topographic shading was explicitly considered in relation to the surface temperature and ice-cover timing of remote lakes. Including direct solar radiation as a model parameter would considerably improve predictions of temperature characteristics of high-altitude lakes. This may have potentially important implications for climate change studies as it could allow for site-specific modifications of temperatures in high-altitude lakes.
4139121|We studied the differences between areas undisturbed and disturbed by Ctenomys in the structure, diversity, and composition of a Puna desert plant community. We also studied differences in nutrient distribution in the soil produced by the activity of tuco-tucos. Within the plant community, plant and soil samples were taken from different sites, and at each site, both disturbed and undisturbed areas were sampled. We hypothesized that the activity of this rodent affected plant community structure, specific composition, diversity, and nutrient distribution (N, K, and P). Results at the plant population and community level and for soil nutrient concentration suggest that Ctenomys mendocinus could be a keystone species, capable of orienting the dynamics of the plant community studied in this ecosystem. Nevertheless, further manipulative experiments are necessary to confirm that the differences found between disturbed and undisturbed areas are indeed caused by the activity of Ctenomys.
1552303|This paper presents observations of summertime anti-winds monitored under ideal conditions in the Lake Tekapo hydro-catchment situated in the central Southern Alps, New Zealand. Onset and cessation of anti-winds was observed to coincide with the change in phase of the surface limbs of thermally generated valley and mountain winds under settled anti-cyclonic conditions. Anti-winds were best developed in the early morning before surface heating and associated convective mixing of the valley atmosphere began to mask the boundaries between the surface based limb of the mountain-valley wind and the corresponding anti-wind. By mid-day, the anti-valley wind exceeded the height of the surrounding ridgeline and became embedded in the topographically channeled gradient wind. Observations presented here have both theoretical and applied implications with regard to the development of thermally generated wind systems in deep alpine valleys, and their role in the dispersion of air pollution.
40305822|Spatial and temporal variation in mycorrhizal associations may significantly impact plant community dynamics. In this study we evaluated the distribution and abundance of mycorrhizal associations in alpine plant communities to gain a better understanding of the potential effects of microhabitat and host identity on plantfungus mutualisms. We surveyed the abundance of ectomycorrhizae (ECM) associated with Salix sp. and the abundance of arbuscular mycorrhizae (AMF) associated with Taraxacum ceratophorum, T. officinale, Polemonium viscosum, and P. delicatum in plots under willow canopies and in adjacent open meadows. AMF colonization of T ceratophorum, T. qfficinale, and P. viscosum was greater in open meadow than in understory habitats. Conversely, ECM abundance was greater in the willow understory than in the surrounding open meadow. AMF abundance in three of the four host species was negatively correlated with ECM abundance in the soil microsite. Taraxacum ceratophorum showed consistently high colonization by AMF regardless of habitat or ECM abundance. Our results suggest that willow-mediated heterogeneity in light and nutrient availability influence the distribution of AMF associations across the willow-meadow ecotone. Furthermore, species-specific plant life history traits related to growth strategies, carbon allocation patterns, and stress tolerance likely affect mycorrhizal dependence and interspecific variation in mycorrhizal associations.
