10.2307/1550196|Mt. Castleguard and an adjacent valley, Castleguard Meadows, are situated at the southeastern margin of the Columbia Icefield. The mountain and meadows are underlain by massive Middle Cambrian limestones with some shales and dolomite interbeds; the rocks dip gently southeast. They are well karstified and a close juxtaposition of karst, glacial, and periglacial erosion processes can be observed. Above 2,300 m karst features occur on surfaces recently abandoned by Neoglacial ice, and much meltwater evidently sinks underground beneath the extant glaciers. Outside of Neoglacial margins limestone surfaces are reduced to felsenmeer devoid of karst features. In tundra below 2,300 m shaft-type sinkholes and many varieties of karren occur. Sinkholes are aligned along shale contacts and the distal edges of terminal moraines and are randomly distributed elsewhere. Underground drainage developed in two phases. (1) Castleguard Cave drained part of the central Icefield area downdip to springs at 2,000 m. The cave is a single river passage, longer than 10 km and passing beneath Mt. Castleguard. It has vadose and phreatic erosional elements and is attributed to the last interglacial. (2) In late- or postglacial times, Castleguard Cave was abandoned and a new conduit developed beneath it. This discharges at the "Big Springs" at 1,740 m. Drainage of the northern Meadows and Mt. Castleguard is incorporated into this second system. Discharge of the Big Springs is comparable in magnitude to that of the meltriver of Saskatchewan Glacier, the largest valley glacier draining the Icefield. The area illustrates that karst groundwater circulation may be maintained and even initiated at the soles of temperate glaciers.
10.2307/1551817| Macquarie Island (5435S, 15855E) is a subantarctic island composed of oceanic crustal rocks lifted above sea level during the middle to late Pleistocene. The northern third of its plateau contains large areas of serpentinite and harzburgite. Outcrops of basalt rich in phenocrysts of olivine and pyroxine occur farther south. Where large enough to influence soil formation all these areas are marked by sparse vegetation cover with small, apparently slow-growing plants and a high percentage of bare ground, in sharp contrast to adjacent areas. Soils and plants on serpentinite and harzburgite areas contain high nickel and magnesium, and have lowered calcium/magnesium ratios. There are no species confined to the serpentinite and harzburgite rocks and none is a hyperaccumulator of nickel, presumably because of the short time with respect to evolution that the island has been above sea level. 
10.2307/1550395|A variety of surficial deposits related to three intervals of Neoglaciation occur in valley heads above timberline in the Colorado Front Range. These deposits may be treated as facies, each representing a distinct and separate depositional environment. Frost-riving and rockfall produce detritus over a broad area, but depending upon the environment, it becomes part of either talus, a lobate rock glacier, a tongue-shaped rock glacier, or moraine. No two facies develop simultaneously in the same place. Oscillation of climate causes horizontal shifting and overlapping of facies just as does marine transgression and regression. Thus, geologic and in part climatic history can be inferred from vertical sections, or altitudinal succession can be used as a guide to stratigraphic succession. Differences in topoclimate strongly influence the distribution pattern of the facies as well as some of their sedimentary characteristics. Consequently, these diverse surficial deposits become indicators of topoclimate and microenvironment, past and present.
10.2307/1551425|Early plant succession was examined on a crude-oil damaged wet-sedge meadow, abandoned silt loam roads, and on drilling pads at exploratory wellsites on Alaska's North Slope. Phosphorus fertilization encouraged Carex aquatilis and Dupontia fisheri recolonizing and replacing of seeded Puccinellia borealis where crude-oil damage had occurred 14 yr earlier. After 10 yr, plant cover of graminoids and moss was sufficient to reduce active layer depth about 3.0 cm. On barren, reworked silt loam, phosphorus fertilization promoted natural recolonization. Without fertilization, canopy cover averaged about 65%; with phosphorus fertilization canopy cover averaged over 100%. Bare ground (absence of litter basal and/or plant cover) averaged about 40% without phosphorus fertilization, and with phosphorus, bare ground averaged 12%. Twelve drilling pads constructed 5 to 8 yr earlier were examined for colonizing species. Various combinations of Arctagrostis latifolia, Poa glauca, Poa pratensis, and Festuca rubra had been seeded. Poa pratensis consistently failed. The other three species usually became established. Species diversity of natural pioneering plants was largest on pads in the foothills. Colonization was poorest on unstable sands, saline substrates, and at locations intensely grazed by geese and caribou on the coastal plain. Thirty-six forb, 30 graminoid, and 7 shrub species were colonizing one or more of the drilling pads. Frequent colonizers were (forbs) Senecio congestus, Artemisia tilesii, Cochlearia officinalis, A. alaskana, A. borealis, and Descurainia sophioides. Frequent pioneering grasses, in addition to the three seeded species, were Arctophila fulva, Alopecurus alpinus, and Phippsia algida. Salix planifolia ssp. pulchra was the only shrub colonizing on two or more pads.
10.2307/1551445|The date of snowmelt near Barrow, Alaska, for recent years is determined from radiometric in situ measurements of the tundra solar albedo. The snowmelt dates determined from the albedo measurements dispute recently published values based on routine visual observations at the Barrow National Weather Service (NWS) Office. Local heat-budget-altering effects of the village and its recent abrupt growth are suggested as the cause for the disagreement between the rural albedo and NWS "in town" observations. The open tundra albedo measurements combined with historical NWS observations suggest that there is no significant trend in the date of snowmelt near Barrow.
10.2307/1551289|We studied the reproductive biology in Saxifraga oppositifolia L. (Saxifragaceae) at a subarctic-alpine tundra site at Latnjajaure Field Station, North Swedish Lapland. Saxifraga oppositifolia is a perennial herb with circumpolar distribution, and it is one of the earliest flowering species in its habitats. Late-flowering genets were found to have accelerated phenology; this was correlated with heat acumulation per day. Individual flowers were found to last for 11.7 d. Strongly protogynous flowers (female lasted 4.2 d), declining stigma receptivity at the time of anther dehiscence, and more or less simultaneous flowering within genets reduce the probability for self-pollination. High seed abortion in naturally pollinated flowers (seed:ovule ratio = 0.25) supports this prediction. Crossing experiments showed that seed set is very low from autodeposition of pollen, and almost as low from selfing. Reproductive success was found to be pollen limited.
10.2307/1551410|Small bare areas created by removing debris that had lain on the tundra surface for 30 yr were observed to document recolonization. Recovery was rapid to moderately slow. After 4 yr average plant cover from vegetative colonizers on areas grouped by surrounding vegetation type was greater (9 to 26%) than cover from seedlings (0 to 30%) although seedlings were numerous. Bryophyte cover was 0 to 24%, and lichens were absent. Areas where burning of debris added nutrients had much higher seedling and bryophyte covers. Seedlings were most abundant on mesic or slightly moister sites, were rare on dry, intact organic mats, and absent in standing water. Buried seeds were not an important source of colonizers because they did not survive 30 yr of debris coverage. Seedlings on plots surrounded by successional willow and grass communities on mesic areas of a 30-yr-old disturbance were initially numerous, but then killed by thick litter accumulation. These communities apparently follow the inhibition model of succession and will persist for many years. Sites surrounded by vegetation recovering from disturbance 30 yr ago recolonized faster than plots surrounded by undisturbed vegetation. If possible, development activities that cause small-scale disturbances should be directed to areas of early successional vegetation or vegetation with a high disturbance regime, where recovery can be rapid.
10.2307/1550586|The yield of dissolved materials from a mountain watershed at 2900 m elevation near the Continental Divide in Colorado was computed for 3 yr with very different snowpack conditions. The analysis focuses on the loss of materials during the low-flow season, which extends from fall prior to snow cover through winter. Snowpack was normal the first year, low the second year, and higher than normal the third year. Under a substantial snow cover, the ground surface typically remains unfrozen, whereas bare areas freeze all the way to bedrock. The variation in snowpack thus implies considerable variation in soil frost. The yield of dissolved materials was significantly different between years for Ca
10.2307/1551601| An early to mid-Holocene warm period with greater than present-day monsoonal circulation is indicated by evidence in the northern San Juan Mountains of southwestern Colorado. Fifty radiocarbon ages of coniferous wood fragments, and several other radiocarbon ages of willow fragments, woody peat, and organic sediment associated with conifer remains, recovered from six sites at or above present-day treeline indicate that during the first half of the Holocene treeline was higher than present. Radiocarbon ages of coniferous wood fragments recovered from the remains of Lake Emma, a former glacial tarn above present-day treeline, indicate that between 9600 and 5400 BP treeline in the northern San Juan Mountains was at least 80 m higher than present. Furthermore, a radiocarbon age of a large spruce fragment with a complacent annual-ring record suggests that at about 8000 BP timberline may have been at least 140 m higher than present. These data suggest that during the early to mid-Holocene average July temperatures were at least 0.5 to 0.9C higher than present. Radiocarbon ages and stratigraphy from bogs in the study area near present-day treeline suggest that between 5400 and 3500 BP treeline was near its present-day limits. After 3500 BP treeline was generally lower than present although short climatic ameliorations, with accompanying rises in treeline, may have occurred at about 3100 and 2400 BP. Deuterium concentrations previously determined for the cellulose of 18 conifer fragments from the Lake Emma site indicate a 70 decrease in deuterium from 9600 BP to present. These data indicate that the early Holocene increase in July solar radiation may have resulted in the intensification of the Arizona monsoon at that time. 
10.2307/1550045|Areas of ground lichen in the subarctic are particularly susceptible to fire either by man's activity or by natural causes. Experimental evidence from the Hudson Bay lowlands gathered in the summer of 1970 indicates that the burning of lichen has a pronounced effect on the ground water regime. Soil moisture measurements made in a mature lichen woodland with thinly spaced trees, and in areas of recent and older burning indicate that the soil moisture under the lichen-dominated surface was at least 40% greater than in either of the burned areas. This suggests that a mature lichen cover offers a high resistance to the evaporation of soil moisture. The nature of the evaporation regime was determined using the energy budget (Bowen Ratio) approach over each surface. These data were augmented by measurements of the moisture content of the lichen made at three levels with the canopy. The evidence indicates that lichen dominated surfaces act as an effective mulch in preventing evaporation from the subsurface zone whereas the burned areas which are able to evaporate more water into the atmosphere when moist, also develop strong resistances to evaporation as the soil surface layers become drier. The role of ground lichen in the water budget of northern lands is significant because of its extensive cover and its destruction by fire must exert an important influence on the hydrologic and atmosphere water regimes.
10.2307/1551969|Almost all the altitudinal belts common to the western part of Eurasia are represented in the Caucasus Mountains. The subnival belt is especially well represented in the Central Caucasus. It lies between the alpine meadows and nival glaciers (from 2900-3000 m a.s.l. to 3600-3700 m a.s.l.). The floristic composition of the subnival belt of the Caucasus is distinguished by a high number of endemic species and some genera. The subnival belt vegetation may be classified into four groups: (1) Separate populations of one or more types are found in a particular habitat. They do not interact with each other; they only have a common habitat. (2) A few populations from several vegetation types grow in groups and form nanocoenoses (small patches). (3) Separate small patches which are fragments of the alpine meadows and "carpets" that find a favorable (snowy and slightly windy slopes) habitat in the subnival belt. (4) Vegetation of certain elements reflecting microhabitats and characterized by nonhomogeneous distributions of species and nanocoenoses.
10.2307/1551115| The effective half-life of the gross beta activity of firn samples from depth cores of the accumulation area of the Kesselwandferner, tztal Alps, Austria, has been measured. With increasing depth the effective half-lives of the samples rise systematically, according to their sequence of deposition. The dependence of the effective half-life from the age of the samples shows that after 5000 d the long-living nuclides
10.2307/1551404|Heather (Calluna vulgaris [L.] Hull), an evergreen dwarf shrub, is the predominant species on great tracts of Scottish moorland over a wide altitudinal range. It flowers annually but seed production is variable and declines substantially with increasing altitude. Heather seeds can, however, accumulate in the soil in huge numbers, up to nearly 100,000 seeds m
10.2307/1551232|Castleguard Cave contains a variety of clastic sediments of both allochthonous and autochthonous origin. The head of the cave, lying beneath the Columbia Icefield, displays breakdown and glaciofluvial injecta that are ancient. Principal deposits in the central cave are the eroded remains of at least three phases of silt filling. These are interpreted as varved sequences deposited under full glacial conditions. They are older than 140,000 BP. A channel abandonment facies occupies the inner part of the downstream entrance complex. The outer part is prone to flooding today and contains a remarkable shingle beach formed in situ where floodwaters must rise vertically.
10.2307/1550181|Freezeup conditions in the beach and nearshore zone at Radstock Bay in the fall of 1971 are described and provide a basis for a more general discussion of the factors involved. The timing and duration of the freezeup process and the type of ice conditions produced at the shore are considered. The basic control on the process is the rate at which temperature declines in the fall; but wind and wave conditions, the type and amount of pack ice present both offshore and at the beach, and the amount of snowfall in the period are of major significance. In 1971, the final immobilization of the beach did not occur until October 4, though the process began a month earlier; storm-wave action and the grounding of resistant pack ice at the shore were important.
10.2307/1550832|The annual demographic changes and height increments of small, isolated, tree-limit stands of Pinus sylvestris L. (considered collectively as a single population) were studied during a 10-yr period (1972 to 1981). The individual vitality of specimens forming the population was also followed in detail throughout the study period. No recruitment to the population was recorded during the study period and the population size (total number of live plants) decreased by ca. 13%. The demographic changes were basically controlled by intrinsic factors but proximately executed by damage related to the annual differences in the air temperatures recorded during the initial 2 to 3 mon of the year. Long periods of radiation-controlled high temperatures during these months apparently lower the frost-hardiness, and the young pines, in particular, suffer serious damage by the subsequent onset of low temperatures. The individuals forming such isolated and small-sized tree-limit populations appear to be especially susceptible to this type of damage. Tree vitality in general, and the reproductive phase of life-cycle in particular, may suffer due to selfing and inbreeding. Such populations of pine seem therefore to be doomed to complete extinction, or to very drastic reduction in size within a rather short time after establishment (30 to 40 yr). The Holocene tree-limit history of pine in Scandinavia is briefly discussed in the light of this finding.
10.2307/1551019| Radiocarbon evidence, isostatic uplift data, and glacial landforms in the Ungava Peninsula have provided important insight into the nature and dispersal pattern of the late Wisconsin ice sheets in northeastern Canada. A shell date of 37,000400 BP from the Hudson Strait coast of Ungava indicates that at least the coastal area of Ungava may have been deglaciated during the last glacial period. Subsequently, an ice sheet developed over the entire peninsula, leaving, as a heritage, a symmetrical sequence of landform assemblages. The latter, along with striae, flutings, and drumlinoid features, indicate radial flow of the ice sheet towards Hudson Bay, Hudson Strait, and Ungava Bay from a dispersal center in the interior. The ice sheet may have been cold-based in the vicinity of the ice divide, becoming warm-based towards its margins. A thick unmoulded till plain, situated along the ice divide, is speculatively thought to be inherited from beneath an earlier and thicker ice sheet. The earliest withdrawal of late Wisconsin ice inland from the coastal regions took place ca. 10,000 BP in the Rivire Dception--Cap de la Nouvelle-France area in northeastern Ungava. Locally high marine limits on the offshore islands in the vicinity support the concept of ice withdrawal to a stable position inland on the Ungava plateau. By 8000 BP the entire Hudson Strait coast and the northwestern part of Ungava Bay were ice free. The ice front was actively calving inland from Hudson Bay. An important lobe of central Quebec-Labrador ice probably filled southern Ungava Bay until as late as 6500 to 7000 BP, accounting for the existence of glacial lakes in the valleys of several of its tributary rivers, and possibly a negative gravity anomaly in the same region. Marine-limit elevations suggest that the Ungava ice sheet resulted in equivalent glacial loading on both the Hudson and Ungava Bay coasts, and that the thickest ice masses were situated to the south of the Ungava Peninsula along the axis between southeastern Hudson Bay and central Quebec-Labrador. 
10.2307/1551071|A total of about 80 species of Collembola were extracted from 87 qualitative samples mainly from alpine and subalpine sites in the Front Range of Colorado (Boulder, Gilpin, Grand, Clear Creek, and Larimer counties). The following seven new species are described: Friesea pati n.sp., Stachorutes navajellus n.sp., Anurophorus elongatus n.sp., A. senex n.sp., Folsomia variablis n.sp., F. evansi n.sp., and Bourletiella (B.) pisifera n.sp. Characteristic associations of species were found in several habitats, in particular in alpine snow-edge communities (Ceratophysella sp., Isotoma uniens, I. sp.) and alpine dry meadows (dominated by Anurophorus elongatus n.sp.). Compared with the northern parts of the Rocky Mountain Cordillera (Alaska, Washington) there is a remarkable absence of species of the Anurida complex in the Colorado Front Range.
10.2307/1550141|A review is given of the origin, history, and use of the terms subarctic and subalpine. It is suggested that North American scientists join in the European trend towards a standardization of the nomenclature for latitudinal zones and altitudinal belts. The subarctic zone and the subalpine belt are redefined as covering the forest-tundra ecotone at high latitudes and high altitudes respectively.
10.2307/1551423|Proposed construction in Denali National Park will disturb alpine and subalpine vegetation. On some disturbed areas, plant succession is predicted to be slow and to produce a sparse plant cover. Studies are in progress to evaluate methods and native plant materials for assisted revegetation. Ten species which are important members of natural successional communities are currently being tested to determine if planting seedlings will increase their density and cover. Seeds were collected in the Park and greenhouse-propagated in containers. Treatment combinations of planted seedlings, fertilization, and watering are being tested at a disturbed alpine site, while treatment combinations of planted seedlings and topsoil addition are being tested at a subalpine disturbed site. In spite of exceptionally hot, dry weather, 96% of the planted seedlings at the alpine study site and 94% of the seedlings at the subalpine site were alive and growing after one growing season. Watering, fertilization, and topsoil treatments had little effect on first-year survival. These early results suggest that planting containerized seedlings may be an effective method to increase native plant cover on disturbed areas. However, revegetation treatments will be evaluated for several growing seasons to determine their effectiveness in increasing plant density and cover.
10.2307/1552011| Individuals of Sphagnum capillifolium were cultured for 2 mo under six different combinations of nighttime temperature and nutrients. Low nighttime temperature caused a five-fold reduction of growth. Growth was also reduced when the plants were cultured without any addition of nutrient in the growing medium, but only when nutrient deficiency was coupled with high nighttime temperature. Growth reduction was associated with decreased rates of net photosynthesis, but was not accompanied by a degradation of photosynthetic pigments and/or variations in the pigment ratios, nor was the ultrastructure of chloroplasts significantly altered. The decline in the net photosynthetic rate may be due to a limitation in the enzymatic reactions at unfavorable temperatures. Nitrogen and, especially, phosphorus appeared to limit growth of Sphagnum capillifolium at optimal temperatures. A nighttime temperature of 5C was above the lower threshold triggering the synthesis of red wall-pigments, known to be promoted by nighttime chilling. Climate warming is expected to increase the growth rates of Sphagnum, but the consequences on the carbon balance of peatlands cannot be predicted because temperature rise may also enhance breakdown of peat. 
10.2307/1550142|Mass-balance studies, based primarily on the determination of net mass balance as indicated by a network of point measurements on the surface of the glacier, were begun in 1967. In 1967, a specific mass balance of 0.81 m of water equivalent was measured; in 1968, this value dropped to 0.53 m. This positive mass balance during the two years of study appears to be primarily related to local topoclimatological controls.
10.2307/1551264| The developmental stages of 142 alpine plant species were observed during 1984/85 in the grassland site of Rudranath bughiyal (3028N, 7920E; 3250 to 4200 m) in the Central Himalayan region. The growth initiation synchronized with the beginning of the spring temperature rise and the resultant snowmelt, and peaked after 30 to 40 d. In this alpine grassland, the peaks of the various phenophases succeeded one after another over about 4 mo, from early June to early October. This study supports the notion that in the unfavorable environment of the high elevations the primary plant strategy is to complete the growth cycle rapidly in order to assure the survival of the species. 
10.2307/1551753| Past treelines can rarely be recorded by pollen percentages alone, but pollen concentration, pollen influx, and plant macrofossils (including stomata of conifers) are more reliable indicators. In addition, ancient forest soils above today's treeline may trace the maximum upper expansion of the forest since the last glaciation. Charcoal in such soil profiles may be radiocarbon dated. Our example from the Central Swiss Alps at the Alpe d'Essertse consists of a plant-macrofossil diagram and pollen diagrams of the pond Gouill Rion at 2343 m a.s.l. and a sequence of soil profiles from 1780 m to 2600 m a.s.l. The area around the pond was forested with Larix decidua and Pinus cembra between 9500 and 3600 BP. After 4700 BP the forest became more open and Juniperus nana and Alnus viridis expanded (together with Picea abies in the subalpine forest). Between 1700 and 900 BP the Juniperus nana and Alnus viridis scrubs declined while meadows and pastures took over, so that the pond Gouill Rion was definitively above timberline. The highest Holocene treeline was at 2400 to 2450 m a.s.l. (i.e. 50 to 100 m higher than the uppermost single specimen of Pinus cembra today) between 9000 and 4700 BP, but it is not yet dated in more detail. The highest charcoal of Pinus cembra at 2380 m a.s.l. has a radiocarbon date of 6010  70 BP. Around 6900 BP a strong climatic deterioration caused an opening of timberline forest. First indicators of anthropogenic influence occurred at 4700 BP, when the forest limit started to move down. The lowering of timberline after 4700 BP was probably due to combined effects of human and climatic impact. 
10.2307/1550884| To determine if the soil bacterial community exhibited a response to perturbations from acid rain, the effects of increased soil loading rates of acid precipitation, nitrate, and sulfate on the alpine tundra soil bacterial community were investigated under field conditions along Niwot Ridge, Colorado. During late June and July three concentrations, in a total volume of 10 liters representing 2.5, 5, and 10 times the normal soil loading rates of H
10.2307/1551518|An electronic load-cell weighing lysimeter was used for measuring daily evapotranspiration from the alpine tundra on Niwot Ridge in the Front Range, Colorado, during the 1987 growing season. Concomitant measurements of net radiation, insolation, ground heat flux, and the gradients of wind, temperature, and humidity in the lower atmosphere are used to evaluate factors that govern temporal variations in evapotranspiration from four sites in a dry alpine meadow. Evapotranspiration was governed by energy availability for 3 to 5 d after precipitation events; thereafter, the rate at which the gradually drying soil could deliver water to the evaporating surface appeared to become an increasingly important control over evapotranspiration. Advection of cold, dry air from the Continental Divide increased both the vertical temperature and specific humidity gradients 100% over what would have occurred if advection were not present. Since the effect of advection on these gradients was approximately equivalent, both the sensible and latent heat fluxes were augmented at the expense of the ground heat flux. A primary effect of advection is to reduce the temperature of the alpine tundra surface.
10.2307/1551365| Results of lichenometry and rock-weathering studies on outer moraines in Skdadalur, Eyjafjrdur, northern Iceland show a late Little Ice Age 19th century maximum for all glaciers except the Klaengshll glacier. Retreat from these maximum positions occurred in three distinct phases: 1896-1908, 1915-1926, and post-1930. Evidence suggests, however, that many glaciers must have reached a position close to the Little Ice Age maximum on at least one other occasion earlier in the Neoglacial. 
10.2307/1550020|Thirty-five species of seed plants were isolated by germination from wind-blown debris collected on the surface of St. Mary's Glacier at about 3,350 m. In addition, viable parts of Polytrichum piliferum, Selaginella densa, and four lichens were identified. Among the seed plants, bulblets of Bistorta vivipara (Polygonum viviparum) were by far the most numerous, followed by seeds of Minuartia obtusiloba (Arenaria obtusiloba) and Saxifraga rhomboidea. Disseminule transport in the direction of the strong winds from the west appears to be significant for many alpine species despite general lack of special adaptations. Such transport would appear to overcome some geographical isolating factors but results in considerable loss of disseminules by some species.
10.2307/1551088| A 1-km-wide glacier-pushed complex produced by a surge of Holmstrmbreen in Ekmanfjorden (Spitsbergen) is suffering deflation, which is tending to plane off the original relief and to truncate folded structures in the pushed complex. Similar rapid eolian erosion could account for planation of the Saalian pushed ridges in The Netherlands. The resultant eolian sediments are dispersed onto mudflats beyond the pushed complex. Part of the coarse-silt and fine-sand fractions seems to be transported farther and is probably blown out into the fiord. The coarser sand fractions are deposited closer to the source and tend to lose their mica components rapidly, presumably due to differentiation during transport and/or grain comminutions. The textures of the wind-blown sands approximate rather closely those of a number of Dutch coversand. 
10.2307/1552148|We tested the hypothesis that occurrence of rugged terrain would affect distribution patterns of muskoxen (Ovibos moschatus) in late winter through expected higher availability of forage. Indices of terrain ruggedness (TRI) based on contour characteristics from topographical maps were found to be correlated with occurrence of muskoxen in late winter 1982-1990 in northeastern Alaska. Rugged terrain (TRI > 2.5) constituted less than half of the study area, but contained 83% of all muskoxen observed during 1982-1990. Occurrence of rugged terrain partly explained differences in density of muskox among 12 major drainages in the study area. Within 7 of 8 drainages having >30% rugged quadrats, density of muskoxen was correlated to terrain ruggedness. The study corresponds well with studies of snow characteristics, terrain ruggedness and forage availability. The results indicate, that availability of rugged terrain likely affects distribution patterns of muskox by influencing local vegetation and snow characteristics. Analysis of terrain structure may thus in combination with data on snow and vegetation patterns improve our understanding of distribution patterns of this arctic grazer during winter.
10.2307/1551986| The goals of this article are (1) to combine published and unpublished mass balance measured data on more than 200 glaciers, check the quality of the data, digitize, and compile these for the period from the end of World War II (1945) to 1993 (with emphasis on the 1961-1990 period), and (2) to perform a review and analysis of this compilation. A simple global average mass balance for this period is - 164 mm yr
10.2307/1550722|An invertebrate fauna consisting of carabid and staphylinid beetles, phalangids, gryllablattids, Collembola, and iceworms forages for insect fallout on the snowfields of Mount Rainier. Among these animals, large body size is associated with nocturnalism and small size with diurnalism probably because of the effects of body size on bird predation and radiative heating during the day. The diel activity patterns of the nocturnally active species are unusual, in comparison to other alpine arthropods previously studied, in that microclimate conditions are of very little importance in controlling its duration on most summer nights. Instead, the occurrence of food and reproductive satiation appear to be the major controller of activity duration. It is suggested that the evolutionary success of the snowfield foraging arthropods is due to their exploitation of a temporal and physiological niche where the environmental restraints typical of alpine habitats can be avoided.
10.2307/1551661|In 1989 and 1990, a study of Grasshopper Glacier (Carbon County, Montana) was conducted to determine the quality and quantity of insect deposits and the physical status of the glacier. From the lowest glacial remnants we recovered 38 distinct insect fragments, which included 13 grasshopper parts. Of these, five were intact mandibles. Using unique morphometric and morphological analyses we concluded that the mandibles had come from the extinct Rocky Mountain grasshopper, Melanoplus spretus (Walsh). Photographic and cartographic comparisons of the glacier's area indicate that it has receded to 38% of its 1956 area.
10.2307/1552134|Although recent observations indicate that weak layers of near-surface faceted crystals are widely associated with snow avalanches, little research has addressed these layers. Further, current research has been hindered by an absence of a framework with which to discuss their formation. This paper proposes terminology and describes three predominant processes observed in mid-latitude mountains which result in extreme near-surface temperature gradients, thereby forming near-surface faceted crystals: radiation recrystallization, melt-layer recrystallization, and diurnal recrystallization. It is hoped that this framework will improve scientific discussion and theory-building related to the formation and spatial distribution of near-surface faceted crystals.
10.2307/1551956|The distributions of chironomid, ceratopogonid, and Chaoborus fly remains from 20 lakes in the Northwest Territories were studied with respect to treeline and lake depth. The distributions illustrate the relation between faunal composition and lake depth, the importance of treeline as an ecological boundary for aquatic insects, and the potential value of chironomid head capsules and other aquatic insect remains as proxy indicators of past changes in treeline position and associated limnological and climatological conditions.
10.2307/1551440|Skin clothing enables hunters to spend extended periods of time outdoors throughout the arctic winter. The species used for clothing is influenced by environmental factors that vary from one region to the next. Birds were used by indigenous peoples from parts of Greenland, Canada, Alaska, and Siberia in the past, but today such use is extremely rare. Inuit living on the Belcher Islands, N.W.T., are the primary group discussed in this paper; other circumpolar groups are included for comparison. The objective of this study is to identify and discuss environmental factors that influence regional variations in bird-skin clothing production. Social science methodology, i.e., participant-observation, content analysis, and ethnographic review was used to document bird skin selection. Findings indicate that regional variations in species selected for use reflect the availability of birds and caribou in each area. When constructing a parka, placement of skins is influenced by species, sex, and age of the skins used.
10.2307/1551754| In late glacial deposits in the Chilotan Archipelago (4230S), remains of water fern (Azolla filiculoides Lam.), a plant of temperate-tropical America, are an apparent added indication of the paleoenvironment of deglaciation following the last glacial maximum in southern Chile. The last glacial maximum was reached in the archipelago between about 14,800 and 13,900
10.2307/1551070|Seasonal fluctuations of the alpine tundra soil bacterial populations have been measured within Kobresia--Deschampsia meadows and bare ground on Niwot Ridge, Colorado Front Range. Bacterial population densities of both bare-ground and meadow sites were greatest during fall and lowest during winter. The percentage of soil bacterial population having the ability to produce extracellular proteases, amylases, lipases, and pectinases was highest during the fall and lowest during winter. The total number of bacteria and the diversity of bacterial genera were consistently lower in the bare-ground site than in meadow sites. Members of the genera Pseudomonas and Bacillus were isolated with the greatest frequency during all seasons from all sites. Bacillus species were dominant during the winter season. Total numbers of nitrifying and denitrifying bacteria were high during summer and spring and lowest during winter.
10.2307/1551513|A compilation of terminus variation data from the early 19th century to 1987 is provided for Blue Glacier, the largest of 266 glaciers in the Olympic Mountains, Washington. Sources of the data include field studies of Neoglacial moraines and trimlines; written accounts and mountaineering photographs from 1890 to 1942; oblique and vertical aerial photography taken intermittently from 1955 to 1982, principally by Olympic National Park and the U.S. Geological Survey; two topographic maps (1935, 1956) of the Mount Olympus area and four glacier maps (1939, 1952, 1957, 1979); and nearly annual field measurement of the glacier terminus from 1938 to the present. By at least about 1890, Blue Glacier had retreated 535 m from early 19th-century Neoglacial-maximum moraines to the base of a spectacular 500-m icefall, where the forked ice front remained for the next three decades. Indian legend and scientific account alike attest to the crashing thunder caused by avalanching ice, until rapid retreat of more than 700 m from shortly before 1924 to 1953 witnessed withdrawal of the slender ice tongues from the valley and exposure of the underlying bedrock cliff. The principal terminus advanced slightly (2 m) in 1955, but retreated again by 1960 to its farthest up-valley position known. The first appreciable advance (164 m) since the early 19th century occurred from 1965 to 1980, most of which (122.9 m) was gained between 1971 and 1978. Nearly annual photographs from a station established in 1953 below the ice front provide sequential illustration of that change. Since 1980, the terminus has remained relatively stable. These variations occurred in broad synchrony with nearby glacier activity in the Washington Cascade Range and Olympic Mountains. Comparison of Blue Glacier variations with 5-yr moving averages of mean annual temperature, precipitation, and runoff for the Olympic Peninsula shows that rapid recession before 1953 coincided with a temperature maximum and precipitation minimum, and that temperature minima and precipitation maxima just preceded times of greatest glacier advance in 1955 and from 1971 to 1978.
10.2307/1550116|Field observations of the morphology, till fabric, and stone roundness of moraines on Henry Kater Peninsula, Baffin Island, are analyzed. Several groups of moraines are differentiated by the analysis, which throws light on the method of moraine formation.
10.2307/1550681|Studies in the western Arctic and Subarctic and in the central Arctic indicate that earth hummocks have an average diameter of 80 to 160 cm and an average height of 40 to 60 cm. They have developed on materials having 58 to 99% total clay and silt content and either high ice content or pure ice layers in the near-surface permafrost. Earth hummocks are cryogenic in origin with their development being controlled by three major factors: soil texture, soil moisture, and soil temperature. Most of the earth hummocks have developed during the last 5000 yr, when the climate became colder.
10.2307/1550843| A relative sequence of late Quaternary glacier moraine stages is presented for the Rio Mocha valley on the eastern flanks of the Chimborazo-Carihuairazo massif, Ecuador. Three successively lower groups of moraines are distinguished by location, morphological characteristics, and depth of volcanic ash cover. The moraine groups are assigned to the Neoglacial, late glacial, and last glacial maximum stages. Radiocarbon analyses of two peat layers from a lake basin formerly ponded by the presumed late glacial moraines have given ages of 11,370  60 yr BP (SRR-2582) and 10,650  60 yr BP (SRR-2581). A rough calculation of the depression of the equilibrium line during the three moraine stages gives values of 50, 250, and 450 m. 
10.2307/1550642| The subarctic zone in Canada, extending between the polar tree limit and the economical forest line to the south, includes a large portion of the Precambrian Shield lake district. Hydroelectric and other energy-related developments have provided the impetus for several recent studies on subarctic lakes. There is considerable variation in thermal regimes, but in general the ice-free season is 90 to 120 d and summer thermal stratification is strongly developed only in smaller lakes or sheltered bays. Light penetration is often severely limited by humic materials. Chemically, the main division is between the very dilute waters of the Precambrian Shield, and the ionically richer off-Shield waters. Of 620 taxa of algae found in and around western Labrador lakes about 400 are planktonic, and many of these plankters are small delicate flagellates. Chlorophyceae and Bacillariophyceae are the best represented classes. The most widespread species in subarctic lakes is the chrysophyte Dinobryon bavaricum, followed by several diatoms such as Melosira islandica, Asterionella formosa, Cyclotella glomerata and Rhizosolenia eriensis. Large lakes show a seasonal unimodal phytoplankton maximum of generally under 500 mg m
10.2307/1550176|Measurements of soil temperature, soil moisture, and surface temperature were carried out at different elevations on Pico de Orizaba, Mexico, in order to evaluate the ecology (phenology, plant physiology, and surface fire impact) of the local plant growth near the upper timberline. The lack of dense, dwarfed tree stands above the timberline seems to be a result of natural and man-made fire. The main limiting factor to tree growth is low soil temperature in spring, which limits water diffusion through plant cell membranes ("cold-dry limit").
10.2307/1551419|Denuded areas in Iceland can be divided into the following categories: glacial deposits, sandy areas, postglacial lavas, alluvial and colluvial materials, and areas covered with pumice. Of these, glacial deposits are most extensive. The paper describes the nature of the denuded areas with emphasis on the glacial deposits. The denuded glacial deposits generally have sparse plant cover (<5%) and suffer from wind abrasion and cryoturbation. The soils are deficient in organic matter (about 1%). The texture is sand and loamy sand. Despite the lack of organic materials and the coarse texture, the sum of exchangeable cations ranges from 5 to 15 meq 100 g
10.2307/1550495|Spatial patterns of plant communities near Atkasook (Meade River) on the Gubik Sands of the Alaskan Arctic Coastal Plain reflect microtopographic relief caused by geomorphic processes. Ice-wedge activity, depth of summer thaw, thaw-lake processes, river meandering, and wind erosion and deposition of sands are the principal processes concerned. Permafrost, precipitation, and stream-cutting transform microtopographic gradients into steep environmental gradients along which vegetation types sort out rather sharply. Due to annual freeze-thaw processes and large seasonal changes in river flow related to ice-melt, environmental gradients change temporally and spatially in a predictable manner. These changes cause a series of environment-community changes (succession) that can be related to soil-moisture gradients and to disturbance. No one successional sequence is characteristic of this area, and successional pathways do not converge upon a single vegetational type. Distinct, relatively stable communities, such as tussock tundra or lichen and dwarf evergreen shrub communities, result from different successional sequences in various segments of a microtopographic-moisture gradient. In this arctic region, geomorphic processes and permafrost appear to bestow a long-term cyclic nature to succession.
10.2307/1551588|Dinitrogen fixation rates were investigated in a 200-yr-old chronosequence, using an in situ acetylene reduction technique. Three successional plant communities representative of three stages of Engelmann spruce (Picea engelmannii) forest development were sampled from a sequence of recessional moraines located in front of the Robson Glacier. The legume Hedysarum boreale var. mackenzii was considered the major nitrogen-fixing agent on all the moraines. Hedysarum boreale contributed 72% of the nitrogen input in the pioneer herb stage, 79% in the intermediate Dryas stage, and 88% in the spruce forest stage. Soil microorganisms (e.g., Gloeocapsa) added 26, 20, and 8% of the nitrogen input, respectively. The estimated annual nitrogen input from nitrogen fixation decreased approximately eight-fold over the 200 yr forest succession. It was determined that the input in the pioneer stage was 57.2, in the intermediate stage 41.6, and in the forest stage 7.3 mmol C
10.2307/1551663|The long-term effects of planted grass on the rate and pattern of succession were evaluated on a construction-disturbed alluvial fan tundra site in the central Brooks Range of Alaska. Plots were evaluated 4 and 11 yr after the site was scarified and partially fertilized and seeded in strips with a grass mix. Cover of the surviving planted grass, Festuca rubra, was <5%. In comparison with the no-grass treatment, the grass treatment inhibited or delayed establishment and growth of native plants. Many species, particularly nonlegume forbs such as Epilobium latifolium, failed to establish on the grass treatment; establishment of other nonlegume forbs and some shrubs, including Artemisia tilesii and Salix glauca, was delayed; and growth of the dominant shrub Salix alaxensis was inhibited. In contrast, legumes such as Astragalus alpinus established and grew equally well on both treatments. Grass treatment effects were attributed to the very dense shallow root system of the planted grass and to higher moss cover, which probably reduced soil moisture in the upper portion of the soil profile, decreased the number of "safe sites" for seedling establishment, and competed for limited nutrients.
1550152|This paper discusses the general characteristics and problems of the upper forest limit in the High Tatras, in the Western Carpathians between Poland and Czechoslovakia. The position of the forests have been mapped from air photographs and an analysis of ecological factors and the influence of Man are used to determine the actual and climax forest limit. Picea excelsa (Lam.) Link is mostly the forest limit species (90%), but in places this is mixed with Pinus cembra L. and on south-facing slopes also with Larix decidua Mill. Above the forest limit there are shrubs of Pinus mugo. The degree of continentality and massiveness of the mountains is also reflected in the nature of the upper forest limit. Variations in the limit are influenced by climatic, topographic, and edaphic factors--temperature, wind, exposure, rockiness, avalanches, etc. Man, by clearing the forest for pasture, especially on limestones, has lowered the limit 200 to 300 m. The average limit of the forest lies at 1,412 m although the climax limit in favorable places is at 1,730 to 1,740 m. In order to reforest to the climax limit a detailed knowledge of problems of the timberline have a practical value.
10.2307/1550810|Some 70 pingos occur at 27 separate localities within and near the Brooks Range. The pingos are distributed through mountain valleys at altitudes up to 725 m and in terrain glaciated as recently as late Wisconsinan time. Most are open-system forms; possible closed-system pingos are present at only a single locality in a northern valley. Some pingos occur on thick alluvial or lacustrine sediments, but many seem to be localized above near-surface bedrock and possibly are related to northeast-trending fracture systems. Pingos are particularly abundant in the Koyukuk and Chandalar drainage systems of the south-central Brooks Range, where they may be associated with structural features of regional extent.
10.2307/1550225| Oxygen consumption and CO
10.2307/1551321| An analysis of the chemistry of 12 remote lakes of the Naknek and Alagnak drainages demonstrated significant differences in surface water alkalinity, due in part to high concentrations of naturally-occurring sulfate in the Alagnak drainage. The average surface water alkalinity for lakes in the Alagnak drainage. (109 eq L
10.2307/1551538|Inuit in Canada kill several hundred narwhals, Monodon monoceros, in most years. Narwhals supplied various staples in the traditional subsistence economy. Today the main products are muktaaq and ivory. The large tusks of adult males are sold in a specialty souvenir market both inside Canada and in the global marketplace. The price of narwhal ivory has increased substantially over the past 25 yr, with steep increases in 1967, 1972, and the late 1970s to early 1980s. It crashed in 1983/84 due to a ban on importation by the European Economic Community (EEC), but it has recovered since then. Canadian narwhal ivory traditionally was exported to the United Kingdom, then often re-exported. The EEC ban closed the direct link with the United Kingdom. Consequently, new markets developed in Japan and Switzerland. Narwhal hunting remains an important source of food and cash income for residents of some coastal communities in the eastern Canadian Arctic and Greenland. The international ivory trade provides an incentive to procure large tusks, and this may strongly influence the nature and intensity of the hunt. Market intervention and price instability have had serious economic ramifications for Inuit communities in the past, and they are likely to affect the costs and rewards of narwhal hunting in the future as well.
10.2307/1551561| Modern interest in water flow through glaciers can be dated from a pair of theoretical papers published in 1972. In one of these, Shreve (1972) discussed the influence of ice pressure on the direction of water flow through and under glaciers, and in the other Rthlisberger (1972) presented a theoretical model for calculating water pressures in subglacial conduits. Through a combination of these theoretical considerations and field observations, it is concluded that the englacial drainage system probably consists of an arborescent network of passages. The millimeter-sized finger-tip tributaries of this network join downward into ever larger conduits. Locally moulins provide large direct connections between the glacier surface and the bed. Beneath a valley glacier the subglacial drainage is likely to be in a tortuous system of linked cavities transected by a few relatively large and comparatively straight conduits. The average flow direction in the combined system is controlled by a combination of ice-overburden pressure and bed topography, and in general is not normal to contours of equal elevation on the bed. Although theoretical studies usually assume that subglacial conduits are semicircular in cross section, there are reasons for believing that this ideal is rarely realized in nature. Broad low conduits may be the rule. When a glacier is moving over a bed of unconsolidated sediment, some water may drain through the sediment. In addition, when high water pressures weaken the sediment, it may be squeezed into subglacial channels, blocking them. 
10.2307/1551194|Twenty-one tree-ring stations, totaling 116 trees, were sampled at various localities within the forest trimlines fronting the Agassiz and Jackson glaciers, Glacier National Park, Montana. Tree ages within these zones became progressively younger from the region of the maximum late-Neoglacial position to the bases of the bedrock slopes on which these glaciers are now confined. The age of the oldest tree plus 15 yr was used to estimate the date of glacier withdrawal from a given station. It was found that both the Agassiz and Jackson glaciers began to retreat from their maximum late-Neoglacial positions about 1860. Hence, Matthes's (1940) estimate of glacial advances culminating about 1850 to 1855 for many glaciers in the western United States seems reasonable for the Glacier National Park region. Retreat rates, derived from the tree-ring data, appear to have been modest (<7 m yr
10.2307/1551694|Management policy of the U.S. National Park Service regarding mountain goats (Oreamnos americanus) in Olympic National Park, Washington, is founded in part on the argument that alpine environments there evolved through the late Quaternary without mountain goats. Descendants of mountain goats artificially introduced to park lands in the 1920s are being experimentally sterilized and translocated to control population size. The potential that Oreamnos sp. colonized and inhabited the Olympic Mountains during the late Quaternary is, however, great. Prehistoric and historic extralimital records of mountain goats in Oregon and northern California, the Wisconsin glacial and floral histories, and the modern distributions of other alpine and subalpine mammalian taxa suggest the Puget lowland served as a biogeographic filter rather than a barrier for mammalian taxa during periods of maximum glacial extent. Extirpation of isolated mountain goat populations on mountains of Oregon, California, and Washington apparently took place throughout the Holocene. Future documentation of the prehistoric occurrence of Oreamnos sp. in the Olympic Mountains should prompt rethinking of National Park Service wildlife management policy.
10.2307/1550535|Synoptic-scale surface geostrophic wind speeds near Barrow, Alaska, are, on average, about 40% higher in January than in July. By contrast, observed surface wind speeds are roughly the same at Barrow in the two months, and exceed the mean geostrophic speeds in July. It is concluded that an added pressure gradient component exists which is not recorded by the synoptic observation network. It is suggested that the land-sea temperature difference in July is responsible for this extra gradient. These winds may have a relatively large alongshore component compared with typical mid-latitude sea breezes because of continuous solar irradiance in the Arctic, large horizontal extent of the coastline, and relatively large Coriolis acceleration at high latitudes.
10.2307/1550128|In White River Valley and Skolai Pass in the Wrangell and St. Elias mountains of southern Alaska, several well-dated drift surfaces and abandoned alluvial channels covered with numerous lichens served as control points of a growth curve for Rhizocarpon geographicum. This curve shows initial rapid increase in thallus diameter, followed after a few centuries by a long interval of nearly linear increase of about 3.4 mm per century. The largest living Rhizocarpon geographicum thallus in the region is 155 mm in diameter and presumably is about 3,700 years old. Unfortunately, use of the lichen-growth curve for absolute dating and for correlation of moraines among the nine glaciers studied was restricted by the unsuitable character of many older moraine surfaces for lichen measurements, due to melting of internal ice cores or to encroachment of vegetation over rock surfaces on moraines. With some exceptions, only young moraine surfaces proved reliable for lichenometric dating. Therefore, in this region lichenometry served as a valuable reconnaissance tool, but in most cases could not be used for detailed dating. Lichenometry proved more useful in the Kebnekaise and Sarek mountains of Swedish Lapland. Measurement of maximum thallus diameters of Rhizocarpon geographicum and Rhizocarpon alpicola on mapped Holocene drift units fronting 40 glaciers afforded consistent results that permitted regional correlation and placement of Holocene moraines into four groups, each representing a broad interval of glacier expansion. Lichen measurements on numerous surfaces of known historical age dispersed through the mountains, first, suggested that growth rates were uniform throughout the area and, second, provided control points for a detailed growth curve through the last several centuries. An attempted extension of this growth curve through the last several thousand years proved to be tentative, for it was based only on three
10.2307/1550213| Maps of the glaciation limit and lowest equilibrium line altitude (ELA) are presented for southern and northern Baffin Island. The glaciation limit was determined by the "summit method"; the ELAs were determined by assuming a steady state accumulation area ratio of 0.65. Data was derived from the 1:250,000 map series based on between six and eight points per map. The isoglacihypses are roughly parallel to the east coast of the island and rise inland at approximately 4 m km
10.2307/1551032|A literature search and an inspection of the Laboratory of Tree-Ring Research, University of Arizona, files reveal that over 100 tree-ring chronologies exist for the arctic region of North America. The indices for five unpublished chronologies are presented, and the various characteristics of 94 selected dendroclimatic chronologies are summarized. The autocorrelations, standard deviations, and mean sensitivities of the arctic chronologies are comparable to those for chronologies from eastern North America. However, the average autocorrelation is higher, and the average standard deviation and mean sensitivity are lower than those for chronologies from western North America. Because of limited replication and chronology length, many of the arctic chronologies are of limited value for climatic analysis compared to those from lower latitudes. Nevertheless, some climatic analysis is possible from these data, and with additional collections, more replication, and the use of modern techniques, the North American Arctic offers considerable dendroclimatic potential.
10.2307/1551111| Gynaephora rossii and G. groenlandica are the woolly-bear caterpillars of the High Arctic. Gynaephora rossii was studied at Hazen Camp, northern Ellesmere Island, Canada, and Atkasook, Alaska, where they were found to behaviourally thermoregulate by orienting themsleves to the sun and sheltering from wind during the sunniest part of the year. There is no evidence for physiologically mediated thermogenesis. These long-lived caterpillars attained large body temperature excesses above ambient air temperatures (often about 13C) for a 30% heat gain in terms of growing day degrees above 0C. Temperature excesses are related to size of caterpillars, ambient air temperatures, and time of day. The importance of the pubescence is demonstrated by results of experiments on shaved and normal caterpillars and cast larval skins. Cocoons act as microgreenhouses to attain elevated temperatures for the pupae within. The cocoons were found to be oriented precisely northwest-southeast which would maximize heat gain from the sun and minimize heat loss from the prevailing northeast winds at Atkasook. The importance of these temperature excesses to the lives of these caterpillars suggests that their larval life spans vary according to the insolation and length of active season in their places of residence and that they may be geographically limited in their distribution by sunshine. 
10.2307/1551157| In late May or June, meltwater percolating through cold arctic snowpacks often refreezes as ice layers. In the presence of a cold substrate, such layers form at the base of the snowpack. This basal ice continues to grow so long as meltwater supply is sustained and the substrate remains below 0C. Upon exposure, the ice is destroyed by sublimation and surface melting or by thermal and mechanical erosion by water which runs on, in or under the ice. Multiyear ice is preserved when the incompletely melted basal ice is buried by subsequent snowfall or by a layer of earth materials. Multiple freezing and melting of water in basal ice layers complicate the snowmelt-runoff relationship in three principal ways. Where basal ice is abundant, the melt is prolonged and contributes to streamflow during the drier summer months. During breakup, the basal ice in stream beds tends to increase flow velocity and, consequently, the capacity for sediment transport. However, a basal ice layer in the channel will reduce opportunities for erosion. 
10.2307/1550758|Huge moraine masses and changes in area and volume of ice that have occurred since A.D. 1600 seem to indicate significant climatic fluctuations. On the other hand, the upper timberline, an ecologically sensitive element, appears to show no significant change in altitude over the same period. The extent and mechanisms of long- and short-term climatic fluctuations are assessed and their influence on the geoecological elements of an alpine area are evaluated. Climatic deteriorations during the last three and one-half centuries, including the Little Ice Age, are discussed in relation to glacier advances, historical weather observations, and instrumental measurements from 1755 to 1965. Instrumental records of summer temperature show no trend from the Little Ice Age to the present while spring and autumn have positive trends during the period of major glacier recession since 1860. The long-term climatic fluctuations, shown by the long lasting larger extension of the glaciers during the Little Ice Age, seems to coincide with a somewhat higher snowfall frequency during the summer months and a lower level in seasonal mean temperature (spring, autumn, and winter) during the period of observation. The short-term climatic fluctuations, superimposed upon the long-term effect, show an uninterrupted succession of unfavorable years with cold, wet summers of generally less than a decade. Within this period their effect on the individual elements of the mountain ecosystem were very different: (1) The glaciers reacted in regard to their size and drainage area with strong advances and significant moraine accumulations, and the equilibrium line fell approximately 200 m. (2) The upper timberline was damaged and its regenerating ability reduced, but it appears to have outlasted the critical years without essential altitude changes. (3) Above the timberline on the alpine pasture a few years with catastrophic climatic conditions were sufficient to bring about superficial destruction and soil erosion processes. (4) In alpine agriculture 1 yr with catastrophic weather damaged production heavily; a repetition of such years could lead to famine. It is proposed that the climatic fluctuations of the last 3 centuries were similar for certain periods of the last 10,000 yr, during which time geomorphic and palynological evidence indicate that glacier fluctuations were comparable. This also throws emphasis on the conditions of the present century, which have so far been extremely favorable to human use of the Alps. It can be inferred that a reversal could occur within a very short period.
10.2307/1551877|Because of its ability to layer and to produce different phenotypes, black spruce (Picea mariana [Mill.] BSP.) develops a complex clonal structure ensuring its survival and longevity. Here we report tree stem development and demise of a black spruce clone at treeline over the last 500 yr. Since the 16th century, the apical meristems of the clonal spruce experienced three periods of stem development associated with brief warmings and two periods of stem decline corresponding to known cold spells of the Little Ice Age. Ortet development was particularly vigorous in the 16th century, while the two layered stems slowly developed in the late 17th century and in the 20th century, respectively. Stem decline appeared as a progressive process lasting for several decades in the form of a basipetal death-gradient along the bole amplified by the above/below snowpack position. Stem elongation was possibly facilitated by lesser winter-snow abrasion and/or thicker snowpack. Clonal stem development may have important implications for spruce spread in the arctic tundra in a warmer world.
10.2307/1551212|Accumulations of fine particles have been observed in coarse-grained, well-drained soils in Arctic areas, and have also been reported in alpine and temperate areas. Both silt caps on cobbles and silt-enriched horizons have been explained as the result of frost sorting. Detailed particle-size analysis of soils from the eastern Canadian Arctic reveals trends which are inconsistent with the frost-sorting hypothesis. In the soil matrix, all particles finer than fine sand show surpluses at some depth. The depth of maximum surplus increases from 15 cm for very fine sand to 55 cm or more for fine clay. The excess clay is offset by deficits higher in the profile, implying redistribution of primary clay. Increases over parent material silt content occur throughout the profiles, implying addition of silt-sized particles to the soil. This surplus of silt is consistent with the addition and infiltration of loess. Both the depths of maximum fine particle accumulation and the amount of accumulated material increase with age, but appear to reach finite limits. Analysis of silt caps reveals surpluses in all size fractions finer than fine sand at all depths. Excess silt is greatest in silt caps in the upper 20 cm, clay increases are greatest between 40 and 60 cm, and silt caps trend toward parent material composition at depths greater than 60 cm. The distribution of sand within the silt caps also differs from parent material. The mechanism suggested for particle translocation is illuviation by rain. The interstitial pores in the coarse, noncemented matrix are sufficiently large to allow movement of the observed particle sizes, and rainfalls sufficient to saturate the soil to the depth of coarse silt accumulation have been observed in a 15-yr record. The apparent redistribution of material downward from the surface is the most compelling evidence in favor of illuviation.
10.2307/1551943|The extent of occurrence of mycorrhiza in genus Salix and relationships among root symbionts of nine Salix species from middle boreal forest to alpine zones in Norway were examined. A common nonmycorrhizal endophyte documented was Rhizoctonia sp. All plant species were found associated with calcareous soils and shallow fens and were colonized by ectomycorrhizal (ECM) or arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi and Rhizoctonia sp. Rhizoctonia sp. did not show any discernible pattterns in relation to colonization of roots by mycorrhizal fungi. Three obvious types of AM and ECM fungal distributions within/on the roots were recognized, occurring either singly or dually. In dual mycorrhizal conditions, Hebaloma sp., an ECM fungus, was consistently found associated with AM fungal colonization: this combination occured in only two Salix species. The occurrence of ECM fungal colonization of Salix spp. roots was negatively associated with the occurrence of AM fungi and Rhizoctonia sp. colonization. In contrast, AM fungal colonization was positively associated with that of Rhizoctonia sp. Although not conclusive, the data support earlier observations that AM fungi are likely replaced by ECM fungi.
10.2307/1551315|Prehistoric human occupation of the Front Range summit region was influenced by a unique combination of environmental factors: (1) a location at the headwaters of four major river systems in the semiarid interior of the continent, (2) abundant late-lying and perennial snowbanks that made the region virtually immune to drought, (3) a severe periglacial climate that restricted human habitation to warm seasons and to intervals without excessive snow, (4) convenient access to mild wintering environments and low-altitude resources, (5) a lack of good-quality toolstone at high elevations, (6) a scarcity of edible plants that could be harvested in large quantities, and (7) extensive tundra uplands that attracted bighorn, elk, and other large ungulates in summer. More than 50 stone game-drive systems, ranging in age from Paleoindian to Late Prehistoric, have been recorded above timberline. Butchering sites, hunting camps, and vision-quest localities also are present, but long-term base camps and specialized plant-food-processing stations have not been identified above 3000 m. Two seasonal transhumance systems are thought to have operated, both based out of winter camps in the eastern foothills of the Front Range. One involved simple up-and-down seasonal migration, with lengthy stays at high altitude, and the other a 300- to 400-km counterclockwise "grand circuit" that brought people to the crest of the Front Range from the west for brief periods in late summer and autumn. Restriction of major game-drive systems to a 70-km sector of the Continental Divide directly east of Middle Park reflects seasonal changes in band size and location; only during this portion of the annual cycle were people assembled in groups that were large enough to conduct full-scale communal hunts.
10.2307/1550286| Samples of arctic tundra vegetation were collected in 1967 near Anaktuvuk Pass, Alaska, for cesium-137 analysis. Ten-gram dry weight samples were counted over a 10.2-cm diameter NaI (Tl) crystal. Results are expressed in picocuries (Ci  10
10.2307/1552104|For more than three decades Kaye Everett conducted research on pedology, hydrology, geology, and ecology in virtually all major polar regions of the globe. A summary of the historical developments in polar pedology and Everett's major pedological accomplishments collectively serve as an appropriate tribute to this outstanding polar scientist. Building on early work by Russian pedologists, investigation of polar soils began in earnest following World War II. Differing national and individual soil classifications emerged and efforts to unify them continue to the present. Everett's early studies in both hemispheres reinforced the concepts that pedogenic gradients existed. He demonstrated a climatic gradient of soil processes and distribution in the Arctic with calcification diminishing and alkali processes increasing in a northward direction. Starting in the early 1970s Everett applied his interests in soil morphology, genesis, mapping, and classification to geobotanical landscape approaches in arctic Alaska. Working closely with other ecologists, these approaches resulted in a series of geobotanical and terrain sensitivity studies and publications related to both ecosystem function and response of tundra to impacts of resource development. More recent investigations focused on the transport of air- and waterborne nutrients in arctic watersheds. Specific results of Everett's own research and his collaboration with American and Russian colleagues are discussed.
10.2307/1550044|Interactions on metabolism between ecotype and temperature acclimation were studied in a series of arctic and alpine populations of Oxyria digyna (L.) Hill, a widespread tundra plant species. Net photosynthesis, dark respiration, Hill reaction of isolated chloroplasts, and mitochondrial oxidative activity were measured. The principal question was "What is the relative effect of phenotypic temperature acclimation on metabolic rates as compared to the effect conferred by the ecotype?" Dark respiration rates were increased by cold acclimation in all ecotypes. Maximum net photosynthesis rates were lowered in all arctic populations but in only a few alpine populations after warm acclimation. The temperature of maximum net photosynthesis was increased by warm acclimation. Maximum net photosynthesis rates were higher in arctic populations than in alpine ones; this difference was increased by cold acclimation. The upper temperature compensation point in both arctic and alpine ecotypes was increased by warm acclimation. Alpine populations showed ideal homeostasis in net photosynthesis while arctic ecotypes showed only a low degree of partial homeostatic adjustment in net photosynthesis. Dark respiration homeostasis was almost ideal in all populations and showed no ecotypic difference. Efficiency of chlorophyll was higher in alpine ecotypes and at high temperature in all ecotypes, particularly after warm acclimation. Cold acclimation increased Hill reaction activity by isolated chloroplasts from alpine populations after growth at 14-hr photoperiod, but depressed the rate in arctic populations at 14 hr. At 20-hr photoperiod, the Hill rate was higher after cold acclimation in all populations tested. Mitochondrial oxidative activity was increased by cold acclimation; the rates from arctic populations were higher after cold treatment than those from alpine populations. We conclude that, in Oxyria, acclimation is under genetic control and that "acclimation ecotypes" exist; the most plastic phenotypes in regard to acclimation occur in the alpine ecotypes.
10.2307/1551361|Field studies of turbulent transfer over snowfields and tundra vegetation surfaces on Niwot Ridge indicate that eddy diffusivities range through almost three orders of magnitude during the snowmelt-growing season (
10.2307/1550098|The Akudnirmuit Glacier, a small localized ice body during late-Wisconsin and Neoglacial times, deposited five morainal systems in the hanging cross valley between the heads of Narpaing and Quajon fiords. The inner four of these moraines are ice-cored and the glacier's terminus is covered by ablation till. The outermost morainal system, pre-Altithermal in age, has no ice core, indicating that conditions during the Altithermal were such that the former ice core did not survive this period. Currently, the ice cores are down-wasting. This is attested to by the presence of kettle lakes, the amount of stream dissection, the numerous slides occurring at the debris/ice interface, collapse features, and thermistor data. Many lichen-covered boulders at the bases of the moraines indicate that the ice-cored deposits were stable until quite recently. Thermistor data indicate that even with a thin debris cover much less heat is conducted into the ice of the moraines than into a debris-free site on a nearby glacier.
10.2307/1550317|Glacial deposits of late Neoglacial age in the Teton Range are dated by use of relative agedating criteria. Soils of post-Audubon (1,850 to 950 BP) and post-Gannett Peak (300 to 100 BP) age are recognized on moraine surfaces. Morphological, physical, and chemical characteristics of the post-Audubon soils are discussed and correlated with soils of the Colorado Front Range. Recent geomorphological and pedological investigations suggest that glacier fluctuations in the Teton Range during the late Neoglacial may be broadly synchronous with those defined elsewhere in the Rocky Mountains.
10.2307/1551626|Vegetation development was examined on in-transit morainic arcs (i.e., supraglacial debris) and on recessional and lateral moraines at Casa Pangue Glacier in Chile. Data were collected on floristic composition, densities of shrubs and trees, and tree population age structures at sites on glacial deposits covering a range of ages. On arcs of in-transit moraine, formed by the deposition of landslide debris onto the glacier surface, forest stands dominated by Nothofagus dombeyi develop. These stands travel down the glacier surface at an average annual rate of 22.5 m. Such transport of live trees down a glacier could invalidate dating glacial movement on the basis of wood found at the snout of a glacier. Despite considerable instability of the supraglacial debris, these stands are characterized by trees of up to 40 cm in diameter and ca. 70 yr in age. Three tree species and six shrub species are common in these stands which also contain numerous other vascular plants including ferns and lianas. Comparison of communities on sites of differing ages suggests that Nothofagus dombeyi stand development is similar to that on other types of primary surfaces such as sites exposed by mass movements and flood deposition.
10.2307/1551247| The spatial patterns of Andean stem-rosettes and needle-ice activity were studied in the Pramo de Piedras Blancas, Venezuela, at 4300 m altitude. Downslope movement of painted soil particles was significantly higher in the lower-slope positions and in northwest aspects; wooden pegs were also heaved more in northwest slopes. Needle ice formed more often and densely in such locations. The variability of soil properties might have affected needle-ice growth: soils with a northwest aspect were deeper, had a more fully developed profile, higher organic matter and fine particle content, and a larger water content at field capacity than soils with a southeast aspect. Two stem-rosette species dominated the study plots; Coespeletia lutescens was found in southeast and northwest aspects, while Espeletia semiglobulata was restricted to the latter, where it grew preferentially in the footslopes. Espeletia semiglobulata, unlike the first species, has a prostrate growth habit and facultative vegetative reproduction, which enable it to colonize areas heavily affected by needle ice. Seedlings of C. lutescens and other stem-rosette species became established near rocks, cushions, and other ground features providing protection from needle-ice heave. Stone edafids were the most important refugia against ground disturbance, and stem-rosette roots, both of seedlings and mature plants, were frequently associated with them. The size-class distributions of all stem-rosette populations showed a reduced frequency in the lower classes, which may indicate either episodic reproduction or recently intensified browsing pressure by cattle. 
10.2307/1551693|Insect dispersal on the large oceanic island of Tenerife was studied by sampling the "biological fallout" of insects (and other arthropods) on mountain snowfields and also collecting them from the sea surface in a neuston net and over a leeward coast in a kite net. Live arthropods were found on snow at densities up to almost 18 m
10.2307/1552047| Very little is known about the distribution and abundance of mycorrhizae in the high Tropical mountains. The objective of the present study was to determine whether soil drainage and soil depth in a toposequence in a Venezuelan pramo affect the extent of mycorrhizal colonization, percentage root hairs, and below-ground biomass of unknown species randomly sampled from the study sites. Well-drained soils in the shrub-rosette site (SR) during the dry season were less fertile and mycorrhizal colonization was the highest (69.4  2.5%) compared to the more poorly drained pasture soils, located in topographically low situations, which were more fertile but with a lower mycorrhizal colonization and more root hairs. A low diffusion of oxygen in the poorly drained soils of the humid pasture (HP), which remained wet throughout the year, may explain the abrupt decline in mycorrhizal colonization. Vertical distribution of belowground biomass and mycorrhizal colonization suggest that nutrients are mainly distributed in the surface soil layer. 
10.2307/1551937|Frost heave, creep, and ground temperatures were continuously monitored during the winter of 1990/91 in an alpine, seasonal frost environment of the Akaishi Range, Japan. The ground at the two measurement sites consists of a debris layer ca. 60 cm thick overlying shale bedrock. The upper 20 to 40 cm of the debris layer is fine-textured and frost susceptible. Surface heave and slope deformation were monitored with strain-gauge type sensors which, together with temperature sensors, were installed at different depths and were connected to data loggers that stored the readings at 1- or 3-h intervals. Though seasonal freezing penetrated deeper than 1 m during the winter, it caused only small heave (2 cm) at both sites. Thin debris layers would have allowed the frost table to penetrate to the bedrock before a large heave was generated. Short-term frost heave cycles took place frequently in autumn and spring (30 to 40 events per year), resulting in surface heave of up to 3 cm when the frost table penetrated deeper than 5 cm. Most of the short-term cycles accompanied downslope displacement of soils shallower than 6 cm, whereas occasional deep frost (>10 cm) caused deeper movements. These results indicate that short-term frost heave cycles lead to large frost creep on alpine fine debris slopes in Japan, despite their activity being confined to the upper 15 cm of soil.
10.2307/1550250|A seasonal study of nitrogen fixation was carried out on the arctic tundra in the vicinity of Barrow, Alaska. Nitrogen fixation rates were measured on tundra cores at selected sites at 10-day intervals throughout the summer. The acetylene reduction technique was the principal tool. Significant nitrogen fixation was found throughout the mid-summer months. Indirect evidence suggests that blue green algae of the genus Nostoc were the principal agents along with lichens of the genus Peltigera since isolated specimens of these reduced acetylene with high efficiency. A survey of nitrogen fixation was also carried out on subarctic alpine tundra in the Alaska Range and at Eagle Summit. Here, legumes and other high plants played a relatively more important role, although blue green algae in the moss layer and lichens once again contributed significantly. From the results, we have concluded that nitrogen fixation is a significant source of nitrogen for tundra.
10.2307/1550919|A 2.3-m thick lenticular exposure of autochthonous peat provides a palynological and plant macrofossil record of vegetation development in the central Selwyn Mountains. This record spans at least the last 8640 yr. Interpretation of the fossil pollen profile is aided through numerical comparison with 15 pollen surface samples from the area. From 8640 to 7700 BP the region was dominated by a Betula tundra. This tundra became increasingly productive during the later stages of this episode. At approximately 7700 BP Picea expanded into the area. This relatively late rise of Picea was possibly a result of restricted migration up the mountain valleys. It appears that Picea was at its greatest dominance in the landscape from 7700 to shortly after 5000 BP and treeline was probably higher than present during this period.
10.2307/1551442|Steep, south-facing bluffs in interior Alaska support both deciduous forest and steppe vegetation. Most species show a range in community fidelity; however, others are restricted in their distribution. A steppe endemic (Potentilla hookeriana) and a forest species (Pyrola secunda) were grown in a greenhouse factorial experiment to test the hypothesis that light and soil moisture are important controls over plant performance and distribution on south-facing bluffs. Survival of both species showed strong and opposite light effects. Under low light, Potentilla survival was 48% less than under high light levels. Pyrola survival was reduced 44% in high light. Pyrola survivors showed few significant growth responses to either factor. These results suggest that the distribution and abundance of these species may be primarily a result of the effects of light on survival. The steppe species showed a greater range in growth response than the forest species, which is consistent with the fact that Potentilla occupies a broader segment of the forest-steppe gradient than Pyrola.
10.2307/1551843| A community of snow algae on a Himalayan glacier, the Yala Glacier (5100-5700 m a.s.l.), Langtang region of Nepal Himalaya, were quantitatively analyzed. This is the first report on snow algae from the Himalayan region. In this glacier, 11 species of snow algae were observed: Chloromonas sp., Trochiscia sp., Mesotaenium berggrenii, Cylindrocystis brbissonii, Koliella sp., Ancylonema noldenskioeldii, Raphidonema sp., three Oscillatoriacean algae, and one unknown coccoid alga. The algal biomass estimated by the total cell volume rapidly decreased as the altitude increased. In particular, the rate of decrease of algal biomass was larger in the upper snow environment than in the lower ice environment. The structure of algal community represented by the proportion of each species to the total algal biomass also differed by altitude. From the difference of the algal community, we divided the glacier into three zones: the Lower Zone (5100-5200 m a.s.l.; stable ice-environment), with 7 species dominated by Cylindrocystis brbissonii; the Middle Zone (5200-5300 m a.s.l.; unstable transition area between ice-environment and snow-environment), with 11 species dominated by Mesotaenium berggrenii; and the Upper Zone (5300-5430 m a.s.l.; stable snow-environment), with 4 species dominated by Trochiscia sp. This vertical zonation of the algal community type and biomass may reflect the difference in summer climatic conditions with altitude. Species number and Simpson's diversity index was highest in the Middle Zone where environmental conditions frequently changed. Our results seems to agree with the intermediate disturbance hypothesis. Since the snow algae in the accumulation area (>5250 m a.s.l.) of the glacier is annually stored in glacial strata, the algal biomass and community structure recorded in glacier ice-cores can be a new information source for the studies on past climate change in this region. 
10.2307/1550999|Studies on recruitment of white spruce from 1785 to present document the open forest succession at Churchill, Manitoba. Advance of trees onto land emerging from Hudson Bay due to isostatic uplift and permafrost intrusion has resulted in the development of two distinct systems. Open forest and forest-tundra are distinguished by seedling establishment, crown forms, and the growth patterns of the trees. Forest-tundra plots which demonstrate transition to open forest are documented. Where the two systems were established prior to the major climatic warming, they are resistant to invasion and there is little resultant change in the position of the treeline. Once started, population growth within the open forest system tends to be self generating and is little affected by subsequent climatic cooling. The mature open forest established prior to 1800 has shown a decline in seedling establishment during the climatic warming. These sites are characterized by extensive lichen cover.
10.2307/1551384| Pergelic soils have a mean annual soil temperature (50-cm depth) lower than 0C and may have permafrost. Although the distribution of these soils in the western contiguous United States is poorly understood, pergelic soils are common in alpine areas of the Rocky Mountains. In alpine areas, permafrost may be a poor diagnostic feature of pergelic soils because it commonly exists below 50 cm, is difficult to detect in hand-excavated pits, and may be relict. The use of ground-ice features to identify pergelic soils is problematic because they may reflect seasonal frost effects or be relict. Soil temperature data are needed to definitively classify pergelic soils. In the United States Soil Taxonomy, pergelic soils are identified at the subgroup level within cryic great groups (e.g., Pergelic Cryorthents). To avoid this mixing of soil temperature classes, pergelic soils should be identified at the great group level (e.g., Geliorthents). Soils containing "dry" permafrost and ice-cemented permafrost could be separated as subgroups. 
10.2307/1551004|Diatoms in the surface sediments of Kane Basin are abundant in the northern and southeastern regions and rare or absent in the western basin. The low diatom numbers in sediment from the western basin is probably due to heavy ice cover in this region during the summer months and the presence on the sea floor of an exposed diamicton, possibly till, while high diatom numbers in the northern and southeastern parts of the basin may be attributed to sediment ponding in the deeper basins, high surface water productivity, and the possible absence of ice.
10.2307/1551603|The population of Sibbaldia tetrandra, a cushion plant, on the scree slope at 3800 m a.s.l. in the Pamiro-Alai Mountains consists of isolated individuals with positively skewed size distribution. Direct competition among isolated individuals is improbable. The differences in cushion size are due mainly to the age of individuals and the local site quality. Linear relationship between the growth in height of a cushion and its lateral growth was found. Frost injuries are more extensive in the small cushions, but the proportion of afflicted plants is greater in the large ones. Slightly contagious spatial pattern resulting from the environmental heterogeneity was detected. Seventeen species were observed to invade the cushions. Total biomass of intruding species is highly correlated with the cushion volume as well as with biomass. Species diversity increases with cushion area. A log-linear relationship between the number of invading species and cushion area was found. Both the number and cover of the species occurring outside of the Sibbaldia tetrandra cushions are negatively correlated with the cover of Sibbaldia tetrandra. The spatial pattern of Sibbaldia populations differs considerably between the study plot on a flat site and that on the scree slope. On the flat site, Sibbaldia forms a carpet consisting of individuals which cannot be clearly distinguished from each other. There also, the number and cover of the other species increases, and the most successful species are those which are capable of colonizing Sibbaldia cushions.
10.2307/1551364|The freezing and thawing of a subarctic fen in northern Quebec was investigated during the low snow winter and dry spring of 1984-85. Freezing commenced on 28 October 1984 and reached a depth of 90.0 cm. The seasonally frozen peat (pore and segregated ice) growth rates varied from 0.3 to 76.6 mm d
10.2307/1550831|A baseline study of rock glaciers located in the ice-free valleys of southern Victoria Land, Antarctica, was performed in order to determine their usefulness as proxy tools in studies of climatic change. The distribution of the 32 rock glaciers identified in this analysis is principally attributed to site-specific controls including proximity to localized moisture sources and low ambient site temperature controlled by elevation, orientation, and topographic shading. The relative activity of rock glaciers and their vertical velocity profiles are inferred from termini morphology. Thirty-eight percent of the rock glaciers are stagnant, 41% show velocity decreasing rapidly with depth, and velocity decreases gradually with depth in the remaining 21%. A structural-compositional model for 11 rock glaciers, constructed from geophysical data, consists of an ice-free layer from 0.3 to 3 m thick that is underlain by either interstitially frozen debris or ice. Horizontal velocities of 1 to 3 cm yr
10.2307/1552133| Granodiorite boulders on a moraine around the Batura Glacier in the Karakoram Mountains have exfoliation sheets and rock varnish on the south surface, and lichens and salt efflorescence on the north surface. To elucidate the formative conditions of these surface features, temperatures of a boulder at two points, one each on the north and south surfaces, were measured simultaneously with air temperature at 1-h intervals for 1 yr from July 1994 to July 1995. The annual temperature range of the south surface was 5C higher than that of the north surface. The south surface had diurnal temperature ranges of 30C with no seasonal change, while the north surface had diurnal ranges of 20C in summer and 5C in winter. Maximum heating and cooling rates of the south surface were high, being +12.6 and -14.5C h
10.2307/1550902|It has been hypothesized that the upper-limit of tree growth in the Colorado Front Range is being lowered by climatic cooling and that the present timberline is a remnant of past development and is maintained by microclimatic conditions induced by the forest stand. Quantitative data collected at a timberline site severely disturbed by fire indicates that tree regeneration is occurring. Tree establishment began shortly after disturbance in 1905 and is presently continuing. Increasing rates of seedling establishment and survival suggest that a forest stand is redeveloping at the same altitude and area where timberline previously existed.
10.2307/1551893|We measured tree seedling and krummholz leader growth in various environments within the alpine forest-tundra ecotone of Rocky Mountain National Park to assess the potential pattern of response to climate change. Tree seedling and krummholz growth vary by species and site, helping to create a spatially heterogeneous forest-tundra ecotone. Krummholz patches are growing more rapidly than seedlings and show especially rapid growth in wet meadow environments. Generally, patterns of seedling and krummholz leader growth reflect patterns of soil moisture and light availability, as well as edaphic factors such as soil texture and pH. Krummholz height growth does not appear to be balanced by shoot mortality, suggesting that under current conditions, krummholz patches may grow taller. Should an increase in krummholz patch height be sufficient to result in a change of growth form, the krummholz zone may change to patch forest in favorable locations.
10.2307/1550513| The climate, microclimate, and energy balance of a Lichen-Moss-Rush plant community in the vicinity of Cape Abernathy, King Christian Island (7745N, 10110W) are described. This community predominates in the polar semidesert areas of the north-central Queen Elizabeth Islands. The maritime summer climate is characterized by low temperature (2.5C), low precipitation (43 mm), moderate average wind speed (5.9 m s
10.2307/1551749| Eighteen percussion piston cores were recovered from Wonder Lake and three nearby kettle ponds in Denali National Park and Preserve, Alaska. Three prominent tephra deposits, two felsic and one mafic, have been recognized in the upper 1 to 3 m of the cores. Because of the relatively low magnetic susceptibility (MS) of the lacustrine sediment, tephras appear as prominent MS peaks allowing confident correlation of core stratigraphies. These MS-based correlations are supported by microprobe geochemical analyses of 11 tephra samples from six of the cores. Five accelerator mass spectrometer (AMS) radiocarbon ages, determined from terrestrial plant remains, closely constrain the timing of these ashfall events. Microprobe results indicate that the youngest tephra is correlative with the Jarvis Ash, which has an accepted age of 3660  125
10.2307/1550740| Soils can aid in subdivision and correlation of Quaternary deposits in eastern Baffin Island. The most useful data consist of horizon thicknesses and the intensity of oxidation in horizons beneath the A horizon. For Polar Desert soils formed from tills under a sparse lichen cover, the following trends are noted: soils ca. 200 yr old exhibit very subtle Cox horizons no more than 5 cm thick; those ca. 700 yr old have subtle Cox colors, with a maximum thickness of 30 cm; soils considered to have formed since late Wisconsin (ca. 10,000 yr) have weak cambic B horizons that are less than 9 cm thick; and well-expressed cambic B horizons, up to 24 cm thick, characterize early Wisconsin tills (ca. 100,000 yr old). Under a full vegetation cover, Arctic Brown soils form from marine deltaic deposits along the coast. Compared to the above Polar Desert soils, mostly located inland, the horizons in the Arctic Brown soils are thicker, some are more intensely oxidized, and development rates are perhaps ten times more rapid. In contrast to the success in using field soil data for age differentiation, laboratory data on particle-size distribution, organic matter, and pH were not consistently useful. Both the oldest Polar Desert soils and the Arctic Brown soils are Inceptisols, and for till sequences the progression is no soil (0 yr)  Pergelic Cryopsamments or Cryorthents (200 yr)  weak Pergelic Cryochrepts (10,000 yr)  strong Pergelic Cryochrepts (100,000 yr). 
10.2307/1551362|The degree of generalization acceptable in defining alpine skylines in radiation budget components is explored using truncated Fourier series representations. Numerical simulations are performed for sites in the Teton range of Wyoming, U.S.A. The mean skyline approach performs poorly for all irradiances except the incoming longwave. To calculate direct and global solar and net radiation, more complex skylines are needed with several harmonics, although the requirements are less stringent if primary interest is focused on spatially-averaged radiation budgets. Nevertheless, the Fourier series approach shows promise as a means of reducing storage requirements for skyline data in computer programs to perform topoclimatic radiation calculations and as a method of generating conveniently and objectively a continuous skyline function from discrete data.
10.2307/1551861|Data covering over 20 winters at Alyeska Ski Resort, located in south-central Alaska, provide a unique opportunity to examine avalanche climatic characteristics for the region. Averages of climatic, snowpack, and avalanche data for numerous variables indicate that a variety of avalanche climatic conditions ranging from coastal to continental can occur. However, averaged conditions generally tend to be slightly more coastal, resembling conditions similar to Alta, Utah, and Mount Hood, Oregon, as a result of heavier snowfall and higher water equivalent, but relatively lower temperatures than other coastal stations. Snowfall and water equivalent variables most closely correlate with avalanche activity, but temperature, snow density, and snow depth play important roles during some winter months. Composite difference maps of 700-mb heights show that anomalies in the northeastern Pacific Ocean are important in explaining abnormally high and low numbers of avalanches, representing storm activity related to the Aleutian low. Height anomalies off the west coast of North America and east of Alyeska, representing variations of the Pacific subtropical high and mid-winter ridging, also play important roles.
10.2307/1551167|Cover of blue-green algae, bryophytes, and vascular plants, and number of bryophyte species increased along a topographic gradient from the crest of a beach ridge down into a tundra meadow on Bathurst Island, Arctic Canada; lichen cover was greatest in the middle of the slope. Soil moisture, organic content, and nutrient concentrations increased along the same gradient, and pH became slightly less alkaline. Crest and slope plant associations varied between nearby sites and differed considerably from the more constant tundra meadow association, which resembled the Drepanocladus brevifolius community recognized elsewhere in the High Arctic. Among edaphic characteristics, soil moisture was most closely correlated with vegetation.
10.2307/1550474| Energy-budget calculations and equilibrium evaporation estimates from a well-drained lichendominated raised beach ridge and a wet sedge meadow in the Hudson Bay lowlands are presented. Energy-budget calculations reveal that on average 54 and 66% of the daily net radiation are utilized in the evaporative process over a ridge and sedge meadow surface, respectively. For the ridge, half-hourly and daily values of evaporation were approximated closely by equilibrium estimates, while for the sedge meadow close approximation was achieved by the Priestley and Taylor (1972) model where the ratio of actual to equilibrium evaporation equals 1.26. A simple model, expressed in terms of incoming solar radiation and air temperature, is developed for each surface from the comparison of actual and equilibrium evaporation. Tests of the models at different locations indicate that the actual evaporation can be estimated on a daily basis within 10% for dry upland and saturated sedge meadow surfaces. 
10.2307/1550015|The physiography of Remote Peninsula is described as a basis for interpretation of the area's glacial geomorphology. Two moraine systems are recognized: the older, at least in part, predates the "classical" Wisconsin Stage, whereas the younger system is associated with existing local glaciers. Radiocarbon dates on mollusc shells collected in situ from deltas between individual members of the older moraine system give an age estimate of 36,000 years BP, although this is probably minimal. On this basis it is concluded that large areas of high mountains and coastal uplands remained ice-free during the "classical" Wisconsin Stage. Support for this contention is derived from the construction of two trend surface analysis maps using spot heights on two members of the older moraine system. An examination of the gradients of 200 extant glaciers in Greenland, Antarctica, Alaska, and Arctic Canada provides supporting evidence in the form of a range of elevations of glacier ice in relation to distance from termini in salt water. Finally, geomorphic investigation of the upland areas of Remote Peninsula points to an absence of glacial forms. The subaerial weathering forms of the uplands also indicate that a considerably longer time lapse is required for their formation than is available since culmination of the "classical" Wisconsin Stage.
10.2307/1551286|This paper investigates the range of Holocene weathering features in Arctic carbonate terrain, and suggests mechanisms for their genesis. Both the bedrock macrostructure and microstructure are conducive to breakdown. Joints, weak beds, and vugs allow infiltration of water and provide sites for fracturing by volumetric expansion of water as it crystallizes into ice, either in open-system or closed-system environments, or by hydraulic freezeback processes. Hairline discontinuities along bedding planes and the silty clay texture of disaggregated products provide surfaces and capillaries that promote ice lensing and hydration weathering. Frost weathering produces extensive areas of broken pavement, block fields, and sorted circles. Slabby limestone is buckled upward to a height of 1.5 m along joint lines. Joint expansion and detachment of blocks from parent rock masses cause topples along cliff faces. Chemical reactions with atmospheric CO
10.2307/1551565|In order to assess the potential of the Schmidt hammer for relative-age dating, rebound (R) values were collected from more than 50 sites on two glacier forelands in Jotunheimen, southern Norway. Four factors are found to influence results: instrument errors, lithology, weathering, and boulder-surface roughness. The influence of each is examined and its potential as a source of error assessed. Particular attention is paid to roughness, which may reflect either transport history or the differential weathering of minerals. On Little Ice Age moraines, where differential weathering of minerals is insignificant, variation in R-values parallels variation in boulder-surface roughness, which in turn is related to transport history. Boulder roundness provides a surrogate measure of primary boulder-surface roughness (prior to weathering) and assists in interpreting sites which yield anomalously low R-values. Although the Schmidt hammer has some potential for measuring rock weathering, and thus for interpreting relative age, it should be viewed only as a rapid, inexpensive, and convenient technique for preliminary assessment.
10.2307/1550017|The paper discusses a variety of glacial, glaciofluvial, and periglacial forms in western Baffin Island. Glacial forms, especially striations and crag-and-tail, reveal the effects of erosion by ice from the proto-Barnes Ice Cap, which reached the coast about 7,000 years ago. Moraine stones near its margin show a preferred orientation perpendicular to the moraine crests. Glaciofluvial forms include deltas, eskers, and kames, the latter occurring mainly in dead-ice areas. A relationship between delta slope and stone size is established. Esker-like ridges in the dead-ice areas are of two types; some are true eskers, showing evidence of flow, and others represent material collected in elongated hollows within the dead-ice areas. Kames and kame terraces are also described; the slope of the latter is found to indicate the ice-margin gradient. The effects of material size and shape on the nature of periglacial forms, including ice-wedge polygons, sorted features, and solifluction lobes, are considered. Ice-wedge polygons are best developed in well-sorted material and the sorted features in mixed material. Finally, a number of icings (Aufeisen) are described. These icings occur where spring water flows and subsequently freezes during the winter.
10.2307/1550346|During the summers of 1968 and 1969 a climatological station was operated at the 5,360-m level on Mt. Logan, Yukon Territory. The station was one of several operated in the St. Elias Mountains under the Icefield Ranges Research Project. Measurements were taken of temperature, wind direction and velocity, cloud cover and type, pressure, humidity, incoming shortwave radiation, and snow accumulation. The climatological observations are summarized and discussed, particularly in terms of their relationship to equivalent altitudes in the free atmosphere and lower climatic conditions in the St. Elias Mountains. Logistical and observational problems encountered in the operation of a high altitude station are also reviewed.
10.2307/1550210| A preliminary model of physical processes affecting primary production in the arctic tundra was developed from the energy budget equation for single leaves, equations expressing the radiation and wind profiles in the canopy, and a simplified concept of the allocation of photosynthetic material to stems and leaves. The model was validated with data for 1965 and 1970 from Point Barrow, Alaska. For both years, calculated net production increased as leaf area increased in spite of decreasing solar radiation through the growing season, except for a drop in net production when temperatures rose in August 1965. Production of Dupontia fischeri was lower in a mixed sward than in a pure sward. Production increased with decreased standing dead material, increased leaf area index, increased solar radiation, and increased air temperatures up to 5 to 10C. Production was not affected by infrared radiation from the sky or from the ground. 
1550168| Using data from the Fedchenko Glacier, Pamir, the author develops linear equations relating mean monthly temperatures to other temperature-related climatic elements. He uses these equations for glaciated and nonglaciated areas to demonstrate the degree of influence of a glacier on climate in general. It is shown that the vertical temperature gradient in a glaciated area is much greater than in a nonglaciated area. The cooling influence of a glacier also increases with height so that at 3,000 m the glacier lowers the air temperature by 0.4C and at 6,000 m by 7C. By applying the equations it is shown that climate as a whole can be changed if there is a change in the mean monthly temperature. Thus, the former and future influence of glaciers on climate can be assessed. 
10.2307/1551862|The climate of northern Alaska is strongly influenced by the ocean, not only during the summer months, as reported in the early literature, but also during the winter months as a result of the increased heat flux to the atmosphere from sea ice and leads over the ocean compared to the land. The air temperature remains below the freezing point through most of the year. National Weather Service records have underestimated annual total precipitation, on average, by 75%, varying from 20% to 180%, and snowfall by a factor of 2.6, ranging from 1.0 to 6.0, compared with the "true" values measured by Wyoming gauges. Precipitation, measured by Wyoming gauges in the eastern part of the region, increases with distance from the ocean and with elevation. Snow covers the ground surface for more than 8 mo yr
10.2307/1550661|Over 12,500 insects and other arthropods were collected on a large snowfield at 3353 m elevation in the alpine zone of the central Sierra Nevada of California near Tioga Pass. The snowfield was sampled for three summers from 1972 to 1974 using 1-m
10.2307/1550752|In response to Colorado State legislation passed in 1974, natural hazard mapping was undertaken for three counties in the northern San Juan mountains. For a base-map scale of 1:24,000, legends for three different map series were developed and mapping was completed for 22 entire or partial 71/2-minute quadrangle map sheets, totalling 66 individual maps. The series comprises geomorphic hazards, snow avalanche hazards, and combined hazards assessment (Overall Hazards) maps. The map legends were designed to meet the legal requirements of the 1974 Colorado House Bill 1041 and the maps are intended primarily for the town and county land-use planning officer. Mapping was undertaken using a combination of remote-sensing techniques, especially NASA LANDSAT color IR underflight imagery, and field investigations. This paper provides examples of each of the three map series and describes the individual hazard categories: rockfall, rock glaciers, talus slopes, talus slides, debris fans, debris flows, landslides, expansive soil and rock, colluvial slopes, physiographic floodplains, swamps, mine tailings, and snow avalanches. Recommendations for the land-use planner are added. The presentation discusses some of the practical problems of mapping and seeks to demonstrate the benefits that the mountain states of the United States can derive from progress that has been made in the Alpine countries. The paper concludes with an outline of future research needs: (1) more precise definition of "degree of hazard" through improved assessment of recurrence intervals and impact pressures, (2) improvement of existing legends, (3) adoption of a state-wide standardized legend, (4) increased public awareness, (5) improved understanding of mechanics of slope failure so that mapping at the site engineering scales (1:1,000 to 1:10,000) can be made more effective, and (6) acquisition of a data bank of historic events and development of a state hazard cadaster. The project was part of a program sponsored by the NASA Office of University Affairs to apply remote-sensing techniques and space technology to the solution of terrestrial problems.
10.2307/1550409|A detailed analysis was made of satellite imagery, mainly from the NOAA-VHRR (National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration-Very High Resolution Radiometer) in the visible and infrared range, to produce maps of mean monthly ice concentration of the western Arctic Ocean for March 1973 and March 1974. Using multidaily coverage of the satellite, a total of 2552 data points divided into 47 subsections of the Arctic Ocean were analyzed. In both years an average of 75% of usable observations were obtained; the cloudy observations constituted 25%. The highest ice concentrations found in the Beaufort Sea and East Siberian Sea were 85% and 81%, respectively for March 1973. For March 1974, the ice concentration was on an average 10% higher due to a greater frequency of onshore wind components as deduced from 5-day means of surface pressure differences between selected coastal stations of the Beaufort Sea. Areas of low ice concentration were found in parts of the northern Bering Sea, along the northwest coast of Alaska and northwest of Wrangel Island in both years. In 1973 low ice concentrations were also observed north of the New Siberian Islands and west of Banks Island.
10.2307/1552065| Decomposition of white spruce litter decreased and soil organic matter concentration varied along a valley-to-krummholz elevational gradient in the Chugach Mountains of south-central Alaska. Litter origin did not affect litter decomposition, and proximity of litter to alders increased decomposition only at the treeline. Soil respiration rates increased with temperature in all soils. For the organic horizons there was a pattern of increasing rates with elevation except for valley soils which had the highest rate of respiration. Soil respiration patterns for the mineral horizon were qualitatively similar to those from the organic horizon. Average summer organic soil ammonium concentrations at the forest limit and in the valley were five times greater than those in the krummholz. In the mineral soil the pattern was the same but the elevational decline was less steep and the concentrations lower. Nitrate was generally absent (1.0 g g
1550163|Three geomorphological-ecological altitude stages in the mountains of the extreme arid zone are described: glacial or nival forms, solifluction or "periglacial appearances," and the problem of the upper tree line. The present altitude levels are not thermally dependent in the alpine, Mediterranean, or fully tropical sense, but are primarily influenced by availability of moisture. They are not comparable with high mountains of other climatic zones and are subject to their own laws. In the fully arid mountain areas of the tropics an extratropical thermal seasonal climate clashes with a tropical monsoon precipitation distribution. As the winter temperature regime at higher levels is adequate to induce frost-climate processes in winter, not a greater height, but a higher moisture supply, is required for initiation of snow and frost processes. Direction of wind and precipitation, as well as a sheltered radiation position, are more important than altitude. The summer precipitation with some heavy rainfall is insufficient at the upper tree line. Humidity does not increase linearly with elevation. Temperature conditions are suitable for tree growth in the high areas of these mountains, but moisture supply is the limiting factor, as is the case for the formation of nival forms and patterned ground. Temperatures of the free air show only a slight curvature in summer over the dry belt and in winter a regular increase towards the equator. Missing altitude levels cannot, therefore, be thermally explained and extended theoretically across the arid zone. The high mountains of the arid belt develop a zone of thermal readiness with punctual appearances of nivation, patterned ground, and tree vegetation, dependent on episodic or local moisture supply but independent of altitude and latitude. If aridity is ameliorated and temperature falls (e.g., as during the last cold period), there will be a double effect. The thermally prepared altitude level becomes active and is simultaneously extended to lower levels by the temperature depression. Therefore, the mountains in the arid zone of the tropics, on a borderline between northern and southern climatic influences, will become a most sensitive indicator for the very smallest climatic and circulatory oscillations. A very fine differentiation of cloud formation between different mountain ranges and even within the same mountain range is shown by satellite pictures. The currently accepted vertical and horizontal arrangement of the high mountains in the extreme arid zone may require significant revision as more data become available.
10.2307/1551976|Patterned wetlands occur extensively throughout the Canadian subarctic and boreal regions. These areas are important because of their hydrological and chemical interaction with other ecosystems, aquatic and terrestrial. However, there is a lack of knowledge on the hydrology of many wetland types in the boreal and subarctic regions, particularly patterned fens. This paper examines the relationship between the flux and storage of water both within a patterned wetland and between it and the adjacent ecosystems. It is hypothesized that patterned wetlands alternate between two hydrological phases. The first occurs when the water supply exceeds the depression storage capacity of the patterned wetland pools, and the wetland drains as a single source area, while receiving inputs from adjacent nonwetland portions of the basin. As a result, basin discharge during such periods is relatively high. The second phase occurs when the loss of water through seepage and evaporation leads to disconnection of the wetland pools into separate microcatchments within the pool-ridge complex. Under this condition, basin discharge is relatively low, maintained only by a limited source area immediately upstream of the outlet. Through an explanation of the hydrological processes and linkages among subsystems, an understanding of the processes governing runoff from a basin with a patterned wetland at its outlet is obtained. It is demonstrated that the discharge response of patterned wetlands is distinctive from that of other wetland types because the large storage capacity of the wetland pools delays runoff contributions from large portions of the wetland and surrounding basin.
10.2307/1551078|"Floating" palsas are permafrost bodies commonly found in bogs of the discontinuous permafrost region, although similar features may occur in taliks formed within organic terrain of the continuous permafrost zone. A simple computer model was developed to simulate the modulation effects of winter snow thickness on the development and destruction of these features. The one-dimensional model tracks the annual mass budgets of ice-rich peat and the overlying dry peat layer by estimating the annual accretion or thaw of ice within the peat. This is accomplished with the aid of a solution to the Stefan problem, modified to incorporate the influence of the thermal resistance of layers overlying the zone of frost or thaw. The elevation of a palsa above surrounding organic terrain is determined by the Archimedean principle. The thickness of the dry and ice-rich peat layers, both lower in density than the surrounding wet peat, vary through time. The model demonstrates the sensitivity of the system to low snow-cover years, and crudely mimics the development of a palsa initiated by removal of the snow cover at an experimental site in Finland.
10.2307/1550796|The nature and origin of sorted circles that have formed on the glacier foreland of Slettmarkbreen, southern Norway, since ca. A.D. 1750 are examined. The circles range in size from <0.6 m in diameter on a fluted till plain deglaciated within the last 50 yr to >3.0 m on the three oldest moraines of the glacier foreland. Their structural and granulometric characteristics indicate that they are the result of frost sorting. The sizes of Rhizocarpon geographicum agg. on clasts and the pattern of vascular plant colonization indicate that the circles stabilize within 50 yr of exposure of the ground. The distributional characteristics and relatively short life of the circles suggest that they formed through rapid frost-sorting of water-soaked till under the colder and wetter conditions of the ice-marginal zone during periods of slow glacier retreat, and not in response to regional climatic conditions. Restriction of circles >1.5 m in diameter to the crests of well-developed moraines is considered to reflect exposure of the moraine crests in winter and consequent deeper ground freezing. These findings imply that caution must be exercised in interpreting the paleoenvironmental significance of large-scale sorted circles in formerly glaciated areas, as such circles may have formed at the margin of a slowly retreating glacier and would consequently be unrepresentative of regional conditions.
10.2307/1550928|Widespread senescence of leaves was observed on many tundra plant species as early as 15 July 1981 at three elevations near Eagle Creek, Alaska. This early senescence truncated an already-short growing season of between 44 and 87 d by 15 to 30 d. Correlative evidence assembled in this report indicated that cold overall temperatures may have been responsible. Heavy frost, drought, photoperiod, and low light levels -- all factors which have previously been implicated as causing senescence of leaves -- were discounted as possible explanations. The present data underscore the need for experiments under controlled conditions to determine the operative cues for onset of senescence in tundra plants.
10.2307/1551875| During 1991 and 1992 we conducted field experiments to determine the factors limiting the establishment and survival of felt-leaf willow (Salix alaxensis) seedlings on dry abandoned placer mine tailings along Birch Creek in interior Alaska. Study plots were used to test two variables, supplemental soil, and water. Willow establishment was highest on watered and topsoiled plots with very few seedlings established in unwatered plots. Seedling densities of up to 100 m
10.2307/1550941|Natural features in the Colorado Front Range interact to form a region that is potentially sensitive to acid precipitation. A survey of published work on soil and surface water chemistry establishes a framework from which predictions are made as to when significant ecological effects of acid precipitation on aquatic ecosystems in the Front Range will occur. Regression analysis on 88 lakes and streams showed significant (p<0.001) decreasing pH and alkalinity trends with increasing elevation. A similar significant (p<0.008) decreasing trend as elevation increases was found for soil pH and base saturation. Considering both soil and water chemistry, regions above 3300 m (alpine) were found to be most sensitive to continued inputs of acidic materials. If current acid loading rates remain constant, strong potential exists for buffering losses in surface waters, increases in soil acidification, and adverse effects on biota. Using reported rates of decline in buffering capacities of Front Range lakes, we construct a model suggesting these changes are likely to become important in a matter of decades. If acid deposition rates increase, buffering capacity losses in lakes and streams will sooner reach levels where adverse biological changes may become rapid.
10.2307/1551794| In the Krkonoe Mountains about 5 to 10% of the alpine zone is covered by stony biotopes, where underground cavities represent islets of stable, mild microclimate in the midst of otherwise severe climatic conditions. Diptera (flies), Aphidinea (aphids), Opiliones (harvestmen), Coleoptera (beetles), Araneae (spiders), and mites of the family Rhagidiidae (Prostigmata) were the most numerous arthropods collected in pitfall traps left in place for 1 yr. The spider Wubanoides uralensis Pakhorukov; the rhagidiid mites Rhagidia gelida Thorell, Poecilophysis recussa (Thor), Foveacheles cf. cegetensis Zacharda, and F. cf. caucasica Zacharda; and the beetle Choleva septentrionis Jeannel, were collected for the first (or second) time in the region of Central Europe. These are considered to be glacial relicts from the last Pleistocene continental glaciation. The spider Bathyphantes simillimus buchari Rika and the beetle Choleva septentrionis Jeannel have typical adaptive morphological characters (troglomorphisms) for life in underground cavities. An airborne food supply, particularly of Aphidinea and Diptera, plays an important role in sustaining arthropods in this microhabitat. 
10.2307/1551459| It is argued that during the most extensive late Cenozoic glaciation of the Tasmanian Central Highlands an ice cap of 6000 km
10.2307/1550770|The floristic and faunistic richness of the Pamirs (western part 1800 fauna species, eastern 800 species) is a result of the autochthonous morphogenesis and migration processes that operated during Neogene times. This most recent period of geological history was characterized by increasing aridity synchronous with a massive uplifting. The ecosystems of the Pamirs are characterized by four major altitudinal belts: mountain deserts, cushion xerophytes, mountain steppes, and high-altitude cryophytes. The regional and altitudinal variations in the environment determine the total biomass. Here data are presented as a basis for differentiation of the high-altitude ecosystems of the Pamirs. The main characteristics are as follows: (1) xerophytization of the ecosystems of all altitudinal belts; (2) differentiation of a xerophytic series on dry slopes and a mesophytic series on floodplains, including forests and meadows; (3) altitudinal belt boundaries are not distinctly linear but show a strong mosaic pattern due to the extreme continentality; (4) the preceding gives a mosaic character to the corresponding habitats and plant community series; (5) aboveground phytomass and zoomass (invertebrates) are small in comparison to the belowground components; (6) a predominance of semishrubs and cushion lifeforms with varied xeromorphic abilities and with extensive individual lifespans of up to 400 yr; (7) adaptation to low temperatures and high ultraviolet radiation; (8) multiple adaptations to extreme aridity; (9) narrow "life-layer" in the biocoenoses; (10) high-altitude type of metabolism: with increasing altitude Pamirian plants decelerate absorption of nitrogen and the formation of cellular tissue, while the respiration and photosynthetic processes are strengthened.
10.2307/1551233|Several sections of Castleguard Cave contain abundant, massive fossil speleothem deposits. Twenty-one samples have been dated by the
10.2307/1550771|The timberline of the Caucasus Mountains has been differentially affected by anthropogenic processes, becoming increasingly lower towards the east and the south. This is because the natural characteristics of the subalpine belt were more favorable to nomadic and seminomadic cattle grazing with increasing continentality of climate. Preservation of even small sections of the natural timberline is extremely rare in the eastern Caucasus, while relatively undisturbed natural ecosystems are much more common in the subalpine belt of the western Caucasus. Anthropogenic effects have increased the predominance of grassy vegetation in this belt which now includes many meadow formations of long-standing hemixerophyllous, and subalpine, tall grass formations. Timberline today varies in altitude between 2200 and 2750 m. The altitudes attained by the uppermost forest stands in different regions of the Caucasus depend not only upon the continentality of the climate and the degree of influence of "mountain mass," but also upon the arboreal species involved. The upper limits of the boreal species (e.g., Pinus sosnovskii, Betula litwinowii) and the semiarid region species (e.g., Quercus macranthera, and some Juniperus spp.) reach higher elevations with increasing continentality, becoming almost parallel to the July and August isotherms. The upper limits of the arboreal species that are related to the flora of the humid, oceanic climate (e.g., B. medwedewii and Q. pontica) fall with increasing continentality. Species such as Picea orientalis, Abies nordmanniana, and Fagus orientalis, belong to the floral elements of the mid-latitude, temperate, humid mountains, show little natural variation in maximum altitudes. Thus the structure and altitude of timberline and the subalpine belt in the Caucasus reflects the original climatic gradients, west to east and north to south, and the increasing anthropogenic effects over a long period of time in these same directions. The various subalpine ecosystems are described, including straight-trunk forests, thin forests, thin and low forests, crook-stem forests, semicreeping crook-stem forests, creeping vegetative-migratory, crook-stem coppices, and dwarf woods. The importance of conservation of the subalpine ecosystems is stressed in terms of prevention of soil erosion, optimum water balance, and preservation of the floral and faunal gene pool.
10.2307/1550100|Forty-two radiocarbon dates on marine shells, bone, peats, buried soils, and marine algae from sites between southern Cumberland Peninsula and Cape Hooper are reported. A map of site location is included.
10.2307/1551262| A conspicuous type of heath dominated by Empetrum hermaphroditum has been investigated in the western coastal region of Troms, northern Norway (70N, 20E). The soil of the Empetrum heath lacks mineral soil horizons and podsol development. Instead, a peat profile up to 1 m has accumulated, which resembles the pedology of ombrotrophic bogs rather than the other Empetrum-dominated communities in northern Norway. The high peat accumulation rate in this heath is probably a response to the cold and wet climate, the retarded metabolism of the carbon supply in the soil, and, possibly, allelopatic properties of Empetrum. The heath type is classified as Pleurozio-Empetretum hermaphroditi vst. nov. ass. within the alliance Phyllodoco-Vaccinion myrtilli Nordh. 43. Several species with a coastal distribution pattern are associated with this community. Palynological investigation indicates that one stand of this association has been stable, lacking Betula, for about 1400 yr. For this reason we believe that exposure to strong winds and sea spray, rather than grazing, is the primary factor preventing the establishment of Betula. This hypothesis is supported by the relatively high content of magnesium in the soil. The Empetrum heath is regarded as the climax community of convex siliceous habitats near the sea in the investigation area. 
10.2307/1550064|Accumulation of organic matter on the soil surface and subsoil pedogenesis are examined within a subarctic environment. Surface organic matter varied from 0.26 kg organic C m
10.2307/1551935| Perennial cave ice in a cave located at Mt. Fuji in central Japan was studied to investigate the basis characteristics and the cause for existence of such ice under warm ground-level climate (annual mean air temperature: 8.4C) considering the ice cave as a thermal and hydrological system. Fuji Ice cave is a lava tube cave 150 m in length with a collapsed part at the entrance. Measurements from 1984 to 1986 showed that the surface-level change of floor ice occurred due to freezing and melting at the surface and that melting at the bottom of the ice was negligible. The freezing occurred from December to July, with an areal mean value of 45 kg m
10.2307/1550560| The east-central Brooks Range was just high enough to support cirque glacierization during the middle to late Holocene; presently glaciers are shrinking. The 133 glaciers in the field area are all above 1500 m altitude, and those fronted by stable moraines occur on a trend surface rising from 1600 m south of the Continental Divide to 2000 m, 25 km farther to the north. Glaciers that extend into unstable ice-cored rock glacier deposits occur on a parallel trend 100 m below. Both trend surfaces reflect depletion of moisture derived predominantly from southerly sources. Ice masses associated with both stable and unstable deposits have similar orientations significantly concentrated (asymmetric) about 012, strongly minimizing exposure to insolation. This contrasts markedly with the symmetric orientation of Pleistocene glaciers. The transition from existing glaciers through tongue-shaped to lobate rock glaciers is characterized by increasingly symmetric orientations and expanding altitudinal and areal distributions. For example, lobate rock glaciers are weakly asymmetric indicating decreased climatic sensitivity and increased screening by surrounding terrain relative to the other forms. 
10.2307/1550080|Alpine plants have probably evolved at different times in various groups, although the tendency to develop alpine taxa is not the same in all families. Their diversity is considerable but less than many other floras which may be explicable in terms of environmental instability. Various factors involved in the origin and continued existence of alpine floras are discussed.
10.2307/1550812|Carbon dioxide output from lichen-heath, low shrub tundra, and Eriophorum vaginatum tussock tundra was measured several times in July and August at five locations in north-central Alaska. Carbon dioxide evolution was lowest in the shrub tundra, intermediate in the lichen-heath, and highest in tussock and intertussock areas. Seasonal averages were 2.3 g CO
10.2307/1550587|Field studies have provided a sufficient spread of radiocarbon-dated sea levels to enable presentation of a general history of post-glacial emergence for a 300-km stretch of the west coast of Ungava Bay. In the late Wisconsin glacial stage, this coastal area was covered by continental ice moving in a generally northeasterly direction. The deglaciation of the coast took place 7500 to 7000 yr BP, the retreat of the ice front to the west and south-west being accompanied by a marine submergence which left well-defined marine limits throughout the region. The metachronous nature of the marine limit does not permit the construction of isobases or of precise tilt directions during subsequent isostatic readjustment, but isolines on the marine limit clearly imply a steady increase in elevation from 120 m a.s.l. at Diana Bay in the north, to 180 m a.s.l. at Leaf Bay and Fort Chimo. Subsequent land emergence due to isostatic readjustment is represented by two curves based on 24 radiocarbon dates at elevations varying from close to the marine limit down to 9 m above present sea level. Although the emergence can be represented reasonably well by continuous and decelerating curves, relatively temporary phases of sea-level stability are indicated by morphological evidence such as old marine deltas, bar and lagoon complexes, boulder barricades, raised beaches, and erosional bluffs.
10.2307/1550892|Arapaho rock glacier is an ice-cored, tongue-shaped rock glacier in the Front Range of north-central Colorado. A 1985 resurvey of movement markers installed by H. A. Waldrop in 1960 indicates that surface debris near the center of the rock glacier is moving at an average velocity of 19.3 cm yr
10.2307/1552129| The lower Naknek River exposes thick (20 m) successions of glaciogenic sediment of pre-late Wisconsin age on the northern Alaska Peninsula. The stratigraphy of the deposits, and the physical and mineralogical properties of diamicton beds, together with recently reported geochronological evidence, prompt a re-evaluation of the pre-late Wisconsin glacial history of the region. Three sites expose diamicton beds that can be separated from overlying units on the basis of geochronologic or sedimentologic criteria. These older diamicton beds predate formation of a last-interglacial marine-lag gravel at South Naknek beach. Data on younger diamicton units lack stratigraphic or geographic trends that indicate distinct tills related to separate ice advances. We therefore suggest that the regionally extensive surficial drift (from Pauls Creek, at the outer margin of the Mak Hill moraine, to the mouth of Naknek River) was deposited during a single glaciation. Lumping the drift into one unit is consistent with geochronological evidence indicating that ice from the Alaska Peninsula reached its maximum limit relatively recently, since the last interglaciation. We speculate that Johnston Hill, a prominent landform within the limits of this drift sheet, was formed by ice thrusting of proglacial sediment during the late Pleistocene. Previously it was interpreted as a conventional moraine and ascribed to a separate, climatically significant and regionally correlative glaciation of pre-late Pleistocene age. 
10.2307/1550786|Karnali Zone in Western Nepal is a microcosm of the exacerbated geoecological stress that is now being caused by increasing human impact in Nepal. This paper examines a spectrum of key cultural and physical variables operating in a multidimensional time-space matrix that affects accelerating environmental degradation. The intermontane basin complex of Karnali Zone displays a succession of altitudinal belts or ecological niches with corresponding climatic and vegetational associations. Visible here is the impact of two millennia of human occupance in a region of limited and varied resources. Traditionally, the multiethnic population's agriculturally based subsistence economy has produced insufficient food grains. Therefore, various combinations of agriculture, animal husbandry, home industry, trade, and winter out-migrations for work in India were followed. These livelihood pursuits were integrated through the seasonal movements of people, animals, and goods, and were rhythmically regulated by climatic variations. Careful scheduling over time and space allowed economic symbiosis to function at subsistence level. This system is modeled here in order to focus on its essential components and to identify the major constraints that impede its processes: (1) cultural attitudes and training; (2) limited natural resources; (3) primitive agricultural and animal technologies; (4) inadequate transportation and trade technologies; and (5) changing health and population dynamics. For over a century prior to 1951, these constraints regulated the system and allowed it to function in a viable and fairly balanced manner. Human numbers had not yet exceeded land and energy resource capacities. However, in the past 26 yr since the end of Rana isolationism, an increasing number of external economic, political, and social forces have disrupted this steady state. In turn, the five major constraints are no longer regulators; instead they are restrictors which are destroying the traditional ways of life by preventing harmonious use of the environment. This paper demonstrates the value of incorporating cultural, as well as physical, variables in the analysis of delicate mountain ecosystems, because a holistic understanding of the problems is required before successful strategies for stabilizing fragile mountain habitats can be developed and implemented.
10.2307/1550399|The quantity and diversity of arthropod fallout on snow patches in Central Alaska are reported. Diptera and Hymenoptera are the dominant members of the fallout fauna, followed by Coleoptera and Hemiptera. Abundance ranged from 0.86 to 11 animals m
1550160| The wind-shaped trees in the subalpine zone and the lower part of the alpine zone were classified into two types. First, deformations of the respective types were described and figures and photographs included. Second, their distributions were studied in Central Japan. Concerning the distribution, it was pointed out that the history of vegetation development, the microtopographical situation, and the exposure to the prevailing wind are the important factors. The wind-shaped needle trees deformed by the winds in winter appear mainly on the Japan Sea side and those deformed by the winds during the growing season are distributed on the Pacific side of the mountains. In Thoku District it can be concluded that the wind-shaped trees of both types develop similarly and their distribution range is mixed. The development of wind-shaped coniferous trees is poor on volcanoes because of the volcanic activity. The upper limit of the subalpine zone corresponds well with the conditions of wind speed. The west components of wind of free atmosphere at the level of the limit are 8 to 10 m sec
10.2307/1551658|Dissolved organic carbon (DOC) concentrations and fluxes were determined over the summer in a small subarctic catchment, composed of an upland component with woodland and forest over mineral soils and a fen in the lower section. DOC concentrations were low (1-2 mg L
10.2307/1551198|The formation of an ice layer at the base of High Arctic snowpacks is due to a refreezing of the meltwater percolating to the snow-ground interface. A cold substrate is required to dissipate the latent heat released by the refreezing process, but through such latent heat transfer the warming of the active layer is accelerated.
1550153|The timberlines under consideration are caused by too short a vegetation period. Due to the postglacial history of climate they are also closely related to each other floristically. But despite these similarities there are many differences in the physiognomy and ecology of these timberlines which have been strongly generalized in the past. The author tries, in this preliminary paper, to differentiate the very heterogenous phenomenon "timberline" under ecological and regional aspects.
1550156|The past, present, and future research programs of the Institute of Arctic and Alpine Research (INSTAAR) are described and discussed. The early phase (1950 to 1967) concentrated upon reconnaissance, establishment and maintenance of climatological stations, and tabulation of data as a basis for the study of the geoecology of the high mountains of Colorado with emphasis on the Front Range where INSTAAR's mountain research station is located at 2,930 m elevation. The impact of significant expansion in 1968 in the size, scope, and extent of INSTAAR activities to the present is discussed. The climatological data is being analyzed using the TAXIR System of data reduction. Biological studies, many of which are associated with the IBP Tundra Biome's alpine site on Niwot Ridge, include tundra plant productivity, tree line fluctuations in the forest-tundra ecotone, ornithology, and entomology, and others. The abiotic field studies include glacier mass balance, soil movement, geochronology using lichenometry, stratigraphy, palynology, and mapping of tills and moraines. Lately application of remote sensing using NASA/ERTS-1 and Skylab imagery has widened the possible scope of landscape studies. Future research will develop work to date and apply it to resource development problems and conservation. In the short-term a monograph on the geoecology of the Colorado Front Range is planned. The paper concludes with a list of cited references pertaining to Front Range research and a bibliography of related publications and current master's degree and doctoral dissertation research topics.
10.2307/1551411| Sample sites were selected from four regions within the Dempster Highway (N = 22) and CANOL Project (N = 58) corridors. Physical characteristics of the study areas varied considerably: they span 4 of latitude (6318 to 6715) and 1285 m of elevation (425 to 1710 m a.s.l.); occupy various types of substrates within the Selwyn, Mackenzie, Ogilvie, and Richardson Mountains (glaciated and unglaciated, acidic to basic, coarse to clastic); and were found within various tundra plant communities (tall shrub to epilithic lichen). Surface disturbances of various ages (5-6, 13, 22, and 35 growing seasons) had a number of colonizing plant species in common despite substantial site differences. Of the 433 taxa recorded from the 80 borrow pits surveyed, 18 had naturally colonized pits of all four major geographic regions and age groups. These were Arctagrostis latifolia, Betula glandulosa, Empetrum nigrum, Epilobium angustifolium, E. latifolium, Equisetum arvense, Hedysarum alpinum, Poa arctica, P. glauca, Populus balsamifera, Salix alaxensis, S. glauca, S. planifolia, Vaccinium uliginosum, Cetraria cucullata, Polytrichum commune, P. juniperinum, and P. piliferum. Although most of these broadly successful colonizing species were herbaceous, several woody plant species especially of the genus Salix were most successful in terms of both mean cover and percentage of sites colonized. There were 50 plant taxa that were locally successful colonizing species found in either the CANOL or Dempster corridors with greater than 2% cover or on at least 20% of the sites sampled. These species included 15 forbs, 14 graminoids, 5 decumbent shrubs, 2 erect shrubs, 11 lichens, and 3 bryophytes. Salix alaxensis, present in approximately 75% of the 80 pits was one of the most successful woody plants with mean cover values of 2.7, 24.5, 0.8, and 2.0% on 5-, 13-, 22-, and 35-yr-old disturbances. Salix alaxensis had colonized within 0.4, 0.6, 0.3, 1.1, 4.9, and 8 growing seasons on 5-, 6-, 8-, 13-, 22-, and 37-yr-old disturbances, respectively. 
10.2307/1551917|A climate change monitoring site has been established at the northwest margin of the Barnes Ice Cap, in the vicinity of the Lewis Glacier. Three years of climatic data (1989 to 1992) and field observations, supplemented by satellite imagery, provide the basis for updating previous studies of local change at the ice cap margin, including climatology and substrate colonization by lichens. Climatic data from the ice cap summit permit extrapolation of seasonal temperatures from the ice marginal station as a basis for equilibrium line altitude estimates. Results are discussed against the background of studies from the 1960s. Retreat of the Lewis Glacier continues at about 25 m yr
10.2307/1550444|An extensive system of lateral moraines was identified during field work in the southern Torngat Mountains, northern Labrador, in 1957. Similar though less well developed forms have subsequently been mapped over a distance of 370 km from the vicinity of Ryans Bay in the north to the Nain-Okak area in the south. The entire system has been tentatively correlated and named Saglek Moraines. These moraines are now widely regarded as marking the upper limit of Wisconsin ice throughout northern Labrador and consequently assume stadial significance. This note is an attempt to produce an unambiguous identification and definition for the Saglek Moraines.
10.2307/1551631|The largest thallus sizes of three species of Rhizocarpon (subgenus Rhizocarpon) growing at a single site are significantly different. In addition, each species appears to respond differently to local changes in microclimate. Jonas Rockslide, Alberta, Canada, is estimated to be at least 500 yr old, rather than the 100 yr old suggested by other researchers.
10.2307/1551240|A biological survey of Castleguard Cave has shown that the inner cave is inhabited by two species of aquatic crustaceans, the asellid isopod Salmasellus steganothrix and the crangonyctid amphipod Stygobromus canadensis, both of which are blind and unpigmented. The isopod is abundant throughout the portions of the system containing sediment-rich pools and was found in areas of the cave which lie beneath the Columbia Icefields. The amphipod, which is unique to Castleguard Cave, was found only in one series of pools about 2 km from the entrance. The occurrence of these aquatic species so far inside an area fully glacierized during the Wisconsinan and even at present partially under a permanent icefield suggests that they may be remnants of very old preglacial distributions. Since it is known that the cave has remained intact and internally ice free for more than 720,000 yr, it is hypothesized that it has served as a subglacial refugium for these organisms.
10.2307/1550701|Above tree line in the San Juan Mountains of southwestern Colorado, the statistical properties of summer rainstorms are similar to those at lower elevations. They show markedly skewed distributions which may be approximated by the Pearson Type III model in estimating exceedance probabilities. The Wischmeier and Smith (1958) model for rainsplash erosion on agricultural surfaces offers a reasonable explanation of the measured rates of summer soil movement on bare areas of the alpine. This explanation is maximized if the cumulative raindrop impact energy from storms with a peak intensity of more than 12 mm h
10.2307/1551150|The most important agent in the historical reduction of the Pacific walrus (Odobenus rosmarus) population in the 19th century was the pelagic whaling industry. From 1848, when the whaling grounds of Bering Strait were discovered, to 1914, by which time the industry had collapsed, whaling vessels made more than 2700 cruises seeking bowhead whales in the waters of the western Arctic. Large numbers of walruses also were taken during those voyages. We present here the results of the first systematic attempt to determine the size of the pelagic whaling industry's walrus harvest. Our data are drawn from the best extant records: the logbooks of the whaling vessels. Our data indicate that in the course of their voyages, the whalers captured approximately 140,000 walruses.
10.2307/1551087|Carbonate cementation of dune sand forms under subarctic, almost semiarid conditions in an active dune field in the Kobuk Valley, northwestern Alaska. Calcretes are cemented by low-magnesium calcite derived from carbonate grains incorporated within the dune sands. Two types of calcrete can be distinguished. The first type, in which initial calcrete formation has been observed, lies a few decimeters below the surface in interdune areas. The second type comprises remnants of calcretes of early Holocene age, which occur extensively in various interdune areas and in a large deflation area and are presently being redistributed by frost action. These calcretes were buried by westerly migrating dunes and subsequently exhumed by deflation. Radiocarbon dates of the calcretes (approximately 10,000 yr BP) provide a minimum age for the dune formation. Stable-isotope analysis of the calcretes indicates precipitation of carbonate mainly due to a loss of CO
10.2307/1550397| Subalpine soil temperature regimes were compared for bare ground (BG), evergreen shrub (ES), herbaceous meadow (HM), single tree (ST), and tree clump (TC) sites. Through most of the snow-free season, soil temperatures at -60 cm were BG > ES  HM > ST > TC. Relative diurnal temperature amplitudes (percent of BG value) at -5 cm averaged ES, 43; TC, 14; HM, 84 (early summer), 52 (mid-summer), 36 (late summer), 45 (fall). Surface temperatures potentially lethal for tree seedlings ( 49C) occurred on HM in early summer. Nonperiodic soil cooling was associated with rainy periods. Fourier analysis and heat conduction models were used to evaluate damping depths, thermal diffusivities, profile homogeneity, and temperature regimes. The equation describing sinusoidal temperature fluctuations in a homogeneous soil proved to be a useful basic model. 
10.2307/1551697|Little Ice Age moraines at Athabasca and Dome glaciers, Alberta, Canada, were dated using dendrogeomorphic techniques and old photographs. Ice-scarred or tilted trees provide precise dates for the Little Ice Age maximum advance of 1843/44 (Athabasca) and 1846 (Dome). Moraine fragments from an earlier advance of the Athabasca Glacier were formed in 1714. Ecesis periods on these moraines are between 40 and 60 yr. Most trees colonizing these moraines date from periods of warmer summers in the present century. Dated ice-front positions and landform development between 1906 and 1981 are presented and discussed. Maximum recession rates for both glaciers occurred between ca. 1940 and 1960 but have decreased markedly in the last two decades.
10.2307/1551775|It is suggested that features produced by the erosional impact of snow avalanches on water bodies be termed snow-avalanche impact landforms and deposits. The specific examples described by Matthews and McCarroll (1994) and Smith et al. (1994) are seen as distinctive end members of the range of depositional landforms produced by these processes.
10.2307/1551835|Paleoecological investigations at two sites in the White Pass, Drizzle Pond, and Waterdevil Lake, provide a record of late-Quaternary vegetation change in this mountainous region of northern British Columbia. The vegetational sequence at Waterdevil Lake (875 m a.s.l.) has four stages: (1) shrub tundra with alder (Alnus crispa) and dwarf briches (Betula glandulosa/nana) from 10.5 to 8.5 ka; (2) shrub tundra with alder and dwarf birches plus juniper (Juniperus communis) on drier microsites from 8.5 to 5.2 ka; (3) spruce (Picea) woodland from 5.2 to 4.0 ka; and (4) open woodland with lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta) and subalpine fir (Abies lasiocarpa) from 4 ka to the present. Alpine shrub tundra has persisted around Drizzle Pond (910 m a.s.l.) throughout the Holocene and only varied slightly in composition. The fossil record demonstrates that White Pass did not serve as a migration route for those major tree and shrub species that occur on both the coastal and interior sides of the pass. Because the highest elevations in the pass have always been in alpine tundra, it is unlikely that trees could have crossed the divide. Although subalpine fir, spruce (probably white spruce), lodgepole pine, mountain hemlock (Tsuga mertensiana), and alder occurred within the White Pass during the Holocene, the timing of their arrival there in comparison with arrival times on the coast and interior also indicates that the pass was not the route by which these species entered the interiors of British Columbia or the Yukon Territory.
10.2307/1551499| Investigations in the interior lowlands of south-central Baffin Island have confirmed the existence there of a relatively warm, mesoscale summer climate compared to regional averages, an observation that is supported by the presence of certain low arctic plants beyond their previously reported limits. A system of two large lakes, their drainage basins, and tributaries is seen to be a major factor responsible for these conditions. Measurements made at Burwash Bay, where the Amadjuak River enters Nettilling Lake, provide the basis for heat budget estimates in the summer period. An average daily heat input of 22 MJ m
10.2307/1551718|Ivory Lake lies in a 2.2-km
10.2307/1552025|Active layer changes after the 1968 forest-tundra fire at Inuvik, N.W.T., have been monitored from 1968 to 1993 at three burned and two unburned sites. In addition, a burned site has been used for field experiments on changes to the active layer. The active layer depths have been measured at the same points, marked initially by 58 permanent stakes, nearly every year and the vegetation described in general terms and frequently photographed. The changes to the active layer have been site specific so that broad generalizations for the three burned and the two unburned sites for the 25-yr period are limited. For brief periods, summer air temperatures correlated reasonably well with changes in the depth of the active layer at two sites. For only one summer (1993), active layer depth increases were controlled primarily by the previous winter's temperature and snow conditions. At all sites where the active layer deepened, the underlying ice-rich permafrost thawed to produce thaw settlement. The addition of thaw water to the bottom of the active layer at the more poorly drained sites created moist conditions which favored vegetation growth. In response to the vegetation growth which shielded the ground surface, active layer depths decreased, permafrost aggraded upward, and there was some ground uplift from the growth of aggradational ice. Although there was a pronounced winter warming during the observation period, the effects on ground warming were offset, to an unknown degree, by a decrease in winter snow depths which led to winter ground cooling.
10.2307/1550256|Observations of the vascular anatomy of the green plant Castilleja rhexifolia Rydb. were made to determine the nature of apparent root connections with Festuca cf. brachyphylla Schultes. A continuous tracheary system between the two species and the intrusion of C. rhexifolia tissue into F. cf. brachyphylla shows that C. rhexifolia is a hemiparasite.
10.2307/1550439| Results of microclimatic measurements made at four sites which had been burned 0, 1, 2, and 24 yr previously are compared to a mature open sprucelichen woodland control site for the period 1974 to 1975 at a western subarctic research area at latitude 61N. Measurements show that there is a substantial reduction in net radiation over burned surfaces. This is accompanied by an even greater reduction in evaporation except for the freshly burned surface. Soil temperatures are greatly increased at burn sites during the growing season but this effect is not as significant on an annual basis. Implications of the changes in the energy budget are discussed particularly in light of the long time period for postfire recovery. 
10.2307/1550830| On a till sheet exposed over the last 35 yr by retreat of the glacier Storbreen, there is a spatial transition from simple networks of desiccation cracks on the youngest ground to mature sorted polygons on the oldest. The cracks form 2 to 6 yr after deglaciation. Analysis of the development of sorted polygons from nonsorted desiccation cracks reveals that over 35 yr the width and depth of the cracks, together with network length and complexity, increase in an exponential fashion. Sorting of clasts into cracks proceeds slowly but regularly and is accompanied by an increase in the proportion of fine material coarser than 250 m within the cracks while adjacent ground becomes relatively rich in particles finer than 250 m. The migration of coarse sand into the cracks is accompanied by mass-displacement of silt from the cracks into the adjacent ground and depletion of fine sand from both cracks and adjacent ground. The slow rate of sorted polygon development at Storbreen is attributed to the slow development of the crack network, itself possibly related to the depth and granulometry of the till. The appearance of vegetation on the oldest polygons suggests that these may be approaching the end of their development. 
10.2307/1550228| Fifty-two radiocarbon dates are reported on samples from Cumberland Peninsula and the sites, material, and significance of these deposits are discussed. The dates refer to sites between 66 and 69N. A map of site locations is included. 
10.2307/1550784|Owing to very extensive reafforestation efforts in the middle of the last century, high-altitude forests have been reestablished and timberline has been reconstructed in the southern French Alps. The altitudes of the reconstructed timberline and of the natural timberline (where it is still preserved) are found to be comparable. The physical and human conditions affecting timberline are classed according to their relative importance. The main controlling factor is temperature of the growing season. Precipitation, soils, human activity, land ownership, and legal conditions are important secondary factors that influence local variations in timberline.
10.2307/1551923| A model of litter decomposition (GENDEC; Moorhead and Reynolds, 1991) is used to examine the potential effects of changing soil climate on the decay of dead organic matter in a tussock tundra soil of northern Alaska, U.S.A. Model behavior under current climatic conditions is consistent with observations from field and laboratory studies of decomposition and plant growth (5.28 g N  m
10.2307/1551755| Polar desert vegetation with 5% cover or less was measured on terraces and a plateau surrounding Sverdrup Pass (79N), central Ellesmere Island, N.W.T., Canada. The aim of the study was to determine the most efficient method for plant diversity and cover assessment in extremely sparse polar desert plant communities. Minimum area was measured using, independently, the nested plot and the random quadrat techniques in five polar desert stands. The Species diversity:Area relationship (S/A) was best described by the Fisher logarithmic model. The minimum area determined for the stands ranged from 10 to 25 m
10.2307/1550809|Maktak, Coronation, and North Pangnirtung fiords are major confluent trenches in the dissected plateau of eastern Baffin Island. Fresh water and sediment from large outlet glaciers of Penny Ice Cap, and from smaller ice fields nearby, enter and pass along the fiords largely as surface overflow. Mixing with salt water beneath is inhibited near the fiord heads by the strong density gradient at the pycnocline. Patterns of current and suspended sediment deposition on the fiord floors are determined in part by the influence of Coriolis force. Despite a small tidal range (1.1 m), the absence of sills within the fiords allows free exchange of sea water and frequent or quasi-continuous circulation at depth. Except near the head of the fiords in high-energy environments of rapid sedimentation, bioturbation by molluscs and echinoderms destroys many of the fine sedimentary structures. However, from studies of grab samples and short cores, four principal processes of sedimentation are proposed: (1) infrequent deposition of coarse particles from ice rafting and subaerial rock fall; (2) settling from suspension in overflowing fresh water of fine sand and flocculated silt and clay at rates that probably do not exceed several millimeters per year except near the fiord heads; (3) gravity flows, including slumping of oversteepened subaqueous slopes, turbidity currents which produce thin, graded beds of moderately sorted sands, and nonturbulent liquified or fluidized flow depositing ungraded layers of well-sorted coarse sand (the latter may be important at the toe of Coronation Glacier where fresh water entering at depth rises to the surface leaving its coarse load to spread over the fiord floor); and (4) aeolian transport from the sandur surfaces depositing distinctive bands of medium sand.
10.2307/1550253|Following earlier studies of snowpatch action in the northeastern cirque of Mt. Twynam in the Snowy Mountains, Australia (Costin et al., 1964), the magnitude of the snow forces acting downslope beneath the snowpatch from 1963 to 1971 was determined by studying the mode of failure of steel rods embedded in the bedrock. Depending on site and snow conditions, the lateral forces required to bend and break the steel rods ranged from the equivalent of 1.6 to between 15.9 and 37.9 bars. These forces are ample to account for the observed snowpatch erosion at Mt. Twynam and exceed values reported for a snowpatch in British Columbia and for some alpine glaciers.
10.2307/1551934|Streamflow and sediment concentrations in Hot Weather Creek (basin area 155 km
10.2307/1550345| Nine steep-walled cirques nearly 1,000 ft (300 m) deep and U-shaped valleys more than  mile (400 m) wide were formed at one time in the White Mountains, and at least three other incipient basins were ice-deepened. These were fully formed before an overriding continental glaciation, because 20 to 60% of the coarse drift flooring the north-facing cirques was derived from rock sources down valley to the north, and there are no clear lateral or looped end moraines left. The headwalls and floors bear grooves and roche mountonnes in the same direction as regional glacial overriding. This last overriding took place in late-Wisconsin stage as based upon the nearest
10.2307/1550736|Quantitative changes in bacterial, fungal and algal populations in the surface peat (0 to 5-cm depth) were studied during the spring thaw period at a tundra hummocky sedgemoss meadow (Devon Island, N.W.T., Canada). A significant peak in numbers of aerobic heterotrophic bacteria and in amounts of filamentous algae was observed during the thaw period. No significant maximum in fungal standing crop was evident during this period but an increase in the hyphae containing protoplasm after thaw was indicative of increased fungal activity. Data obtained at each sampling time were highly variable. This was probably due to the topographic heterogeneity of the site which gave rise to variation in soil moisture content and microenvironment. Qualitative changes in bacterial populations were studied before and after thaw. Gram-negative psychotrophic types predominated and Bacillus spp. were rarely isolated. Certain Gram-negative groups, the fluorescent pseudomonads and the Cytophaga/Flexibacter types, were isolated less frequently after thaw while Gram-negative orange pigmented rods, Arthrobacter spp. and other coryneforms occurred more frequently after thaw.
10.2307/1550510|Pollen percentage and influx diagrams for three lake-sediment cores from southeastern Labrador are subdivided into three regional pollen assemblage zones: (I) Betula-Salix-Cyperaceae zone, 10,500 to 9000
10.2307/1551153|Sampling sites were established along naturally occurring snowdrifts in order to assess the long-term impacts of increased snowpack on a subalpine meadow in the Unita Mountains of Utah. The study area was divided into three zones (light, moderate, and heavy snowpack) based on snow depths measured on 1 April. The sites were sampled from 1976 through 1979. Several abiotic variables (slope, exposure, soil texture, and pH) did not differ significantly between snowpack zones in the study area. The variables sampled which decrease with increasing snowpack are soil depth, organic matter, plant moisture stress, total plant cover, and plant production. Four variables (snow release date, number of species per macroplot, exposed rock, and total flowering period) increase with increasing depth of the snowpack. Relative decline in plant cover and plant production are predicted for additional increases in snowpack. The vegetation of the meadow is described and prevalent species are noted. Individual species responses show that 14 species achieve maximum cover in the heavy snowpack zone while only six reach maximum cover in the light snowpack zone. Ten species show no preference for snowpack zones. Production data for the 4 yr of study show considerable variation between years. The differences in the yearly production figures are primarily due to the response of the graminoids which increase with increased growing season precipitation and decrease with greater snowpack. Forb production did not change significantly among the 4 yr of study.
10.2307/1551420|Iceland belongs to the subarctic belt. Summers are short and cool; winters are mild. Annual rainfall averages 400 mm in the north and up to 3500 mm in the south. Bedrock is mainly basalt from which dryland soil (tephraloess) is derived. About 8% of the total area is climatically suited for afforestation and reforestation of some kind. Betula pubescens Erh. is the only species forming natural woodland. Former woodland may be restored by alleviation of grazing. The native birch plays a key role for soil protection. Introduction of exotic tree species is of main importance for the reforestation. Nearly 100 species and 700 provenances have been tested, 10 to 15 species of which are the most likely to serve the reforestation purposes. The three most important are Russian and Siberian larch (Larix sukaczewi and L. sibirica), sitka spruce (Picea sitchensis), and lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta). Russian larch has had the highest yield (7 m
10.2307/1551302|Ground-penetrating radar (GPR) techniques were used near Bethel, Alaska, to compare the thicknesses of the active layer between areas of moist sedge and wet sedge tundra. Once set up in the field, the GPR provided a rapid, accurate, and effective means for determining the depth to frozen soil and the thickness of the active layer. In areas of silty soil, the average thickness of the active layer under wet sedge tundra (64 cm) was considerably deeper than under moist sedge tundra (38 cm). In areas of moist sedge tundra underlain by silty soils, depths to frozen soil layers were relatively shallow with active layer thicknesses ranging from 17 to 63 cm.
10.2307/1551544|Strong offshore winds in early 1989 produced a shore polynya that reached along the entire north coast of Alaska and eastward beyond the mouth of the Mackenzie River in Canada. From January through April, this open water periodically exposed the shelf to sediment entrainment by suspension freezing. This process requires turbulence and supercooled water, which results in the formation of frazil and anchor ice. The resulting granular, sediment-laden ice was observed to extend over 100 km seaward of the outer continental shelf after having been advected offshore. It was sampled to determine sediment type and to quantify the particle load. The particle size was mainly silt and clay, with local admixtures of as much as 27% sand and coarser clasts. Melted ice samples contained from 31 to nearly 600 mg L
10.2307/1550215| The main west - southwest / east - northeast backbone of the eastern Alps runs through the center of the Venedigergruppe. Nine valleys head in interlocking troughs and radiate from the central arte and horn divide. A pattern of deglacierization is reconstructed from early descriptions of the glaciers and their forelands, maps, surveys, climbing records, and field investigation. There has been major, overall wastage of the ice through thinning and retreat at the termini, along the margins, and in the firn areas of the glaciers since the mid-19th century. While the history of the glacier changes fits a general, known sequence for the European Alps, the details of ice loss have varied greatly; local factors of aspect and topography have been important in the long-term, behavioral patterns of the glaciers. Despite a trend toward weather that would seem to have been more advantageous to a positive glacier mass balance in recent years, decay and wastage have continued. 
10.2307/1550926| Total bacterial numbers were determined at different times of the year in an arctic lake (0.1 to 3.1  10
10.2307/1551195|Multiple till layers were exposed in excavations along the west side of the Peavine Valley, British Columbia, adjacent to the southern Rocky Mountain Trench. Field and laboratory investigations along a 60-m section delineated four subunits belonging to a single lodgment till unit which grades into one till up the valley side. Examination of regional striae, till structure, and fabric, and the analyses of till matrix indicate that the subunits were formed by competing oscillating glacial flows from two different directions. Major glacial flow from Purcell Mountains in the north-northwest periodically alternated with another flow from the northeast out of the Rocky Mountain Trench; both flows belonged to the Cordilleran Ice Sheet. It is postulated that similar till complexities will occur in other areas of coalescent and competing glacial flows.
10.2307/1551196|Xylem pressure potentials and interrelations between relative water content, xylem pressure potential, and leaf conductance of several species which are common in tussock and montane tundra were compared at four sites in Alaska in 1977 and 1978. Evergreen shrubs had the lowest leaf conductances, graminoids and forbs the highest. The relations between relative water content, xylem pressure potential, and leaf conductance were not unique to a growth form nor to a vegetation zone. Although different species attained different minimum pressure potentials, individuals of a species showed similar potentials in a variety of sites.
10.2307/1551552|Keys to all species of Antennaria of Alaska and Yukon Territory are presented. The number of taxa acknowledged in the current treatment is 17, including 10 species with several subspecies circumscribed within some of the more diverse species. A synopsis enumerating all the recognized taxa provides their correct name, relevant synonyms, basionym, type locality, key morphological features, chromosome numbers and assorted taxonomic notes. Maps of each taxon are provided.
10.2307/1551764| Small-scale turf-banked terraces are widely developed on low-angled slopes above the Neoglacial trimlines of the raefi outlet glaciers in southeast Iceland. These features, which have not been previously described in this area, comprise a vegetated riser and a vegetation-free tread. The morphometry of these landforms is shown to be related to slope angle. Rates of soil movement were measured over a 2-yr period using Rudberg pillars and showed maximum displacement of the surface layer of 11 mm yr
10.2307/1550862|This paper reviews the history and distribution of Labrador's Indian and Eskimo cultures in relation to vegetation history for the past 8000 yr. The previously hypothesized correlation between the Indian-Eskimo boundary and the position of the northern forest margin is examined with new information from analog data from modern and fossil pollen assemblages across this ecotone. The northern movement and development of Maritime Archaic culture (7500 to 3500 BP) closely parallels the northern movement of the shrub and forest zone for this period. However, despite evidence of climatic cooling after 3500 BP the northern forest boundary remains relatively stable in the Okak-Napartok region for the last 4000 yr. Yet this period is one of major changes in Indian and Eskimo distributions. Complexities in interpreting these records are discussed. While nonvegetation types of paleoecological data are needed to provide information on other terrestrial and marine conditions, current data suggest that social and historical factors were the primary determinants of ethnic boundary shifts for the past 4000 yr of Labrador prehistory.
10.2307/1552092| The timing of seedling emergence crucially affects the fate of seedlings. Germination characteristics are therefore an important factor determining plant distribution. The aim of this study is to examine whether two species of Polygonum show different germination characteristics in relation to their altitudinal distributions (P. cuspidatum: lowland to alpine; P. weyrichii var. alpinum: mainly alpine and with a higher upper altitudinal limit than P. cuspidatum). The seeds of both species freshly collected in autumn required high temperature (35C) for germination. After winter, seeds of both species showed high germinability over a wide temperature range and the optimum temperature shifted to 20 to 25C. Response to storage differed between the two species. All the storage conditions examined (moist chilling, dry chilling and dry warm) were effective in breaking seed dormancy of P. cuspidatum, but seed dormancy of P. weyrichii var. alpinum was broken only by moist chilling. The germination at a low temperature (5C) after the winter was significantly higher in P. weyrichii var. alpinum than in P. cuspidatum. In contrast to these interspecific differences, none of our results indicated intraspecific differences with altitude in P. cuspidatum. 
10.2307/1550590|Examination of a soil formed on an outermost Neoglacial end moraine in the Okstindan Mountains has demonstrated that a podzolic profile, recognizable in terms of both morphological and chemical characteristics, has developed within the last 1600 yr, and possibly within the last 1000 yr. These figures indicate that the maximum amount of time required for formation of podzolic soils is considerably less than that suggested by previous investigations at Okstindan. The time period is compared with those reported from studies of podzolic profile development on moraines at other recently deglacierized localities in Scandinavia and North America. Comparisons suggest that rates of development vary due to differences in the degree of eluvial horizon bleaching considered necessary to constitute a podzolic profile. Also responsible are differences in environmental factors, particularly parent materials, climate, and vegetation. If a figure of around 1000 yr for podzolic profile formation is representative of the initial stages of pedogenesis following deglaciation of Okstindan, then podzolic soils may have been developed in this environment by Early Atlantic times, ca. 8000 yr BP.
10.2307/1551863|A revised composite stratigraphy, based primarily on the correlations of wholecore magnetic susceptibility records, from the upper 10 m of the cores from ODP Site 645 (Baffin Bay) is presented. GRAPE bulk density and core descriptions were also used to strengthen the correlations. Using this new correlation scheme, the oxygen-isotope stratigraphy was reexamined. The reinterpreted oxygen-isotope stratigraphy suggests that the upper 10 m of sediment probably ends within oxygen-isotope stage 4.
10.2307/1551337| Daily photographs from an automated camera show an event of snowmelt and flooding of the Weasel River sandur on Baffin Island on 10 January 1985. During this event strong winds (36 km h
10.2307/1551502|Environmental factors that may influence colonization, establishment, and growth of Rhizocarpon section Rhizocarpon species were studied in the Tyndall Cirque on Mount Kenya, East Africa. Analysis of variance and pairwise t-tests indicate that neither substrate orientation (aspect) nor inclination (slope angle) appear to influence lichen performance during the first 100 yr of colonization and growth. Growth during this (great-growth) period appears to increase in a linear fashion. After an initial period of variability, the ratio of mean thallus to largest thallus increases to a stable value. The suggestion is made that the early variability is the result of intermittent colonization and establishment events.
10.2307/1550329|The first available year of Very High Resolution Radiometer (VHRR) data in both the visible and thermal infrared channels is found to be highly valuable in sea ice analysis. However, the high frequency of cloudy days is the principal problem in operational utilization of the data. Ice extent in the western North American Arctic is described and mapped for selected days of low total cloudiness throughout the period. The variation with time in the extent of open water in a giant polynya west of the Canadian Archipelago and of open water off the northern coast of Alaska is examined in relation to 5 day mean pressure gradients over the surrounding areas during the spring and summer of 1973.
10.2307/1551434|Between November 1985 and February 1989, six snowpack sampling sessions were completed (at least annually) at the Studies of the Environmental Effects of Disturbances in the Subarctic (SEEDS) site 10 km north of Fort Norman. Sampling sites were selected to provide representative data from a variety of microsites on a simulated transport corridor and in the adjacent undisturbed forest. The average mid-winter snow depth in the undisturbed forest was 55 cm. Over the 5 yr of observation, all north-south oriented rights-of-way (ROW) had snowpacks that were on average 10 cm thinner than in undisturbed forest, while on an east-west ROW there was 17.6 cm less snow than forest sites. Within the leading edge of the forest, drifting enhanced depth by 2 cm beside north-south oriented ROWs and by 16.4 cm adjacent to east-west ROWs when compared to unaffected forest. The removal of trees leads to a thinner snowpack on rights-of-way, and the closer ROWs are aligned to the prevailing west-northwest wind, the greater this effect. The average mid-winter snowpack density in undisturbed forest was 175.9 kg m
10.2307/1552130|Three glaciers of the Kigluaik Mountains are very small and the only ones on the Seward Peninsula and surrounding west-central Alaska, but they are important climatically. They display the typical recession in response to recent warming, as well as moraine evidence of Little Ice Age worldwide cooling peaks of the 17th and 19th centuries. The terminal moraine of Grand Union glacier, dated lichenometrically at about A.D. 1645, indicates that equilibrium line altitudes fell about 170 m from present levels at this time, or one half the amount estimated locally for late Wisconsin glaciation. Periglacial landforms throughout the Kigluaik Mountains display ample evidence of the earlier Neoglacial cooling of the Holocene. Minimum (lichenometric) ages from active tongue-shaped rock glaciers and protalus ramparts, as well as maximum
10.2307/1550564|The aboveground primary productivity within each of four areas, differing in length of the snow-free season, was determined in a high subalpine (3380 m) herbaceous meadow in Colorado. Net productivity, minus losses to herbivores, ranged from 114 g m
10.2307/1551216|Slope-aspect influenced evapotranspiration and soil desiccation in the Colorado alpine tundra via control over radiation and wind speed. South- and east-facing sites upon a fellfield knoll received 18 and 14% more net radiation than the north-facing slope on clear sky and more typical summer days, respectively. West-facing slopes experienced moderate radiation loads but highest wind speeds. Water loss during two drying sequences for east-, west-, and north-facing slopes was 80, 80, and 60%, respectively, of evapotranspiration from the south-facing slope. Consequently, soil at the south-facing site dried faster than soil on other slopes of the knoll. Dryas octopetala prefers more moist northern slopes on Niwot Ridge, illustrating the importance of topoclimatic controls over soil moisture to vegetation distribution in the fellfield. Water relations during the growing season influence vegetation distribution within topographic depressions on Niwot Ridge. Where meltwater is supplied throughout the growing season wet meadow and moist shrub tundra occur. Evapotranspiration from the wet meadow was 1.5 times greater than from other communities in the Saddle area during a drying period. Contrasts in snow cover depth between windward and leeward slopes is an important location factor for dry fellfield, dry meadow, moist meadow, and snowbed vegetation.
10.2307/1552082|Unit-area discharge after late May in 3 yr from an avalanche-prone basin (5 km
10.2307/1550528|Studies of sediment, chronology, fossil pollen and charcoal from cores from Lost Trail Pass Bog (2152 m) provide the first postglacial bog, forest, and fire history for the Bitterroot Mountains. The 6.27 m of sediment, dated by 16 radiocarbon dates and two volcanic ashes, represent lake, fen, and bog deposition spanning the last 12,000 yr. Lycopodium spores were introduced as tracers into the 81 constant-volume samples to estimate pollen and charcoal influx. Because of considerable variation between samples, pollen and charcoal estimates were averaged by pollen zones. Glacial ice withdrew leaving a lake by 12,000 yr ago and sagebrush steppe dominated the landscape for the next 400 to 500 yr. If lodgepole and whitebark pine are the diploxylon and haploxylon pine pollen in the record, then by 11,500 yr ago whitebark pine forests replaced the steppe and persisted for the next 3000 to 4000 yr under climatic conditions that were probably cooler than present. Two falls of Glacier Peak volcanic ash, separated by less than 25 yr, occurred about 11,250 BP. By 7000 yr ago, under warmer but not necessarily drier climatic conditions, Douglas-fir and lodgepole pine replaced whitebark pine and charcoal influx increased. The fall of Mazama volcanic ash was dated at about 6700 yr ago. By 5000 yr ago aquatic, fen, and bog microfossils became important. With the return to cooler climates, about 4000 yr ago, Douglas-fir was no longer common in the pine forest. Little vegetational change is indicated after 4000 years ago. However, more charcoal was deposited during the last 2000 yr than during the previous 9500 yr.
10.2307/1550373|Logbooks and journals of American and British whalers and of Hudson's Bay Company vessels are used to reconstruct the summer distribution of Balaena mysticetus in Hudson Bay from 1860 to 1915. The whales were concentrated in the northwestern part of the Bay between Marble Island and Lyon Inlet. The location of kills in each month and the dates of first sightings in the spring and last sightings in the fall suggest migrations north and south through Roes Welcome Sound, but the possibility of a separate movement through Frozen Strait is not ruled out. Evidence for winter residence in Hudson Bay is inconclusive. The total number of kills, an average of results obtained by three methods, amounts to at least 688, of which 62% were in the first decade. The decline of the whale stock to very low levels by 1915, when whaling ceased, was the result of intense hunting pressure by over-wintering whalemen upon a localized whale population confined by land and ice, at a time when killing was unrestricted as to size, sex, or numbers.
10.2307/1550918| Test trenches excavated into muskeg near Fairbanks in 1969 exposed a polygonal network of active ice wedges. The wedges occur in peat that has accumulated since about 3500 yr BP and have grown episodically as the permafrost table fluctuated in response to fires, other local site conditions and perhaps regional climatic changes. Radiocarbon dates suggest one or two episodes of ice-wedge growth between about 3500 and 2000 yr BP as woody peat accumulated at the site. Subsequent wedge truncation evidently followed a fire that charred the peat. Younger peat exhibits facies changes between sedge-rich components that filled troughs over the ice wedges and woody bryophytic deposits that formed beyond the troughs. A final episode of wedge development took place within the past few hundred years. Pollen data from the site indicate that boreal forest was present throughout the past 6000 yr, but that it underwent a gradual transition from a predominantly deciduous to a spruce-dominated assemblage. This change may reflect either local site conditions or a more general climatic shift to cooler, moister summers in late Holocene time. The history of ice-wedge growth shows that wedges can form and grow to more than 1 m apparent width under mean annual temperatures that probably are close to those of the Fairbanks area today (-3.5C) and under vegetation cover similar to that of the interior Alaskan boreal forest. The commonly held belief that ice wedges develop only below mean annual air temperatures of -6 to -8C in the zone of continuous permafrost is invalid. 
10.2307/1550754|About 20% of the territory of the USSR is subject to avalanche activity. The resulting avalanche natural-territory complexes possess a certain unity because they have a common origin, the same pattern of development, and are subject to the same active avalanche processes. The formation of these natural-territory complexes should be considered in the context of their zonal, altitudinal belt, and sector characteristics, since their general geographic position determines the hydroclimatic and biogenetic basis. The lithogenetic base of the avalanche-territory complex depends upon the geological and geomorphological conditions, and also upon the particular avalanche regime. Mineral fans form at a rate which varies between 0.1 and 13.8 mm yr
10.2307/1551739|We compared tree-ring structure and formation for Pinus uncinata Ram. and Pinus sylvestris L. in the Central Spanish Pyrenees. Ring width and the number of tracheids in the latewood and in the entire ring were measured monthly during the growing period in 1993. Both species developed the major part of the tree ring between 10 June and 18 July, although the tree ring formed earlier in P. sylvestris. Tree-ring growth was delayed in the highest elevation stand. Ring width and the number of tracheids in the tree ring were functionally correlated. Pinus uncinata had smaller tree rings with fewer cells in radial transects. Latewood development, including formation, later coloration, and cell wall apposition, started in July and ended in October. Tree rings show greater latewood density and color contrast in P. uncinata. Characteristic tree rings show latewood tracheids with thin cell walls and wide cell lumina in many P. sylvestris cores. The analysis of the intra-annual ring growth and structure variability has thrown light on some interannual assumptions such as phenological variability controlled by climate. In conjunction with past dendroclimatological studies, this work shows the existence of a delay between ring growth and structure and their controlling climatic factors.
10.2307/1550394|Three groups of landforms of deglaciation are analyzed, namely those associated with (1) the disappearance of Inland ice (main Greenland ice sheet), (2) the withdrawal of local Sukkertoppen ice, and (3) the changing of relative sea level. Consideration of their interrelationships in space and time allows a reconstruction of the process of deglaciation. There was an overall westerly movement of Inland ice across the area and this persisted during the early stages of deglaciation. Later stages of deglaciation reflect progressive down-wasting with ice persisting in the troughs while adjacent plateau areas became free of ice. The highest marine limit is at 123 m and this incursion of the sea took place ca. 8,800 to 9,000 radiocarbon years BP. Local Sukkertoppen ice appears to have played an insignificant role during this main phase of deglaciation. Subsequently several Sukkertoppen outlet glaciers have advanced over marine deposits. The paper concludes with consideration of some wider implications. The importance of downwasting and meltwater activity during deglaciation is stressed. Also it is noted that isostatic recovery follows the Greenlandic pattern with high initial rates of uplift, apparently ceasing ca. 3,000 to 5,000 years BP. Unlike arctic Canada and Scandinavia where uplift has continued to the present day, the continued existence of a major ice sheet in Greenland is probably responsible for this recent stabilization. Finally, it is suggested that the last Inland ice sheet accomplished little erosion in the area compared to earlier ice sheets.
10.2307/1550907|Aerial and ground observations of the peatlands of southeastern Labrador reveal shallow circular lakes that apparently formed by the coalescence of fen pools and small lake basins through the degradation of intervening peat deposits. Geomorphic evidence suggests that lake development proceeds through three stages: (1) initial deepening and enlargement of pools through peat decomposition, (2) shoreline stabilization by ice-ramparts, and (3) formation of compound lakes through the fusion of adjacent basins. This process is not dependent on permafrost, which is absent from the region. The water chemistry of these peatland lakes is very similar to that found in nearby bedrock-controlled basins except that total phosphorus, iron, and apparent color are significantly higher in the former.
10.2307/1551360|Discriminant analysis (DFA) was used to test for divergence in structural/functional characteristics between conifer forests of Yosemite National Park, California, and Glacier National Park, Montana. A pair of two-variable DFA models, one based on species composition and one on structural/functional characteristics, achieves comparably high classificatory success (96%), providing evidence for structural divergence of forests between regions. To attribute this structural divergence to interregional differences in environment and disturbance regime, a second pair of DFA models, one using environmentally sensitive characters and one using disturbance-adapted traits, is presented. The environmental model, linking specific structural/functional traits to heat, moisture, and nutrient regimes, suggests that, relative to Glacier forests, Yosemite forests display morphological and physiological traits suited to warmer, more nutrient-poor sites. The disturbance model, which incorporates germination requirements for surface light, mineral seedbed, and dispersal efficiency, suggests that forested sites sampled in Glacier exhibit greater evidence of catastrophic disturbance, and support a more prominent suite of early successional structural/functional characters than sites sampled in Yosemite. This difference presumably emanates from the combined influence of interregional disparities in presettlement disturbance regimes and associated differences in the efficacy of subsequent fire suppression policies.
10.2307/1550700| Quantitative analysis of fossil foraminifera faunas in raised marine deposits on Broughton Island, Baffin Island, reveals assemblages which can be correlated with Mid-Weichselian (Mid-Wrmian) foraminiferal assemblages from the Kola Peninsula of arctic USSR. This correlation is also supported by radiocarbon datings from the two areas and leads to the conclusion that a Mid-Weichselian (Mid-Wisconsinian) interstadial can be identified for Broughton Island. It is termed the Cape Broughton interstadial. During this interstadial the sea level at Broughton Island reached to at least 46 m above the present level, and the faunal diversity there ranged between 14 and 23, which is high for arctic areas. One site, on the east side of Broughton Island, has a fauna that indicates a greater age than those correlative with the Cape Broughton type assemblage. This deposit may be Sangamonian in age. 
10.2307/1551834|Alpine mires are widespread on the flat-topped mountains of Central Otago, the driest and most continental region in New Zealand. Peat profiles, pollen analyses, and radiocarbon dates are presented for several mires from the Old Man Range as part of a study of the environmental history of this region. Precipitation in the early Holocene may have been up to 30% less than that of the present, and peat accumulation was restricted to topogenous mires. Alpine ombrogenous bogs began growth at ca. 7500 BP. At the same time, forest and tall scrub spread in the adjacent lowlands in response to increasing rainfall, replacing grassland-shrublands. Peat accumulation was slow and episodic and declined to very low rates after 3000 BP, probably as a result of cooler winters and drier summers. Low levels of natural fire occurred throughout the Holocene. However, from 750 BP onwards, lowland forest and scrub was severely reduced, subalpine shrubland declined, and snow tussock grassland increased markedly as fires lit by Polynesian hunters swept the region. From A.D. 1850 onwards, European pastoralists introduced sheep and increased the burning of the uplands to improve grazing. Peat accumulation increased in topogenous mires after burning and grazing of the alpine grassland, possibly because of accelerated runoff and nutrient input.
10.2307/1551151|Plants of 11 alpine species (5 from the Rocky Mountains and 6 from the Sierra Nevada) were grown from seed under contrasting watering frequencies in controlled phytotron environments. Differences in the growth of these plants between treatments were compared to the presence or absence of meltwater in their respective habitats. In general, plants characteristic of habitats receiving meltwater from permanent or long-lasting snowbanks showed a greater reduction in growth under drought stress than plants from habitats with little meltwater moisture. Relative growth rate, net assimilation rate, leaf area duration and root-shoot ratios were calculated for each species. Plant dry weights were statistically greater in the daily water treatment than under the weekly water application for 7 of the 11 species. Total dry weight in Silene acaulis did not vary significantly between the two treatments, but its net assimilation rate was significantly higher under drought even though its leaf area duration was significantly lower. Drought had the most marked effect on Deschampsia caespitosa, a moistsite grass.
10.2307/1551725| Twenty-eight new localities of the two native antarctic vascular plants Deschampsia antarctica Desv. and Colobanthus quitensis (Kunth) Bartl. in the Antarctic Peninsula area are reported. Some of the previously published localities, including the current southernmost locality for these plants on Alamode Island (6843S, 6732W), Terra Firma Islands, were revisited and confirmed. 
10.2307/1550680|Snow profiles were sampled along an eastwest gradient in wild reindeer home range from winter ground in the east to calving ground in the west. Hardness to ramsonde at Finse (west) increased from 22 to 395 kg from early to late winter; hardness in the winter habitat (east) increased from 40 to 140 kg in uncratered areas and from 15 to 27 kg in cratered areas (p<0.01, t-test between west, uncratered and cratered areas). Density increased from 0.20 to 0.37 g cm
10.2307/1550739| Various measures of the character of ablation season conditions in the Canadian High Arctic (north of 74N) are discussed based on an analysis of daily climatic data from Alert, Eureka, Isachsen, Resolute, and Thule. Melting degree day totals appear to be the most useful index of "summer warmth." An abrupt change in the summer climate of the region occurred around 1963/64. Various indices indicate a marked decrease in summer temperature after 1963. During the same period, annual precipitation in the north and northwest has increased. Glacier mass balance is strongly controlled by summer climate; in particular, annual melting degree day totals are highly correlated with long-term mass-balance records. This enabled mass balance on the northwest sector of the Devon Island ice cap to be reconstructed back to 1947/48. Cumulative mass losses on the Devon Island ice cap from 1947/48 to 1962/63 are estimated to be 3500 kg m
10.2307/1550720| Soil cores, collected at Barrow, Alaska, in 1972, were frozen for 6 yr and then placed in a growth chamber or greenhouse. Chrysosplenium tetrandrum (Saxifragaceae) seedlings, 204.8 m
10.2307/1551383|A 20-yr investigation of soil movement rates on four slopes in the Ruby Range, Yukon Territory, has revealed greater differential movement at depth than at the surface under certain conditions. This type of movement, found primarily on a southeast-facing slope with well-developed solifluction lobes and complete vegetation cover, typically produces profiles that are convex-concave downslope rather than simply concave downslope as commonly reported in the literature. The movement profiles comprise three sections: (1) top 20 cm where greatest total movement occurs but there is little differential movement; (2) depth of 20 to 50 cm where greatest differential movement occurs; and (3) depths below 50 cm where little movement takes place. Rates of surface movement over the 20-yr period range from 0.53 to 2.05 cm yr
10.2307/1551695|Differences in the species of bryophytes (mosses) and their tardigrade (water-bear) inhabitants in tundra adjacent to the trans-Alaska Pipeline haul road (now the Dalton Highway) are associated with environmental perturbations induced by the presence of the road, primarily road dust. Vehicular traffic on this gravel road generates a calcium-rich mineral dust that is windblown onto the tundra and is considered among the road's most significant environmental impacts. Sphagnum mosses rarely occur within 10 m of the road, where dustfall is greatest. Sphagnum specimens (S. lenense, S. balticum, S. rubellum, and S. aongstroemii) were collected in transects paralleling the road at 50 and 500 m. Roadside moss samples are dominated by species tolerant of high calcium and drier habitats (e.g., Aulacomnium turgidum, Dicranum angustum). Tardigrade species dwelling within these mosses are typical of more xeric environments (Diphascon scoticum and Hypsibius dujardini). While these fungivorous and algal feeding species numerically dominate roadside mosses, areas farther from the road are dominated by omnivores and carnivores (Macrobiotus hufelandi and M. harmsworthi, respectively).
10.2307/1552081|An integrated geomorphic, stratigraphic, paleoecological, and geochronological study of a system of linked valley glaciers and ice-dammed lakes has provided insights into the Neoglacial history and climate of the northern Coast Mountains of British Columbia. Cores collected from a small lake in the glacier foreland of Berendon Glacier and pits dug in a nearby fen record Little Ice Age and earlier Neoglacial advances. AMS and conventional radiocarbon dating of fossil plant material from these sites, supplemented by dendrochronological data, indicate that the Little Ice Age began more than 500 yr ago and peaked in the early 17th century. A middle Neoglacial advance of comparable extent occurred about 2200 to 2800 yr ago. The chronology of Neoglacial advances is generally similar to that at other sites in western Canada, although the Little Ice Age may have peaked as much as 100 yr earlier in our study area than elsewhere. The Little Ice Age advances are also broadly synchronous with those in other parts of the world, suggesting that they were caused by global changes in climate.
10.2307/1550790|Equipment suitable for measuring temperature, solar radiation, humidity, and wind speed is reviewed together with problems encountered during field use in cold climates. The importance of matching the type of measurement to the biological problem is stressed and probable sources of error are identified.
10.2307/1551988|Using data collected on expeditions and long-term records, evaluations of snow accumulation and melt in high-altitude catchments, typical of much of the central Tien Shan, are presented. Over areas of about 500 km
10.2307/1551922|Temperate plants show high correlations between life history strategies (e.g., along the r-K continuum), mating systems (in terms of pollen: ovule, seed: ovule, and fruit: flower ratios), and genetic population structure. In the tundra, nearly all plants would be categorized as being K-strategists if we use life history traits alone (life span, resource allocation patterns, etc.). However, there is immense variation among species with regard to reproductive traits, such as seed: ovule and fruit: flower ratios, and thus there is a decoupling of the relationships that are valid in other biota. Instead, the reproductive strategies of arctic and alpine plants show strong correlations with flowering phenology, and thereby also with snow cover duration. Early-flowering species show high outbreeding rates and low seed: ovule ratios, and most of the genetic variation is found within local populations; the opposite situation applies in late-flowering species. These two cases are the extremes of a continuum, but arctic plants can be as readily categorized in this model as temperate plants are in the r-K model. Gynodioecious and dioecious breeding systems are abundant only among early-flowering species, whereas apomixis and vivipary are restricted to the late-flowering species. The variation in ploidy levels among species increase from early- to late-flowering. According to the kind of bet-hedging with the resources spent on reproduction, the early- and late-flowering groups are recognized as pollen-risk and seed-risk strategists, respectively.
10.2307/1552145|Long-term limnological data from the four largest lakes in Yellowstone National Park (Yellowstone, Lewis, Shoshone, Heart) are used to characterize their limnology and patterns of temporal and spatial variability. Heart Lake has distinctively high concentrations of dissolved materials, apparently reflecting high thermal inputs. Shoshone and Lewis lakes have the highest total SiO
10.2307/1551589|In 1984 and 1985 seasonal changes in phytoplankton were studied in a system of three lakes in Loch Vale, Rocky Mountain National Park, Colorado. Three periods were evident: (1) A spring bloom, during snowmelt, of the planktonic diatom Asterionella formosa, (2) a mid-summer period of minimal algal abundance, and (3) a fall bloom of the blue-green alga Oscillatoria limnetica. Seasonal phytoplankton dynamics in these lakes are controlled partially by the rapid flushing rate during snowmelt and the transport of phytoplankton from the highest lake to the lower lakes by the stream, Icy Brook. During snowmelt, the A. formosa population in the most downstream lake has a net rate of increase of 0.34 d
10.2307/1550016|The contribution of the wasting Laurentide Ice Sheet to eustatic sea-level rise between 10,000 and 6,000 BP was estimated. Volumetric models were constructed on the basis of the present Greenland profile and past areal distributions of ice as delineated by the radiocarbon isochrone map of Bryson and Wendland. It was found that even with the assumption of negligible ice in the Arctic Archipelago, the Laurentide sheet was by far the major contributor to sea-level rise. A double-dome model resulted in a eustatic sea-level curve which conforms quite well with those derived in other independent studies.
10.2307/1551285|An ice-dammed lake on the northern margin of the Kaskawulsh Glacier in the St. Elias Mountains has drained annually for at least 30 to 40 yr. Input to the lake is from three glacierized sub-basins and from the margin of the Kaskawulsh Glacier. The deltas of the streams from each of the sub-basins are constructed and destroyed in each filling and draining cycle. There is little sediment accumulation in the lake basin due to subglacial drainage of the high density underflow input through most of the filling sequence. Older lacustrine sediments and deltas demonstrate previous higher level lakes, which were semipermanent, during the early phases of deglaciation after the maximum of the Little Ice Age. One of the sub-basin glaciers is a surging glacier, and a sequence of old deltas indicate that the location of the discharge stream has changed during each surge. It is hypothesized that continuing downwasting of the Kaskawulsh Glacier will eventually remove the conditions for damming.
10.2307/1551413| Understory vegetation and soil factors were studied in forested peatlands along two power lines extending between 50 and 56N in Manitoba. At 16 sites, comparisons were made between the cleared right-of-ways and adjacent undisturbed forest communities. The primary sources of disturbances in the right-of-ways were (1) initial clearance and line construction, (2) traffic, and (3) vegetation management with herbicides. Vegetation in the right-of-way is distinguished by altered species abundances rather than changes in floristic composition. The right-of-way community had generally lower abundances of Sphagnum fuscum and ericoid shrubs and a significantly greater extent of exposed peat. Polytrichum strictum was the only species with a higher abundance in the right-of-way. Water chemistry indicated a slight enrichment of the right-of-way environment. The thawing of permafrost in the northern right-of-way sites and subsequent erosion occurred only in areas of heavy traffic. Use of the tree/shrub herbicide picloram in the right-of-way has led to the additional and ecologically undesirable disappearance of such nontargeted species as Sphagnum fuscum. 
10.2307/1550419|Electrical conductivity, a measure of total ionic concentration, was determined for samples of meltwaters draining from the snout of Gornergletscher, Switzerland, during the summer ablation season of 1974 and continuously recorded in summer 1975. Samples of meltwaters from the snout meltstream and glacier surface were analyzed for Na
10.2307/1551853| Stomatal conductances of mountain birch leaves were determined by field measurements using a steady-state porometer under varying weather and radiation conditions. The stomatal conductances were related to atmospheric environmental parameters (water vapor deficit, air temperature, soil moisture potential, and photoactive radiation) by a nonlinear regression equation where the fit to the data set was optimized. By applying a 3-layer canopy model for evapotranspiration, with the actual measurements of the stomatal conductance inserted, characteristic bulk aerodynamic conductances for the exchange between the birch trees and the ambient air were determined empirically by comparison with the evapotranspiration from cut birches using a potometric technique. Finally, the 3-layer evapotranspiration model, with the stomatal submodel incorporated, was tested against the evapotranspiration measurements using a total of 27 cut birches on 54 d. Water vapor pressure deficit has a dominating effect on the variations of stomatal conductance. For air temperatures below about +13C, there is a significant decreasing trend of the conductance. The ecological implications of stomatal conductance and the seasonal transpiration near the altitudinal treeline are discussed. 
10.2307/1550622| Measurements of Rhizocarpon geographicum thalli on rock surfaces of known age at Mount Rainier National Park permit growth curves to be constructed for andesitic and granitic substrates spanning the last 125 yr. Control points for the younger part of each curve come mainly from man-made structures, whereas older control points are from rock outcrops in the foreland of Nisqually Glacier, an area which as experienced progressive deglaciation since the early 19th century. The growth curves indicate an initial period of very rapid growth until thalli reach about 10 mm diameter, after which growth proceeds at an exponentially decreasing rate for the next century. Growth rates are slightly faster for andesitic substrates than for granite. If extrapolated, the curves should be useful for dating substrates as much as 3 to 4 centuries old with an accuracy of  20 yr or better. However, the curves are applicable primarily between altitudes of about 1000 and 1700 m; below this zone growth rates are higher, whereas above it lichenometry may be of limited value because of widespread lichen kill during the early 19th century along the crest of the Cascade Range. Comparative data from other Northern Hemisphere sites suggest that (1) R. geographicum growth curves are broadly similar in shape and show an exponential decrease in growth rate during the first century or two after an initial "great period" that typically lasts from about 20 to 80 yr, and (2) the lichen factor (diameter in millimeters of century-old thalli) is related in a general way to climatic environment. 
10.2307/1551319|Average long-term growth rates of Silene acaulis cushions in four glacier forefields were used to construct a preliminary growth curve for use in relative dating of surfaces at alpine sites in the Canadian Rockies. Mean growth rates of 0.06 to 1.82 cm yr
10.2307/1550518| Data were obtained on snow depth during the Arctic Ice Dynamics Joint Experiment. In May 1975, the mean snow depth on similar multiyear floes varied across a 150-km wide area from 0.20 m in the northeast to 0.28 m in the southwest. A weighted mean snowfall for the year 1974/75 (freezeup to freezeup) was calculated to be 1.5 m, of which about 40% fell during the summer. As the snow cover melted ice was progressively exposed: 5% by 21 June, 50% by 2 July, and 90% by 13 July 1975. Summer snowfall prolonged the melting of the initial snow cover and later intermittently covered the ice. The snow cover of the winter 1975/76 began on 30 August and reached at least 67% of its depth by the end of October. Snow depths measured on a 10-m grid spacing over an area 510 by 410 m, containing small floes, ridges, rubble, and first-year ice, showed a net movement of snow by the wind from the floes to the rough ice. Despite a shorter period of accumulation, the mean snow depth was about 50% greater in a band of rough ice which formed the borders of the small floes. Twenty to thirty meters into the rough ice surrounding the small floes, the mean depth decreased to that of the floes. A minimum mean depth of snow cover is hypothesized to occur on a small floe in the size range 1000 to 3000 m
10.2307/1550088| Measurements taken over an upland ridge, a lowland swamp, and shallow lake near the Hudson Bay coast on July 10 where the solar eclipse reached 90% of totality show that incoming solar radiation decreased by the same magnitude as the eclipse, incoming long-wave radiation decreased slightly, and the net all-wave radiation quickly went negative over all three surfaces. Over the ridge and swamp the evaporative heat loss became almost zero and the sensible heat flux became negative. The lake quickly changed from a heating to a cooling phase and evaporation increased rapidly. On this, the hottest day of the summer, air temperature fell 10 during the eclipse and recovered fully in the posteclipse period, showing that in this area strong radiative heat input is necessary to maintain a warm near surface temperature regime. 
10.2307/1551899| Extensive areas of Phippsia algida-dominated communities are common in the Canadian High Arctic. The data presented here describe maintenance of these communities via autosuccession. A correlation between growth stage and plant age was developed for this species. Characteristics of the population of plants within each growth stage were used as "snapshots" to illustrate changes in plant to plant relationships through time. Although bare soil and moss were equally available as substrates in the landscape, seed rain was highest on bare soil (90%), in close proximity to a mature Phippsia plant. Germination was low but similar in moss and bare soil microsites. Survival from seedling to reproductive age was not associated with substrate type. Mortality occurred within early growth stages due to proximity to other young plants of Phippsia, but proximity to a mature Phippsia plant was not deleterious. Microsuccession occurred within a large plant clump, but individual replacement appeared to be largely conspecific (autosuccession). Although this species reproduces entirely by seed, the demographic consequence of its dispersal is similar to cloning: high density of conspecific shoots with a high probability of relatedness, with large gaps between clumps. The population age structure of this species appears to reflect surficial disturbance patterns. In areas of minor disturbance, population age structure appears to reflect a period of exceptionally low (1969  4 yr) and high (1962) July mean temperature. 
10.2307/1551801|This paper examines the use of Landsat Thematic Mapper and digital terrain data combined with a radiative transfer model to map the spatial patterns of the radiation balance at the Niwot Ridge Long-Term Ecological Research (LTER) site during the 1986 growing season. The analysis of maps and profiles of the components of the radiation balance for this alpine tundra site show particularly important contrasts in solar radiation receipts and longwave exitance between north- and south-facing slopes on a given day at the time of the satellite overflights. However, the presence of snow and consequently higher albedo in the early part of the growing season is the most important factor that explains the difference in the radiation balances between June and August. Leeward (east-facing) slopes that accumulate a deep snowpack during the winter experience the largest decrease in surface albedo. Albedo for these slopes decreased from about 0.55 to 0.15 while remaining nearly the same for west-facing (windward) slopes. Finally, the good agreement between estimates of the radiation balance and its components, and surface measurements acquired during three summer field seasons on Niwot Ridge suggest that the approach is suitable for mapping incoming and outgoing fluxes over mountainous areas at the spatial resolution of Landsat TM, and potentially at that of higher or lower resolution satellite sensors.
1550169|The Holdridge system of world life zones as applied to Costa Rica is examined. In spite of the claim that vegetation, soils, and climate are classified in the single system, it can be shown that the system does not adequately predict the soil pattern. Either the system does not do what Holdridge claimed originally or else the vegetation is too rich in the Tropics for valid diagnostic plant associations to be identified in reconnaissance work. It is, therefore, suggested that it might be worth testing the method in temperate regions in order to settle once and for all whether the system is useful.
10.2307/1551700|Stable, ice-cored frost mounds can form by differential ablation of seasonally developed massive ground ice. Although degradation frost mounds have no diagnostic mound morphology, these features can be identified by observing formative processes in the field and by examination of the mound core. Several field techniques were employed on massive ice-cored mounds which developed in a marsh near Slope Mountain, Alaska. Stratigraphic relationships within the mound core, ice petrofabrics, and ionic concentration patterns of ice crystals as they vary with core depth were correlated to the mound-forming processes, and indicate that these landforms are stable remnants of a sill-like massive ground ice plateau which has been differentially eroded by stream action. In addition, the core data and field observation can be used to infer the processes associated with massive ground-ice formation. It appears that a 1-m-thick, massive ice plateau develops in the marsh each winter due to the concordant injection and freezing of water in a constricting subsurface hydrologic system. Much of the plateau ablates during the summer but, near the quiescent margins of the marsh, some remnants may be preserved by the overlying organic mat.
10.2307/1551798|Changes in edaphic conditions and vegetation along snowmelt gradients are well known in many alpine areas, but very few studies have used multivariate techniques to document these changes at a microgeographic scale and to measure predictability of snowmelt patterns. This paper describes concordant changes in microenvironmental factors and plant species abundances among >200 evenly spaced microsites in a large alpine snowbed in the Mosquito Range, Colorado. The snowmelt gradient was highly consistent: averaged over all microsites, the mean date of snowmelt varied by only 1 wk from 1989 to 1992, and relative date of snowmelt among microsites was highly predictable (R
10.2307/1551938| Withdrawal of glacier ice from upper Fbergstlsdalen after A.D. 1930 has exposed steep drift-covered slopes on the north side of the valley. Since 1943 these have experienced radical transformation into gullied badlands, with reworked sediments being redeposited on the valley floor as coalescing debris cones. Gully erosion has exposed wide areas of bedrock, and has extended upslope outside the limit of Little Ice Age (18th century A.D.) glacier advance. Over much of the gullied area, ground surface lowering has been 2.5 to 4.7 m, representing a minimum erosion rate of 50 to 100 mm yr
10.2307/1551318|The environmental conditions prevailing at treeline in subarctic Quebec have been reconstructed over the past 400 yr through a comparative analysis of tree rings and growth forms of black spruce (Picea mariana [Mill.] B.S.P.). Because black spruce growth forms are closely associated with the winter environment, they are a direct response to conditions of low temperature and windblown snow abrasion affecting living tissues at the snow-air interface. Living and dead spruces were sampled along five transects, according to wind exposure (hilltop and protected valley) and aspect (east-, north-, and south-facing slopes). The age structure of supranival shoot populations (stems growing above the snow cover) was closely associated with periods of higher stem survival in winter most likely under snowier and windless conditions. The number of supranival shoots initiated between 1710 and 1810 and between 1880 and the present, respectively, appeared to be related to milder and snowy winters. Spruce growth on slopes and in the valley revealed periods of low tree-ring growth between 1601 and 1663 and between 1700 and 1904, respectively. A long-lasting period of low radial growth between 1697 and 1939 prevailed in the hilltop site. During the 20th century, spruce height increased from 0.8 to 1.6 m on slopes and in the valley, while the basal level of abrasion from windblown snow increased from 0.1 to 0.5 m, suggesting an increasing trend towards warmer and snowier conditions. Abraded spruces growing during the Little Ice Age (1570-1880) were replaced by symmetrical trees during the 20th century. Supranival skirted and whorled spruces which dominated on the hilltop site during the 16th century reverted to infranival cushion and mat growth forms during the Little Ice Age. These stunted spruces were unable to recover during the recent warming because of their inability to catch enough drifting snow to allow vertical growth.
10.2307/1551610|The Lake Michigan icefoot complex at Wilmette, Illinois, U.S.A., has a variable and transient nature. Data collected during winter 1988/89 show an alternation of additions to and subtractions from the volume of the complex. A total of 548 m
10.2307/1550471|A method is described for measuring root and rhizome growth along temperature gradients in the field and under controlled conditions. Wedgeshaped Plexiglas sod boxes equipped with thermocouples are inserted into tundra soils over permafrost. After thaw has started, root and rhizome increases in length can be measured at intervals through the growing season by marking the positions of their tips on the sloping Plexiglas sides of the box. A similar box is used in a temperature-controlled coolant bath system in a controlled environment chamber. This latter system can simulate field temperature gradients down to and into permafrost. The simulated permafrost level can be raised or lowered by changing the temperature of the circulating ethylene glycol bath.
10.2307/1550656|A major rockfall occurred near the summit of Paulsen Peak (1877 m) and initiated a slide of rock, firn, and ice debris 4 km down the Lyell Glacier, South Georgia, through a total vertical height of approximately 1630 m. From a seismic record it is calculated that the average velocity of the rockfall and slide was 60 km h
10.2307/1551501|Secondary succession was observed following road-making disturbance of high-alpine cushionfield in New Zealand. After 11 yr there was 34% cover, compared to 59% in adjacent undisturbed vegetation, but the species composition was far different. Because of this, it was not possible to predict future succession from the transitions already observed. Tussocks of the grass Poa colensoi were accumulating wind-blown soil, but there was no evidence that soil nutrients had changed following disturbance. The undisturbed vegetation remained stable over the period.
10.2307/1551438|The winter ecology of the snowshoe hare (Lepus americanus) may be influenced by predation and food availability. Habitat structure or cover can affect both of these factors and hares may make foraging decisions that integrate all of these influences. We tested the hypothesis that moonlight would reduce the amount of time hares spent foraging in open clearings far from cover. Our track transects, near Kluane Lake, Yukon, indicated that hares were less active in open areas during moonlit nights compared with dark nights during the new moon. In a large clearing, we offered free ranging hares measured amounts of commercial rabbit food from both control and covered feeders. We measured nightly consumption during both bright and dark phases of the moon and found that hares preferred the covered feeders, but we found no additional effect due to moonlight conditions.
10.2307/1552146|The study focused on the performance of the spruce (Picea abies [L.] Karst.) range limit in northern (subarctic) Sweden during the Neoglacial period of the Holocene, mainly after the climax of the Little Ice Age. Subfossil wood remains suggest that the geographic spruce tree limit has remained fairly stable for slightly more than the past 2000
10.2307/1550848| Phytomass determinations were made for the pramo vegetation at five sites between 3530 and 4700 m altitude in the Venezuelan Andes. Aboveground values (living vascular plant parts only) were 59.5 to 377.5 g m
10.2307/1550609|The relationships of debris, bubbles, and crystal fabrics to longitudinal foliation in part of the glacier Charles Rabots Bre are discussed. Small englacial particles of debris often are aligned parallel to the foliation in areas covered by moraine, suggesting that discrete shear parallel to the margins was responsible for the development of the foliation. The fine material may have been incorporated englacially during the shearing process as most of the moraine originates from rock surfaces above the glacier surface. Bubbles, observed in the horizontal plane to be elongated parallel to the foliation, also indicate a shearing deformation. However, a block of ice removed from the glacier surface for a three-dimensional analysis revealed that bubbles were also flattened, and that their shape and orientation were related to the crystal structure; these characteristic may have developed later than the foliation. Crystal fabric studies reveal three or four strong maxima of c-axis orientations, but no definite relationship with foliation. Because of the stagnant nature of this part of the glacier, recrystallization under stress-free conditions altered the fabric pattern. Under such conditions, the crystals grow to large sizes, so that their boundaries no longer coincide with the boundaries of the different types of ice which make up the foliation.
10.2307/1550359|The orientation of elongate sand grains in patterned-ground can be determined by impregnating soil samples with plastic and measuring grain orientations in thin section. Microfabric studies of two earth hummocks in the Colorado Front Range suggest that the technique is applicable to problems of patterned-ground origin.
10.2307/1550777|Although the mountain ecosystems of nontropical Eurasia differ geographically and are located as islands, the systematic composition of the organisms inhabiting them is similar. This is due to floristic and faunistic links between different mountain systems of Eurasia which already existed in the Tertiary period and which became especially pronounced during the glacial epoch. During these two periods, the flora and fauna of extratropical Eurasia formed at the expense of the high-mountain central Asiatic, Mediterranean, and tundra (low-mountain and plain) plants and animals and, to a lesser extent, at the expense of the flora and fauna of the boreal forests and meadows, and of the steppes and semideserts. The high-mountain biota has many adaptive peculiarities reflecting specific habitat conditions at high altitudes. A number of high-mountain lifeforms may be distinguished by their complex of adaptations. Among plants, alpine carpet-like meadows, xerocryophilic cushions, and dwarf woods appear while mountain animals have many features of their ecology and behavior that differ from those of the plains animals. Geographical variants of the high-mountain groups of organisms and ecosystems are outlined and a regionalization of the mountain ecosystems is proposed.
10.2307/1550593| An average uranium-series age of 102,000  14,000 yr for bones from Louviers Alluvium, near Denver, Colorado, is compatible with the inferred geologic age of from 120,000 to 150,000 yr. A uranium-series date of about 190,000 yr for a bone from Slocum Alluvium, near Canon City, Colorado, is consistent with the inferred geologic age of from 150,000 to 260,000 yr. Age determinations for the Broadway Alluvium are inconsistent but its geologic age is considered to be 15,000 to 30,000 yr BP. 
10.2307/1551763|Some soils with permafrost thaw deeply and become drier after forest fires in interior Alaska, while others change little. Soils with permafrost on the coldest and wettest landscape positions (concave to plane, lower slope positions, and north-facing midslopes) usually failed to thaw deeply after fires in the study area. Soils with permafrost on warmer and drier positions (convexities, crests and shoulders, and east-, west-, or south-facing midslopes) thawed deeply in some instances and not in others, presumably as a function of fire severity or frequency. The driest soils (those on convex, upper slope positions, usually with sand and gravel at shallow depth) lack permafrost regardless of time since fire. Postfire vegetation changes on soils that fail to thaw are weaker than on soils that thaw deeply after fire or were dry and originally free of permafrost. Soils with permafrost that fail to thaw show little postfire increase in cover of the plants browsed by moose. More cover and forage for voles are present on soils with permafrost and soils that thaw deeply after fires than on those that are always dry and permafrost free.
10.2307/1550087|A sequence of minor "annual" moraine ridges formed between ca. A.D. 1950 and 1968 have been sampled to identify the pattern and timing of plant colonization. The first pioneer species appeared within just over 1 year following the ice recession. The species pattern established shows one jump in an otherwise progressive succession and this is tentatively linked to either the elimination of one annual ridge by a winter readvance of greater magnitude than normal or the nonproduction of a ridge in 1 year.
10.2307/1551473|It is commonly argued that erosion rates in valleys occupied by temperate glaciers are greater than in valleys where nonglacial processes dominate. However, a recent study by Hicks et al. (Arctic and Alpine Research, 1990, 22: 26-42), comparing sediment yields from glacierized and unglacierized basins in New Zealand, casts doubt on this idea. Given the difficulty of estimating sediment yields, and procedural differences between studies, we suggest it is not yet possible to define a consistent relationship between glacierization and sediment yield. Further, the value of such a relationship is questionable because percent glacial cover is not an adequate surrogate measure of glacial erosional intensity, and because present day comparisons of sediment yields from different basins do not permit accurate estimation of relative rates of glacial and nonglacial processes. Relationships based on the narrow range of present-day spatial variations are not reliable indicators of the temporal changes in erosion that would occur during glacial/interglacial cycles, which include paraglacial effects with response times that vary with basin size. The evaluation of relative rates of glacial and nonglacial processes requires a sediment-budget approach in which the role of storage and paraglacial sedimentation in modulating sediment yields is explicitly recognized.
10.2307/1552007|Profile development indices for soils developed in moraines and outwash near Twin Lakes and in outwash near Leadville support the correlation of moraines with subdued morphology and two high outwash terraces with the Bull Lake glaciation (ca. 130-160 ka) and the correlation of hummocky moraines and two low outwash terraces with the Pinedale glaciation (ca. 14-47 ka). Elsewhere in the northern part of the upper Arkansas Valley, glacial sequences are correlated by mapping outwash terraces near the mouths of major tributaries of the Arkansas River. Near Twin Lakes, indices for soils on low, outer lateral moraines suggest that the older Pinedale glaciers extended beyond the margin of high, younger Pinedale lateral moraines with hummocky topography. A few subdued moraines near Twin Lakes and Leadville probably record one or more glaciations significantly older than the Bull Lake. The downvalley extent of Pinedale glaciers in the Mosquito Range on the east side of the Arkansas Valley is uncertain: most likely, Pinedale glaciers were almost as extensive as Bull Lake glaciers but built no prominent terminal moraines at their maximum positions.
10.2307/1550275|Ablation rates of three adjacent Colorado alpine glaciers over a 5-week period are compared with the average number of hours per day of direct sunlight to which more than 50% of each glacier's surface was exposed, and with average wind speed; the influence of glacier size on ablation is also considered. Direct sunlight was found to influence ablation, surface wind speed had a lesser influence, and glacier size had no apparent influence. A 24-hr continuous ablation record of one glacier is correlated with weather conditions recorded during the study period. The amount of global radiation (direct and diffuse short-wave radiation) shows moderate correlation with ablation during the period of measurement, while relative humidity had a lesser correlation. Temperature variations during this cloudy 24-hr period had no immediate correlation with the measured rate of ablation.
10.2307/1550367|Annual radial growth of spruce in a forest interior where a natural snowpack is 1 to 1.5 m deep was only a little greater than near the border of an old burn where a large snowdrift ranges from 3 to 4.5 m deep. Growth was studied in the Sangre de Cristo Mountains, northeast of Santa Fe, New Mexico. The shallow snow cover melts during May and early June, while the deep snowdrift persists until late July or early August. Tree diameters averaged 24 to 30 cm and basal areas averaged 49 and 58 m
10.2307/1551282|Frost heave, slope deformation, and ground temperature have been monitored for 5 yr on ice-free mountains in Antarctica, where only diurnal frost action operates during the midsummer. The monitoring was done at three sites with similar soils but different local climates. Diurnal freeze-thaw cycles result in significant heave (max. 3.4 mm) and downslope movements (max. 1.5 cm yr
10.2307/1550765|In the Teberda River basin, 1524 avalanche paths were examined. Of these avalanches an average of 795 avalanches release each year, some with a frequency of three or more times per year. About 200 paths experience avalanche activity once every 2 or 3 yr, while for the rest the recurrence interval is greater than 3 yr. These phenomena result in the destruction of large areas of coniferous forest in this region of the Caucasus. The objective of the research described here was to study the dynamics of the formation of the avalanche natural complexes in the mid- and high-mountain belts. The following methods of study were employed. The first utilized standard, phytocoenotic methodology. The second involved analysis of deformed tree trunks, from which three categories of deformation were distinguished and related to differing forms of pressure from moving snow. These included deformation due to snowcreep, to a single avalanche shock, and to the weight of new falling snow accumulating directly on the crown and trunk of the tree. Forms resulting from multiple avalanche shocks were also distinguished. The third method utilized dendrochronology and was the most laborious to apply, but gave good quantitative indicators of avalanche activity. Study of the annual rings provided precise dates for the age of deformations as well as information on the frequency of avalanche occurrence and forces of impact. A scheme was developed for the display of the vertical arrangement of vegetation both within the avalanche paths and on the interavalanche ridges. It was found that the Ahorizon of soils within the avalanche paths is usually between 1.5 and 2 times thinner than in the nonavalanche areas. It is here contended that avalanche and nonavalanche complexes are fundamental complexes of high-mountain regions and have evolved side by side over a long period of time. Different patterns of formation of these complementary complexes are outlined.
1550161| Either of two evergreen species of Nothofagus form level, abrupt timberlines, which contrast with irregular timberlines where mixed forest gives way via subalpine scrub to alpine grassland. In both types, trees and tall shrubs cease at the same altitude, which is defined as tree limit. On coastal ranges at lat. 41S, tree limit is at 1,200 m, and it rises to 1,500 m inland. The usual reason for the absence of Nothofagus and its replacement by subalpine scrub is the failure of the former to recover ground lost during the last glaciation. Mountain climates in New Zealand are decidedly seasonal, and plants show corresponding periodicity in growth. In winter, persistent snow begins about the altitude of timberline and mean daily temperatures there are close to freezing. Summer climates are similar to those at timberline in the North Temperate Zone. Floors of valleys at high altitudes usually support grassland rather than forest, mainly because of temperature inversions. Forest also tends to be absent from cirques and from areas where there is little or no soil over ultrabasic or hard quartzose rocks. Wind-depressed timberlines and stunted woody vegetation occur on exposed mountains, especially in the southern-most parts of New Zealand. The main ranges are less exposed, but locally krummholz results from interaction of wind and snow. Avalanche and wind-throw also influence the pattern of timberline, and on the drier mountains there has been extensive deforestation by fire since the arrival of man about 1,000 years ago. Altitude at timberline is correlated with summer mean temperatures. For Nothofagus it is critical that there is enough time between germination and the end of the first growing season for the cycle of shoot growth, bud formation, and hardening to be completed. Above timberline, seedlings do not have enough time to harden and they dry out when cold weather sets in. Inability of young beech seedlings to tolerate strong light above timberline partly explains the abrupt upper limit of the forest. Woody genera forming timberline in New Zealand are nearly all confined to the Southern Hemisphere. Their distributions, which usually extend either to Australia, New Guinea, or South America, may in some cases predate the break-up of Gondwanaland, and in others result from long-distance dispersal; but the transoceanic relationships are now much obscured by subsequent evolution. The warmth prevailing in New Zealand during the Tertiary raises problems concerning the age and origin of timberline species. Nevertheless, it is likely that there were habitats where a nucleus of plants adapted to cool climates could have survived. In South America, the larger land mass and presumably more continental climate is reflected in Nothofagus timberlines with deciduous, krummholz-forming species. By way of contrast, in New Guinea the absence of temperature extremes in the mountains permits genera to ascend to timberline that are confined to relatively low altitudes in New Zealand. New Zealand and north temperate timberlines differ in that at the former, tree and tall shrub species only occasionally transcend tree limit as stunted individuals, whereas at the latter, krummholz above tree limit occurs widely. This is partly because the relatively delicate seedlings of Nothofagus (and probably of other New Zealand species also) are sensitive to drought at high altitudes. Pine seedlings, on the other hand, are robust and able to exploit strongly insolated sites, while Picea seedlings are protected through having a brief and limited flush of growth. Krummholz in the Northern Hemisphere implies microclimates near the ground within which tree seedlings can become established above the regional limits for tree growth, whereas in New Zealand krummholz results from severe aerial climates locally depressing tree growth below the regional tree limit. Nevertheless, timberlines in New Zealand seem to be climatically equivalent to those in other parts of the world to within 50 m. 
10.2307/1551385|An approach for obtaining surface albedo measurements from Landsat Thematic Mapper (TM) imagery and digital terrain data is presented. Digital terrain data are used for the geometric correction and image registration of satellite imagery, the correction of atmospheric effects, and the computation of solar irradiance. The visible, near-infrared and mid-infrared reflectance derived from Landsat TM spectral bands are combined into a measure of surface albedo by use of a weighted average scheme. The methodology has been applied in order to map the spatial distribution of surface albedo along an altitudinal transect in the east slope of the Colorado Front Range, U.S.A. Estimated values of albedo for selected surfaces compare favorably with published data for comparable surfaces and field measurements in the region. The results presented herein are part of a continuing research project specifically designed to map the spatial patterns of the net radiation load at the surface in high relief environments.
10.2307/1550132|The author submits the lichenometric method proposed in 1950 by Beschel, and since then used by many geographers, to a critical discussion. General theoretical considerations and own observations show that "lichenometry" in the generally used manner will have little success. Numerous sources of errors derive from ecological factors not yet exactly known and from the inner structure of the lichen itself.
10.2307/1550529| This paper deals with animal density, age and sex distribution, and mortality patterns in two subpopulations of Svalbard reindeer which have been protected since 1925. Animal densities of 5.6 and 4.0 animals per km
10.2307/1551514|Radiocarbon-dated sediment cores collected from lakes in the Temple Lake valley suggest that valley-wall rock glaciers adjacent to these lakes were not active during the Holocene, but are late Pleistocene in age. The absence of well-graded coarse clastic material in the cores and the general consistency of sediment characteristics through the Holocene suggest that slumping and turbidity flows did not contribute significantly to the lacustrine sediment record as would be expected had the rock glaciers advanced into these lakes. In addition, the advanced weathering of the rock glacier deposits can be used to support a late Pleistocene age. Such conclusions challenge the interpretation of the weathering characteristics of these deposits (i.e., relative age), and thus challenge the early Neoglacial age (3000 to 5000 BP) for these rock glaciers. Consequently, more reliable chronologies of high-alpine glacial and periglacial activity may be gleaned through the use of continuous records of lacustrine sedimentation from appropriately located lakes in conjunction with relative-age techniques.
10.2307/1550192|Attempts at modernization of the Eskimos, Aleuts, and Indians in Alaska have been made through formal educational systems introduced by missions, the Bureau of Indian Affairs, and the public school system. Problems of adjustment to social change have been heightened by the frequently shifting educational focus. A changing economy, a growing sense of marginality, and an awareness of segregation and discrimination have created cultural and value conflicts. Difficulties of travel between urban centers and rural areas have intensified the physical isolation of the Alaskan Natives, more than threequarters of whom live in rural areas. Data secured during an Alaskan field trip in the summer of 1968 indicate that current educational philosophy is geared toward preventing further destruction of the old value system, while at the same time encouraging a full participation in the total society. It is hoped that reawakening a pride in traditional culture and language, while preparing the individual for spatial, occupational, and social mobility will facilitate acceptance of the native into the total society and help him maintain a positive self-image in a changing world.
1550170|The zoogeography of three lakes, formed by Pleistocene glaciation, in the Central Cordillera of New Guinea is discussed. These lakes are considered to be transitional between warm and cold polymictic, being situated well below the altitude of frequent frost. The bottoms of the lakes are generally pure organic matter and they are low in electrolytes. Passive dispersal by which the crustacean fauna is distributed reflects the climatological past which favored immigration. A relatively small number of species is represented, as would be expected in young modern lakes. The crustacean fauna of these lakes is described and its distribution compared with that in circumtropical high mountain lakes.
10.2307/1551952|Noticeable changes in vegetation distribution have occurred in the Pacific Northwest during the last century as trees have established in some subalpine meadows. To study the relationship of this process to climate, recently established trees were aged in six subalpine meadows in the Olympic Mountains, Washington. The sites represent three points along a steep precipitation gradient. Subalpine fir (Abies lasiocarpa) has been establishing at the dry end of the gradient, mountain hemlock (Tsuga mertensiana) at the wet end, and both species in the center. Establishment patterns were compared with deviations from the century-long average for these weather variables: winter precipitation, Palmer Drought Severity Index, and winter, October, and May temperatures. Results show that establishment occurred in dry areas when weather conditions were wetter than average, and in wet areas under drier than average conditions. Establishment at central sites did not show consistent relationships with climate. If future climatic conditions continue to warm, establishment of subalpine fir in subalpine meadows in dry areas may cease and mountain hemlock may resume in wet areas.
10.2307/1550046| Vertical aerial photography of Breidamerkurjkull flown in 1945 and 1965 has shown that an area containing a sandur in 1945 has developed into an esker ridge surrounded by kettle topography. Photogrammetric measurements from this photography indicate that the esker was produced by the melting out of buried ice from beneath sandur deposits on either side of the ridge. Field mapping of a second esker which was melting out of the glacer during the period of study has shown that planimetric and height changes have occurred as a result of the melting of buried ice. The plan shape of the ridge appears to be controlled by ice structures giving a distinct rectilinear pattern to the esker. A cross section dug through the ridge revealed that the gravels were underlain by ice, indicating an englacial origin for at least part of the esker. This cross section, as well as others, have shown varations in the shape of the tunnel containing the gravels. The mechanism by which the esker is lowered to the proglacial surface to form a single ridge is also discussed. 
10.2307/1551757|The hypothesis that successional pathways converge onto climax bog communities is tested in the Hudson Bay lowland of Canada using both chronosequence data and paleoecological reconstruction. A chronosequence of different age surfaces has resulted from land emergence out of Hudson Bay due to isostatic rebound during the late Holocene. The chronosequence results, based on remote-sensing data and ground surveys, indicate that successional pathways beginning on moist sites (mesoseres) and on dry sites (xeroseres) support quite different vegetation types on the youngest age surfaces, but ultimately converge onto Sphagnum bog communities which dominate the older (>4000 yr) surfaces. The vegetation changes based on paleoecological reconstruction of a peat profile from a Sphagnum bog on a 4100 yr BP surface in the Hudson Bay lowland shows strong similarities to the present day vegetation along the regional chronosequence. The development of the Hudson Bay lowland appears to be primarily under the control of succession coupled with surface hydrology and, perhaps, climate. This result suggests that the pollen record may be more a reflection of a coupling of successional and environmental processes rather than externally forced climate changes. This work points to the critical need for understanding the contribution of succession (coupled with climate, soils, and hydrology) in the interpretation of paleoecological data.
10.2307/1551341|Icing at locations near Lake Tahoe and in northern California appears to be soft or hard rime. At one site during three recent winters, and at six other locations during the winter of 1986/87, riming was common, occurring on average during 38% of winter days between November and April. On an hourly basis, rime occurred during 19% of the 17,850 h of observation at five locations. Rime and precipitation were often concurrent, with precipitation occurring during, or within 4 h of riming three times as often as riming alone. Rime occurrence was often synchronous at the sampling sites around Lake Tahoe, 40% of the time being concurrent at two or more sites. Riming intensity, as indexed by deicing cycles of Rosemount ice detectors at five sites near Lake Tahoe, was much lower than at sites in the northeastern United States. An algorithm developed through discriminant analysis correctly classified independent observations of riming over 82% of the time. The absence of riming was correctly classified in over 92% of the cases. First approximations of water equivalent contributed by rime ranged from 14 to 66% of precipitation recorded during comparable periods at four sites around Lake Tahoe during the 1986/87 winter.
10.2307/1550714|Data on the degree of surface boulder weathering, depth of soil oxidation, and glacier profile reconstructions set limits on the relative ages of the landforms of the Qivitu Peninsula, but amino acid (D-alloisoleucine/L-isoleucine) ratios from shell fragments are superior for regional correlation of the Qivitu sequence. Radiocarbon and
10.2307/1551414|The physical and chemical characteristics and ecological consequences of road dust in arctic regions are reviewed with emphasis on recent information gathered along the Dalton Highway and the Prudhoe Bay Spine Road in northern Alaska. The primary observed ecological effects of dust are (1) early snowmelt in roadside areas due to lower albedos, resulting in a snow-free band of vegetation within 30 to 100 m of the road in early spring, which is used by waterfowl and numerous other species of wildlife; (2) a decrease in Sphagnum and other acidophilous mosses near the road; (3) an increase in many minerotrophic mosses; (4) a decrease in soil lichens, particularly species of Cladina, Peltigera, and Stereocaulon; (5) elimination of corticolous lichens near the road in areas of particularly high dust fall; (6) a general opening of the ground cover near the road and a consequent colonization of these barren surfaces by many taxa that are common on mineral-rich soils; (6) few effects on vascular plant abundance except in areas of very high dust, where ericaceous taxa and conifers are affected; (7) increased depth of thaw within 10 m of the road, possibly due to decreased plant cover and earlier initiation of thaw; and (8) contribution to thermokarst in roadside areas. Enhanced dust control measures should be considered, particularly where the road passes through scenic lichen woodlands, acidophilous tundra, annd in calm valleys where dust commonly is a traffic safety hazard.
10.2307/1551463|Seven lichen community types of the epilithic lichen vegetation around the town Qaanaaq (Thule), northwestern Greenland, are recognized on the basis of floristic composition and different habitat factors. The main habitat factors are rock mineralogy and lithology, physical environment, and exposure and inclination of the host rock surface. The lichen vegetation was investigated by pin-point analysis. All the lichens studied were growing on loose rock substrates, i.e., stones and boulders of the surficial deposits that dominate the ice-free coast around Qaanaaq. The rocks are locally derived; rock types can readily be correlated with in situ bedrock units. Mineral and chemical compositions of the lichen substrates were estimated from thin sections of selected rocks chosen as representative of the lichen-covered rock suite. Two of the seven lichen communities show obvious relationships to rock substratum. The seven lichen communities are comparable to communities recognized elsewhere in Greenland, North America, and Europe, although the Qaanaaq vegetation is relatively simple, being composed of rather few species.
10.2307/1551745|Largest lichens (genus Rhizocarpon) were measured on 2800 boulders sampled systematically at 28 sites on a thin triangular talus. Sites with similar lichen-size frequency distributions were grouped and used to interpret the temporal and spatial patterns of rockfall supply. Most of the slope yields size-distributions of largest lichens that reflect the history of rockfall activity over at least the last 400 yr. A general increase in surface age diagonally downslope suggests boulders are supplied by rockfall rather than avalanching, with no evidence of postdepositional redistribution. At one corner of the talus foot the lichen-size distributions have reached equilibrium, suggesting negligible supply of boulders during the late Holocene. Sites at the apex of the talus are dominated by small lichens. Simulation modeling is used to reconstruct possible temporal patterns of debris supply to different parts of the talus, and competing models are tested by estimating the thickness of talus predicted to have accumulated during the Holocene. The normal rate of rockfall during the late Holocene is estimated to result in burial of about 4% of the talus surface each 25 yr. Rates of rockfall supply during the 18th century, the coldest phase of the Little Ice Age, are estimated to have been almost five times the normal late Holocene rate. Results are consistent with talus formation under periglacial conditions during the Holocene; a paraglacial origin is unnecessary.
10.2307/1551003| The northwesternmost lobe of the Laurentide ice sheet flowed parallel to the Richardson and British mountains in the Northwest Territories, Canada. Reconstructed ice profiles from drift limits indicate that the early Wisconsin (?) and late Wisconsin Laurentide ice sheets in this area were thin and characterized by exceptionally low basal shear stresses of 1-30 kPa (0.01-0.3 bars). The low glacier profiles probably reflect subglacial sediment deformation at low basal shear stress and significant subglacial pore pressures. The Laurentide ice sheet was apparently not frozen to its base along its northwest margin at 69N latitude. Rapid retreat rates of the northwest Laurentide ice sheet are probably due in part to its low initial profile. Solar energy would have been sufficient to melt the stagnant low profile ice sheet. The Laurentide ice sheet was asymmetric in the late Wisconsin, thicker in the east than in the west. 
10.2307/1551650| Thirty-four montane soil profiles, derived from a variety of lithological materials and distributed widely throughout Scotland, were examined using X-ray diffraction, differential scanning calorimetry, and scanning electron microscopy. In addition, soil thin sections were studied by optical microscopy. Minerals identified in the clay (<2 m) fraction of the soils include mica, vermiculite, interstratified mica-vermiculite, kaolinite, gibbsite, quartz, and feldspars, together with subordinate amounts of chlorite and halloysite. In 19 of the 34 C horizon samples, gibbsite contents exceeded 1%. In samples from the A and B horizons, however, gibbsite was detected far less frequently and in substantially lower quantities. The gibbsite appears largely to be the product of intense decomposition of feldspar minerals, particularly plagioclase feldspar, and is interpreted as a relict feature derived from a preglacial Pleistocene or even Tertiary regolith that formed under humid warm temperate to subtropical conditions. 
10.2307/1550850| The geomorphic effects of ground squirrels (Spermophilus columbianus c.) are described for two study plots in the Front Ranges of the Canadian Rocky Mountains over the period 1977 to 1980. At the two plots, the average rates of sediment transport to the ground surface were 1.36 and 1.12 t ha
10.2307/1550966|Unusual striations on the surfaces of a well-indurated sandstone in the Falkland Islands have been caused by claws on the feet of rockhopper penguins over a long period of time. These striations, when combined with organic remains, have potential as evidence for locating "fossil" breeding sites and age-dating of former sea levels.
10.2307/1551427|Two coal strip-mined areas in Alaska, one seeded in 1976 and another seeded in 1979, were surveyed in 1981 and 1985 to determine what plant species had survived and what species contributed the greatest amount of cover and biomass. We hypothesized that those species possessing characteristics suitable for revegetation in central Alaska would contribute the greatest cover, regardless of the year of seeding. Of the 19 species seeded in 1976, 9 were present in 1981, and 3 present in 1985. Eight of the 15 species seeded in 1979 were present in 1981 and 4 present in 1985. In 1981, Boreal red fescue (Festuca rubra cultivar "Boreal") accounted for 50% cover and 53% of the biomass on the 1976 site, and 48% cover and 60% of the biomass on the 1979 site. Boreal red fescue contributed the greatest amount of cover on both study sites in 1985, accounting for 31 and 38% on the 1976 and 1979 sites, respectively. No biomass data were collected in 1985.
10.2307/1550050|Boreal chorus frogs, Pseudacris triseriata borealis (Weid), breed at and above timberline in the San Miguel and San Juan Mountains of southwestern Colorado. The location of two breeding sites at 3,670 m and 3,597 m are described. Males were observed calling at 3,720 m. These are the highest recorded breeding amphibians in North America.
10.2307/1551991|Floodplain lakes are tightly coupled to their associated river systems and their sediment records should provide integrative records of this interaction. Surface sediments and selected limnological variables were collected from 77 Mackenzie Delta lakes representing three categories of river influence: lakes having continuous connection with the Mackenzie River (n = 23; no-closure), lakes that flood every spring but lose connection during the summer (n = 26; low-closure), and lakes that flood only during an extreme spring flood stage (n = 28; high-closure). Summer lake production, using winter methane concentration as a proxy, and river influence were identified as the principal limnological gradients separating delta lakes. This river influence/primary production gradient also accounted for the greatest amount of variation within the surface sediment diatom assemblages. The diatom flora of the Mackenzie Delta lakes was dominated by benthic taxa, particularly the genera Nitzschia and Navicula, with a greater abundance of stalked, epiphytic taxa in the high-closure lakes. A robust predictive model was developed for inferring lake production from fossil diatom assemblages. The model provides a tool for estimating long-term changes in river influence and lake dynamics from the sediment record of Mackenzie Delta lakes. Diatom-inferred river influence changes within these records may then be linked with past river discharge variability.
10.2307/1552024|From glacial landforms and new radiocarbon datings at Tyndall and Upsala Glacier areas of the Southern Patagonia Icefield, four Neoglacial advances are recognized. At Tyndall Glacier, a First Neoglacial advance, marked by obscure terminal moraines and distinctive lateral moraines occurred at ca. 3600 yr BP. A Second Neoglacial advance, indicated by conspicuous trimlines on the side-valley wall and on the flank of the lateral moraines of the First Neoglacial advance, presumably occurred at ca. 2300 yr BP. A Third Neoglacial advance, distinguished by the different color and surficial materials of the terrain, occurred at ca. 1400 yr BP. A Fourth Neoglacial advance occurred at ca. A.D. 1700. At Upsala Glacier, a new scheme was presented, modifying the classical scheme of Mercer. He identified two Neoglaciations from radiocarbon datings at ca. 3600 yr BP, and ca. 2300 yr BP (Pearson I), and the Little Ice Age glaciation, Pearson II, at A.D. 1600-1760 from dendrochronological analyses. In this study, Herminita moraines that were first recognized in 1990 were dated to be ca. 2400-2200 yr BP, corresponding to a Second Neoglaciation. Pearson I moraines which were long believed to be ca. 2300 yr BP were dated to be ca. 1600, 1400, and 900 yr BP. These dates are close to a Third Neoglaciation. The existence of the earliest Neoglaciation, ca. 3600 yr BP, was not directly supported by new data; however, the data from Tyndall and other glaciers suggest that it probably occurred at Upsala Glacier.
10.2307/1551073|An intensive sampling of the natural waters originating from a subalpine watershed was carried out during 1971 and 1972. The information obtained was utilized in regression models to estimate daily outputs of the main constituents (Ca
10.2307/1551405|Boreal peatlands within the interior of North America have developed vegetation landforms that simulate the shape of geologic landforms, such as islands and river channels. The genesis and development of these vegetation landforms can be inferred from spatial transitions from one landform pattern to another and from the quantitative analysis of their shapes in plan view. The spatial transitions indicate that the bog islands develop (1) downslope from flow obstructions in catchments that have irregular relief and (2) by the fragmentation of a large bog (>20 km
10.2307/1551344|Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) in soil has been used as an index of soil microbial biomass, but efficient extraction of ATP from soil is often a problem. The objective of this study was to find an ATP extraction procedure which is simple, can be readily adapted to routine extraction of ATP at remote field locations, and is efficient at extracting ATP from soils, especially high-latitude soils. None of the six methods tested was ideally suited for all of the soils used. The boiling tris, butanol-octanol, and sodium bicarbonate-chloroform procedures could be easily adapted for use at remote field sites but gave very poor recoveries of added ATP for at least some of the soils tested. Measurement of ATP after extraction with the trichloroacetic acid-phosphate-paraquat method was impossible due to very high quenching of emitted light. For added cellular ATP, the phosphoric acid-urea-DMSO-adenosine-EDTA-Zwittergent (Web) procedure gave the highest recoveries, 77 and 64%, respectively, for a subarctic agricultural soil and an arctic tundra organic horizon, but only 10% for a crude-oil-contaminated subarctic forest soil, while the benzalkonium chloride-sulfuric acid-phosphate (BCl-S-P) procedure gave recoveries of 13, 10, and 20% from the agricultural soil, oiled soil, and tundra soil, respectively. The Web method could not be easily adapted for remote-field extractions but the latter could, and for studies in which low recoveries of ATP are acceptable, the BCl-S-P procedure would be the most suitable procedure of those tested.
10.2307/1551283|A model of mass balance is constructed for the Franz Josef Glacier on the west coast of New Zealand. It uses daily data from a nearby, but short-record climate station. The model is extended back to 1913 by creating hybrid climate data from a long-record, but more distant, climate station. Its monthly data provide long-term temperature and precipitation trends, and daily fluctuations are simulated using a stochastic approach that is tuned to the characteristics of the short-record station. The glacier model provides estimates of equilibrium-line altitudes which are in reasonable agreement with those observed, and variations of cumulative mass balance that correspond with patterns of advance and retreat of the glacier terminus.
10.2307/1550937| The orientation of striated soil, a pattern produced by needle ice, has been explained with two theories: the stripes could be oriented with the wind direction, or with the alignment of the early sun's rays. This study presents the temperature fluctuations of the air and the upper soil profile during the actual formation of stripes, and discusses the physical properties of the soils associated with this ground pattern in the Andean Pramo de Piedras Blancas, Venezuela, at 4260 m elevation. Eighty stripe orientations from eight plots with three different aspects were statistically analyzed in relation to the dominant winds and the early sun's rays. The orientations were coincident with the sun's rays, but were not influenced by wind; aspect and time of illumination by the sun were correlated with mean stripe orientation, which veered from the south- to the north-facing plots and with later time of needle ablation. After 10 d, stripes formed on all areas where they had been erased by raking; experimental exclusion of sunlight prevented the formation of the pattern, while wind interception did not affect the process. 
10.2307/1551304|The Vanoise Massif in the northern French Alps provides excellent conditions for the study of plant-soil relationships above the treeline. Soils are generally poorly developed. Widespread crystalline rocks support grasslands characterized by Carex curvula, with Tanacetum alpinum on north-facing slopes and Festuca halleri on south-facing slopes with ranker-type soils (Lithic Cryorthents). On calcareous substrates, there is a clear differentiation between vegetation of limestone and that of calcschists. On limestone, Sesleria caerulea is prevalent, and the soil is usually slightly acidic. On calc-schists the groups are dominated by Elyna myosuroides accompanied by Carex rosae, and the soils (Lithic Cryorthents) are primarily acidic and do not allow a gradual progression towards the groups on crystalline rocks.
1550165|Significant relationships were noted between soils, plant community types, and environmental parameters in alpine ecosystems in the Sunshine area, Banff National Park. Alpine Dystric Brunisols with large amounts of amorphous colloids are found in stable slope positions under Phyllodoce glanduliflora and Antennaria lanata community types, while calcareous Orthic Regosols and Alpine Eutric Bruinsols occur on wind-desiccated slopes under Dryas hookeriana and Dryas hookeriana-Carex scirpoidea community types. The Anemone occidentalis community type occurs on Cumulic Regosol soils that, on steep slopes, are greatly disturbed by mass-wasting processes. Eriophorum angustifolium, E. scheuchzeri, and Carex eleusinoides community types occur on poorly drained Gleysolic soils formed in ponding basins and seepage areas. Cumlic Regosols on recent alluvial deposits typically support a Salix barrattiana community type.
10.2307/1551633| Woodland caribou (Rangifer tarandus caribou Gmelin) occupy the Mackenzie and Selwyn Mountains of the Yukon and N.W.T., Canada. During the warm weather months they move into alpine areas and are frequently observed to utilize late-lying snowpatches. Microclimatic observations confirm that at 0.5 m height the snowpatch is consistently 3C cooler than adjacent areas. Insect trap data indicated that significant differences in numbers and species occur between snowpatches and adjacent snow-free areas at the same and lower elevations. Indices of harassment correlated with biting insect numbers and with higher air temperatures (11.3 to 20.4C, shielded temperatures) and below-average wind speeds
10.2307/1550002|Pieris occidentalis is a colonizing species breeding on the weedy cruciferous annual Lepidium densiflorum in the railroad yard at Fairbanks, Alaska. Its behavior and ecology are very similar to those of a railroad yard population previously studied in the Sierra Nevada of California. Despite the high latitude, the Fairbanks population is potentially multivoltine and polyphenic, attributes associated with colonizing ability. Pieris occidentalis and its lowland sibling P. protodice are interpreted as preadapted to disturbed, man-associated environments by their natural dependence on early-successional vegetation.
10.2307/1550577|Fungal biomass was sampled at 1-to-2- and 6-to-7-cm depths in soil along a moisture gradient on IBP Tundra Biome Site 4 from a wet slough to a high center dry polygon top. Soil cores from 16 plots were taken and samples examined every 14 days throughout the 1972 field season. On each plot the composition of the higher plant community and all fungi which fruited were recorded. Soil temperature, soil moisture, bulk density, and total carbon content were recorded for each sample core. Three physiographically different plots (400, 416, and 450) are presented to illustrate the effect of the moisture gradient on the higher plant community and, in turn, on the fungal biomass. Plot 400 was the lowest and wettest area on the moisture gradient. It was a seasonally inundated slough having a loose peat layer covered with aquatic grass-sedge-meadow community. Soil carbon content and soil temperatures were lowest of those found on the three plots. The highest soil moisture content combined with low soil carbon and temperature resulted in a lower fungal biomass than found on plot 416, but much higher than plot 450. Plot 416 represented average moisture conditions on the moisture gradient. It was a low moist flat polygon top with a deep consolidated peat layer. The grass-willow plant community, with a soil moisture content of 300 to 500% and a somewhat higher soil temperature than plot 400, supported the highest fungal biomass. The lowest soil carbon of the three plots indicates a high decomposition rate. Plot 450, a dry polygon top, represented the driest area on the moisture gradient. A peat layer was virtually absent and scattered grasses were combined with a weak moss cover. The lowest soil moisture content of all the plots was combined with the highest soil carbon content and soil temperatures. The result was an extremely low fungal biomass and a low rate of decomposition. Fungal hyphae averaged 11.5% solid material of which 40% was carbon and 1.6 to 3.8% nitrogen. The nitrogen percentage in fruiting bodies was distinctly higher--3.8 to 6.9%. Fungal biomass was highest at 1 to 2 cm and decreased 3 to 4 fold at 6 to 7 cm depths. Seasonal fluctuations in fungal biomass increased appreciably in response to low levels of rainfall. The greatest number of species of fruiting fungi were recorded on plot 416, a lesser number on plot 400, and the lowest number on plot 450.
10.2307/1551897| Permafrost temperatures from the surface down to about 20 m from 10 boreholes distributed around three villages on the coast of Hudson Strait (Salluit, Kangiqsujuaq, and Quaqtaq) were recorded and analyzed for the period 1988-1993. The results indicate that the permafrost has been regularly cooling along the southern shore of Hudson Strait. The observed trend in the order of 0.05C yr
10.2307/1550682|The eastern coast of Baffin Island is a climatically severe, topographically complex arctic region. Archaeological and historical evidence show that the area was occupied over part, if not all, of the last two millenia by small Eskimo populations. Investigations of the distribution and environments of dwelling sites along a portion of the Davis Strait coast indicate a pattern of site selection which provides the optimum local environment from a demonstrably wide range of alternatives. Site surveys give some indication of the degree of topoclimatic diversity which exists in the region. It is suggested that the observed patterns of site selection and utilization represent a particular local adaptation on the part of Thule culture inhabitants to this climatically stressful region.
10.2307/1550769| The climatology and ecology of the timberline on central Mexican volcanoes is reported. Timberline is defined as the upper limit of more or less closed stands of Pinus hartwegii; it occurs at about 4000 m at a boundary conditioned by cold and dryness (Kltetrockengrenze). Climatological parameters from four stations on Pico de Orizaba are reported including temperature, number of frost-change days, precipitation, and soil moisture. There are approximately 210 frost-change days, 50% of which occur during the winter. Their number rapidly decreases in March/April, at which time spring growth of P. hartwegii begins. Maximum daily temperature fluctuations of 70C were recorded in dry tufted grass. An asymmetrical arrangement of vegetation belts is evident. Reasons for this are discussed, including climate regimes, soil conditions, and exposure. Both man-made and natural fires have influenced the development of the timberline. Lightning-produced fires occur principally along the upslope portion of the timberline and are naturally contained whereas man-made fires are more frequent, start lower down the mountain, and spread rapidly upward causing a lowering of the timberline. The timberline of central Mexico is characterized as a transition zone and cannot be assigned to a specific climatic zone. 
10.2307/1551955|A vegetation chronosequence has developed on an outwash plain formed as Exit Glacier (Kenai Fjords National Park, Alaska, U.S.A.) retreated, beginning in the late 1700s. However, much of the area deglaciated since 1950 is partly flooded most years; this has slowed succession compared to other chronosequences on glacial till. Vegetation cover, diversity, density, and plant sizes in several stands of each of seven successional stages (Barren, Isolated Plant, Patchy, Alder, Cottonwood, Spruce-Cottonwood, Spruce-Hemlock) were sampled by systematic points along line transects and belt transects. All major species were found in the Barren stage, but they differed in timing of importance in the remainder of the chronosequence. Populus balsamifera ssp. trichocarpa (black cottonwood) was the most abundant colonizer and dominated many sites up to 150 yr after deglaciation. Picea sitchensis (Sitka spruce) was present throughout the chronosequence, but not in significant numbers until the Cottonwood stage. Tsuga mertensiana (mountain hemlock) was not common until it colonized dead logs and organic soils in the Spruce-Cottonwood stage. Forested sites on hillslopes above the outwash plain were dominated by P. sitchensis and T. mertensiana. Cover of Alnus sinuata (Sitka alder) and Populus balsamifera separated the three youngest stages from the middle two while Picea sitchensis cover distinguished the oldest two stages from the others.
10.2307/1552004| Nearly 280 radiocarbon-dated macrofossils from 115 sites in Russia are used to reconstruct the shift in the northern treeline during last 10,000 yr, which was primarily considered to be climatically controlled. Picea obovata Ledeb. spread farther to the north between 8000 and 4500/4300 BP. In Siberia there is evidence of a more northern than present position of the Larix Mill. limit between 10,000 and 5000/4500 BP. The present limit of larch was established ca. 3200 BP in Yamal peninsula region and ca. 3500 BP in Lena River valley. Tree birches (Betula pubescens Ehrh., B. pendula Roth.) reached the present-day shoreline of Barents Sea in Bolshezemelskaya tundra and 72N in Taimyr between 8000 and 9000 BP. In Yamal peninsula by 8000 BP the tree birch limit was near 70N, but by ca. 5000/4500 BP the northern limit of tree birch was similar to present. Alnus fruticosa Rupr. reached 7433N in Taimyr and 7527N in northeast Siberia between 10,000 and 8000 BP. Pinus pumila (Pall.) Regel, Ribes L., Rubus idaeus L., Vaccinium uliginosum L., and Oxycoccus palustris Pers. moved northward between 10,000 and 9000 BP and 8000 and 5000/4500 BP. Fossil wood evidence correlates well with results of COHMAP climate modeling for 9000 BP and 6000 BP. 
10.2307/1551320|The pollen analysis of two sediment cores from Oil Lake, in the eastern foothills of the Brooks Range, and Feniak Lake, in the Noatak River drainage, reveal late Wisconsin and Holocene vegetation changes. These cores exhibit alternative trends in the development of the modern tundra biome. At Oil Lake, a long birch/herb zone with little fluctuation is followed by a rapid rise in sedge, which is then followed by a birch zone and an alder zone. There is a drop in birch pollen at the late glacial/Holocene boundary, with a rise in sedge and Nymphaea, an indication of the increase in moisture at the end of the late glacial. Feniak Lake yields a detailed history of Holocene vegetation change that includes an early Alnus pollen rise during the Birch Zone, indicating local expansion of alder in the Noatak River region.
10.2307/1550527|The role of carbonic acid as a soil cation leaching agent was found to decrease as annual temperature decreased among four sites ranging from tropical rainforest to subalpine and northern forest. Carbonic acid dissociation was suppressed by low pH in the subalpine and northern soil solutions, and the presence of organic acids is suspected in these solutions. The presence of the bicarbonate anion has a major impact on yearly cation transport through a soil. It is hypothesized that the reduced bicarbonate concentrations at low pH in the subalpine and northern sites reduces nutrient loss from the rooting zone. The roles of sulfate and chloride in the anion component of soil solutions are also discussed with reference to sources of SO
10.2307/1551957|Satellite imagery from the Landsat TM and MSS, Russian KFA-1000, and ERS-1 SAR instruments has been analyzed to define ice divides and basins on the ice caps of the 10,130-km
10.2307/1551989| Field observations were conducted at the summit ice cap of the Ushkovsky volcano, central Kamchatka, in the summer of 1996, in order to evaluate the potential of the ice cap for reconstruction of the past climate over Kamchatka. A 27-m-long firn-core contains an approximate 27-yr record of net balance with an average accumulation rate of 0.57 m a
10.2307/1552150|Surface melt features on Arctic sea ice contribute greatly to variations in surface energy absorption and exchange. This factor, when coupled with the spatial variability of melt-pond fractional coverage emphasizes the importance of calculating the rate at which the snow cover to melt-pond proportional area changes. The small area of many melt features, especially in the early spring, demand high resolution imagery to accurately determine melt-pond coverage. This study utilizes a time series of low level photographic infrared images collected from a tethered balloon to quantify the change in melt-pond fractional cover during the spring transitional period. The data were gathered as a component of the Seasonal Sea Ice Monitoring and Modelling Site (SIMMS) field experiment for 1995, conducted near Resolute, NWT, in the Canadian Arctic Archipelago. Analysis of the imagery indicates a linear growth rate of melt-pond coverage to a maximum ponding of just over 50%. Incorporation of microclimatic variables collected during SIMMS'95 reveals triggers to the onset of pond development. It is important to develop methods to characterize the evolution of melt-feature area as thermodynamic sea-ice models have shown sensitivity to variables associated with surface ponding.
10.2307/1550816|Five species of Pedicularis are common near Atkasook, Alaska, and all rely on bumblebees for pollination. But bumblebees were not abundant in 1975 and 1976, and although most flowers were pollinated (60 to 95% depending on year and species), only 20 to 50% of the ovules in pollinated flowers developed. Nevertheless, all species shared characteristics that favored outcrossing; all were protogynous, all required an insect vector for pollination, and all except a late-flowering species produced more seeds when outcrossed than when inbred. Despite a short growing season, one species bloomed earlier than the rest and one bloomed later than the rest. The early species (P. kanei) had the largest shoots and produced many seeds even though nectar production and pollination success (seeds per ovule) were low. The late species (P. lapponica) had the smallest shoots and produced few seeds even though pollination success was high. Of the species blooming in mid-season, one (P. capitata) had few flowers, and thus few seeds per shoot, even though nectar production and pollination success were high; one (P. langsdorffii) had large numbers of ovules, high pollination success, and the largest number of seeds per shoot; and one (P. sudetica) had intermediate number of ovules but low pollination success and low numbers of seeds per shoot when growing in isolated patches. Species that had greater leaf weight per shoot (more photosynthetic material) produced more or larger seeds so that their total weight of seed produced per shoot was larger. Analysis of dispersion patterns indicated that each species reached peak abundance in different habitats and that local spatial overlap (1-m
10.2307/1551623|A new relative sea level curve for the Robeson Channel area contrasts with previously published curves for the area by inferring that rapid emergence may have commenced at ca. 7400 BP, as much as 1200 yr earlier than previously predicted. Subsequently, uplift may have occurred at much lower rates from ca. 6000 BP to present. A comparison of shell dates used for the relative sea level curve and dates on disseminated total organic carbon (TOC) fraction from lacustrine and marine sediments from sediment cores from emerged coastal lakes shows wide discrepancies. Furthermore, several infinite TOC dates (>27,750 to >40,600 BP) from glaciomarine sediments may imply that the region was ice-free during the last glacial maximum, but the validity of the TOC dates from the sediment cores is questionable due to variable contamination with redeposited detrital organic matter.
10.2307/1549982|Leaf water potential of Picea engelmannii and Abies lasiocarpa was measured throughout the year in the Medicine Bow Mountains, Wyoming. Winter-exposed needles of trees at timberline (3,300 m) exhibited severe water stress during the winter (-30 to -35 bars water potential) while winter-protected needles of trees at timberline and needles of trees at lower elevations (2,990 m) exhibited less stress (-18 to -20 bars water potential). The winter stress of the timberline trees appeared to be the result of the interaction of primarily two factors, the strong winds which increased transpirational losses and the cold soil which inhibited absorption of water. Leaf water stress appears to be a significant limiting factor of tree growth at timberline in the central Rocky Mountains.
10.2307/1550048| It is generally agreed that the Quaternary ice sheets of the Northern Hemisphere were brought about by a cooling of the atmosphere. A temperature decrease tends to reduce water vapor in the air and thus the precipitation. Ahlmann's curve connecting summer temperature and apparent accumulation at the glaciation limit is probably not applicable to the start of the Labrador-Ungava ice sheet which could have been initiated with smaller accumulation than the curve indicates. However, a cooling of 6C with the present precipitation hardly seems sufficient. It is unlikely that "glacial ice" of high density could have started an ice sheet itself. Even if the possibility of a growth of the Keewatin ice sheet from "valley ice" is accepted, a cooling of only 6C would not be enough. The region would then have had the climate of unglacierized northern Siberia today. The start of the North American ice sheet would have required an initial cooling considerably greater than 6C, or a decrease of 6C with precipitation somewhat higher than the present. The conditions which brought about the synoptic and climatic changes which started the Quaternary ice sheet of North America are still not established. 
10.2307/1551547|Frost resistance generally increases with the altitude of the source population as an adaptive response to lower temperatures. But for a population from a single source, mortality would be expected to increase with altitude when freezing temperatures increase in frequency and intensity. Five species of plants and two species of vertebrates showed increased survival with altitude, given similar freezing temperatures. For lettuce seedlings this increase is highly significant. This evidence, together with laboratory experiments on four species of plants suggest that survival after freezing may increase under low atmospheric pressure. Such a relation is unknown in the literature. If confirmed, it could change our understanding of freezing physiology and have practical applications in diverse fields.
10.2307/1552116|In the arctic landscape, vegetation composition and structure are strongly affected by topographic position and associated variation in microclimate. Along a single riverside toposequence in northern Alaska, six distinct plant communities were studied including a riparian shrub community, a wet sedge tundra, a footslope Equisetum community, a hillslope shrub/lupine community, a hilltop birch-heath community, and a moist tussock tundra. Total live plant biomass varied threefold along the toposequence (450-1400 g m
10.2307/1550834| Optimal substrate conditions for germination and establishment of Ledum groenlandicum include pH around 5.5, mean daily temperatures  17C, no shading, and constant moisture. Seed longevity of L. groenlandicum was not pronounced, and most seed lost viability within a year. Although closely related, L. groenlandicum and L. palustre ssp. decumbens had significantly different rates of germination, with 94.3% of the total germination occurring within 12 d for 1-mon-old seed of L. palustre ssp. decumbens, while the corresponding value for groenlandicum was 36.4%. Both species require light in order to germinate, although germination of L. groenlandicum was reduced in far-red rich light regimes while that of L. palustre ssp. decumbens was not. 
10.2307/1551238| In spite of its location beneath high alpine terrain and active glaciers, Castleguard Cave contains many actively growing calcite speleothems. Four hypotheses as to their growth mechanism were tested against field data on water chemistry, temperatures, CO
10.2307/1551953|The yearly net mass balance of South Cascade Glacier, Washington, has decreased since the mid-1970s. Results show that the decrease is primarily caused by a significant decrease in the winter mass balance. The decrease in winter mass balance is caused, in part, by changes in winter mean atmospheric circulation that began during the mid-1970s. Approximately 60% of the variability in winter mass balance can be explained by variations in winter mean 700-mb heights over western Canada. Since the mid-1970s, there has been an increase in winter mean 700-mb heights over western Canada and the northern western contiguous United States and a decrease in winter mean 700-mb heights in the eastern North Pacific Ocean centered near the Aleutian Islands. These changes in atmospheric circulation indicate a decrease in the movement of storms and moisture from the Pacific Ocean into the western contiguous United States. In addition, the increase in winter mean 700-mb heights over western Canada and the northern western contiguous United States indicates an increase in subsidence, which results in a warming and drying of the air that further reduces precipitation and also increases the ratio of rain to snow during the cold season. These factors contribute to below-average winter mass balances.
10.2307/1551918|The sedimentary characteristics, both past and present, of a small, nonglacial lake (i.e. a lake that does not presently receive significant quantities of glacial meltwater and sediment) in the Canadian High Arctic were investigated. It is hypothesized that gelifluction (soil movement under periglacial conditions) of soils within the watershed is contributing a significant amount of sediment to the lake through mudflows, and by continuous encroachment of soils towards the lake. Under modern conditions, the annual contribution of lake shore gelifluction to lake sedimentation is estimated at approximately 15 to 30%. The remainder of the modern annual sedimentation rate of 0.2 mm yr
10.2307/1550607|Umnak Island, eastern Aleutian Islands, is capped by active volcanoes, was extensively glaciated, and is being eroded rapidly by the sea. During the Holocene, Umnak and other Aleutian Islands had the most equable climate, the best year-around food supply, and the least displacements of coastlines from sea-level fluctuations of all the Bering Land Bridge, the migration route of ancient peoples to the Western Hemisphere. The Aleuts could have entered the eastern Aleutians after about 11,000 to 12,000 years ago when massive ice caps waned. They were marine oriented, came with boats, and had minimal land-based food resources. The earliest known occupation, at Anangula, is 8400 years old, and existed there perhaps a generation or century. Occupation in southwest Umnak Island was probably continous to the present day, but gaps occur in the early record. Sandy Beach site may date from the abandonment of Anangula and is a large and important area of occupation. Idaliuk and Chaluka were occupied during the Hypsithermal, but only Chaluka is large and carried through to the present. The Aleuts have always been influenced markedly by geologic processes, especially volcanic eruptions, coastal erosion and deposition, and wind-induced upwelling that enhances the marine biomass. The most important geologic event probably was the cutting of strandflats during the Hypsithermal, about 8250 to 3000 years ago. This led to an enormous increase in renewable food resources easily gathered year around and the apparent proliferation of Aleuts in post-Hypsithermal time. A Neoglacial advance to the sea of alpine glaciers does not seem to have affected them.
10.2307/1550887|Growth rates for Rhizocarpon geographicum (L.) D.C. and Rhizocarpon alpicola (Hepp.) Rabh. have been studied at different locales on the Swedish North Bothnian Coast. Shore displacement rates have been used to date maximum thallus diameters of lichens growing on cobble and boulder beaches (wave-washed moraine) at increasing elevations above mean sea level. Linear growth rates have been observed for the period ca. 200 to 1400 BP. These results, in combination with general shore chronology and radiocarbon dating, will be used for determining the ages of coastal archaeological features. Lichenometry may well prove to be an invaluable archaeological and historical tool within the Bothnian and Baltic coastal regions.
10.2307/1552108|Temporal variations in the annual depth of the active layer above permafrost reflect changing thermal and hydrological conditions that can occur at local and regional spatial scales. Among the most important local factors responsible for permafrost maintenance in the discontinuous and sporadic permafrost zones is a surficial layer of peat which, when dry, acts as a superb thermal insulator. The impact of this organic layer on the local soil energy balance is exemplified at a site near Fairbanks, Alaska. The natural cover of spruce trees and moss were cleared by bulldozing to prepare for land development, and the debris deposited in a number of large piles on the same property. This action resulted in permafrost degradation and development of thermokarst in the 12.7-ha cleared area within several years. In adjacent undisturbed regions, permafrost is encountered 0.4 to 0.5 m below the surface in late summer, but cannot be detected to depths of 1.2 m in the cleared section. Concurrently, permafrost underlying the debris piles was protected and has aggraded about 1.0 m upward into the core of a trenched mound. This study highlights the sensitivity of permafrost in this environment to anthropogenic surficial change.
10.2307/1551399|Progressions in the contact between northern indigenous peoples and southern populations who seem to control sovereignty and economic development in the international circumpolar north are reviewed. Current issues surrounding modern, indigenous land-use patterns are seen in relation to the national, international, and global developments. The North is not isolated but rather intertwined with processes influenced by internal and external events. There are three competing and interfering land uses: (1) indigenous "traditional pursuits" based on renewable, mainly animal resources, i.e., herding, hunting, trapping, and fishing/sealing; (2) the introduced wage-labor and service sector based on the southern public services and facilities; and (3) the almost completely independent nonrenewable resource extraction industry for export to production centers outside the North. The indigenous peoples have fully realized this process and know that choices have to be made in order to accommodate the different interests and goals in the north. However, their expectations center around: (1) sovereignty and territoriality; (2) control and decision making; (3) socioeconomic benefits for the North; and (4) cultural and linguistic survival.
10.2307/1551602| A November-December 1984 expedition to the Socompa Volcano in the Andes (2425S) rediscovered and described six complex autotrophic communities on geothermal warmspots near the summit at 5750 to 6060 m. These complex communities are unique in terms of their isolation, altitude, and biota, and are considered highly fragile. Environmental parameters were measured and standardized germination trials were used as bioassays of microclimate. Observations were performed on two successive ascents at a 7-d interval, with a total of 8 d recorded. The communities were composed mainly of mosses and liverworts, but included also algae, fungi, and lichens. In all, 36 taxa of bryophytes and lichens have been recognized in less than 400 m
10.2307/1550829|Observations in natural caves beneath the glacier Austre Okstindbre indicate that, within the marginal zone, basal sliding constitutes a major part of the surface movement. The relative importance of basal sliding decreases with distance from the margin. Sliding rates are in no simple way affected by the availability of water. Continuous measurement of basal sliding in a cave indicates stick and slip movement.
10.2307/1551682|Glacial fluctuations in the Langtang Himal are discussed on the basis of multiple relative dating (RD) methods in addition to the
10.2307/1550625|Lichenometric dating suggests that the maximum recent extent of cirque and small valley glaciers occurred before about A.D. 1850, although there is evidence for more extensive valley glacierization before about A.D. 1745. Between about 1850 and about 1968/69 progressive recession of the glaciers was interrupted by brief periods of reactivation during the 1880s, 1920s, and early 1940s. Since about 1968/69 the glacier fronts have advanced by up to 158 m following a marked climatic recession during the 1960s and early 1970s. In general, fluctuations of the glaciers have been in sympathy with prevailing climatic trends and show a relatively rapid response following temperature changes and a lagged response of at least 9 yr following precipitation changes. Fluctuations of larger valley and icefield outlet glaciers are out of phase with the others which may reflect a greater time lag of 20 to 30 yr in their response to precipitation changes.
10.2307/1550407| On the assumption that the Laurentide ice sheet attained a steady-state maximum condition at some time during the Pleistocene, a reconstruction of its morphology, dynamics, and basal thermal regime was made largely by analogy with existing ice sheets. The maximum surface altitude was ca. 3400 m, maximum thickness ca. 4200 m, and total ice volume 37  10
10.2307/1550793|The chronology of prehistoric, glacier-dammed lakes can be established, in many cases, through the use of dendrochronological techniques. Driftwood deposited at the margins of a glacier-dammed lake can be precisely dated, and the history of the lake thereby deduced, by matching the annual ring patterns in the driftwood with those of nearby old living trees. Dating is facilitated by X-ray densitometric analysis, whereby digital data on ring width and intraring density variations are obtained from X-ray images of wood. Dendrochronology is not subject to the severe limitations on precision inherent in radiocarbon and other absolute dating techniques. It is the preferred method for dating recent geologic and other events where exact ages are required and where appropriate fossil material (i.e., reasonably well preserved wood with sensitive annual ring patterns) is available. Dendrochronological techniques were applied to Neoglacial Lake Alsek, a former glacier-dammed lake in southwestern Yukon Territory with a complex history of filling and emptying. Lake Alsek forms whenever Lowell Glacier, a large surging glacier in the St. Elias Mountains, advances across Alsek Valley and blocks Alsek River. Dendro-dating of driftwood, combined with sparse historical and other data, indicate that Lake Alsek last extended beyond the front of the St. Elias Mountains to the vicinity of Haines Junction between A.D. 1848 and 1891, probably in the early 1850s.
10.2307/1550847|In the alpine tundra zone of Niwot Ridge, Colorado Front Range, U.S.A., order of magnitude differences in surficial geomorphic process rates were found when the data were stratified by plant community. A two-stage classification technique to stratify vegetation units in the alpine zone for use in geomorphic studies is presented. In the first stage, spectral reflectance measurements from a digitized color infrared aerial photograph were used to classify general vegetation and cover classes on Niwot Ridge. This classification was able to distinguish between dry and moist meadow communities, scree slopes, and snowbed communities. A digital terrain model of Niwot Ridge was subsequently constructed to study the topographic influences on the distribution of alpine vegetation. The joint frequency distribution of alpine vegetation and elevation, slope, and aspect was estimated from previously mapped vegetation patterns, and the digital terrain model developed in the present study. In the second-stage classification, vegetation and other cover classes were reclassified based on the topographic distribution of vegetation and other cover classes such as fellfields. Surficial soil loss estimated from the present classification indicated that order of magnitude comparisons can be made between these estimates and those previously published.
10.2307/1551605| In Swedish Lapland, summer in situ decomposition weight losses of mountain birch (Betula pubescens Ehrh. ssp. tortuosa [Ledeb.] Nyman) litter originating from valley and forest limit sites were significantly greater than losses from treeline litter (12-13% versus 8-9%), regardless of whether treeline litter was incubated at the treeline or in the valley. Carbon dioxide flux rates of valley and forest limit soils (expressed on a dry organic matter basis) increased exponentially ( 800%) over a temperature range of 5 to 30C under nonsaturated conditions (40 to 75% of saturation water content). Under the same nonsaturated conditions, soil carbon dioxide flux rates of treeline soils were significantly lower (by 65-75%). Seasonal fluctuations of KCl-extractable ammonium concentrations over a 1-yr period (July 1988 to June 1989) were not statistically significant nor were net changes in site ammonium concentrations detected. However, mean annual concentrations of ammonium were significantly higher in valley and forest limit soils than in treeline soil (148 and 191 g g
10.2307/1550501|Elevated concentrations of soil nutrients, particularly nitrogen and phosphorus, are associated with activities of mammalian herbivores. The sources of these nutrients appear to be waste products or carcasses of the herbivores themselves. Vegetation appears to respond to higher than normal concentrations of soil nutrients by increased importance of graminoids, decreased importance of lichens and, sometimes, decreased importance of shrubs. Plants growing within areas of elevated soil nutrients tend to have higher nutrient concentrations in their tissue. Artificial fertilization with nitrogen and phosphorus produces similar effects and support these interpretations. We conclude that nutrient transport by herbivores has significant local effects on soil nutrient concentrations and, therefore, on the composition of the vegetation. Measurement of fecal production and soil turnover by burrowing indicate that it may take many years (perhaps hundreds) for the cumulative effect of herbivore activities to be noticeable. Direct effects on vegetation by microtine rodents could not be detected 1 yr after grazing, but long-term studies might produce different results.
10.2307/1550224|Mass balance results are given for the 1968/69 and 1969/70 hydrological years. The year was arbitrarily divided into "winter" (October 1 to April 30) and "summer" (May 1 to September 30). Balances were relatively small: mean winter balances were 152 mm (water equivalent) in 1968/69 and 221 mm in 1969/70, and mean annual balances were -326 mm in 1968/69 and -177 mm in 1969/70. Mean annual balances of "Hanging" Glacier, a smaller glacier adjacent to McCall Glacier and within the same basin, were -168 mm in 1968/69 and 36 mm in 1969/70. Preliminary analysis shows that the mean balance of McCall for the preceding 11 years was -265 mm yr
10.2307/1551113| The interaction between the Bering Sea and Norton Sound pack ice regimes is examined. It is shown that Bering Sea pack-ice motions determine the modal behavior of ice in the entrance sector of Norton Sound. The critical factor in this relationship is shown to be the heading angle (, the velocity vector azimuth measured clockwise from north) of Bering Sea pack ice moving past the entrance to Norton Sound. For heading angles between 32 and 158, Bering Sea ice is driven into Norton Sound, while for heading angles between 172 and 303 ice exits Norton Sound. A transitional counterclockwise gyre mode was found for the small range of heading angles between the valves of  producing these two major modes: 158 through 172. It is suggested that local wind stress alone is not sufficient to explain ice motions at the entrance to Norton Sound. 
10.2307/1551236|A mineralogical survey at Castleguard Cave has revealed complex suites of carbonate and sulfate minerals, plus seasonal and permanent ice. Carbonate minerals observed (and number of occurrences in 55 samples) are as follows: calcite (43), huntite (15), hydromagnesite (6), aragonite (4), monohydrocalcite (1). Sulfate minerals observed (number of occurrences in 10 samples) are: gypsum (9), thenardite/mirabilite (2), epsomite (1). Ancient massive dripstone and flowstone deposits consist only of calcite. Smaller dripstones, chalky coatings on dripstone, thin flowstone crusts, erratics, and pasty wall deposits ("moonmilk") were commonly combinations of calcite plus huntite. Aragonite occurs mainly as crystalline wall concretions associated with moonmilk deposits and as small anthodites. Hydromagnesite and monohydrocalcite are only found as dry, crusty, "moonmilk" wall deposits. Distribution of carbonate and sulfate minerals is related to the thermal regime and presence of discrete seepage inputs. Small calcite speleothems occur to some extent throughout the cave. Massive dripstones and abundant decoration are restricted to sites of present or past seepage concentration. Sulfate mineralization and basic and hydrated carbonates are confined to warm, drier portions of the central cave. Chemical and stable isotope data indicate that calcite is precipitated at constant CO
10.2307/1550762|Soils developed within the subalpine zone at Bow Pass, Banff National Park, Alberta constitute a recorded synthesis of the history and impact of environmental stress. Four pedons from within the ecotone are examined in terms of their profile morphologies and the physicochemical characteristics of their soil horizons. This examination reveals a complex sequence of soil development during the postglacial period and provides evidence of significant disruptions to pedogenesis caused by the aeolian deposition of material containing volcanic ash, forest fires, vegetational change, and avalanching and other geomorphic events. The result of such disruptions has been the formation of polygenetic soils. Further analysis of these soils has resulted in the creation of a sequence of pedogenic pathways of varying complexity which graphically illustrate the impact of postglacial environmental change on the subalpine soil system at Bow Pass.
10.2307/1550753|This paper seeks to demonstrate the planning responses of a rapidly growing mountain resort town to the development of a reconnaissance map of avalanche and debris flow hazards undertaken by a university research team. Vail, Colorado, can be described as a mushroom resort town. Rapid growth up to 1973 occurred without concern for potential natural hazards on the adjacent mountain slopes. The Institute of Arctic and Alpine Research, at the request of the town of Vail, undertook natural hazard reconnaissance mapping in 1973 prior to the existence of state or county natural hazard legislation. The paper demonstrates the various decision-making processes that were either initiated or aided as a result of local hazard evaluation. These included changes in the local building code, land annexation, and dismantling of a partially completed multimillion-dollar hotel complex. The impacts of the hazard mapping are demonstrated by reproduction of the Vail township's annexation and building code maps. Subsequent State legislation (Colorado House Bill 1041, 1974) has presented a firmer base for hazard zoning. Nevertheless, the effectiveness of the early initiative shows that intelligent and economic, as well as relatively safe, land-use decision making can be achieved by other mountain communities in states currently lacking hazard zoning legislation, given a combination of applied research, local awareness, and wise local government. The project was part of a program sponsored by the NASA Office of University Affairs to apply remote-sensing techniques and space technology to the solution of terrestrial problems.
10.2307/1551760|The effects of weather on the flight and flower-visiting activity of bumblebees and butterflies were studied at a subarctic-alpine site in northern Swedish Lapland. The study focused on the insects' role as potential pollinators and the effect of bumblebee flight and foraging activity on plant reproductive success. The activity rates of both bumblebees and butterflies were significantly correlated with ambient air temperature and solar radiation, and as a consequence, both bumblebees and butterflies exhibited a regular diurnal activity pattern. The butterflies' activity was more constrained by low temperature and solar radiation then the bumblebees' activity, and small worker bees were more affected by the weather than the larger queens. Only 1% of the butterflies observed were visiting flowers, as compared to 69% of the bumblebees. Thus, butterflies seem to be less important pollinators for the alpine plant community than bumblebees. Short-term micrometeorological impact on the reproduction of two bumblebee-pollinated plant species, Bartsia alpina and Diapensia lapponica, was also studied. In both species, reproductive success, measured as seed production, was significantly reduced during a spell of cold weather in comparison to a warmer period.
10.2307/1551336|Estimates of mean July-August temperatures for northern Fennoscandinavia are made back to 1700 using ring width and maximum latewood density chronologies of Pinus sylvestris L. (Scots pine) as predictors. Several prediction models are used and the best results are achieved with a simple two-variable model where climate in year t is estimated as a function of tree growth in years t and t + 1 at each site. The best reconstruction equation accounts for 56% of the temperature variance over a 74-yr fitting period and 45% of the variance over a 39-yr independent verification period. Relatively short-period variability (periods < 10 yr) is better reproduced in the reconstruction than is that at longer wavelengths. The reconstruction indicates that generally cool conditions prevailed across northern Fennoscandinavia around 1716-1724, 1777-1784, 1809-1818, and 1833-1842. Warm periods are reconstructed around 1766-1775 and 1788-1799 and particularly from 1826 to 1831.
10.2307/1551479|Ecological genetic comparisons were made between tussocks of Eriophorum vaginatum established from the seed bank in a bladed site and tussocks in undisturbed tundra at Eagle Creek, Alaska. In one experiment, tussocks were reciprocally transplanted between the bladed and undisturbed sites, and, in a second experiment, progeny from the seed rain and soil seed bank in undisturbed tundra were compared. Measurements made 3, 4, and 5 yr after transplanting showed that the two populations were genetically distinct in some morphological characters (leaf length and rate of flowering) and in ecological response to site variation (leaf length and relative growth rate). In the greenhouse experiment, plants from the seed bank differed from those in the seed rain immediately following germination, although these differences were not persistent. In combination with other studies of cottongrass tundra at Eagle Creek, these results suggest that E. vaginatum seedlings emerging from the deeply buried seed bank may represent early-successional genotypes that numerically dominate this seed bank, but as adults are reduced in numbers as succession proceeds toward a closed vegetation.
10.2307/1550083|The seasonal development of foliage area index (foliage area per unit ground surface, F) was compared by inclined point quadrat analysis for an arctic and two alpine tundra communities. An extensive series of other arctic and alpine communities were also compared at the peak of the vegetative season which occurred between July 25 and August 9 in 1971 in both the arctic and alpine areas. At this time, F values for living foliage of the arctic communities were all less than 1.0 while F ranged between 1 and 2.2 in the alpine sites. A simulation of radiation extinction in an arctic and an alpine community indicated that lower solar radiation intensities in the long arctic day were absorbed in the sparsely stocked canopy to about the same degree on a daily basis as the higher radiation intensities in the denser community of the alpine tundra. The significance of senescent foliage tissue displayed at the top of the alpine communities is also discussed.
10.2307/1550981|Surface color and weathering-rind thickness of boulders on four taluses, and a reconnaissance survey elsewhere in the Craigieburn Range, New Zealand, show that talus-surface age increases downslope, indicating a decrease in probability of disturbance in this direction. Most fresh material is deposited on the upper slopes of rockfall taluses. Material may be redistributed over the middle and lower slopes by dry avalanching. The observed surface-age distributions do not support talus-accumulation models that presume addition of wedges or sheets that sequentially cover all of the surface. The presence of an older basal fringe of large boulders around taluses developed by rockfall and by snow avalanching conflicts with models predicting greatest accumulation at the talus base. Age-distributions on debris-flow taluses indicate irregular episodic accumulation of lobate debris flows, with intervening smoothing by snow glide and snow avalanching.
10.2307/1550906|The frost heave of stones in the active layer above permafrost by downward freezing is well known. The phenomenon is usually explained by either the frost-pull or the frost-push theory. However, if the active layer also freezes upward from the late summer frost table, neither the frost-pull nor the frost-push theory can be applied by reversing all of the directions associated with downward freezing, because the direction of thaw and of gravity cannot be reversed. Laboratory experiments have been carried out to study frost heave with both downward and upward freezing. The laboratory evidence demonstrates that ice lenses can grow on the cold (freezing) side of many stones provided water can migrate from the warm (unfrozen) side of the stones, irrespective of whether the freezing direction is downward or upward. The experiments show that some stones, like some soils, are frost-susceptible. Therefore, the frost-susceptibility of a stone is a factor that must be considered in the study of frost heave irrespective of the direction of freezing.
10.2307/1550440|Dust and coniferous litter covering snowbanks are potentially important sources of nutrition for algae living in snow. Two species of snow algae, Raphidonema nivale and Chloromonas pichinchae, were investigated for the effects that extracts from coniferous litter and different snow meltwaters would have upon their growth and development. The algae were collected from snow under coniferous trees near Mt. Stuart, Washington, and isolated into axenic culture. Laboratory experiments indicated positive growth responses for C. pichinchae grown in extracts of coniferous leaves, bark, and pollen, and positive, neutral, and negative responses for R. nivale grown in extracts of leaves and bark. These results corresponded to observations made in the field where C. pichinchae was much more abundant than R. nivale in snowbanks located under coniferous-tree canopies. Neither species of snow algae responded to extracts from cone scales. Considerable morphological abnormality occurred in cells of R. nivale grown in high concentrations of Pinus contorta bark extract. Individual cells showed ballooning effects, and cytological structures were atypical when compared to cells in normal filaments. Chloromonas pichinchae responded differently to snow meltwater collected at three elevations near Mt. Stuart. The alga grew best in snow meltwater collected under a coniferous-tree canopy, and this sample contained the highest concentration of inorganic PO
10.2307/1550319|It has been common practice to estimate ice-age climates by calculating the difference in temperature, at an assumed lapse rate, between the elevation of the present snowline and that represented by the lowest corries (cirques) in a region. Such a procedure not only ignores many other factors which may affect corrie glacierization, but is actually incorrect, because the change in snowline for a given temperature change does not depend only on lapse rate. This study suggests that the variation of equilibrium line altitude (ELA) with aspect provides a climatic "signature" supplementary to that of lowest ELA. A method of computing heat and water balances on glaciers from climatic data is described and tested against observations on Baffin Island glaciers. This model is used to estimate ELA as a function of aspect in the Okoa Bay area of Baffin Island, using 1963 to 1972 climatic data, and then for two contrasting climates which have been suggested for early and late stages in the last glaciation. The results are compared with distributions of corrie glaciers and ice-free corries in the area.
10.2307/1551593|The permafrost distribution in an alpine valley in the Swiss Alps has been mapped using topoclimatic rules of thumb and a geomorphological interpretation of aerial photographs. Most attention has been given to active rock glaciers, which are reliable features to predict permafrost occurrence. Seismic measurements are used to check the permafrost distribution obtained using the mapping method. These measurements give approximately the same permafrost limits as achieved by rules of thumb. They also provide an image of the complexity of permafrost distribution in the Alpine Belt of discontinuous permafrost. Attention has been paid to the relationship between permafrost and glaciers. Most of the small glaciers are in the belt of discontinuous permafrost and they probably were during the Little Ice Age Maximum. A method for reconstruction of past permafrost distribution using fossil rock glaciers and glacial deposits is presented along with a test case.
10.2307/1551591|The arctic willow (Salix arctica) is dioecious and the catkins of each sex are easy to distinguish, being staminate and pistillate. Pistillate catkins are retained for the entire arctic summer as the fruits mature and the seeds are finally released. The catkins are effective absorbers of solar radiation and temperatures within the catkins of each sex differ. Generally, those of the female plants are warmer than those of male plants and there may be freer flow of warm air in staminate catkins. These differences can be explained, in part, by the greater size and bulk of the pistillate catkins, and the greater density (albeit of somewhat shorter hairs) of pubescence. It is estimated that catkins of both sexes obtain additional heat units of up to about 50%, the pistillate catkins about 20% more than the staminate ones, early in the sunny part of the summer when pollination takes place, and the pistillate catkins obtain an additional 25% as they mature for the rest of the short and cloudier arctic summer. The direct importance of this for pollination is not evidenced through nectar characteristics (concentration of sugars), but would appear to be important for the catkin's maturation to sexual activity (pollen shedding, stigma receptivity and insect pollination) as one of the earliest blossoms of the summer.
10.2307/1551870| In continental western Canada, discontinuous permafrost is almost always restricted to ombrotrophic peatlands (bogs). Bogs occur mostly as islands or peninsulas in large, often complex fens or are confined to small basins. Permafrost may be present in extensive peat plateaus (or more locally as palsas) and was preceded by a well-developed layer of Sphagnum that served to insulate the peat and lower the pore water temperatures. Air photo interpretation reveals the occurrence of bogs with five types of surface physiography. Concentrated to the south are bogs without internal patterns that have never had permafrost. Dominating the mid-latitudes are bogs with internal lawns and fens with internal lawns (mostly representing former bogs) that had permafrost lenses in the past that have recently degraded. Concentrated in the northwest are peat plateaus without internal lawns or distinct collapse scars, but with permafrost; dominating in the northernmost area are peat plateaus with extensive permafrost and collapse scars. Relationships are apparent between the current -1C isotherm and the southern occurrence of peat plateaus and between the 0C isotherm and the southern edge of bogs and fens with internal lawns. We interpret bogs and fens with internal lawns to represent areas where permafrost degradation is currently occurring at a greater rate than aggradation, seemingly in response to warmer regional climate, although fire frequency may also be of local importance. 
10.2307/1550626| The sudden, partial drainage of a small, deep, isothermal lake ponded against the western margin of the Ellesmere Ice Cap, Ellesmere Island, Canada, was observed in three successive years, 1973 to 1975. The water balance of the lake and the characteristics of the ice dam, monitored in 1974, indicate that barrier flotation was the key factor in the initiation of the jkulhlaups, which occurred as a declining sequence and are probably not a continuing annual event. The total volume of water discharged from the lake and maximum rates of discharge were smaller each year: only the 1973 event was catastrophic in the sense of contributing exceptional volumes of water to the principal river system in the area. 
10.2307/1549984|Attention is drawn to the fact that several different methods indicate global climatic oscillations to be well established not only for the Late Glacial period but also for the whole of the Postglacial (Flandrian, Holocene) period. These oscillations were drastic enough to affect the ocean level even during the last 6,000 years when only minor glaciated areas were left after the last ice age. A low amplitude oscillating eustatic curve during the Holocene is in full concordance with the climatic and glacier changes which have been found. Therefore, smooth "eustatic" curves (type Shepard's curve) are considered to be overgeneralized or based on incomplete information.
10.2307/1551666|We have found 12 living Rocky Mountain bristlecone pines (Pinus aristata) more than 1600 yr old, including four that are more than 2100 yr old, on Black Mountain, near South Park, and on Almagre Mountain, in the southern Front Range, Colorado. A core from the oldest of these trees has an inner-ring date of 442 B.C. This tree is therefore at least 2435 yr old and exceeds the age of the oldest previously reported Rocky Mountain bristlecone pine by 846 yr. The ages of these trees show that Rocky Mountain bristlecone pines, under arid environmental conditions, achieve much older ages than have been previously reported. The ages also show that previously inferred trends in bristlecone pine ages, where maximum ages in the eastern range of Rocky Mountain bristlecone pines are much less than maximum ages in the western range of Great Basin bristlecone pines (Pinus longaeva), are less strong than previously supposed. Ancient Rocky Mountain bristlecone pines, such as those found in this study, have the potential to expand our knowledge of late Holocene climatic conditions in western North America.
10.2307/1550531|A dendrochronological investigation of 347 seedlings and saplings from a stand of trees invading a subalpine meadow in the Wind River Mountains of western Wyoming provided the basis for this study. Growth rates of these trees were found to increase as their distance from the forest edge increased; this pattern was shown to continue with meadow trees throughout their lives. The evidence suggests that the factors which maintain the meadows in this area primarily limit tree establishment rather than growth. Invasion began about 1890, and was most intense between 1940 and 1963. Little establishment occurred after 1963. Examination of cattle grazing records suggests that changes in grazing pressures may be responsible for this expansion of the forest. Moderate levels of cattle utilization of the meadows appear to have resulted in abundant tree establishment by reducing competition with meadow vegetation. The lack of establishment after 1963 coincides with the cessation of grazing which occurred at about the same time.
10.2307/1550270|An attempt is made to group tundra sites (including the moorland sites of Ireland and the United Kingdom) on the basis of percentage of woody plants, forbs, and monocotyledons related to the total vascular aboveground living biomass, and the percentage of vascular plants, bryophytes, and lichens related to the total aboveground living biomass. The dominating species at several sites, mostly IBP tundra sites, are mentioned, and for the Scandinavian sites an attempt is made to classify the sites according to a joint Scandinavian IBP proposed vegetation classification. The living plant biomass of above- and belowground vascular plants is shown for some tundra sites as well as the living biomass of bryophytes and lichens when measured. The ratio of aboveground: belowground parts is calculated. A higher proportion of belowground biomass is found worldwide at sedge dominated wet sites with slow decomposition of belowground parts.
10.2307/1551267| The El Nio-Southern Oscillation event of 1982-83 was associated with severe winter weather in California, including increased snow accumulations in the Sierra Nevada relative to 1984. We examined the ratio of 1983 needle length to 1984 needle length in two speces of pines growing near timberline in the Sierra Nevada for evidence of growth depression during the El Nio year. Trees of both Pinus albicaulis (whitebark pine) and P. contorta var. murrayana (lodgepole pine) were sampled from four topographic positions at the study site: a meadow on the valley floor, north- and south-facing slopes, and at high elevation near treeline. In all cases, average needle length in 1983 was less than that in 1984. The degree of growth depression varied among topographic positions and between species. Whitebark pines displayed the greatest variation in sensitivity to climatic change. Differences in sensitivity between species were associated with habitat restrictions; e.g., whitebark pines at high elevations were least affected by the El Nio year, while lodgepole pines were most affected when growing at high elevations. It is hypothesized that observed variation in growth depression among topographic positions is due to both differences in the length of the 1983 growth season associated with timing of snowmelt and decreased temperatures during the 1983 growing season. 
10.2307/1550295|The presumed existence of a single mass of coalesced Cordilleran and Laurentide ice during most of late Wisconsin time is central to many archaeological hypotheses on the peopling of the New World. The area under concern is a 2,400-km belt of the Western Interior Plains and adjacent mountains, extending from the 49th parallel to the Arctic Ocean. Multiple Cordilleran glaciation occurred in the Rocky Mountain area during both late and early Wisconsin time. Radiocarbon dates indicate the mountain valleys were largely ice-free by 10,500 BP. Multiple Laurentide glaciation also is well established, the last advances in southern Alberta (late Wisconsin) having terminated east of the mountain front. Southern Alberta and southwestern Saskatchewan were ice-free by ca. 15,000 BP. Incontravertible evidence for coalescence west of the late Wisconsin ice front comes only from the Athabasca Valley, where Roed found that the two glaciers coalesced and flowed southeast. This event occurred either in early Wisconsin or Illinoian time. Since then the western border of the plains of Alberta has remained ice-free.
10.2307/1551049|Lichenometric studies permit close dating for the timing of stabilization of the late Holocene moraines built by North Mowich, Carbon, Winthrop, Cowlitz, and Ohanapecosh glaciers on Mount Rainier. The moraine chronologies indicate synchronous responses among these glaciers during the past 200 yr. Periods of glacier recession began between 1768-1777, 1823-1830, 1857-1863, 1880-1885, 1902-1903, 1912-1915, and 1923-1924. Since the early 19th century, the mean equilibrium-line altitude has risen about 160 m on Mount Rainier. Minimum ages for earlier glacier variations are based on lichenometric, dendrochronologic, and tephrochronologic data. These data indicate that recessional phases commenced about 1328-1363, 1519-1528, 1552-1576, 1613-1623, 1640-1666, 1690-1695, 1720, and 1750. Whereas the pattern of glacier fluctuations at Mount Rainier agrees with the general chronologic framework of late Holocene variations from many other areas, comparisons of the detailed moraine chronologies from Mount Rainier for the past two centuries with those from Swedish Lapland indicate several differences in the timing of moraine stabilization. These differences imply some nonsynchrony in Northern Hemisphere glacier variations during the late Holocene.
10.2307/1550814| In the alpine tundra zone of Niwot Ridge, Colorado Front Range, U.S.A., both plant community and pocket gopher (Thomomys talpoides) distributions are, in large part, winter snowpack dependent. As a result it has proved possible to map the spatial variability in soil disturbance produced by gophers using the vegetation map produced by Komrkov and Webber (1978) which utilizes the hierarchical Braun-Blanquet mapping system. Gopher disturbance is uneven with 54.9% occurring on 21.4% of the mapped alpine tundra; conversely, less than 8.1% of the disturbance occurs on 36.2% of the mapped area. The mean gopher disturbance rate is 4.0  7.1 t  ha
10.2307/1551166| The process of dinitrogen fixation was studied in the alpine tundra ecosystem at Niwot Ridge, Colorado. In situ fixation activities were measured by the acetylene reduction method in the soils of the major plant community habitats found on the ridge: dry Trifolium fellfield, dry Kobresia meadow, moist Deschampsia meadow, wet Caltha meadow, moist Sibbaldia snowbed, and moist Salix shrub tundras. The highest overall acetylene reduction rates are found in the Caltha meadow and Salix shrub tundra sites (5.8 to 7.8 mol ethylene produced in m
10.2307/1551535|Hydrochemical transport within a small fen basin on Axel Heiberg Island, N.W.T., was examined during the 1990 spring melt. Snow cover, lake inflow, hillslope runoff, and basin outflow were monitored for pH, conductivity, and the storage and flux of five major ions (Ca
10.2307/1550320| Arctic streams in Beaufort Sea drainages from Prudhoe Bay, Alaska, to the Mackenzie River delta are described and classified. Mountain Streams originate in the Arctic Mountain Province and are the largest streams in the study area. These are cold waters (usually less than 10C) which flow about five months of the year. Arctic char is the common fish species in these streams, and the density of benthic invertebrates is typically low (100 organisms/m
10.2307/1551444| In 1987 and 1988, samples of preserved insects were extracted from the ice of Knife Point Glacier, Fremont County, Wyoming. The glacier lies at an altitude of 3500 m a.s.l. in the Shoshone National Forest, Wind River Range, and is known to contain preserved insects. Although the glacier has undergone extensive recession in the last 50 yr, some insect deposits are still embedded at 20 to 25 cm below the surface and perhaps much deeper. The frozen deposits appear to consist entirely of grasshoppers. A few, virtually intact, specimens and body parts were in a state of preservation that allowed their identification as Spharagemon campestris McNeill and Melanoplus spretus (Walsh) or M. sanguinipes (F.). The majority of the deposits consisted of partial bodies and isolated parts, including, in order of frequency: mandibles, tibiae, tentoria, femora, wings (primarily tegmina), and cingulae/epiphalli. Deposits from various depths and locations on the glacier were radiocarbon dated at 20565 to 45080 yr BP. Although access to the glacier is quite difficult, the insects are better preserved than any glacial deposit documented in recent history. Thus, the state of preservation and age of the frozen deposits would suggest that additional, intensive sampling may be valuable in obtaining information on the ecology of grasshoppers prior to European settlement of North America. 
10.2307/1552012|Four closely related species of Pedicularis (Scrophulariaceae), an abundant plant genus in the Arctic, with different breeding systems were analyzed for amount and distribution of genetic variation at three sites at Qeqertarsuaq, West Greenland. Isozyme variation was found in two enzyme systems (phosphogluconate dehydrogenase and phosphoglucomutase) in only one of the of the species (P. lanata). Average genetic diversity (H
10.2307/1550785| The distribution and types of rice cultivation in high-mountain regions of south and southeast Asia is discussed. The highest altitudinal limits of rice cultivation are not found in the tropics, where rice is a staple, but in the subtropical Himalayan system (including the Hindu Kush and Yunnan Shan). Rice cultivation is found in Kashmir and the Kulu Valley between 2150 and 2200 m; up to 2700 m in the Jumla Valley, western Nepal; at 2475 m in Likian, Yunnan; and at 2700 m in Tkhitu, north of the Yangtse Gorge and Yulang Shan. These sites benefit from "mass elevation." In the Himalayan system, sites of high rice cultivation are in high valley and intermontane basins where the local climate, due to fhn effects, are dry and sunny and where there is ample water for irrigation. The outer lower slopes of the Himalayas are much moister and less favorable for rice cultivation. Irrigated wet rice achieves higher limits of cultivation than does dry upland rice grown in innertropical regions of Indonesia, mainland Southeast Asia, and the Lesser Sunda Islands where it is not found above 1480 m. The higher mountain slopes of isolated volcanoes do not benefit from "mass elevation" and experience long periods of cloud cover and high precipitation. Dry upland rice is grown here in rotation with potatoes and cabbage; below 800 to 900 m there are two crops of rice per year. A second, ecologically different regional type of dry upland rice is found on the outer flanks of the Assam Himalaya. 
1550158|The characteristics of the geoecological patterns within the California section of the Basin and Range Province are described from the desert basins (Death Valley, Owens Valley) to the true alpine environment above the timberline (White Mountains). A sequence of the altitudinal belts of vegetation is established: hot desert shrubs (creosote bush community), winter-cold desert shrubs (shadscale and sagebrush communities), semiarid woodland (pinyon-juniper woodland), subalpine woodland and forest (bristlecone and limber pines), and alpine belt above the timberline. Climate, substrate, landforms, geomorphic processes, soils, water, and vegetation are discussed in relation to their specific features and interdependence. A detailed bibliography is included to demonstrate the recent progress of research within this mountainous region with its wide-ranging scale of ecosystems.
10.2307/1552068|A random stratified sampling design was used on soils formed on the crests of a sequence of raised beaches in Truelove Lowland, Devon Island, N.W.T., to determine if time is the principal factor in soil development. Two hundred and eighty-eight bulk soil samples were collected from three depth intervals on 24 beaches; 14 soil properties were determined for each sample. An analysis of variance showed that most soil properties varied systematically and not by error or inherent random variations within and among beaches. Regression modelling and cluster analysis, however, revealed that soil development was discontinuous and not a direct function of time, while canonical discriminant analysis revealed that soil properties associated with parent material weathering were the principal discriminating variables. A random sample of the stone fraction revealed that, regardless of age, soils formed on beaches dominated by calcareous lithologies had developed a fine-textured and organic-rich solum, while the sola formed on beaches dominated by metamorphic and igneous lithologies are coarse textured and more poorly developed. Beach lithologies in Truelove Lowland appear to have been controlled by the lithology of adjacent rock outcrops that were progressively exposed to marine action at the time of coastal emergence. Consequently, parent material, not time, has been the principal factor influencing the degree of pedogenesis on this sequence of beaches.
10.2307/1551036|In response to a rapid downstream increase of discharge, two supraglacial streams adjust their width and depth almost equally but increase their velocity at the highest rate. A third stream with a less regular downstream change of discharge has a similar width relation but differs in its depth and velocity response. Regarding the first two streams as representative of this fluvial environment since the data are more consistent, the downstream relations differ from those obtained for alluvial streams and suggest the type of response which might be expected in the absence of a sediment load and declining slope. Local variations in stream-flow behavior are partly related to bed topography in which steep convexities and plunge pools alternate, and a mode of meander development is suggested akin to that proposed for alluvial streams. The supercritical flow regarded as necessary for meander formation in this environment is associated with the generation of travelling waves in one stream, significant differences in wave frequency occurring between different parts of the stream.
10.2307/1551793|The alpine marmot occupies areas ranging in altitude from 1300 to 2800 m in the Pyrenees, although 67% of the colonies are found between 1800 and 2400 m. Greatest colony density and greater areal use than expected were found between these last limits. The lower edge of the altitudinal range normally coincides with current forest limit and the upper edge seems to be related to the availability of sufficient food as to accomplish its minimum annual cycle (maintenance, reproduction, and fat storage). There is a positive correlation between the number of colonies and the duration of the available food period above 1800 m. In a broad sense, the altitude range of the alpine marmot in the Pyrenees is similar to that in the Alps. Because the natural forest limit seems to be higher in the Pyrenees than in the Alps, the success of the introduction of the alpine marmot in the Pyrenees could be probably due to the existence of a wide supraforestal open area artificially created for pastoral use.
10.2307/1552086|Hydraulic function and structural characterististics were measured during summer drought in 30 subalpine fir seedlings growing in three meadows of different moisture status close to the tree line in the eastern Olympic Mountains, Washington, U.S.A. No significant between-site differences were detected in the specific stem conductivities (hydraulic conductivity per transverse sapwood area) of the seedlings. The portion of needle mass to total aboveground mass decreased with decreasing moisture status. Leaf-specific conductivities (LSCs--hydraulic conductivity per dry weight of supplied needles) and Huber values (transverse sapwood area per dry weight of supplied needles) increased with decreasing site moisture status. These patterns indicate that the needle surface area supplied by a unit of stem transverse sectional sapwood area declined with site moisture status. Because the stem hydraulic conductivity was unaffected by site moisture status, it was inferred that embolism had probably not occurred in the drier site. We suggest that the absence of subalpine fir on very dry sites may be mainly due to an inadequate carbon balance; less foliage area would support a relatively large stem cross-sectional area.
10.2307/1551919|The degree of soil development in glacial deposits in the Fremont Lake area (FLA) and Bull Lake type area (BLTA) on opposite sides of the Wind River Range of western Wyoming is chiefly influenced by the ages of the parent materials although other soil-forming factors are important. Soil morphology, clay content, and calcium carbonate content are useful in distinguishing moraines of the Bull Lake glaciation (about 140 to 150 ka) from those of the Pinedale glaciation (about 14 to 35 ka) in these areas. In the FLA, soils in Bull Lake deposits have an average Profile Development Index (PDI) of 39 index-cm and average 15% clay and 7% calcium carbonate (CaCO
10.2307/1550998|Setchell willow (Salix setchelliana Ball) is a prostrate clonal species, producing vertical shoots (to about 3 dm) from a shallow horizontal root system. Clonal growth, measured by number of shoots, number of branches, and number of catkins per square meter, was greatest at the middle elevations of a point bar stand, approximately 20 m wide. This paper shows that the narrow limits of this population are associated with specific abiotic factors. The Kluane River (Yukon Territory) shows a yearly fluctuation with highest water at the time of maximum glacial melt in mid-August. Willow shoots closest to the channel are inundated for approximately 60% of their growing season; inundation may set the lower limit of clonal growth. Depth of deposited material increased away from the channel, resulting in deeper horizontal root systems. Substrate in the upper zone, farthest from the channel, had the highest percentage of fines and the highest field water content. Several shoots with decomposed bases were found in this zone, suggesting that the upper limit for clonal growth is established by reduced soil aeration. Seedlings were found only in the upper zone. The period of inundation there is minimal; seed dispersal and water recession probably coincide in some years, thus favoring seedling establishment.
10.2307/1550180|Spatial variation in weathering processes may produce differences in rock-weathering rind thickness; this is an important source of potential error in relative age dating. Data from a snow patch in the Colorado Front Range indicate that late-lying snow may increase rock-weathering thicknesses two to four times. Areas of maximum rind thickness appear where free water in the snowpack and subsequent meltwaters are concentrated. Differences of the magnitude reported here are comparable to those used to distinguish between glaciations. It is recommended that rock-weathering rind thickness be identified as a very sensitive indicator of environment, or paleoenvironment. Accordingly, rock-weathering rind thickness should be widely sampled; in analysis, mean maximum thickness should be used. Independent use of rock-weathering rinds, or designation as a "best" measure, appears hazardous; as is use of very small increments of thickness to distinguish between glaciations.
10.2307/1550254|Soil frost action on a subalpine ridge has produced four soil horizons: 1, surface stripes; 2, subsurface stripes; 3, unstriped fine material; and 4, undisturbed material. At a soil water tension of 0.1 bar (approximately field capacity), because of higher water content, horizons with a large fine fraction (3 and 4) have higher heat capacity, thermal conductivity, and diffusivity than do the more coarse-textured, overlying stripes. Thermal conductivity and diffusivity are higher in horizon 4 than in 3 because of higher stone content and bulk density.
10.2307/1550212| Measurements of biologically effective solar ultraviolet irradiation at Barrow, Alaska (71 20N, 156 46W), during late July and early August 1970, under clear to partly cloudy skies, indicate substantially lower intensities than would be expected at low elevations in temperate latitudes for the same solar angles. These lower intensities might be attributed to high atmospheric ozone concentrations at northerly latitudes which effectively attenuate the most biologically effective UV wavelengths. 
10.2307/1550018| Temperatures at ground nests of the Gray-headed Junco, Lincoln's Sparrow, and White-crowned Sparrow in the Colorado subalpine were 5 to 22C warmer by day and 3 to 6C cooler by night than air temperatures at 2 m above ground. Temperatures at junco nests were generally higher by 6 to 9C during the day and 2 to 3C at night than at Lincoln's and White-crowned Sparrow nests. The effects of moisture, solar radiation, wind, slope, and exposure on nest temperature are discussed. 
10.2307/1550867|Soil temperatures were recorded at depths of 1, 2, 5, and 10 cm near Barrow, Alaska, in June to August 1972 and 1973. These data were used to develop multiple linear regression models which relate soil temperature at the various depths to aboveground climatic information. About 70% of the variance in soil temperature was accounted for by knowledge of 5 to 6 independent variables: mean air temperature and sky cover on the day of estimation, air temperature on the two previous days, proportion of the day with the sun below the horizon, and the day of the season. The latter parameter entered significantly into the equations at 5 and 10 cm, but not at the shallower depths. Independent tests of the models' validity were obtained by developing equations based on only one year's data, using these models to predict soil temperatures in the other year, and comparing the predictions against the soil temperatures actually recorded. The complete models based on information from the 2 yr combined are thought to have general applicability in estimating Barrow soil temperature from readily available climatic information.
10.2307/1552069| Hourly measurements of soil temperature and a surrogate index of soil water ion concentration were collected from the active layer at a site in the discontinuous permafrost zone in central Alaska during two thaw seasons. These data were contoured and presented as a time-depth temperature field. The zero degree isotherm on the contour plot represents the thawed-frozen interface. In this way, the thickness of the thawed zone on any day can be determined. The time-dependent thaw depth (Z) is related to the degree days of thaw accumulated since the onset of ground thaw (ADDT) by a modified version of the Stefan equation (Z = b ADDT). The slope (b) of 1.21 and correlation coefficient of 0.98 are nearly identical for both thaw seasons. The slope should be similar for sites characterized by boreal forest underlain by permafrost and possessing a thick organic mat. There are variations, however, in the instantaneous rate of thaw, which are reflected as deviations from the best-fit line. These deviations are apparently linked to infiltrating precipitation. Several events of this nature were examined. Downward percolation caused dilution of soil water ion concentration from the surface downwards, and soil temperatures were simultaneously observed to change rapidly. 
10.2307/1551152|Inhibition of photosynthesis and epidermal damage resulting from ultraviolet irradiation were assessed for arctic and alpine plant species. These species were taken from a latitudinal gradient of the arctic-alpine life zone from the Andes to northern Alaska, which spans a steep change in solar UV-B irradiation (280 to 320 nm). Ecotypes and species from the Arctic, where solar UV-B flux is very low, were consistently more sensitive to UV radiation than their counterparts from lower latitude alpine regions, where solar UV-B flux is high. Most of the species did not display a change in UV-radiation sensitivity following a 2-wk pretreatment at elevated UV-B irradiance. The difference in photosynthetic inhibition caused by UV irradiation of arctic and alpine ecotypes of Oxyria digyna could not be attributed solely to differences in UV flux penetrating to mesophyll tissues. Further, arctic ecotypes exhibited short-term fluorescence transients indicating damage to the oxidizing side of Photosystem II in the photosynthetic light reaction, whereas there was no indication of this for alpine ecotypes. Thus, there appear to be inherent qualitative and quantitative differences in the UV-radiation sensitivity of photosynthetic systems in arctic and alpine ecotypes.
10.2307/1552066|We examined microscale correlations between tundra vegetation and snow cover on southeastern Victoria Island, arctic Canada. Univariate and multivariate relationships were assessed using correlation analysis and canonical correspondence analysis (CCA). Scale was modified by altering the size of the sampling unit (i.e., grain) from 1 to 1000 m. Correlation coefficients between single species and thickness of snow generally increased with increasing scale. At the largest scale, maximal correlations were found between mean thickness and percent cover of graminoids (r = 0.76) and Saxifraga oppositifolia (r = -0.67). Both snow thickness and graminoid cover were negatively related to elevation at least at the smallest grain. CCA revealed that lowland species (Carex atrofusca, C. aquatilis, C. bigelowii, Eriophorum angustifolium, Arctagrostis latifolia, Equisetum spp., Salix lanata) exhibited positive associations with the thickness, basal hardness, and mean hardness of snow cover, and the frequency of pukak (depth hoar). Upland species (Cassiope tetragona, Cetraria spp., Oxytropis spp., Saxifraga oppositifolia) showed the converse relationships. These patterns were generally consistent across scales. Snow cover variables accounted for an increasing proportion of the variance in plant composition as scale increased.
10.2307/1550459|The genesis of three modal soil pedons, under upper subalpine forest and alpine vegetation, were studied in relation to elevation, vegetation, and material (volcanic ash and residual diorite). The pedons, which were classified (Canadian) as Orthic Humo-Ferric Podzol (forest), Sombric Humo-Ferric Podzol (alpine), and Orthic Sombric Brunisol (alpine), are discussed. Both Podzols have Bf horizons which are compatible with coniferous or ericaceous vegetation. This implies a fluctuating tree line because the Sombric Podzol is presently under alpine vegetation. The Ah horizons of the two Sombric pedons have developed under the present alpine vegetation. The Brunisol has buried Ah and B horizons indicating severe disturbance in these exposed alpine locations. The contributions of volcanic ash to soil genesis and the phenomenon of upper tree-line fluctuation are discussed in relation to observed soil features.
10.2307/1551896|This paper reports on a 2-yr study of methane emissions to the atmosphere made in a high subarctic wetland region at treeline near Churchill, Manitoba. Emissions were monitored from a treed bog, tundra fens, a coastal marsh and shallow ponds, which are wetland terrain types that dominate the region. There were substantial emissions from the fens, marsh, and ponds but very small emissions from the bog. Variability was large, both spatially and temporally. This included variability in measurements at a specific site, between sites, over the course of a single season and between years. Such variability was a response to edaphic factors which control methane production and consumption, differences in ground water levels and pond depths which determine whether conditions are aerobic or anaerobic, and variability in air and soil temperatures. During the cool, moist summer of 1990 there were moderate to strong correlations of log normalized methane emissions with depth to water table or pond depth and with air temperature. In the warmer and drier summer of 1989 correlations were more weakly developed. Some of this behavior is explainable by the relation between methane production under anaerobic conditions and consumption under aerobic conditions. During 1990, the methane production on a site by site basis was comparable to coincident measurements made in the southern Hudson Bay Lowland and in the mid-boreal region of Ontario. In 1989, the emissions were about three-fold less than in 1990.
10.2307/1551548|The influence of neighbors during a winter on transplants of three species was investigated near the timberline of the Snowy Mountains of southeastern Australia. The study species included the timberline tree Eucalyptus pauciflora, a grass most abundant above timberline, Poa costiniana, and a rosette composite most abundant at higher altitudes, Celmisia longifolia. Transplants were grown with and without neighbors, in both shrubland and grassland. Shrubland sites were near the timberline, grassland sites were 200 m above the timberline. Plant sizes were measured at the beginning and end of one winter and regression equations used to determine biomass changes. Plant growth and competition occurred during winter. Neighbors significantly reduced growth of P. costiniana in both habitats and C. longifolia in shrubland. The growth of E. pauciflora was not influenced by neighbors, but in the absence of neighbors it grew significantly faster in shrubland than in grassland. These results indicate that neighbors can restrict plant growth even in winter and may contribute to vegetation patterns in alpine habitats.
10.2307/1551951|The relationship between climate change and the dynamics of ecotonal populations of mountain hemlock (Tsuga mertensiana [Bong.] Carr.) was determined by comparing climate and the age structure of trees from 24 plots and seedlings from 13 plots in the subalpine zone of Lassen Volcanic National Park, California. Tree establishment was greatest during periods with above normal annual and summer temperatures, and normal or above normal precipitation. Seedling establishment was positively correlated with above normal annual and summer temperatures and negatively correlated with April snowpack depth. The different responses of trees and seedlings to precipitation variation is probably related to site soil moisture conditions. Mountain hemlock populations began to expand in 1842 and establishment increased dramatically after 1880 and peaked during a warm mesic period between 1895 and 1910. The onset of forest expansion coincides with warming that began at the end of the Little Ice Age (1850-1880). These data indicate that stability of the mountain hemlock ecotone is strongly influenced by climate. If warming induced by greenhouse gases does occur as climate models predict, then the structure and dynamics of near timberline forests in the Pacific Northwest will change.
10.2307/1552010|We investigated the carbon uptake and release of a Central European alpine grassland community subjected to doubled ambient CO
10.2307/1551016| Turf-banked terraces are either poorly developed or absent in most mountains of the Pacific Northwest. They are well developed, however, in the northeast section of the Olympic Mountains, Washington. Here rain shadow effects promote a continental climatic regime, seasonally frozen ground, and periglacial geomorphic activity. In addition, the northeastern Olympics consists of flattened and rounded ridges composed of sedimentary rocks. These upper surfaces were exposed as nunataks during Pleistocene glacial advances and prolonged weathering has produced fine material from which the turf-banked terraces are formed. Preferred sites are located above timberline at 1725 to 1950 m on northerly exposures with slope gradients of 12 to 24. Three plant communities (Late-Snowbank, Tread, and Riser) were distinguished across the terraces. The features were generally completely vegetated with surface humus layers 5 to 20 cm thick, bound with extensive root systems. Soil textures, exclusive of rocks, averaged 62% sand, 20% silt, and 18% clay. Some terraces have buried organic layers. In situ rock measurements indicate an average soil movement rate of 0.8 to 6.0 mm y
10.2307/1551480| Analyses of Eriophorum vaginatum tussocks provided mass and kinetic parameters for a Michaelis-Menten model of phosphatase activities in Alaskan tussock tundra. This model was used to simulate the temporal patterns of phosphatase activities, given a 90-d thawing season and organic phosphorus concentrations of 30 M in the first and last 10-d intervals; 15 M at other times. Results indicated that about 28% of the total annual tussock activity (155 mg P released) occurred during the brief period of high substrate availability in autumn; little occurred in spring because most of the tussock was frozen and live root mass was low. Phosphatases associated with living roots of E. vaginatum were responsible for about 4% of the total activity in tussocks (ca. 6 mg P), which is almost twice the annual plant demand (ca. 3.5 mg). These results suggest that (1) E. vaginatum may obtain much of its phosphorus requirement from the activities of root surface phosphatases, and (2) the timing of maximum plant phosphorus uptake (late in year) and growth (early in year) are asynchronous, i.e., E. vaginatum integrates nutrient availabilities across years. 
10.2307/1551939| Recent measurements confirm the current activity of some solifluction terraces in high-alpine cushionfield, under periglacial conditions on the Old Man Range in southern New Zealand. Downslope movement amounts to some 3.5 cm a decade. Extensive areas of fully vegetated earth or soil stripes on gentle slopes (3-7) and similarly vegetated soil hummocks on adjacent flatter sites are much less obviously active and have been assumed by previous researchers to be relicts of a more glacial climate. Three years of over-winter temperature measurements at up to four depths (5, 20, 40, 60 cm) beneath an adjacent crest and hollow of well-developed stripes (ca. 1.5 m between crests and 30 cm high), and similar measurements over one winter from a nearby hummock site revealed consistent differential temperatures, and usually differential freezing. Crests of both stripes and hummocks remained continuously frozen at least to 20 cm depth over much of the winter while soil in the depressions remained unfrozen at 20 cm depth and only intermittently frozen at -5 cm. Differential freezing would permit water transfer along a free energy gradient from the nonfrozen to frozen regions, where expansion associated with its freezing probably is sufficient to maintain the microtopographic patterns of both stripes and hummocks. 
10.2307/1551421|In the Arctic and Subarctic, roads and other construction projects require large amounts of gravel to provide well-insulated, stable surfaces. Gravel pits create large disturbed, terrestrial areas and produce significant on-site and off-site impacts, at least some of which are long lasting or even permanent. Gravel substrates are difficult to revegetate since they typically have low moisture- and nutrient-holding capacities. There are several possible approaches to maximize the likelihood of successfully reclaiming northern gravel sites: (1) Minimize their areal extent and visual impact; (2) improve the substrate characteristics for plant growth by such measures as erosion control and reuse of topsoil; (3) select adapted biological materials; and (4) proper siting of gravel pits to enhance reinvasion of native plant species. The extreme conditions of most arctic and subarctic sites require site specific approaches. These conditions also increase the need to use native plant species and to utilize their successional strategies to develop appropriate reclamation plans for gravel sites.
10.2307/1550741| Ten cirque glaciers and their Neoglacial deposits were studied in the Pangnirtung Fiord area of Baffin Island to determine the origin of glacial debris and the erosion rates of subpolar glaciers. Aerial photographs, topographic maps, laboratory work, and field surveys provided information on glacier and cirque areas, volume, texture and source of till. The rate of debris production for glaciers of this study was 24 to 155 m
10.2307/1550961|With the retreat of the Laurentide ice into northern Saskatchewan at about 11,000 BP, upslope weather conditions caused greatly increased precipitation in the Foothills and High Plains. Stagnant ice masses reactivated and expanded; some advanced along the contours, blocking valleys such as that of the Bow River and caused proglacial lakes to form. Glacial Lake Calgary persisted from 11,000 to 8100 BP. Maximum precipitation occurred about 11,000 to 10,000 BP, but enhanced precipitation more than offset the effects of the Hypsithermal interval and persisted until after the deposition of the Mazama ash. Thereafter conditions became drier. The Neoglacial changes were much less marked. Other geomorphic effects of the wetter conditions were deeper inundation of kettle holes, rapid formation of alluvial fans where streams are not found today, and frequent major colluvial events burying soils at the foot of slopes. A single, short cold spell may have occurred at about 8800 BP, suggesting the effects of the middle phase of the Younger Dryas in the area. At 11,000 BP, the Foothills and High Plains supported tundra vegetation with subalpine forest at lower elevations. There was an abrupt rise in temperature, and by 10,000 BP, the prairie grasslands had entered the High Plains from the south. After 7000 BP, the grasslands had spread to their maximum extent. A wave of molluscs spread north across the region as the tundra retreated. By 7000 BP these included species whose contiguous distribution today lies well south of Alberta in warmer and more humid areas. The present mammalian fauna had invaded the area by 9500 BP.
10.2307/1550615|The prediction of snow avalanche runout distance from dynamic equations requires estimates of internal and external friction terms. Previous work indicates a wide variation in the turbulent friction term from 400 to 1800 m sec
10.2307/1551170|Revegetation of an alpine area disturbed by excessive human activity along the Appalachian Trail was studied using the native species Arenaria groenlandica, Juncus trifidus, and Potentilla tridentata. Recruitment and mortality in populations of sown seed were recorded, and environmental parameters were measured in order to assess their impact on the population dynamics. The results showed similar patterns of establishment on hiker disturbed sites and on naturally open, undisturbed sites. Frost activity in the soil was the only identifiable cause of mortality. A fertilization treatment had no effect on establishment or survival. The species which had relatively rapid root growth had the highest rates of survival.
10.2307/1551717| Four diamicton facies occur in end moraines located in the Animas River valley of the San Juan Mountains, southwestern Colorado. Pebble fabric, grain size, sedimentary structures, and stratigraphic relationships with associated fluvial sediment are used to interpret diamicton origin. (1) A massive, matrix-dominated diamicton with abundant silt is ubiquitous in the Animas City II and III end moraines. This facies has a weak fabric (S
10.2307/1550594| During January and February 1976 several ice deformation events resulted in a 1.5-m thick plate of first-year ice overthrusting an old floe. A lead opened a few days before the rotation and translation that resulted in a wedge-shaped overthrust about 200 m across the wide end and 450 m lateral distance along the front. A pressure ridge marked the forward advance upon the old floe. The majority of blocks in the ridge were of young ice 20 to 24 cm thick. Two monoclines were formed, one partly obscured by the pressure ridge and snow; the other with a 38-cm amplitude and 2 slope. Tension fractures occurred in the convex upper surfaces of the monoclines. 
10.2307/1550297|The use of analysis of variance and correlation ratios reveal that the three dominant processes observed on talus of southwest Devon Island produce characteristic arrangements in size of surface fragments. The correlation ratios show that on 25 of the 27 surfaces zonal (upslope-downslope) variance accounts for a much higher proportion of size variation than does lateral (cross-slope) variation. This characteristic supports the hypothesis of fall-sorting and reverse fall-sorting of rock fragments as the fundamental mode of talus formation. Analysis of variance indicates that at present 10 of 15 (66%) rockfall taluses have statistically significant zonal size arrangements, compared to 1 of 2 (50%) on talus with basal erosion and only 4 of 10 (40%) on alluvial talus. Basal erosion and meltwater activity may either reinforce or obscure the original downslope arrangement, depending upon the form of the process, its magnitude and frequency. Comparison of similar studies by way of statistical power analysis reveals considerable support for these findings.
10.2307/1552027| Velocity measurements on three transverse lines across the surface of the 400-m-long Nautrdalur rock glacier in the Trllaskagi peninsula, North Iceland, were started in 1977. Readings have been continued at various intervals since then and provide over 17 yr of data. Individually observed points indicate slow movement with little apparent variation over the time period. Center-line velocities are of the order of 0.25 m yr
10.2307/1551230| The Columbia Icefields are highland ice caps developed upon benchlands of massive platform carbonates in the Main Ranges, Rocky Mountains. Ice is discharged via major valley glaciers, including South Glacier, Castleguard Valley. The karst is developed along the southeast edge of the central icefield, extends beneath it, and drains to springs in Castleguard Valley. Altitudinal range of the karst is 1600 to 2600 m a.s.l. Mean annual temperature is estimated to range from 0 to -7C over this range. Treeline is at ca. 2100 m. All cirques and valleys were occupied by ice during the late Wisconsinan Glaciation. Modern glaciers are ca. 100 to 300 m in thickness and are receding from well-marked Neoglacial moraines. Periglacial features are prominent on high carbonate surfaces that escaped Neoglacial cover. The principal surface karst features are (1) subglacial precipitates found on newly exposed Neoglacial surfaces; (2) varieties of sinkholes seen on all exposed carbonates above 2000 m; (3) families of springs, most below 2000 m. Castleguard Cave is a major relict system. The first interpretations of the karst, using simple morphological evidences alone, supposed that the Cave was drained by glacial entrenchment during the Wisconsinan Glaciation. Two modern groundwater caves developed beneath it. 
10.2307/1551237|Nests of calcite pisolites ("cave pearls") of approximately spherical form are common features in caves. They grow by accretion of calcium carbonate around rolling nucleii. Nests of cubic pearls are rare. Four nests of cubic pearls are reported, but their development has not been explained. A nest of cubic pearls in the Second Fissure, Castleguard Cave, is described in this paper. It contains more than 300 individuals in a two-layer orthogonal array. Laboratory analysis of one specimen indicates that it is composed of calcite and grew by accretion to an original spherical nucleus. It is proposed that development of the cubical form resulted from restriction of precipitate supply to the sides and base, a consequence of very regular packing. Very stable growth conditions are required, such as can only be found in certain underground sites.
10.2307/1550273|A general model for variance components in slope series comprise a mean, trend, periodicity, and autoregressive and noise terms. Series are generated for sixteen freshly deglaciated talus slopes by considering the slope angles of fixed lengths. Correlograms and power spectra show that most of the variance arises from low order autoregressive processes. This seems to imply a control of slope variance by processes other than supply and removal at least in the early stages of talus slope development.
10.2307/1551856|The discovery in recent years of abrupt climatic changes in climate proxy records from Greenland ice cores and North Atlantic sediment cores, and from other sites around the world, has diverted attention from gradual insolation changes caused by Earth's orbital variations to more rapid processes on Earth's surface as forcing Quaternary climatic change. In particular, forcing by ice sheets has been quantified for a major ice stream that drained the Laurentide Ice Sheet along Hudson Strait. The history of these recent discoveries leading to an interest in ice sheets is reviewed, and a case is made that ice sheets may drive abrupt climatic change that is virtually synchronous worldwide. Attention is focused on abrupt inception and termination of a Quaternary glaciation cycle, abrupt changes recorded as stadials and interstadials within the cycle, abrupt changes in ice streams that trigger stadials and interstadials, and abrupt changes in the Laurentide Ice Sheet linked to effectively simultaneous abrupt changes in its ice streams. Remaining work needed to quantify further these changes is discussed.
10.2307/1550735|For arctic tundra at Barrow, Alaska, and alpine tundra on Niwot Ridge in the Front Range of Colorado, the components of the radiation and energy balance for the growing season from June through August are examined. Where sufficient data are available, the radiation fluxes are also compared for the other seasons. There is a remarkable similarity in the mean daily totals of net radiation for the growing season. Insolation receipt is greater in the alpine tundra but the net longwave radiative loss is also greater so that the two effects nearly compensate each other. The difference in net radiation between the two sites is only 3% of the daily total. When hourly data are examined, however, maximum intensities and diurnal ranges are considerably greater in the Alpine than in the Arctic. Differences in the energy balance regimes are apparent both in the daily totals and hourly fluxes. At Barrow there is generally little or no moisture stress due to a continual standing water supply. Most of the available radiant energy at the surface is used in the latent heat flux rather than the enthalpy flux. The opposite is the case on Niwot Ridge where the major moisture source is from slowly melting snowbanks. A greater moisture stress develops through the growing season which apparently cannot be alleviated by convective precipitation. More of the net radiation is used in the enthalpy flux than the latent heat flux.
10.2307/1550457|A hummocky moraine-like accumulation in the Pasayten West Fork valley comprises angular boulders of arkose derived from a local rockslide-avalanche from the eastern side of the valley. The debris displays an aberrant high-relief topography of kettles and other ice-disintegration landforms and is anomalously dispersed upvalley of the source area, signifying that the avalanche spread across, and was reformed by, a stagnant or nearly stagnant upvalley-sloping distributary of the Cordilleran ice sheet.
10.2307/1551873|Photosynthetic, water relations, and leaf nitrogen responses of Bistorta vivipara, a wide-ranging alpine species, to added water were measured in order to determine the extent to which water limits photosynthesis. One centimeter of water per week (equivalent to about 1 standard deviation of natural precipitation) was added to plots in fellfield and moist meadow communities. There were generally no early- or mid-season treatment effects for any of the measured responses. At the end of the growing season photosynthetic rates were higher in watered plots than in control plots in both communities even though the summer was much wetter than average. This suggests that photosynthetic rates might be further limited by lack of water during growing seasons with average or below-average precipitation. Treatment differences in leaf water potential, stomatal conductance, and leaf nitrogen concentration were not present at the end of the season. However, each of these three parameters was found to limit photosynthesis, and each was greater in the watered plots than in control plots at the end of the season. The stronger correlations of leaf water potential and stomatal conductance with photosynthesis compared to the weak correlation of leaf nitrogen to photosynthesis suggests watering primarily leads to more open stomates, which increases photosynthesis. Potential indirect effects of watering on photosynthesis through increased nutrient availability caused by increased mineralization or nutrient movement are apparently unimportant.
10.2307/1550438|Maktak Glacier is a major distributary of the Penny Ice Cap and thus changes in its frontal position reflect variations in the mass balance of the ice cap. The Neoglacial terminal moraine of this glacier consists of a 20-m thick sedimentary sequence of till, overlain by up to 18 m of sands and gravels which contain a 1-m thick peat bed. These sediments were deformed by glacier pushing and are overlain by a younger till. The basal till and the overlying sands and gravels beneath the peat were deposited during the retreat from the Cockburn Stade. The site was deglaciated at some time after 5000 to 6000 BP. Peat on a terrace surface was studied using "absolute" pollen analyses, and clustering routines to distinguish pollen zones: The start of peat growth at 2500 BP (synchronous with such events elsewhere) is attributable to altered permafrost levels and/or increases in precipitation/evaporation budgets, producing wetter conditions locally. The vegetational history began with a moist willow episode, which was followed by a dominantly grass community as local conditions became drier. The initial rapid growth of peat became progressively slower throughout the profile, until by 1500 BP the slow accumulation of humified peat was overwhelmed by windblown sand which inhibited further growth. A subsequent Maktak Glacier advance deposited sands and gravels over the peat bed. Between 350 and 65 BP, glacial pushing and overriding of the terrace and peat sediments occurred. Exotic tree pollens were identified in the sediments; their changing frequencies may provide some tentative measure of changing airflows into the High Arctic. The eastern part of the Penny Ice Cap, as represented by the Maktak Glacier, may have a relatively simple Holocene history of post-Cockburn decline, growth after 4000 BP, and decline in recent decades. This contrasts with more complex response patterns of small cirque glaciers in the same areas. It is stressed that the data used in the paper cannot identify smallscale glacier oscillations.
10.2307/1552143| Flowering phenology and seed development of two alpine sedges were investigated at 2200-2300 m on sunlit sites with little winter snow cover and on northern slopes with deep winter snow accumulation. During the growing season daily mean canopy temperatures between such sites differ by about 2C. Additionally, tussocks were transplanted to 600 m a.s.l. in order to study the reproductive responses in an environment about 10C warmer. At high altitudes the timing of reproductive processes in both Carex species strongly depended on the date of snowmelt. Carex curvula flowered as soon as the mean daily temperature exceeded 5 to 6C. For the later flowering C. firma no specific threshold temperature could be found, indicating that the onset of flowering is regulated by complex environmental triggers. Depending on the site, C. curvula required 7 to 8 wk, and C. firma 8 to 10 wk for seed formation; under lowland conditions seeds matured within 6 wk and 8 wk, respectively. Abnormal changes in temperature may cause phenological anomalies and developmental disturbances, as could be observed after transplantation of Carex plants to the lowland. In both species, about half of the ovules matured into seeds (seed/ovule ratio 0.5-0.6), except for C. firma plants growing on the north-facing slope (S/O ratio 0.3). After transplantation the S/O ratio was 0.5 for C. curvula and 0.4 for C. firma. Seeds from sunlit sites germinated better than those from the north-facing sites. Generally, more warmth and a longer growing season promote seed production and seed size. It can be expected that a moderate climate warming will not only favor upward migration of both Carex species, but also colonization of bare ground by means of seed dispersal. 
10.2307/1550463| In 1973, several samples of buried organic-bearing sediments were collected from beneath and within the "layered sands" of Pangnirtung Pass and the Padle/Kingnait Pass, eastern Baffin Island, N.W.T. Radiocarbon dates on some samples yielded apparent ages in conflict with their stratigraphic position, and it was clear that contamination was present within these well-drained sediments. In 1974, three sites were revisited and larger (> 3000 g) samples were collected. Organic content varied between 2.5 and 8.2% by weight. We report the results of 28 individual age determinations, stratified according to (1) different laboratory preparations, (2) different size fractions of the organic materials, and (3) different NaOH solubility fractions. Statistical analysis of these data indicated that in no instance could we reject a null hypothesis, and hence no statistically significant trends could be outlined. Differences in age within a sample varied between 720 and 1245 yr. We suggest that the most reliable fraction for dating these sediments is the < 125-m organic fraction which is insoluble in NaOH. However, the > 125-m NaOH-insoluble fraction gave ages consistently younger than in the < 125-m NaOH-insoluble fraction. These age differences might be associated with a soil residence time for the finer fraction. 
10.2307/1551175|Suspended sediment rating curves have provided a simple method for the interpolation and extrapolation of suspended sediment concentration and load in proglacial streams. The usefulness of suspended sediment rating curves is explored using observations of suspended sediment concentration and discharge from the proglacial stream of the glacier de Tsidjiore Nouve, Valais, Switzerland. A logarithmic transformation of both suspended sediment concentration and discharge was found to be suitable for estimating suspended sediment rating curves by linear regression analysis, but in spite of lagging, differencing, and weighting the variables, a consistently good method of predicting suspended sediment concentration from discharge was not found. A major problem was serial autocorrelation in the residuals from the sediment rating curves, and so a method placing central attention on the autocorrelation in the data series was adopted. A transfer function between the discharge and suspended sediment series was estimated using the method proposed by Box and Jenkins (1970). The transfer function gave by far the best forecasts of suspended sediment concentration of all the models considered, even when it was applied to a different ablation season from that for which it was estimated. In addition, the transfer function and associated univariate time series models also provided information about the character of the suspended sediment and discharge series, which could be used to interpret the hydrology of the proglacial zone and the lower part of the glacier de Tsidjiore Nouve.
10.2307/1549997|Seasonal patterns of nutrient concentration and standing stock were documented in aboveground plant biomass of wet meadow tundra vegetation at Barrow, Alaska. Mobile elements, such as nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium, were present in higher concentrations in tundra than in comparable temperate species. These elements reached peak concentration within 10 days of snowmelt and decreased to about half their maximum concentration in the course of the growing season. The total standing stock of these elements increased more rapidly aboveground than did biomass itself. Nearly half of the total nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium complement of aboveground material was retranslocated belowground before the end of the growing season. That portion of these nutrients remaining in standing dead material at the end of the growing season was leached at rates reflecting their respective solubilities in plant tissue. Calcium and magnesium increased in concentration and in total content in the course of the growing season. Dicots had higher concentrations of phosphorus and of cations than did monocots. This is discussed with respect to their differences in mycorrhizal association and distribution. The implications for herbivores of seasonal and species differences in nutrient concentration are discussed. Fertilization with nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium stimulated production and resulted in significant increases in concentrations of plant phosphorus and potassium but not of nitrogen.
10.2307/1550965|The ecological basis for using the mean of the five largest lichens in lichenometry has been examined by investigating the Rhizocarpon section Rhizocarpon species growing on gravestones in Highland Scotland. The ratio of the mean of the five largest thalli to the single largest thallus on a substrate provides an index of the lichen performance on each stone which can then be related to environmental and temporal factors. Ratios appear to be unaffected by substrate lithology and orientation, but respond to variations in substrate age. There is a marked spatial pattern of mean ratios, which can be explained in terms of onshore winds and the distribution of air pollution. In most arctic-alpine areas, these factors are unimportant, and the use of the mean of the five largest lichens in lichenometry can therefore be justified on ecological as well as statistical grounds.
10.2307/1550443| The extent of amino acid racemization in shells found in till on the flanks of Sndre Strmfjord, West Greenland, suggests that the shells are of early Wisconsin or interglacial age. The fiord trough was open to the sea at the time and has not been deepened materially by the subsequent Wisconsin glaciations. Additional field studies may uncover in situ deposits of early Wisconsin or older age. 
10.2307/1550031| The influence of light intensity and temperature on the photosynthetic responses of intact leaves was studied in the principal grasses in the vicinity of Barrow, Alaska. Light saturated rates of young expanded leaves varied from 7.0 mg CO
10.2307/1550352|In July 1969 a large female boreal toad was found at timberline (3,557 m, 11,560 ft) in the Rocky Mountain National Park, Larimer County, Colorado. A total of 46 boreal toads have been found at different localities in the Colorado Front Range, all above 3,385 m (11,000 ft) elevation, and all within 200 m of timberline. These new records extend the known elevational range of the species upward more than 250 m. A brief description of the habitat of the two highest known localities is given.
10.2307/1551860|Glaciers in Ecuador advanced before 12,500 yr BP, and between 10,500 and 9000 yr BP. We present a detailed record of climate change in highland equatorial South America throughout the last deglaciation (14,000-9000 yr BP). We find that the sedimentary record between the glacier advances indicates that glaciers did not advance during Younger Dryas time. A previously suggested Younger Dryas-equivalent glacier advance predates the Younger Dryas event by at least 2000 yr. In the Ecuadorian Andes, no evidence for a Younger Dryas cooling has been found to date. Rapid climatic fluctuations during the last deglaciation are documented by glacier advances in Ecuador, but they are not synchronous with the European events.
10.2307/1550086|Mylonites--metamorphosed rocks occurring in the granodiorite area of the alpine belt of the Tatra Mountains--support a mylonite-associated (occurring exclusively on mylonitic soils) and calciphilous vegetation, which is absent on neighboring granodiorite terrain. This effect of the mylonites is evident in very weakly developed soils, which are not acidified and occur predominantly on the steep north- and north-west-facing slopes. The factor controlling the presence of the mylonite-associated vegetation was found to be the chemistry of mylonitic soils; they have higher pH, higher percentage base saturation, a higher content of exchangeable calcium and magnesium, and a lower content of exchangeable aluminum and hydrogen than granodioritic soils. It is concluded that the change of mineral composition and the change in texture, caused by metamorphosis of granodiorites to mylonites, result in release of larger amounts of nutrients, especially of calcium, from mylonites, than from granodiorites. In a cultivation experiment, species characteristic of mylonites germinated and grew better on mylonitic soil. Species characteristic of granodiorites fared better on granitic soil. The higher number of bacteria and the lower number of fungi found on weathering mylonite than on granodiorite, may also be correlated with the different chemistry of these substrates. These results suggest that the mylonite-associated species are neutrophilous and that the mylonitic substrate is basic enough to support also some calciphytes.
10.2307/1551338|Analysis of data compiled by the Permanent Service on the Fluctuations of Glaciers (now known as the World Glacier Monitoring Service) suggests that the alpine glaciers of the world as a group shifted during the 1960 to 1980 period from a regime strongly dominated by shrinking and receding glaciers to a mixed regime. Between 1960 and 1980, on the basis of data for about 400 to 450 glaciers observed each year, advancing glaciers are shown to have increased from about 6% of observed glaciers to 55%. During the 1960 to 1980 period, on the basis of data for about 50 glaciers observed each year, annual mass balance is shown to be, on the average, positive for about 57% of observed glaciers in the European Alps and for 40% of observed glaciers in the other monitored areas of the world. Preliminary data for 1981 to 1985 suggest that the mixed glacial regime is continuing. However, regularly monitored glaciers account for only a small percentage (probably less than 1%) of the total number of glaciers worldwide. More extensive research and monitoring are necessary to determine the pervasiveness and permanence of this shift, and to assess its climatic implications.
10.2307/1550032|The distribution of energy in selected component parts of three river bottom alder ecosystems was determined in this study. For alder, the dominant plant species in each ecosystem, the caloric content of foliage was greater than branches was greater than boles. Maximum energy content in the living plant component was found in 20-year-old alder male cones (6,272 cal g
10.2307/1551092|In 1975 and 1976, fallout (aerially dispersing arthropods trapped on snow) was collected from large permanent alpine snowfields on Mount Rainier (4392 m), Cascade Mountains. Spiders comprised 5.5% of all specimens collected, being fifth in abundance after Homoptera, Heteroptera, Hymenoptera, and Diptera. Overall, spider fallout density decreased steadily with elevation, probably reflecting a decrease of spider density in the atmosphere with altitude. Spiders from distant sources reached higher elevations. From April to October, spider fallout density (and thus spider dispersal in this area) showed a moderate peak in May/June, a minimum in September, and a high peak in October, similar to patterns known elsewhere. Only 5 of 23 spider species found in fallout were previously known as ballooners. Species ballooning as adults belonged to the families Araneidae, Theridiidae, Salticidae, and Thomisidae, not just Linyphiidae as previously reported. Analysis of probable origins of fallout species shows the importance of major landforms and weather patterns to success of spider aerial dispersal. Compared with embarkment and flight of ballooners, their immigration has been little studied; alpine fallout is an important potential source of such data.
10.2307/1550794|A 2.16-m column of peat from a raised palsa mound near Umiakoviarusek Lake, Okak Bay, Labrador, yielded plant macrofossils and insect fragments ranging in age from 2650 BP to the present. The insect fossils included 70 named taxa of 13 beetle families and 14 families of other insects, arachnids, and Cladocera. The assemblages are dominated by aquatic and semiaquatic taxa, indicative of a wet bog environment with open water. A continuous woodland episode is inferred from assemblages from 2650 to 1000 BP, followed by a possibly colder episode to the present day, as indicated by increases in tundra dwelling taxa. This sequence is in general agreement with the Labrador pollen record from this interval.
10.2307/1551944|A uniquely high level of anoxia tolerance has been observed in Spitsbergen populations of some common high arctic vascular plant species. The most surprising aspect of anoxia tolerance in these species is their ability to maintain turgid, green leaves throughout the period of anoxia and into the postanoxic recovery phase. Prolonged anoxia tolerance has never been reported previously for green leaves, which normally lose turgor and wither rapidly when deprived of oxygen. Tests on more southern populations from Norway, Iceland, and Scotland of species found to be tolerant of anoxia in Spitsbergen failed to detect an equivalent ability to survive oxygen deprivation. This distinctive feature of high arctic populations as compared to more southern populations of the same species suggests a different evolutionary history for arctic populations as compared with those from lower latitudes. Possession of a such an unusual physiological feature whole-plant anoxia tolerance, not found in more southerly populations, is an additional argument for suggesting that some arctic populations of vascular plants may have survived part of the Pleistocene epoch at high latitudes in ice-free polar deserts. Such populations will have been exposed to many climatic alterations in the past and this history of a long-term presence in the High Arctic is discussed in relation to current threats to arctic vegetation from climatic warming.
10.2307/1551248|The activity of frost-heaving processes is described for two alpine sites in the Front Range of the Canadian Rocky Mountains over the period 1980 to 1983. The two sites recording frost-heave frames demonstrated heaving resulting from both diurnal and seasonal mechanisms. Diurnal heaving was related to the nocturnal growth of needle ice and resulted in an average heave of 10 mm. Averaging only 20 events per year, its geomorphic significance appeared limited. Seasonal heaving resulted in between 23 to 45 mm yr
10.2307/1550084|The avifauna of the north slope of arctic Alaska, with particular reference to the Barrow region, is reviewed on the basis of records published since Bailey (1948) and field experience in northern Alaska, mainly near Barrow, over a 23-year period (1951 to 1973). New records for the Barrow region and other parts of the north slope are reported. Five species are added to the known avifauna of mainland North America. The species list for the Barrow region now totals 151 (increase of 28 since 1948); that for the north slope as a whole now totals 185 (increase of 48 since 1948). A systematic list is provided for the north slope summarizing distributional status as known to date. The main features of species composition and seasonality of the Barrow region avifauna are summarized and discussed. Distributional zonation of birds on the north slope is examined briefly with regard to physiolographic and biological criteria for the delimitation of zones, and several problems revealed by bird data are discussed.
10.2307/1550938|This study evaluates the potential for temperature-related humidity changes and associated adsorption to cause particle size reduction of prepared aggregates of fine-grained carbonaterich sedimentary rocks under simulated periglacial conditions. Replicate samples in the 16- to 2-mm size range of two shales, a dolomite, and a limestone were subjected to humidity cycles above and below freezing, and to freeze-thaw. Samples classified as sorption sensitive yielded as much material to the <2-mm size grades after 200 above-freezing humidity cycles as did frost sensitive samples subjected to the same number of across-freezing cycles. The response of the sorption-sensitive samples to the below-freezing cycles was similar but more subdued. In virtually all cases the above- and below-freezing cycles released more silt and clay in proportion to the <2-mm totals, compared with the across-freezing cycles. Stresses generated by adsorption in argillaceous carbonates may be just as significant as microgelivation in the production of fine material from regolith in periglacial environments.
10.2307/1551474|Secondary succession in an Indian Central Himalayan alpine meadow above timberline within an elevational range of 3100 to 3750 m was studied. In the ordination graph, the stands of two seres (Trachydium-forb, I sere, and the forb-Danthonia, II sere) were clearly separated. In both the seres, relative importance of pioneer species decreased and that of late successional species increased along the gradient of age. Relative importance of tall forbs decreased from younger to older sites, but a reverse trend was observed for cushion and sprawling forbs. Grasses and sedges also increased throughout the age gradient in II sere. Total shoot density and species richness increased and that of biomass decreased along the gradient of age, while diversity peaked in the middle part of the gradient.
10.2307/1551209|Former exploratory drilling sites in the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska, are examples of the long-term physical modifications resulting from disturbance of perennially frozen terrain. Camp construction and drilling activities in the late 1940s/early 1950s resulted in disturbances which can be grouped by their first modification to the site and its thermal regime: trampling of vegetation, killing the vegetative cover, removal of the vegetative mat, or removal of the vegetation and soil. Removal of the vegetation led to the most extensive modifications at all sites, but the subsequent response to disturbance between sites varied with primarily four factors: (1) ground ice volume, (2) distribution and size of massive ground ice, (3) material properties during thaw, and (4) relief, including progressive changes during thaw subsidence. Variations in response time resulted from the influence of these factors on the type and activity of degradational processes that ensued. Terrain underlain by ice-poor sediments that are stable upon thawing, for example, was altered only by thaw subsidence and consolidation, while ice-rich sediments that are unstable at thaw were extensively modified by a complex interaction of slumping, sediment flow, and thermal and mechanical erosion. Drainage promoted meltwater erosion, whereas undrained areas were modified significantly less and attained stability more rapidly. Physical stability is required for growth of vegetation and thermal equilibration, and has taken over 30 yr to attain in ice-rich, thaw-unstable areas. Ice-poor, thaw-stable materials in undrained or low relief areas required an estimated 5 to 10 yr for stability; thaw depth measurements suggest that certain of these areas have also equilibrated thermally.
10.2307/1551366| The basic physicochemical characteristics of a Canadian High Arctic deep meromictic and mesothermic lake with an open drainage system are presented. The monimolimnetic salinity of Lake Sophia reaches 58  and its mid-water temperature is perennially at 12C. This type lake is most commonly found in Antarctica, while so far only two have been reported from the Canadian Arctic. The salts of the monimolimnion seem to have originated during the postglacial marine submergence mainly from marine waters trapped within the ancient lake basin and beneath the surface of the area. It is most likely that the concentration of salts by freezing-out of ions from the underground relict pore seawater was progressively brought about by the encroachment of permafrost on the newly uplifted lake surrounding. The water insulating layer could have caused the formation of a talik beneath the lake basin, which subsequently favored the displacement of the underground saline water toward the bottom of the lake. With time, some of the underground inflowing waters would have migrated to the mixolimnion, there to be diluted with slightly mineralized meteoric waters before leaving the lake through the outflowing creek. 
10.2307/1551872| In alpine/subalpine zones of the central Rocky Mountains, U.S.A., snowbank geophytes commonly sprout and even flower while still buried beneath late-lying snowbanks that can persist well into summer. Photosynthesis and growth in the snowbank geophyte Erythronium grandiflorum Pursh (glacier lily) was investigated before and after emergence from snowbanks at locations with early or late snowmelt. Although subnivean plant heights were not related to snowbank depth, heights at emergence were significantly greater in snowbanks with early melt dates. Also, there were no plants emerging from snowbanks that persisted until late June. Net photosynthesis in the subnivean and on the initial day of emergence was negative and photochemical development negligible (indicated by low chlorophyll fluorescence), despite pre-emergent light levels of over 500 mol m
10.2307/1551494|The global distribution of needle-ice incidence is examined through a detailed literature search which revealed more than 200 relevant studies. A comprehensive database of the 113 locatable needle-ice observations is presented, which includes details of observation site, longitude, latitude, and altitude, observation date, nature of needle-ice activity, and bibliographic source. The database enables definition of four research gaps. A world map shows that needle ice is fairly widespread, with concentrations around the Andes/Rockies mountain chain, eastern United States, northwest and central Europe, East African high mountains, New Zealand, and Japan. The "existence domain" of the process is tentatively delimited by plotting observation latitudes against altitudes. An inverted U-shaped envelope distribution is obtained, with needle ice occurring at successively higher altitudes with decreasing latitude. The upper limit corresponds loosely with the lower limit of permafrost. Although needle ice is largely a winter phenomenon, it may occur at almost any time of the year in temperate zones. In high latitudes, needle ice mainly appears at either end of the winter freezeup. The distributions presented may help interpretation of other cryogenic distributions and provide an indication of needle-ice potential in fieldwork areas.
10.2307/1550461|The composition of the windblown insect fauna at the summit of White Mountain Peak (4342 m), California, was investigated for 44 days in July/August 1974 and August 1975. Thermal convection currents and westerly winds transport large numbers of insects and deposit them on the east (leeward) slope of the summit. Insects in accumulated deposits of windblown debris are predominantly Hemiptera, Homoptera, and Coleoptera. The most common species are Nysius raphanus (Lygaeidae), Rhytidolomia spp. (Pentatomidae), Hippodamia convergens (Coccinellidae), and Psylla magna and P. omani (Psyllidae). The density of arthropod fallout on a snowfield near the summit was 1380 m
10.2307/1550760|The mountain glacionival belt can be considered as a type of desert, occurring under conditions of deficit incoming heat with incoming moisture being in a solid state. Two main types of landscape, glacial and periglacial, can be distinguished in this belt. The specific climate, influenced by large quantities of solid precipitation and year-round presence of the underlying snow and ice surface, is unique to the glacionival belt. Differences within this general type of climate are primarily a reflection of the degree of continentality of the locality and of its specific position within its particular highland area; the latitudinal position of a locality is only of secondary importance. These relationships are considered the principal ones for analysis of the geographical aspects of glacier landscapes. Within the highlands of the temperate zone, four types of glacier landscapes can be distinguished: oceanic, maritime, temperate-continental, and extreme-continental. They succeed each other regularly (as a rule, eastward) within each highland area. Variability of the main criteria for glacier classification in the different types of resulting landscapes are illustrated. These include the altitude of the equilibrium line, the values for snow accumulation at this altitude, the glacier activity index (altitudinal gradient of accumulation and ablation), and relations between the processes of ice formation. Consideration is also given to the variability of related landscape characteristics that provide indications of the regime of the natural processes both within the glacier body and outside its boundaries. These include the mean duration of ice exchange, glacier velocity, temperature at the lower limit of the active ice layer and at the ice/bedrock interface, and the proportion of meltwater runoff to total runoff. The paper points to the importance of comparing secular changes in the height of the equilibrium line to that of the upper timberline for an understanding of the evolution of natural conditions of the alpine and glacionival belts. Combined studies of glacier and periglacial landscapes are important for mountain geoecology, glaciology, and other physical and geographical sciences.
10.2307/1550763|The main soil forming factors are climate (principally water balance), parent material (texture, porosity, and chemical composition), vegetation (especially on avalanche slopes), topography (aspect and slope angle), and time. Important local factors are fires and avalanches. Least well known is the effect of time, but a study of 10 soil profiles on each of four moraines ranging in age from the end of the 19th century to about 9000 radiocarbon yr BP at Lake Louise indicates that podzolization was proceeding much faster prior to the deposition of the Mazama ash (6600 to 7000 yr BP) than subsequently. Since we know from other studies that temperatures were higher, precipitation must have been greater at that time. Although volcanic ash weathers quickly, the effect of the volcanic ashes on profile development is dwarfed by the climatic change.
10.2307/1551107|This study attempts to quantify alpine snow-patch vegetation-soil communities with respect to distance from the center of the snow patch on north and south sites. Discriminant models using vegetation and environmental parameters were developed for determining differences within transects and between sites using four snow patches on north- and south- facing slopes in Rocky Mountain National Park, Colorado. Data for two independently selected snow patches were used to validate the model. Collected vegetation data included cover by species while soil measurements included temperature, moisture tension, pH, percent organic matter, and texture. Slope, aspect, snow depth, and distance of the quadrat from the snow-patch basin edge were also recorded. The species composition of contiguous vegetation stands along a transect were statistically different on a multivariate basis but few univariate differences were observed. Trifolium parryi occurred more in the inner stands of the south site while T. dasyphyllum had larger cover values in the outer stands. On the north site, however, T. parryi, Artemisia norvegica, and Geum rossii had more cover in outer stands while Deschampsia caespitosa occurred more in inner stands. Although T. parryi occurred at different distances on the two slopes, the microsites it occupied were similar in moisture and snow cover characteristics. Vegetation differed between slopes, and validation stands could be properly assigned to aspects based on a discriminant function which contained pH or gravel percentage and cover for species with small amounts of cover, such as Lewisia pygmaea, Thlaspi alpestre, or Solidago decumbens.
10.2307/1550780|The problems of determining altitudinal variations in molluscan fauna and relating them to climate on the Iraqi slopes of the Persian mountains and in the Rocky Mountains of Alberta are compared. Iraq is a small deforested area whereas the Rocky Mountains of Alberta have undergone partial and temporary deforestation by fire. Both areas support molluscs but the number of species present has been drastically reduced in Iraq. The common species in Iraq permit an identification of distinctive zones which parallel the isohyets. Due to its size, mapping of the distribution of molluscs is barely possible in Alberta; therefore traverses must be used. The mollusc distribution pattern is similar, but there is an extensive region in the upper Hudsonian zone that lacks molluscs, even though the ground in winter is much warmer, due to snow cover, than on the prairie. But the first snow temperatures suggest that a very cold blanket is formed on the ground inhibiting molluscs in the evergreen forest. Distribution of aspen (Populus tremuloides) and grasses affects the distribution of some species, while Gastrocopta pentodon appears to be a relict from the Altithermal period and has survived at suitable locations. In both areas, the molluscs can be used as climatic and vegetational indicators.
10.2307/1551758|Light ring chronologies are developed from white spruce (Picea glauca [Moench] Voss) at six sites in the Yukon and western Northwest Territories of Canada in order to evaluate their spatiotemporal distribution and to investigate the climatic factors leading to their formation. The chronologies, produced using both living and subfossil material, vary in length from 350 yr to 800 yr. In several key years during the common interval A.D. 1641-1989, light rings developed in a majority of trees at all or most of the sites, indicating their usefulness for regional cross-dating of tree-ring records. Comparison of light ring records with climate data at the northernmost site suggests white spruce light ring formation is related to below average June to August tempertures, with an emphasis on low August temperatures. Prominent white spruce light ring years in northwestern Canada are different from black spruce light ring years in northern Quebec, probably due to the differences in synoptic circulation patterns between the two regions, and thus cross-dating may be limited to the regional scale.
10.2307/1550033|The soils and vegetation of subalpine mountain heath communities on colluvial, residual, and organic soils in the Source Lake basin of the west-central Cascade Range, Washington, were described and sampled for organic matter and nitrogen content in foliage, living stems, attached dead stems, roots, litter, and soil. Soil profile descriptions and vegetative cover data are presented. Total organic matter averaged 27.4, 39.3, and 100.2 kg m
10.2307/1551696|Eighteen glacier forelands, with lichenometrically dated terminal moraine sequences, provide chronosequences for an investigation of soil development. The investigation focuses on properties of the soils' organic phases (pH, organic matter content, cation exchange capacity, and profile depth), which generally change rapidly in alpine soils. The results indicate decreasing pH and increasing organic matter content and cation exchange capacity as the soils increase in depth over the 231-yr sequences. The rates of change of the soil properties show wide variations within the area of the Jotunheim Mountains and the environs of the Jostedalsbreen ice cap; in some cases the variations are more than an order of magnitude. The rates of change of cation exchange capacity and depth are strongly related to the prevailing climate, whereas rates of pH and organic matter content changes appear to be unrelated to the climatic parameters considered.
10.2307/1550421| The vertical distribution of living vascular phytomass was determined for three tussock tundra sites. Total belowground:aboveground phytomass ratios were lower than those usually reported for wet-to-moist tundras. Ratios for individual species ranged from 0.50  0.40 for Eriophorum vaginatum to 12.11  4.06 for Rubus chamaemorus. Most of the live phytomass was concentrated in the relatively undecomposed layer of dead material in the upper few centimeters of soil. Each of the dominant species could be characterized by a different combination of belowground:aboveground phytomass ratio, rooting depth, and leaf or root turnover rate. 
10.2307/1551416|Field data are lacking in studies of soil erosion in South Greenland and its relationship to soil processes and soil-forming factors. The main soil-controlling factors are climate, vegetation and other organisms, parent material, relief, time, and the influence of man. The potential for soil erosion is primarily expressed through the balance between the factor vegetation and the other soil-forming factors. The local conditions point to climatic or topographic gradients as the controlling agents of soil erosion when and if the vegetation cover collapses. The rate of soil erosion is dependent upon the existing soil, the parent material, temperature (length of growing season), and soil moisture. The latter two factors are especially decisive for controlling the vegetation cover. The soil profile is a snapshot of the effect of soil forming processes since the retreat of the ice about 9000 yr ago. The studies to date have shown that a two-sequence profile is found in most places. The top of the first sequence corresponds to a date of A.D. 895-940, which is that of the Norse settlement and indicates strong soil erosion in the area during that period. The Norsemen settled in South Greenland in 985 and the area was deserted in late 1400. No exact knowledge exists about their fate, neither why they left nor what became of them. Was the extinction a result of climatic oscillations related to overgrazing and soil erosion? This subject is reviewed as well as modern sheep farming starting in 1915 with an introduced sheep race from Iceland. Large oscillations of the stock through the years indicates problems in relation to climate as well as to vegetation. In 1983 studies on the ecological balance of the area were initiated. This report is one of the first results of this interdisciplinary research focusing on soil erosion studies.
10.2307/1550679|Soil microarthropods (mites and Collembola) were collected from various tundra habitats in the vicinity of the Chaun Bay research station in northern Chukotka, USSR, in 1975 and 1977. Ninety species of Acari and 79 species of Collembola were identified in these samples, indicating a very rich fauna. Overlap of species with other tundra sites, particularly in Alaska and Canada, is very high. Northern microarthropods are widely distributed, and the Bering Straits offers little, if any, biogeographic barrier.
10.2307/1551134| Bacterial communities from two types of shallow pools were studied in Poste-de-la-Baleine region (Kuujjuarapik) (5516N, 7748W), in the hemiarctic area of Quebec, Canada. The first pool was situated on rock exposures (rock pool) and the second was on sandy-clay deposits within an alder and willow vegetation unit. Bacterial counts were made with epifluorescence microscopy and acridine orange staining. The bacterial communities of both habitats are composed mainly of bacilli and cocci and their relative composition remains stable despite variations of bacteria cell numbers. The highest counts were observed in the rock pool, with a peak in July of 4.32  10
10.2307/1551382|Seasonal growth of the foliose lichens Xanthoparmelia lineola and X. subdecipiens was monitored for 26 mo at two transplant localities in a montane meadow on the East Slope of the Colorado Front Range. One of the transplant sites is exposed to strong westerly winds and is periodically scoured free of snow in winter. The other is sheltered from the wind and remains covered with snow for almost half the year. Differences in snow cover and lichen-drying rates at the two sites caused seasonal differences in radial growth: lichens grew faster at the snow-accumulation site than at the snow-free site in winter and summer, but faster at the snow-free site in spring. Long-term growth rates at the two localities were statistically identical; except for two thalli of X. subdecipiens whose thresholds of tolerance for snow were exceeded, the costs and benefits of growing in a snowbed environment counterbalanced each other. To determine how snow affects long-term lichen growth rates at higher elevations, Rhizocarpon subgenus Rhizocarpon thalli were measured along an isochronous surface that traverses snow-free and snow-accumulation areas above timberline. No systematic differences in maximum diameter were recorded, despite large differences in duration of snow. The studies indicate that zoned lichen communities in the Colorado Front Range are more likely to have resulted from episodic snowkill than from slow growth beneath a seasonal snow cover.
10.2307/1551125|Field measurements of radiation and temperature are used as input to a digital model that simulates direct and diffuse irradiance on the partial areas of snow cover in upper Green Lakes Valley, Front Range, Colorado. All of the components of incoming radiation are considered and anisotropic radiance distributions are utilized in the computation of diffuse fluxes. The simulated radiation totals indicate that intravalley differences in diffuse irradiance may be large (maximum differences range from 3 to 12 MJ m
10.2307/1551795|Nutrient dynamics of high-altitude forests in the central Himalaya (maple [Acer cappadocicum] at 2750 m, birch [Betula utilis] at 3150 m, and low-rhododendron [Rhododendron campanulatum] at 3300 m altitude) were studied. Within most species, nutrient concentrations were the highest in the leaves and lowest in the bole wood. Nutrient storage in the vegetation decreased with an increase in altitude (1554.6 kg N, 130.3 kg P, and 660.8 kg K ha
10.2307/1551858| The late Wisconsin Brooks Lake glaciation of the Alaska Peninsula includes five previously recognized stades, indicating considerable climate variability during the last glaciation. During the early phase of the Brooks Lake glaciation, an outlet lobe of the Cordilleran Ice Sheet advanced westward across a low topographic divide into the Iliamna valley where it merged with ice from local mountain sources. During the earliest (Kvichak) stade, which commenced sometime after 26,150  300
10.2307/1551378| A population of 172 moss balls of Grimmia longirostris Hook. was studied in the Pramo de Piedras Blancas (Venezuelan Andes) at 4380 m. Moss ball transport in the paramo is caused primarily by needle-ice activity, with wind being a secondary agent. Moss ball size and shape varied widely, but were closely correlated. Larger globoids were significantly less spheroidal than smaller ones. This occurs because heavier moss balls rest for increasingly long periods of time on one side, thus becoming flattened. Several moss forms are described, including a type (pedestal mosses) attached to pebbles. Globular mosses lacked pebbles at their core, which was formed by silty soil and organic matter. Moss balls had a high content of organic matter (19%) and fine mineral grains (69.3%); the last is nearly four times higher than in site soils. This concentration of silt and clay results from moss balls trapping fine eolian dust and soil material as globoids roll over the ground. Due to their composition, globular mosses have a superior ability to store water compared to paramo soils. Larger moss balls had a greater water-holding capacity than smaller ones; they also lost water at considerably slower rates. This may be ecologically significant for moss ball growth and survival during dry periods. 
10.2307/1550184| The only known lava tubes in Canada are found in the Aiyansh lava flow, British Columbia, and have been dated at 250  130 BP. Selected tubes in the cinder cone area are blocked by massive ice deposits having similar petrographic characteristics to those in high altitude caves. The terms "fossil" and "glacial" used to describe ice formations in some high altitude caves must be reconsidered. 
10.2307/1550243|Several alpine valley systems in the southeastern Beartooth Mountains, Montana and Wyoming, have been examined using techniques similar to methods of stream system analysis. The general equation y = a x
10.2307/1552141|Influence of topography, soils, and vegetation on the microclimate and hydrology of four slopes and a plateau site located within a 1-km
10.2307/1551783|Late-glacial--postglacial migration of Selaginella selaginoides from full-glacial refugia in the North Pacific is reconstructed utilizing fossil microspores contained in radiocarbon-dated deposits. Refugia are associated with 16 late Pleistocene localities of S. selaginoides, which in America are found in western Washington State and on the Queen Charlotte Islands of British Columbia and in Japan on the islands of Honshu and Hokkaido. Holocene data are derived from 10 mires selected from some 30 sites distributed across the North Pacific arc. Data based on first occurrences of the microspores in the dated deposits show that migration in the Eastern Pacific proceeded rapidly at first, the species reaching southeastern and south-central Alaska between 9000 and 8000 yr BP, whereas later the range did not extend farther westward to the Aleutians until after 4000 yr BP. In the Western Pacific, migration from refugia in Japan, by contrast, is not readily evident, aside from altitudinally higher movement in the mountains of Honshu and Hokkaido. Failure to migrate in the Western Pacific can be explained by the isolation of populations, distantly removed from habitats at higher latitudes, and by past and present climatic conditions, physical barriers, and volcanic activity.
10.2307/1551128|Measurements of carbon dioxide evolution were made by the alkali absorption method at five poor to very rich fen sites near Schefferville, subarctic Quebec. Daily evolution rates ranged from 1 to 10 g CO
10.2307/1551193|Plant macrofossils from tundra ponds in Mount McKinley National Park, Alaska, are derived from debris that is transported in winter and deposited on snowbeds facing pond margins. As the snowbeds melt in spring this debris is released directly on the pond surface but most debris is swept to the shores downwind, where it is deposited in flotsam windrows. Assemblages of leaves and seeds from these alpine snowbeds, ponds, and flotsam windrows are dominated by leaves of Dryas octopetala, Vaccinium uliginosum, and leaves of dwarf Salix. Seeds are relatively scarce in the snow and sediment samples but comprise a large portion of the windrows, implying selective deposition. The similarity of these leaf and seed assemblages to late-glacial macrofossils of northeastern United States and northern Europe suggests that transport and depositional processes currently operating at McKinley Park are applicable to late-glacial landscapes elsewhere.
10.2307/1550901|Mount San Gorgonio, highest point in southern California (3505 m), experiences northeastward drifting of snow owing to southwesterly winds of the polar-front jet stream during winter storms. The climatological persistence of snow drifting, as evidenced by annual melt-season snow disappearance, correlates with the biogeography of krummholz Pinus contorta-- P. flexilis forest, stand canopy damage and physiognomy, and tree demography between 1938 and 1983. Mostly old-growth krummholz on windward slopes is subject to snow deflation and exposure to the ambient winter environment; trees undergo infrequent episodes of non-lethal, advective canopy damage during winter storms. Saplings establishing on lee slope bare zones suffer heavy mortality from summerlong snow burial after heavy winters. Demographic analysis reveals widespread small increases in krummholz stand density in deflation sites, but stable krummholz borders with treeless zones at windward-leeward slope transitions owing apparently to repeated snow burial mortality in the latter. Long-term stability of the tree limit, indicated by centuries-old cored P. flexilis and low stand turnover rates, appears related to repeated krummholz canopy degradation which maintains low canopy profiles against storm air streams and continued drift of surplus snow onto lee slopes. Drift may also be catastrophically accelerated by rare fires. Particular attention is given to the severe winters of 1968/69 and 1977/78 to 1979/80.
10.2307/1550630| The bivalve Cerastoderma edule (Linn, 1767) apparently evolved from C. lamarcki (Reeve, 1843) through adaptation to lower water temperatures and a more stable salinity during the Pliocene, when it migrated northward from the Mediterranean area. In the upper Pliocene C. edule had already reached the North Sea area and migrated to Iceland, probably from the British Isles. Apparently, the species became extinct in Iceland 3.3 to 2.4 m. yr ago. It is suggested that the presence of shoals and possibly islands on the Iceland-Faeroe Ridge and the Wyville Thomson Ridge had made the migration of this shallow water infauna species possible up to that time. Subsequent subsidence and glacial and submarine erosion of the ridges probably prevented further migration. C. edule reappeared in Icelandic waters in the 20th century probably due to human activities. 
10.2307/1551298|Growth curves for Rhizocarpon subgenus Rhizocarpon and Pseudephebe minuscula have been developed for the northwest coast of Spitsbergen. The curves were constructed by measuring lichens on deposits of known age (natural and anthropogenic) spanning the last 350 yr. The Rhizocarpon curve is comprised of two growth segments: a fast-growing great growth period (21 mm 100 yr
10.2307/1551001|Within the Torlesse Range of New Zealand's Southern Alps, a distinctive set of erosional features resulted from a snow avalanche channelled into the headwater reaches of an active river channel. These features include truncation of riparian slopes, fracture of boulders, and translation of large boulders from within the active river channel. The effects of this avalanche erosion contribute to geomorphic instability within this steepland environment and thereby influence sediment yield from the drainage basin.
10.2307/1550715| A brief review of the possible mechanisms of drumlin formation leads to the conclusion that several are plausible. The universality of the generally accepted assumptions that drumlins are formed by lodgment under wet-based glaciers is questioned, and the alternatives that, in some cases, formation may be under cold-based conditions with final deposition by melt-out should be considered. This has bearing on the preservation of the land-form beneath active ice. With respect to drumlins and flutings composed of materials transported by ice, the fundamental issue is to explain how these materials are agglomerated. Folding with fold axes parallel to the downglacier flow direction in zones of constricted flow is proposed as one mechanism of agglomeration. This mechanism is shown to produce the type of secondary flows that have been deduced from the internal structure of drumlins and flutings. The hypothesis is supported by observations on surface morphology, debris distribution, foliation patterns, and moraine characteristics of some glaciers in Switzerland. Drumlins are interpreted to result from three-dimensional flows and flutings from two-dimensional flows. Lateral moraines termed Rthlisberger-Schneebeli moraines, are formed partly by transverse flows and are essentially half drumlins or flutings. Some fields of drumlins and flutings are shown to occur in constricted areas of former ice flows. Details of the cross-profiles of some ice-molded land-forms are explained in terms of secondary flows. 
10.2307/1551792| As part of a hazards-assessment study, we examined the nature and rate of geomorphic change caused by outburst floods and debris flows along Tahoma Creek. Mount Rainier, since 1967. Archival aerial photographs of the area proved to be a rich source of qualitative geomorphic information. On the basis of limited direct evidence and considerations of stream hydrology, we conclude that nearly all of these debris flows began as outburst floods from South Tahoma Glacier. The water floods transformed to debris flows by incorporating large masses of sediment in a 2-km-long channel reach where the stream has incised proglacial sediments and debris-rich, stagnant glacier ice. Comparison of topographic maps for 1970 and 1991 shows that the average sediment flux out of the incised reach has been about 2 to 4  10
10.2307/1550578|The following generalized ranges of aboveground vascular productivity and of aboveground and belowground standing crop were measured: Aboveground productivity--100 to 300 g m
10.2307/1550063| Plants of Saxifraga rivularis L., grown from high arctic (7541N) seed sources, flower during an uninterrupted light intensity regime of ca. 0.3 ly min
10.2307/1551477|This paper examines the seasonal behavior of the components of the radiation budget of subarctic tundra and open forest near Churchill, Manitoba. Data were collected between late February and August 1990. The presence of the winter snowpack is the most important factor which affects the difference in radiation balances of tundra and forest. Overall, net radiation was about four to five times larger over the forest when snow covered the ground. Albedo differences were primarily responsible for this difference in net radiation; however, somewhat smaller net longwave losses were experienced at the tundra site. The step decrease in albedo from winter to summer (i.e. snow-covered to snow-free conditions) was significant at both sites. The forest albedo decreased by about three-fold while the tundra experienced a seven-fold decrease. Net radiation at both sites increased in direct response to the albedo change. Transmissivity of the atmosphere near Churchill also appeared to change at about the same time as the loss of the snow cover and may be related to changing air masses which bring about the final snow melt.
10.2307/1552031|Field measurements of the spectral (300-1100 nm) distribution of the incoming and reflected solar radiant energy above and below the canopy of mountain birch (Betula pubescens ssp. tortuosa) carried out at Abisko, during 1989 and 1990, in the subalpine/subarctic region above the Arctic Circle in northern Scandinavia are used to analyze the solar radiation balance of the birch canopy and the undergrowth, respectively. Complementary laboratory measurements of the optical properties of mountain birch leaves and the woody biomass make it possible to estimate the radiant energy absorbed separately by the leaves and the woody biomass. Depending on forest density, the leaves absorb about 52 to 65% of the incoming photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) above the birch canopy, whereas the woody biomass absorbs 9 to 18%. For the near infrared radiation (NIR, 700-1100 nm) case, the leaves absorb 14% and the woody biomass 19-34%
10.2307/1550612|Two well-drained pedons within the subalpine ecotone at Bow Pass, Banff National Park, have been markedly influenced in their development by the chemical and physical composition of the parent materials. Of particular importance has been the presence of a surficial aeolian deposit containing significant amounts of volcanic ash of unknown origin. The pedogenic degradation of the ash component under strongly acidic conditions results in the formation of Ae horizons with a characteristic clay mineral suite dominated by montmorillonite, and podzolic B horizons containing high concentrations of amorphous iron and aluminum oxides. Some of the extractable Fe and Al oxides present in the podzolic B horizons have been produced as a result of intensive weathering in situ rather than as a result of podzolization sensu stricto. An underlying calcareous till tends to restrict soil profile development such that the sola of the Podzols are shallow and largely confined to the surficial aeolian deposit.
10.2307/1550178|Ionic throughputs in snowmelt, glacier melt-waters, and baseflow, and ionic outputs in the discharge waters of an alpine basin in the Pacific Ranges of the British Columbia Coast Mountains were analyzed during three separate periods in May, June, and July 1973. Ionic concentrations in discharge were shown to vary as a function of temporal and spatial variation of runoff source areas. Typical values of ionic concentrations for the sum of sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium chloride, nitrate, silica, ammonium, and phosphate were in range (milligrams per liter): 0.34 to 0.60 (snowmelt), 0.94 to 1.20 (glacier melt), and 19.8 to 21.6 (baseflow).
10.2307/1550591| A field study of alpine bedrock temperatures at a depth of 1 cm provides some insight into the absolute variations in mean monthly maxima, minima and means produced by differences in aspect, snow cover, and shelter at a site 3665 m above sea level in the Colorado Front Range. Variations in aspect (west versus south) on a snow-free buttress produced means differing by as much as 2.5C, but usually less. Differences in minima at the same two locations were < 1.0C; while maxima diverged by as much as 3.4C, being higher in winter on the south face and in summer higher on the west face. Snowcover greatly ameliorated bedrock temperatures with mean values > 4C above those in a meteorological screen. In summer, a sheltered easterly-facing location recorded maxima consistently > 30C, more than 19C above those recorded in the screen. Complex relationships were found between thermistors installed in a vertical profile on an east-facing wall. The wall foot exhibited both higher maxima, as the result of shelter, and lower minima, produced by cold air drainage. Shelter and seasonal snow cover often affect the same place and may produce opposing trends: snow cover produces winter time amelioration, but delays springtime heating and reduces the mean annual temperature. After meltout shelter prevails, these sites become summertime hot spots. Interpretation of the data in terms pertinent to geomorphology is limited by both fragmentation of the data and the absence of a well-defined role for temperature. 
10.2307/1551782|Samples of graminoid roots and adjacent soil collected from tundra and semidesert sites in the Canadian High Arctic were introduced to a nitrogen-free, nutrient medium formulated to culture N
10.2307/1550361|A shoreline relation diagram for Arctic Canada is constructed from the equation of the form of postglacial uplift. This operation in itself indicates that the shoreline relation diagram represents a valid concept. The diagram is then used to predict the age and elevation of marine limits, glacial lake strandlines, and lower relative sea levels. A comparison of predicted and observed values suggests that the shoreline relation diagram presented in the paper functions efficiently as a chronological forecaster that can complement and extend late-glacial and postglacial chronologies. The workings of the diagram are such that a few selected radiocarbon dates can be used to establish an extensive and detailed chronology.
10.2307/1551546| The modern and Little Ice Age (LIA) equilibrium-line altitude (ELA) of 20 outlet valley glaciers from Jostedalsbreen, western Norway, has been calculated using different approaches. Using an accumulation area ratio (AAR) of 0.6  0.05 gave a mean Little Ice Age ELA depression of 70 m. A method developed by M. Kuhle, taking the influence by topography into account, gave a mean ELA depression of 35 to 255 m, the median elevation of glaciers (MEG) 115 m, and the toe-to-headwall altitude ratio (THAR) 140 m. Differences in the ELA estimates can be attributed to differences in topography and morphology of the glaciers. The AAR method appears to provide the most reliable results. 
10.2307/1550498|Habitat preference by caribou (Rangifer tarandus grantii Allen.) and forage selection and consumption by tame reindeer (R. t. tarandus L.) were studied near Atkasook, Alaska, for 3 yr. Small groups of caribou were present in both winter and summer. Winter habitat use was associated with elevated areas with high lichen biomass, while summer habitat use was associated with landform units high in deciduous shrubs or lichens, e.g., upland tussock tundra, ridges, and lake margins. These observations, and measurements of forage availability and digestibility, indicated that caribou preferred habitats that provided high availability of digestible forage. Intensive grazing studies with reindeer on several vegetation types indicated a high preference for forbs, deciduous shrubs (Salix spp.), and lichens. In high-center polygons, preference was shown for microhabitat units with high plant species diversity, i.e., wet, shallow troughs. Reindeer tethered on lake margin vegetation showed high preference for the willow strings. Selection of food by reindeer appeared to be related to plant availability, nutrient content, digestibility, and secondary compounds. Forage consumed by reindeer was 10% higher in digestibility than was the available herbage. In 3 d of grazing on a 314-m
10.2307/1550719| Eriophorum vaginatum L. was grown hydroponically for 80 d under controlled environmental conditions at 2, 5, 10, 15, and 20C. Biomass increase, leaf and root surface areas, and tiller formation rates were determined for plants grown at each temperature. The optimum temperature for leaf growth was above 20C whereas root growth peaked between 15 and 20C air temperature. At 5C, 20% of the maximum root biomass was formed. Increases in total biomass in 80 d ranged from 1.6-fold at 2C to 9.8-fold at 20C. Tillering was most active at 15C where 19 new tillers per mother tiller developed during the experimental period. Total nitrogen in the leaves, stems, and roots decreased with increasing temperatures. Phosphorus uptake appeared unrelated to temperature treatments. It is concluded that E. vaginatum has a broad temperature range for growth and not a specially low temperature optimum which could be expected from an arctic plant. 
10.2307/1550094| Blooms of algae are known to occur in snow when air temperatures remain above freezing for extended periods of time. However, hard freezes may occur after snow algae make their appearance, and some species may survive this environmental stress more easily than others. Three species of snow algae, Raphidonema nivale, Chloromonas pichinchae, and Cylindrocystis brbissonii, were isolated into axenic culture for optimum temperature studies under set laboratory conditions. In those temperatures tested (1, 5, 10, 15, and 20C), it was found that optimum growth for R. nivale occurred at 5C, for C. pichinchae at 1C, and for C. brbissonii at 10C. Three other species of snow algae, Chlainomonas kolii, Chlainomonas rubra, and Chlamydomonas nivalis (from Washington snow), did not grow in defined medium for extended periods of time. Vegetative cells of C. kolii and C. rubra lose their flagella at temperatures above 4C as observed on a cooling stage, and optimum growth for these species probably occurs at a temperature below 5C. C. nivalis resting spores cleave into daughter cells at temperatures from 0 to 2C, and perhaps this observation may be used as an indicator for optimum growth in this species. Species of snow algae used in this study and in previous studies are compared with respect to their optimum temperature and temperature range for growth. Species that do not grow at temperatures above 10C and have optimum growth at lower temperatures are classified here as true snow algae. This list of species includes Chlainomonas kolii, Chlainomonas rubra, Chlamydomonas nivalis (cultures of Hoham from Washington snow), Chloromonas pichinchae, Chloromonas sp., Raphidonema tatrae, Chromulina chionophila (cultures of Stein), and Cryptomonas frigoris. 
10.2307/1551323|The effects of clipping on aboveground plant biomass and total herbage yields are presented for an alpine grassland of Central Himalaya. The total herbage yield declined significantly (p < 0.05) more in plots clipped in June and July than in the plots clipped in May and in the plots which were not clipped (control plots). In terms of the temporal effect of clipping, the rate of recovery (net growth rate following clipping) was reduced by 88.5% in plots clipped in July and by 57.1% in plots clipped in June compared to the plots clipped in May. Similarly, in terms of the compound effect of timing of clipping and of intensity of clipping, the rate of recovery was reduced by 95.1% in thrice-clipped and by 62.3% in twice-clipped plots compared to once clipped plots. Comparison of results of the two experiments indicates that timing of clipping is a more dominant factor than the intensity of clipping. Late clippings have more adverse effects on aboveground live shoot biomass and total herbage yields than the clipping early in the growing season.
10.2307/1550589| Transfer functions are developed for a north-south transect in the eastern Canadian Arctic (from Clyde River to Fort Chimo) based on surface pollen samples. The Imbrie/Kipp and multiple stepwise linear regression models are used to show the statistical association between percentages of 19 pollen taxa and climatic variables (January, June, July, and summer temperatures, Young's index of summer warmth, and summer [JJA] precipitation). Multiple correlation coefficients are high and standard deviations of temperature estimates are less than  1 C and 2.5 cm. The problem of the local variability of pollen in surface mosses is considered through an analysis of the results of the transfer functions on 69 additional modern surface samples from around Fort Chimo, Frobisher Bay, Pangnirtung, Broughton Island, and Clyde River. Good agreement exists between the predicted July temperatures based on the transfer functions and adjacent weather station records. The transfer functions are applied to four fossil peat pollen sequences on Cumberland Peninsula. These spectra provide a nearly continuous record that covers the last 6000 yr. Analysis of the fossil materials provides estimates of July TC and summer precipitation (cm). A period of warmer and wetter conditions generally prevailed between 6000 and 4000 BP although this climate was punctuated by cooler conditions circa 4800 yr ago. Over the last 3600 yr the pollen record from Windy Lake shows a progressive decline in July temperature. Superimposed on this trend are a number of temperature oscillations which show correspondence with other regional proxy climatic records. 
10.2307/1551832| Detailed sedimentological analysis of the Bdi morainal complex in south-central Iceland records a rapid accumulation within marine-, coastal, and glacial environments during a recessional phase of the glaciers within the Preboreal chronozone. Three principal outcrop areas are characterized by stratified diamictite, fine-grained silty-sandstone, and diamictite with dropstones; gravel-and sandfills of channels are also important. Elsewhere, the morainal complex is characterized by deltaic sedimentary structures that reflect an interweaving of marine and terrestrial processes. The Bdi morainal complex indicates a recession of the glacier margin, possibly since the Younger Dryas stadial. Sea-level changes, jkulhlaups, and glacier dynamics were responsible for fluctuation of the glacier margin and for the differential rate of calving during the accumulation of the morainal complex. Earlier conclusions on two separated glacier readvances are disputed. 
10.2307/1552042|A ca. 9000-yr pollen, macrofossil, and sedimentological record from a laminated sediment core obtained from Susie Lake, British Columbia, reveals changes in vegetation and inferred climate during the Holocene. The pollen record indicates that a shrub and herb assemblage (ca. 9000-7800 yr BP) was rapidly replaced by a spruce (Picea) and subalpine fir (Abies lasiocarpa) forest (ca. 7800-4000 yr BP) under the influence of warmer-than-present climate conditions. The macrofossil record indicates that an elevated treeline persisted from ca. 5200-2000 yr BP Pine pollen percentages increase significantly from ca. 5000-4000 yr BP and likely reflect the migration of P. contorta into the area. The disappearance of spruce (ca. 4000 yr BP) and fir (ca. 2000 yr BP) needles from the record indicates a gradual lowering of treeline below the elevation of Susie Lake and the establishment of the modern cold and moist climate. A pronounced increase in extralocal western hemlock (Tsuga heterophylla) pollen occurs at ca. 2000 yr BP and is coincidental with an increase in the number of debris flow--derived, fining-upward graded beds in the core. These are probably a consequence of landscape destabilization associated with treeline depression and an increase in storm frequency. Increased storm frequency may be a consequence of inland penetration of the moist Pacific air mass and the displacement of the drier continental air mass. This study suggests that substantial variations in vegetation assemblages can result from past changes in regional circulation patterns.
10.2307/1550743|An avalanche was monitored with seismic geophones placed in its track and impact forces were measured using pressure transducers. Preliminary results indicate that geophones may provide an inexpensive and reliable method of detecting avalanche events. Signals from these sensors can be used to start recording equipment. Correlations between the seismic and pressure signals enable approximate velocities within an avalanche to be estimated. The pressure signals are analyzed and the characteristics of the avalanche discussed.
10.2307/1550543|Six pollen diagrams have been prepared for lakes in northeastern Labrador-Ungava in order to investigate the chronology of deglaciation, the rate of plant colonization of the new landscape, and the climatic changes affecting the arctic tree line, as compared to northwest Canada. Thirty-eight
10.2307/1551437| The Norwegian lemming, Lemmus lemmus (L.), the only endemic vertebrate species in Fennoscandia, normally lives in alpine tundra habitats. During population peaks wandering lemmings may settle in forests, but they do not persist there. Lemmings are adapted to winter conditions, so for them summer conditions appear more critical than winter. At Kilpisjrvi, Finnish Lapland, fluctuations of five microtines have been monitored since 1946. In the 1980s, lemmings have been less abundant than previously. Results of annual trapping in June/July since 1960 are presented. Lemmings may reproduce at any season and commonly do so under snow. Mosses form the principal food item most of the time in all habitats and seasons. The proportion of mosses in diet diminishes toward the end of the breeding season; when their amount increases, reproduction begins. Since mosses grow in arctic areas during winter, lemmings have fresh food available all the year. In Fennoscandia the coldest environments are not in the northernmost parts owing to the warm Gulf Stream. Hence, as climate gets warmer, arctic species cannot retreat north and may become endangered. If changes are too rapid, the extinction of the Norwegian lemming seems inevitable. 
10.2307/1551608|Fluctuations in the surface level of a subarctic fen, near Schefferville, Quebec, were measured from early June to mid-August 1988. Surface level, water table, and depth of thaw were measured at four sites representing three different topographic units of the fen: a flat central area; hummocks, islands and ridges; and the fen perimeter. Surface level changes of several centimeters a day were measured in the central portion of the fen, while the change was much less in the ridge and perimeter areas. Change in surface level at the perimeter and ridge sites was controlled by the depth of thaw. Levels of the central area were controlled by changes in water storage. A simple water balance model adequately predicted the lowering of the surface level of the central area of the fen. However, the same model underestimated rising surface levels. The adjusting surface level in the central area of the fen lead to a constantly saturated peat surface even during periods of persistent exfiltration. The constancy of saturation has important implications on the rate and magnitude of many biotic and abiotic processes, such as the biogenic production and consumption of trace gases and evapotranspiration.
10.2307/1551516|The characteristic anomaly patterns of modern surface temperature and precipitation are compared to tree-ring indices (0-300 yr) and fossil pollen (0-6000 yr) variations in northern North America. The data base consists of 245 climate stations, 55 tree-ring chronologies, 153 modern pollen collections, and 39 fossil pollen sites. A few areas exhibit relatively high climatic sensitivity, displaying generally consistent patterns during alternate warm and cold periods, regardless of time scales. The surface changes are related to the redistribution (i.e., changes in the mean position and strength) of the planetary-scale waves and to north-south shifts in the mean boundary of the Arctic Front. The zone where the largest changes occur is typically located along the mean present-day boundary between Arctic and Pacific airstreams. Establishing plausible relationships between vegetation responses and concomitant changes in atmospheric circulation patterns increases our confidence that the paleoclimatic signals are indeed related to large-scale circulation changes.
10.2307/1551534|The trees of the taiga intercept falling snow and cause it to become distributed in an uneven fashion. Around aspen and birch, cone-shaped accumulations form. Beneath large spruce trees, the snow cover is depleted, forming a bowl-shaped depression called a tree well. Small spruce trees become covered with snow, creating cavities that funnel cold air to the snow/ground interface. The depletion of snow under large spruce trees results in greater heat loss from the ground. A finite difference model suggests that heat flow from tree wells can be more than twice that of undisturbed snow. In forested watersheds, this increase can be a significant percentage of the total winter energy exchange.
10.2307/1550724|Psyllids--small, phloem-feeding homoptera--were collected at five sites in the north-east USSR. The sites form a natural transect from arctic tundra to subarctic forest. Twelve species were recorded. Eight of these also occur in Alaska. The tundra fauna consists entirely of circumpolar and amphi-Beringean species that also occur in Alaska. In contrast, none of the three species found in subarctic coastal forest occurs in Alaska. The subarctic, high-elevation forest is similar to the tundra rather than to the much closer coastal forest.
10.2307/1552049| We discovered a previously unreported population of the Antarctic vascular plant Colobanthus quitensis (Kunth) Bartl. containing 267 individuals on Gamage Point, Arthur Harbor, Anvers Island, Antarctic Peninsula (6446S, 6404W). Mean diameters of individual cushions ranged from 3.0 to 42.1 mm. Using a previously reported growth rate for this species of 3 mm yr
10.2307/1551741|The seasonal course of the availability of nitrogen (ammonium and nitrate) and phosphate in soils of some mountain birch woods in subarctic Sweden was measured in situ by using ion exchange membranes. One meadow system and two heath systems (differing in moisture availability) were selected for the study, and ion exchange membranes were buried in soils for between 4 and 37 wk during 1 yr. Annual nitrogen availability increased in the order dry heath < moist heath < meadow system, while phosphate availability was lowest in the meadow system. There were clear seasonal patterns of nitrogen and phosphorus availabilities, with a maximum during the early (nitrogen) and late growing season (phosphorus) and a minimum during the winter season. Nitrate was detected in the meadow and in the moist heath system. The relative availabilities of nitrogen and phosphorus varied considerably among the study sites. Early-season nitrogen availability corresponded well with atmospheric nitrogen input by snow deposition during the winter season. Soil hydrology was concluded to exert stronger influence on nutrient availability than soil temperature in these woodlands. Nitrogen uptake rates in experimentally grown seedlings of mountain birch usually exceeded adsorption rates to membranes, whilst seedling phosphorus uptake was estimated to be similar to membrane phosphate adsorption.
10.2307/1550251|Climatological data collected from 1952 to 1970 at four ridge sites on the east slope of the Front Range, west of Boulder, Colorado, at elevations between 2,195 m and 3,750 m are analyzed using the TAXIR data retrieval system. Significant results of the climatography include the demonstration of a much greater mean annual precipitation at the two upper stations than previously reported. The mean total exceeds 100 cm at 3,750 m. Solar radiation totals show little or no change with elevation between 2,590 and 3,750 m for the annual average. Extremes of minimum air temperature for October 1969 at the two lower stations lay outside the theoretically expected 100-year return period for these stations. Daily precipitation and maximum and minimum temperatures are analyzed in terms of 700-mb circulation types in mid-season months, 1952 to 1970. Precipitation data are also examined with respect to 700-mb wind velocity over Denver. The paper concludes with some recommendations for further studies.
10.2307/1552085|Tree establishment patterns vary considerably at different locations in the subalpine zone of Mount Rainier National Park, with substantial temporal variation in regeneration of subalpine fir (Abies lasiocarpa). Recruitment in subalpine meadows has been continuous on the west side of Mount Rainier since about 1930, but has occurred in short, discrete periods on the east side. Variation in snowpack from west to east on the mountain has a substantial impact on climatic factors that limit tree establishment. Warm, dry summer climate facilitates tree establishment on the west side where snowpacks are generally very high; cool, wet summer climate enhances tree establishment on the east side where snowpacks are lower. Density of tree establishment is significantly greater in heath-shrub (ericaceous) vegetation than in other vegetation types. Within heath-shrub vegetation types, tree establishment is highest at lower elevations, on topographic convexities, and in plant communities dominated by Phyllodoce empetriformis. Survival of subalpine fir seedlings during the first 3 yr after germination is significantly greater in heath-shrub vegetation than other vegetation types. If the climate becomes warmer and drier during the next century, continued rapid regeneration of trees can be expected in subalpine meadows on the west side of Mount Rainier National Park. This may result in displacement of wildflower meadows that are an attraction for park visitors. A better understanding of climatic and environmental limitations on tree establishment will assist resource managers in developing sound management strategies for subalpine ecosystems.
10.2307/1551537|Ground-penetrating radar (GPR) and computer processing and graphic techniques were used to construct cross-sectional profiles and two-dimensional contour plots of two palsas near Schefferville, Quebec, Canada. Grids of varying sizes were established across a portion of Goodream palsa-fen which contained two palsas, and the areas was systematically sampled with GPR. Data from the radar profiles were computer processed and used to construct cross sections of the palsa mounds and fen. This procedure provided a quick and effective means for detrmining the thickness of the active layer, for characterizing the extent and depth to permafrost, and for charting the stratigraphic layers within the palsa fen. Compared with traditional methods for characterizing the internal structure and features of palsa, GPR and computer processing are many times faster, less labor intense, and less likely to overlook subsurface features or anomalies.
10.2307/1550541|Timberlines were visited on Mt. Fuji, Japan North Alps, and Hokkaido. Woody vegetation includes conifer forest, which is evergreen except for Larix leptolepis; Pinus pumila scrub, extensive above the forest limits except on recent volcanoes; Betula ermani woodland, which in some places dominates the uppermost forest belt; broadleaved scrub of genera such as deciduous Alnus, Sorbus, and Weigela, and evergreen Rhododendron and Ilex, growing in areas of deep snow; and dwarf bamboo (Sasa sensu lato) which forms an extremely competitive undergrowth and extends above the forest limit. The growth form of tree conifers is influenced by snow which, where very deep or prolonged, causes mechanical and physiological damage. However, snow also protects inadequately hardened shoots from winter desiccation. Wind-flagging occurs locally. Pinus pumila does not tolerate persistent snow, but has high resistance to winter desiccation, which probably correlates with slow growth. The flexible stems of broadleaved shrubs yield to snow pressure, and the plants leaf out quickly when released from the snow pack. Similar scrub grows on snow-slide areas in North America and Europe, but there is also a parallel with the subalpine scrub of New Zealand, which develops best where summers are cool, cloudy and wet--as at Japanese timberlines--although winter snow cover in the New Zealand mountains is thin. Tall evergreen shrubs such as Rhododendron brachycarpum recall species of Himalayan, tropical, and Southern Hemisphere mountains. Pinus pumila scrub is physiognomically similar to the P. mugo scrub of central Europe, but appears to occupy a higher altitudinal zone. In conformity with Japanese botanists, this zone is regarded as alpine, and compared with that of Mt. Kenya, which contains the arborescent Senecio keniodendron.
10.2307/1550410|The ability to discriminate birch species in the fossil pollen record can provide important clues for paleoecological interpretation. Size statistics for Betula nana, Betula glandulosa, and Betula papyrifera are compiled in an attempt to separate these three North American species by grain diameter measurements and grain diameter:pore depth ratios. While slight differences between species do exist, their size characteristics form a morphological continuum and they are not clearly separable.
10.2307/1550889|During the late Wisconsin glaciation, the mountainous regions of northwestern Montana were covered by glacial ice. Marias Pass, on the Continental Divide immediately south of Glacier National Park, was covered by a local ice field. This ice and that from other glaciers to the north and south flowed eastward onto the plains of Montana to form the Two Medicine Glacier, a large piedmont glacier that extended 55 km beyond the mountain front. The presence of the Glacier Peak G ash and the underlying St. Helens Jy ash in laminated lake sediments near Marias Pass indicates that in this region the Continental Divide was ice free before about 11,400 BP. Macrofossils, pollen, and spores in these same sediments indicate establishment of shrubs, herbs, and scattered conifers by that time. At Sun River Canyon, about 90 km south of Marias Pass, glaciers also flowed beyond the mountain front onto the plains to form the Sun River Glacier, another large piedmont glacier that extended beyond the mountain front for 25 km. The presence of the Glacier Peak G ash in a postglacial alluvial fan indicates that glacial ice had receded upvalley from the canyon mouth and that the Sun River Glacier no longer existed by 11,200 BP.
10.2307/1552109|Cores were extracted from frozen ground along a transect near Barrow, Alaska in spring 1963, and resampled within 0.5 m of the original boreholes in November 1993 and again in May 1994. Cores were cut into 5-cm segments and moisture content determined using standard techniques. The near-surface permafrost appears, on average, to have undergone ice enrichment from 1963 to 1993 since the mean volumetric water increased from about 57 to 62% over this 30-yr period. Comparison of the 1993 and 1994 data sets indicate slight depletion (3%) of moisture during winter in the paired samples extracted from the permafrost and the active layer. Although the results indicate winter desiccation and long-term (30-yr) net moisture gain in the upper permafrost, some evidence suggests that these patterns reflect the effects of spatial heterogeneity across short (<0.5 m) lateral distances.
10.2307/1551778|Evapotranspiration was measured from a subarctic forest near Churchill, Manitoba, during July and August 1992. Total stand evapotranspiration was measured via standard micrometeorological techniques; evaporation and transpiration from several components of the forest floor were measured with lysimeters, plant physiological, and micrometeorological techniques. Total evapotranspiration from the forest floor accounted for 65% of the daytime stand water loss, ranging from 45 to 87%. The relative contributions of the forest floor surfaces to total evaporation were dependent upon their areal percentage cover and their evaporation rate. On average, the vascular shrub layer and the nonvascular (lichen and moss) surface covers contributed 42 and 49% of the forest floor evaporation, respectively. Standing water, which covered the smallest area of the floor, contributed about 9%. Analysis of the absolute evaporation rates from different surfaces showed that water and mosses evaporated about 1.3 to 1.4 mm d
10.2307/1551551|Tests conducted at Wrangell--St. Elias National Park quantified the effects of all-terrain vehicle (ATV) use on a shrub-tussock community. Vehicle track depth increased significantly with increasing passes. Vehicles running on rubber tires created deeper tracks than similar vehicles mounted on continuous rubber tracks. Heavier ATVs usually produced deeper tracks than lighter vehicles. Deeper tracks resulted when vehicle use was spread over a 10-wk period during the summer than when the passes were concentrated into shorter time periods near the beginning or end of the snow-free period. Two years after completing the treatments, most of the heavier-used lanes had subsided 2 to 4 cm due to thawing of ice-rich permafrost. Although injury occurred to shrubs continuously throughout the treatments, shrub injury rates were greatest during the first few passes by an ATV. The dwarf shrubs Empetrum nigrum and Vaccinium vitis-idaea were least affected, while the low shrub Betula nana was most susceptible to injury. The degree of sedge tussock compression and amount of organic soil exposed along the ATV tracks increased in relation to vehicle weight.
10.2307/1551402|In a broad sense the entire Arctic might be considered a "marginal" environment. Polar deserts and semideserts are marginal for establishment of vascular plants sensu stricto. In extreme polar habitats some populations of plants are not fully self-sustaining. These may not produce viable seed and depend on propagules dispersed from more favorable habitats, which may be quite remote. These marginal populations rarely progress beyond the initial invasion phase of succession. The second phase, stand formation and build-up of a critical standing crop which would lead to habitat improvement and finally to replacement of pioneer species, rarely occurs. Rather, the colonizers have been historically subjected to repetitive additional constraints such as short-term climatic variations, and unfavorable summer weather patterns, which result in meager progress and low survival rates. Instead of a progressive succession we often find evidence of slow advancement, holding position, retardation, retrogression, and reinvasion. In marginal habitats, the progress of succession can be defined as a function of the biological driving forces which are intrinsic to the invading and establishing species, and the environmental resistances which represent a sum of the adverse factors hindering the success of species establishment. Theoretically, the progress of revegetation and directional change in the plant community can be measured as a successional half-time, i.e., time required to achieve the mid-point of development expected in a particular habitat situation. In marginal habitats, this half-time can be measured on a time scale of millennia and may be virtually infinite.
10.2307/1550684| The main period of activity of large fossil rock glaciers, situated 500 to 600 m below the belt of presently active rock glaciers in some areas of Western Tyrol, is thought to have been closely correlated with the Egesen Stade readvance (probably Younger Dryas, 11,000 to 10,000 BP). A depression of annual temperature below the present of -3 to -4C can be deduced from the depression of the rock glacier belt. This value is about twice the depression of summer temperature, derived from the lower equilibrium line of glaciers in the same area. Thus a more continental climate with summers cooler (2C below present) and winters much colder (5 to 6C below present) should have existed in this part of the Alps during Younger Dryas times. 
10.2307/1551251|Rain samples were collected during the summer of 1985 in Churchill, Manitoba. Seventeen targeted elements were determined in 13 rain events by either neutron activation analysis or inductively coupled plasma mass spectroscopy. Elemental concentrations were found to vary with rain events, dependent in part on both surface cover and air trajectory. Snow-covered lowlands (wet in late spring and summer) and a late thaw of the ice cover in the western basin of Hudson Bay are thought to restrict the availability of natural aerosols. Aluminum, Br, Fe, I, Mg, Mn, and Na concentrations were determined to represent natural background levels, while Ba, Ca, Cu, and V were moderately enriched. The high enrichment of S, and its strong correlation with Cl, was related to anthropogenic emissions from the local power plant. The high Cu and Zn enrichments were not as easily traced but may be due to transport of these elements from mine and smelter complexes approximately 200 km to the southwest of Churchill.
10.2307/1551895| In the eastern Canadian High Arctic, wet sedge-moss tundras, dominated by Carex stans, are usually associated with "oases" where ameliorated physical conditions allow relatively high plant production. Although Carex stans occurs in water-saturated soils, low transpiration rates, stomatal conductances and leaf water potentials indicated that mild water stress was common in this species. Low transpiration rates under conditions of relatively high solar irradiance and air temperature resulted in leaf temperatures up to 10C higher than that of the air. Trends in transpiration rate closely followed those in solar irradiance, air and leaf temperature and the leaf-to-air vapor pressure difference. Transpiration also exhibited significant positive correlations with soil temperature and wind speed. The maximum stomatal conductance in Carex stans (0.16 mol m
10.2307/1550545| The development and magnitude of summer air temperature gradients adjacent to the Lewis Glacier, Baffin Island, are shown to be dependent upon wind direction, wind speed, and ambient temperature. During warm days with gentle off-glacier winds, the transfer of cold air from the glacier to the ice-marginal land area caused depression of up to 4.7C between the maximum temperature near the glacier terminus and locations 1.5 km downvalley; the average depression of maximum temperatures during off-glacier flow was 2.3C. During periods of on-glacier flow, the terminus environment was only 0.5 to 0.6C cooler than sites 1.5 km downvalley. Cold air drainage from the glacier also resulted in a high frequency of evening isothermal or inversion conditions within the valley. 
10.2307/1550621|U-series ages and palaeomagnetic data for calcite speleothems collected from seven relict phreatic caves preserved in valley walls in the Crowsnest Pass and Columbia Icefield areas of the Canadian Rocky Mountains are used to derive local mean maximum, or mean maximum and minimum, rates of valley deepening for the timespan 180 to > 350 Ka BP. Maximum rates range 0.13 to 2.07 m 1000 yr
10.2307/1551814|Positive interactions within species aggregations have been suggested as particularly important for increasing germination and survival probabilities of plants in the adversive environment of high alpine block fields. One often-cited example is the elevated temperature and moisture levels in cushion plants, which increases the probability of germination as compared to open ground. However, it is not clear how this applies to plant communities with more erect species. Seeds of Oxyria digyna were sown in close proximity to resident Ranunculus glacialis individuals, and in cleared microsites to test whether positive or negative interactions occur in this kind of high alpine block field plant community. Seeds sown in 1988 showed a higher germination in cleared than in occupied microsites the year after, while no differences were seen for seeds sown in 1989. Ground surface temperature measured in 1990 showed a lower temperature under the resident individuals, which is proposed as a mechanism for the difference in germination found for seeds sown in 1988. Air temperature and precipitation data suggested that 1990 was a warmer and sunnier year than 1989, which could explain why the results from the 2 yr differed. The data show that interactions in this plant community vary from neutral to negative, whereas no evidence for positive interactions was obtained.
10.2307/1550332|Earth hummocks occur on vast areas of perennially frozen mineral soils in the western Canadian subarctic regions. Different vegetation grows on different parts of the hummocks. The tops of the hummocks are vegetated by plants that have no roots (lichens, mosses) or by short-lived plants. Trees seldom grow on hummock tops, occurring mainly on the sides of hummocks or in interhummock troughs. Most trees in the mature forests lean away from the hummocks as a result of severe and repeated ground heaving. The internal structure of hummocks suggests periodic movements of soil by cryoturbation, and the absence of trees on hummock tops is attributed to the same process and to somewhat droughty conditions caused by the pronounced microrelief.
10.2307/1551881|East St. Louis Creek drains 8 km
10.2307/1550226|This study reports the distribution of selected nutrient elements in portions of 5-, 15- and 20-year-old alder ecosystems developing on the Tanana River floodplain in central Alaska. Distribution of elements is shown for foliage, branches, boles, litter, roots, and soil by percentage and on a kilogram per hectare basis. The most obvious change in nutrient distribution with time between soil and plant material was found for potassium. The proportion of available ecosystem soil K decreased from 100% at time zero to 60.9% at 20 years, while the proportion of K in plant material increased from 0% to 39.1% over the 20-year period of system development. The change in distribution of nutrient elements within the plant components as a function of time primarily reflects change in biomass distribution. Regression equations were developed relating biomass and mass of nutrient elements in aboveground alder tree components to tree basal diameter. For the 5- to 20-year period in ecosystem development the gross average annual nutrient uptake by the vegetation expressed as kg ha
10.2307/1550994|The alpine vegetation of two cirques in the Indian Peaks Wilderness Area, a section of the Front Range, Colorado, was mapped at a scale of 1:5000 in order to show relationships between vegetation cover and microrelief, and to demonstrate differences in plant community distribution patterns between the western and eastern slopes of the mountain range. The numerous alpine plant communities occurring in the study area are summarized in 10 mapping units representing previously described Braun-Blanquet alliances. Important microclimatic factors that are related to the distribution patterns of these units are topography and wind which control snow cover, soil moisture, and soil temperature. East of the Continental Divide plant communities with either very little or deep snow cover prevail whereas on the west side of the divide communities dominate which have a more moderate snow cover. This basic vegetation map of the area could be of some value for studying vegetation change resulting from recreational activities in this heavily utilized wilderness area.
10.2307/1551530|The northern areas of the Western Siberia are subjected to intensive anthropogenic pressure, mainly by the oil and gas extraction industries, reindeer herding, hunting, and fishing. Localized activities, rather than regional-scale activities have led to the degradation of the natural environment on a regional scale. These processes include (1) transfer of pollutants by water and atmosphere; (2) expansion and merging of oil and gas development sites; (3) degradation of the key wildlife habitats (reproduction sites of fish, animals, birds, migration routes, etc.); and (4) more intensive use of remaining pastures and hunting areas by the indigenous population due to loss of large areas of pasture and hunting territories to the oil and gas industries. Analysis of the existing situation within northwest Siberia suggests that in future the situation will continue to worsen unless there is significant improvement in land-use management and technology of oil and gas industry. Degradation processes may also be exacerbated by global warming. Concurrently local changes themselves may lead to negative changes on the global scale.
10.2307/1550797| Quartz sand grains, 120 to 500 m diameter obtained from a dirt band in the Tuto ice tunnel were examined with a scanning electron microscope. A single population of slightly weathered, angular to subangular grains was found. The grains were probably released from parent rock by subaerial weathering. Some surface deposition of silica was found although this was generally light. No edge attrition, suggestive of subglacial or englacial shearing or grinding, was found. This suggests passive, basal freeze-on processes for the incorporation of subglacial debris into the dirt bands. 
10.2307/1551821| The 18O value of streamflow at Imnavait Creek, Alaska, shifted dramatically from -30.3 on 14 May, the first day of streamflow in 1990, to -22.5 on 22 May, at the end of the snowmelt. These results suggested a large degree of mixing between snow (18O value = -27.6  1.6 SD) and underlying soil moisture (estimated 18O value = -20.6). Nevertheless, independent hydrological measurements of snow redistribution by wind, snow ablation, snow and soil moisture content, and snowmelt runoff indicate there cannot be significant mixing of meltwater with underlying ice-rich soils. An alternative explanation is that isotopic fractionation during the phase change from solid to liquid dominates the isotopic variation in streamflow during snowmelt and prevents a straightforward application of
10.2307/1550963|Precipitation acidity was monitored continuously from July to September 1983 at a well-instrumented research site located near the Continental Divide in central Colorado. Rainfall amount, temperature, pH, and specific conductance were determined using a prototype device consisting of a modified wet-only precipitation collector with appropriate sensors. Data were recorded automatically with microprocessor control by preset time intervals. Weekly wet-only composite precipitation samples were also collected. Precipitation totaled 190 mm during the period, all as rain. Sixty-five percent of the continuous pH measurements were between 3.40 and 4.10, with an average of pH 3.80. Values of pH greater than 5.00 were rare. Composite samples were significantly less acidic, and averaged pH 4.36. Precipitation pH typically decreased rapidly as a storm began, was lowest near or slightly after the time of maximum rainfall intensity, then increased slightly. Paradoxical low pH and low specific conductance were recorded, and it is possible that some initial continuous pH measurements were too low. Acid loading varied widely among storms, and may have resulted largely from short bursts of high-intensity, low-pH rainfall.
10.2307/1551685|Phenology of alpine plants was studied with reference to the time span of snow-free period by setting six quadrats along a snowmelt gradient. Of the 56 species, 17 inhabited four or more quadrats and their phenology was observed for 3 yr, 1988 to 1990. Contraction of the snow-free period reduced flowering and seeding rates. Phenology of the alpine plants was controlled primarily by (1) growth form, (2) the span of preflowering, and (3) the term for the maturity of seeds. Shrub species, especially evergreen shrubs, took longer for maturing their seeds. They abandoned sexual reproduction and reproduced vegetatively by layering in the short snow-free habitats. Forb and graminoid species opened their flowers even in the short snow-free habitats. Some graminoid species shifted their leaf habit from summergreen to semievergreen in these short snow-free habitats. This is considered a strategy to extend the photosynthetic period.
10.2307/1551475|The response of littoral shrub populations to recent land emergence along the eastern coast of Hudson Bay was studied as an indirect estimate of the minimum rate of isostatic rebound in the area. Evidence of a rapid downward displacement of shrub populations is borne out (1) by the zonation in population structures ranging from a clear expanding semilogarithmic distribution close to water to an irregular multimodal pattern backshore, (2) by the zonation pattern in shrub vitality showing healthy individuals in the expansion zone at water edge and a declining zone backshore, and (3) by the progressive displacement of the lower limit occupied by the different species as suggested by the distribution of the oldest individuals along the sloping shore. Average lateral displacement varies among species, ranging between 1.3 and 2.9 m yr
10.2307/1551585| This study documents the use of dendrochronology for dating oscillations of glaciers and climatic changes related to them. The application of dendrochronological and dendroclimatological methods together allow improvement of the dating of Fras Glacier moraines Ro Negro, Argentina (4110S, 7150W), with a precision of a decade or even less. A minimum date for lateral and end moraines was obtained by counting the number of annual rings in the oldest trees growing on each moraine. Precise ages for ice positions were determined from trees that had been damaged by the glacier during its latest-Neoglacial advances. Moreover, due to the similarity found between climate models for tree-growth and glacier front fluctuations, a direct relationship was established between variations in tree-ring width indices of Fitzroya cupressoides Mol. Jhonst. and fluctuations of Fras Glacier front. Cool and wet summers result in advances of glacier front and in the formation of wider tree-rings. Taking into account all these facts, Fras Glacier moraines were dated to the following years: 1977, 1942, 1914, ca. 1881, 1839, 1747, 1722, and ca. 1638. These dates are consistent with the historical record inferred from old drawings and photographs as well as with the glacial chronologies proposed for Patagonia east of the Andes. The consistency of the glacial history recorded by the different methods suggests that the combined approach is valid. 
10.2307/1552115| Soils of pingos in the Prudhoe Bay region of northern Alaska (70N, 148W) were examined to determine if their development could be used to support or nullify a hypothesis of differential age between two morphologically distinct groups of pingos. The two morphological types, one with steep side slopes and small basal diameters ("steep-sided") and one with gentle side slopes and large basal diameters ("broad-based"), have been proposed to represent two different age groups. Steep-sided types are found on landscape surfaces of all ages, always within recognizable thaw-lake basins, and are all presumed to have formed within the last 10 kyr. Broad-based types are found only on pre-Holocene surfaces and never within recognizable thaw-lake basins, leading to speculation that they formed during a previous thaw-lake cycle on the older surfaces. Soils were described and collected from nine localities on each of three steep-sided and two broad-based pingos. Profile development was quantified using an index that compares soil morphology with parent material characteristics. A second index quantified profile anisotropy of various soil properties. Multiple lines of evidence from the pingo soils supports the differential age hypothesis. Broad-based pingos have greater concentrations of clay and iron, lower pH, more developed color, structure, and consistence, and greater profile anisotropy. Absolute pingo ages were estimated by developing regression equations for profile development of temperate soils from the literature and applying these to the pingo soils. The regression resulted in estimated ages of the steep-sided pingos of approximately 5 ky and of broad-based pingos of 14-22 kyr, which are thought to be minimum age estimates. 
10.2307/1551915|The Patagonian icefields are the largest mid-latitude ice masses and yet few glaciological data exist for them. The presence of the Andes lying athwart the westerlies makes for a dynamic glacial system with steep balance gradients and west-east equilibrium-line altitude gradients. The overall trend during the 20th century has been glacier retreat. However, whereas most eastern outlets retreated consistently from the beginning of the century, recession on the west began later, has been interrupted by readvances, and most recently has accelerated markedly, reaching higher mean rates of retreat than those on the east. This contrast may result from a predominantly precipitation-controlled mass-balance regime in the west and a dominant temperature control in the east. Superimposed on these contrasts is the anomalous behavior of certain calving glaciers, the oscillations of which contrast in magnitude, timing and sign with each other and with noncalving glaciers, and which in many cases do not relate directly to climate change. Two large calving outlets are at or near their Neoglacial maxima. The tantalizing fragments of information that exist suggest that there is a rich glaciological source to be mined in Patagonia yielding insights into glacioclimatic interactions, calving dynamics, Holocene climate change and the role of topography in controlling glacier behavior.
10.2307/1551657|Bed load transport and channel change were measured during May to July 1987 in the proglacial stream of Bas Glacier d'Arolla, Switzerland. Over sampling periods of several hours, variations in bed load transport show little apparent relationship with discharge; however, over the 67-d study period, cross section and long profile surveys suggest that steady-state transport is maintained, except during floods. Bed load transport occurs over approximately two-thirds of the channel width, but the majority of the load is transported in bands of narrow width corresponding loosely to the maximum thread of flow. Bed load movement in narrow bands causes transport rates to vary by up to an order of magnitude within the space of 1 m (in a cross channel direction). Large errors associated with bed load sampling make it very difficult to estimate the true variability in the sediment transport process. Short-term daily changes in channel sediment storage are minor during periods of low to moderate discharge, but during floods the channel shifts dramatically from a slightly aggrading state to a state of considerable aggradation or degradation. On the basis of field observations and sediment transport measurements, a three-phase model of bed load transport is proposed for steep coarse-bed streams where bed material is highly heterogeneous. Phase one generally involves the flushing out of fines deposited in the channel during low flows; phase two transport is associated with the break-up of the gravel-bed surface layer; and phase three transport results in the destruction of the step/pool topography during flood.
10.2307/1551342|The relationship between the modern pollen rain and vegetation of alpine areas within the central Sierra Nevada in California is examined. Cluster analysis is used to help designate six major groups, corresponding to modern vegetation units. Abundant oak percentages characterize the oak grassland/woodland and chaparral. High oak and T-C-T (members of the Taxodiaceae-Cupressaceae-Taxaceae) distinguish the modern Sierra montane forest. Abundant pollen of red and white fir, with montane chaparral shrubs, characterize the upper Sierra montane and upper montane forests, while highest mountain hemlock pollen percentages are found in the subalpine forest. Sagebrush pollen dominates sites at most elevations east of the crest. Nonarboreal vegetation types are not distinguished palynologically in this cluster analysis, perhaps due to a paucity of samples. Pollen percentage limits for the local occurrence of a taxon are also established. Mountain hemlock and fir trees are absent at pollen percentages of less than 1% and 2 to 4%, respectively. At low elevations pine trees are absent when pollen percentages are 24% or less. The above results can be applied directly to studies of late Quaternary vegetation and climatic change of the area; most of the changes in past vegetation involved these taxa.
10.2307/1550608|The style of Thule culture winter dwellings has changed considerably during the past 1000 years. The early, small, single-family whalebone structures were replaced by a variety of house forms such as the snow-house complex, quarmat structures, winter tents, and large communal structures. The changing house styles are seen as a cultural response to generalized shifts in climatic and ecological conditions over the last millennium. Climatic changes influence the amount and distribution of sea ice as well as terrestrial precipitation patterns. The response of most of the important game species to changing biotopical conditions is discussed in relation to the changing winter settlement patterns of the Thule Eskimos. In general, a correlation does exist between changing winter settlement patterns and fluctuating climatic/ecological periods through time and space.
10.2307/1551368| The effects of temperature and population origin on the reproductive response of Poa alpina L. tussocks from the Rocky Mountains of Alberta were investigated. Clones from four tussocks (samples) collected from two alpine and two subalpine environments were tested simultaneously in growth chambers using three temperature regimes (8/1C, 15/8C, 22/15C, light/dark) with a 16-h photoperiod. Eight reproductive traits were observed on each clone. Normal panicles were present in all the clones tested at the 8/1C temperature, while at the 15/8C and 22/15C temperatures the reproductive structures were mainly abnormal, viviparous, or nonexistent. At the low temperature regime the clones from the high alpine environment (elevation 2700 m) had more florets and seeds per panicle than the clones from the low subalpine environment (elevation 1480 m). In the 15/8C and 22/15C regimes this relationship was reversed, suggesting temperature-specific adaptation in the tested samples. The effects of sample and sample-temperature interactions were significant for most of the characters studied. For days to flowering and days to maturity the sample mean squares were substantially larger than the interaction mean squares, whereas for number of seeds per panicle the situation was reversed. For characters such as number of panicles per clone the observed variability was strictly a function of temperature (environment). 
10.2307/1550582|One hundred and thirty-eight visits by Phyllotreta albionica (Lec.) (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae) were observed at the flowers of Thlaspi alpestre L. (Cruciferae) in early June on the Colorado alpine tundra. Forty visits by Formica neorufibarbis gelida Wheeler (Hymenoptera: Formicidae), 8 visits by Quadrularia laetifica (R.-D.) (Diptera: Muscidae) and 12 visits by other insects were recorded. T. alpestre pollen grains, which have a pebbled surface with triradiate sutures, were found on the insect visitors. Fruiting was reduced to 70% in flowers that were covered, while 90% of the uncovered flowers produced fruit. T. alpestre is not agamospermous since flowers lacking stigmas did not set seed.
10.2307/1550384|A small hydrostatic lysimeter for use in shallow tundra soils was constructed based on the design of Hanks and Shawcroft (1965). A percolation vessel situated below the lysimeter drained the lysimeter of excess water induced by heavy rainfall and gave a measure of the amount retained by the soil and that lost from the soil. Soil temperature and moisture measured within the lysimeter and in the adjacent soil indicate that natural conditions were closely duplicated in the lysimeter in spite of its small size. Measurement of wind velocity in the vicinity of the lysimeter indicated that the unvegetated boundary at the edge of the lysimeter has more effect in a sedge community of Carex bigelowii than in a cushion plant community of Diapensia lapponica. The use of a sealed "dummy" lysimeter in conjunction with lysimeters containing live plant systems permitted correction of all environmental variables, the major one being temperature. A suggestion was made for the way in which the transpiration data might be analyzed, and expressed on a gram per square decimeter of leaf area per hour basis. The lysimeter was constructed from inexpensive and easily obtainable materials. It had an accuracy equal to 0.25 mm of water and was found to be a simple and accurate way of measuring evapotranspiration in an alpine tundra environment.
10.2307/1550610|Local postglacial isobases are constructed over northeastern Ellesmere Island and Polaris Promontory, northwestern Greenland, for 7500 and 6000 BP. Both sets of isobases demonstrate a strong upward displacement extending from northeastern Ellesmere Island toward the Greenland Ice Sheet. This reflects two conditions: (1) the glacioisostatic dominance, but not coverage, of the Greenland Ice Sheet over northeastern Ellesmere Island and (2) an accompanying, restricted advance of the northern Ellesmere Island ice sheet during the last glaciation. Regional isobases are also constructed over the Queen Elizabeth Islands and the adjacent Greenland coast. These isobases provisionally indicate that the Queen Elizabeth Islands contribute to the westward extension of the Greenland isobases. This ridge of uplift was produced by the combined glacioisostatic depressions from the ice sheets over the Queen Elizabeth Islands and Greenland. These ice sheets, however, are not considered to have been convergent during the last glaciation. Three postglacial uplift curves from northeastern Ellesmere Island more closely parallel the general decay curves characteristic of the central and southern Canadian Arctic than do previously constructed uplift curves from northern Ellesmere Island.
10.2307/1550067|Four years of data from an automatic weather station at an altitude of 2,275 m in the Brooks Range, Alaska, are compared with simultaneous and long-term observations at the nearer permanent meteorological stations. This high level location is found to vary greatly in temperature and wind regime from both the interior valleys and the arctic coast. In particular, the estimated annual precipitation of approximately 500 mm is much higher than that at any other station in the region and considerably higher than other estimates for the higher part of the Brooks Range.
10.2307/1552107|Laboratory core freezing data for a Calgary silt are used to validate the secondary frost-heave model of Fowler and Krantz. This model is based on the model of O'Neill and Miller, but incorporates scaling and asymptotic analysis to make the complex physics of the freezing fringe more tractable and employs a more realistic thermal regelation mechanism for ice movement. Although this model does not involve any adjustable parameters, owing to insufficient soil-characterization data, it was necessary to fit one parameter in the equation describing the hydraulic conductivity of the frozen soils. However, this parameter was found to correlate very well with the porosity of the Calgary silt samples. These results were used to develop an equation for predicting the hydraulic conductivity of frozen Calgary silt as a function of soil porosity and unfrozen water volume fraction. These studies strongly support the predictive capability of the Fowler and Krantz model which because of its simplicity can be readily extended to incorporate solutal effects on freezing, soil compressibility, and differential frost heave.
10.2307/1552090| A pollen record from Glukhoye Lake (5945N 14955E; elevation 2.8 m a.s.l.) describes the late Quaternary vegetation history of the northern coastal region of the Okhotsk Sea. Although lacking radiocarbon dates, a tentative age scheme for the core is offered on the basis of other dated pollen stratigraphies and tephrochronology. The full-glacial pollen assemblage from Glukhoye Lake differs from other western Beringian spectra in that it has low percentages of Cyperaceae (<5%) pollen and Selaginella rupestris (<1%) spores, high percentages of Poaceae (>40%) and Asteraceae (5-20%) pollen, and low to moderate percentages of Artemisia (5-35%) pollen. This unique assemblage suggests that several types of herb-dominated communities characterized the full-glacial landscape of western Beringia. Herb tundra is replaced by shrub tundra as Betula followed by Alnus and Pinus colonized near the lake. Larix is the last major taxon of the modern vegetation to appear in the Glukhoye record. In contrast to the interior Upper Kolyma region, Pinus apparently established prior to Larix near the coast and experienced significant population fluctuations during the mid- to late Holocene. Reasons for the variability in the vegetation history between these two regions can probably be linked to differences in fall/early winter snow conditions and mean July temperatures. Today strong temperature and precipitation gradients characterize the transition from the northern Okhotsk Sea coast to the mountainous interior of the Upper Kolyma region. The Glukhoye and Upper Kolyma pollen records suggest that the Okhotsk Sea and coastal ranges have been important influences on the regional climates of southwestern Beringia throughout the Holocene. 
10.2307/1550798|Alpine subnival boulder pavements occur as two types: Type I, those associated with a stream; Type II, those with no stream present. Type I may be subdivided into Type Ia, pavements that are approximately rectangular with their long axes roughly orthogonal to snow-delivering winds; and Type Ib, pavements that are fan-like in plan with a centrally located stream. Type Ia pavements have three internal zones: zone 1, occupied by the stream; zone 2, the sheltered margin with deep snowpack accumulation; and zone 3, the downwind margin with only shallow snowpack accumulation. Type Ib pavements have only zones 1 and 2. Using this typology and zonation, together with data from five pavements in the Indian Peaks, Colorado Front Range, three hypotheses were tested statistically. Hypothesis 1, that streams scour fines from beneath a coarse surficial layer, is accepted. Hypothesis 2, that pavement roughness is inversely related to seasonal snowpack mass, remains uncertain. Such a relationship does occur, but is probably secondary to stream scour. Hypothesis 3, that pavements may be either autochthonous or allochthonous, remains indeterminate.
10.2307/1550905|Large boulders of a lithology typical of the headwall and floor of the King Ravine cirque in New Hampshire's Presidential Range are found in the deposits of the valley below. The implied northerly transport of these boulders suggests post- or late Wisconsinan cirque glacier activity in the ravine. This has led to a number of assertions regarding post- or late Wisconsinan cirque activity elsewhere on the Presidential Range. Stone counts, a review of lithologic considerations, and stratigraphic exposures with evidence for possible colluvial (debris flow) deposition indicate previously cited evidence for northward ice transport is equivocal and alternate transport mechanisms are possible. Proposals suggesting late Wisconsinan cirque glaciation in the entire Presidential Range, based upon the evidence in the vicinity of King Ravine, do not appear to be well supported.
10.2307/1552111|Spatial and temporal patterns of CO
10.2307/1552087| From 1900 to 1993, latewood frost rings occurred in 1903, 1912, 1941, 1961, and 1965 in 10 to 21% of the sampled bristlecone pines at Almagre Mountain, Colorado. In early to mid September in each of those years, a severe outbreak of unseasonably cold air from higher latitudes produced a memorable or historic late-summer snowstorm in the western United States. Record subfreezing temperatures during these snowstorms probably caused the latewood frost rings, shortened (by about 1 mo in 1912) already colder than normal growing seasons, and caused crop damage in parts of the Western United States. Latewood frost rings recorded in relatively high percentages of the sampled trees (such as the 1805 event in 61% of sampled trees) were probably caused by multiple severe outbreaks of unseasonably cold air from higher latitudes that occurred from early September (possibly as early as mid- or late August) to mid-September. Analyses of 1900-1992 temperature data for two widely separated Colorado stations, Fort Collins and Colorado Springs, show that average summer (June-September) temperatures during latewood frost-ring years in this century were 1.5 and 2.0C cooler than normal, respectively. Mountain snowpack probably persisted through these cool summers and was subsequently buried by the earlier than normal snowfall in September. Latewood frost-ring, ring-width, historical, and other data suggest that severe to cataclysmic volcanic eruptions from 1812 to 1835 triggered (1) an extended period of climatic cooling from as early as 1816 or 1817 through the early 1850s in the Southern Rocky Mountains, (2) catastrophic winters in Colorado and Wyoming in 1842-43 and 1844-45, and in the Great Salt Lake Basin in 1836-37, that caused large-scale destruction of bison and other large plains animals, and (3) Little Ice Age alpine glacial advances in about 1850-60 in the western United States. 
10.2307/1550059|Leaf photosynthetic measurements using a portable
10.2307/1551744|Historical and geologic records may be used to enhance magnitude estimates for extreme floods along mountain channels, as demonstrated in this study from the San Juan Mountains of Colorado. Historical photographs and local newspaper accounts from the October 1911 flood indicate the likely extent of flooding and damage. A checklist designed to organize and numerically score evidence of flooding was used in 15 field reconnaissance surveys in the upper Animas River valley of southwestern Colorado. Step-backwater flow modeling estimated the discharges necessary to create longitudinal flood bars observed at 6 additional field sites. According to these analyses, maximum unit discharge peaks at approximately 1.3 m
10.2307/1550783| The upper timberline in the West Carpathians has been most intensively attacked by grazing and, to a lesser extent, by charcoal burning or by other human activity. The shepherds attacked it especially during the Valach colonization in the 15th and 16th centuries. Because the Valachs practiced summer grazing at high altitude, above the forest belt, they were deforesting the mountains not only from the mountain foot upward but also downward, lowering the timberline. Grazing and deforestation intensity and accompanying lowering of the timberline can be related primarily to the petrographical composition of the substratum, soil, relief conditions, vegetation, and ownership. In general, the best conditions for alpine grazing are found on the basic substrates, rich in minerals, with a thick and coherent soil cover and smooth slopes with few rock outcrops. After deforestation floristically poor associations develop on the more acid substrates which are less suitable for grazing. The bilberry (Vaccinium myrtillus L.) does not tolerate tramping by cattle and it is replaced by the grass Nardus stricta L. forming floristically monotonous and very poor meadows of hard grass (Nardetum strictae) which is also less suitable for grazing. On the carbonate substrata, especially on widespread dolomite and limestone, floristically rich pastures, which are highly suitable for sheep, develop following deforestation. Thus deforestation has proceeded most extensively on areas underlain by carbonate rocks resulting in a lowering of the timberline by 200 to 300 m (in some places by much more than this) below the level of the climax timberline. The most depressed timberline occurs in the Krivnska Mal Fatra (Small Fatra), the White Tatras (Belansk Tatry) and the West Tatras (Zpadne Tatry), in the carbonate part of the High Tatras (Vysoke Tatry), and of the Low Tatras. The relief and geomorphological conditions are important factors influencing the impact of man upon the timberline. The shepherd is attracted to smooth periglacial ridges such as those characteristic of the Small Fatra and Great Fatra (Vel'k Fatra), which are not very far from the timberline. During the 20th century the timberline has been influenced by recreational activities, especially by winter sports. Thick and long-lasting snow cover and periglacial relief provide good conditions for skiing. On grassy surfaces covered with grazing plant communities, water penetrates very slowly into the soil. In the region of timberline total precipitation is high and evaporation is low; slopes are smooth, grassy, and steep, so that runoff is rapid. Trampling by cattle destroys the plant cover and gives rise to rapid erosion. Deforested smooth and grassy slopes provide conditions for increased avalanche activity. The mountain areas most menaced by avalanches, where the timberline was especially lowered by grazing are the Great Fatra, the Mesozoic part of the Krivnska Small Fatra, the White and West Tatras, and in part the Low Tatras (Nzke Tatry). Reduction of the above-mentioned undesirable phenomena is urgently needed. At timberline, it is possible to improve the forest and water economy, to develop the winter sport areas, and also to practice grazing. However, in order to understand the landscape processes as a basis for efficient land-use planning, it will be necessary to undertake a theoretical reconstruction of the climax or natural timberline. 
10.2307/1550026|The surviving glacial ice of the Northern Hemisphere lies under the eastern limbs of the troughs of the bipolar wave in the circumpolar westerlies. Other distributions such as forest-tundra and the arctic tree line are closely related to the Arctic front, which is also deformed by the bipolar wave. There is some evidence that in the post-Wisconsin warming the phase of these waves was essentially the same as today. and that quite small changes in amplitude are sufficient to account for most climatic variation since that time.
10.2307/1552080|The classic hydrosere model of bog succession, which is still often cited and taught by ecologists, proposes that infilling of a shallow lake or pond by organic sediments produces a sequence of vegetation communities beginning with a marsh community of aquatic plants such as sedges, followed by a bog community composed mainly of Sphagnum mosses and various ericaceous shrubs, and culminating in a mature upland or mesic "climax" forest. A careful examination of the supporting literature indicates, however, that this model is based almost solely on observations of spatial zonation of vegetation around infilling water bodies. No studies can be found which contain clear quantitative evidence of successional pathways progressing from bog to upland forest. Indeed, numerous studies conclude that patterns of hydrosere succession are not consistent with the classic hydrosere model. Forest age structure, peat stratigraphy, and radiocarbon data presented from two bogs in Schefferville, Quebec, suggest that many bogs in this region, and elsewhere as indicated in the literature, are climax communities formed via both infilling of a water body (terrestrialization) and expansion of bogs into upland forests (paludification). An alternative model of hydrosere succession based on the bog climax hypothesis is presented.
10.2307/1550849|Vascular plant species richness and diversity were compared to aboveground vascular plant production, vole disturbance, and soil depth across snowbank and solifluction terrace gradients in an interior Alaskan tundra. Plant diversity, productivity, and disturbance by voles all vary curvilinearly across these gradients. Species richness and diversity were not correlated with productivity in a simple linear fashion. Richness and diversity were correlated strongly with intensity of vole disturbance. Diversity was also significantly related in a curvilinear fashion to productivity: diversity first rises and then falls as productivity increases. Such a curvilinear relationship has been predicted theoretically by others. Because productivity is related to soil fertility in these sites, the curvilinear diversity-productivity relationship suggests that Tilman's (1982) model for plant diversity may apply to these communities.
10.2307/1550900| A complex sequence of raised beaches on Brggerhalvya, western Spitsbergen, has been subdivided into a tripartite age series based on elevation, degree of geomorphic preservation, radiocarbon dates, and molluscan amino acid ratios. The uppermost beach deposit from 55 to 80 m asl was deposited during the episode C interval (130-290 ka). The intermediate beach series from 44 to 55 m asl is tentatively correlated to the episode B interval (60-160 ka), whereas terraces below 44 m asl formed during the last 12 ka (episode A). Soils on the beach crests exhibit stages of silt accumulation that range from coatings on clast surfaces to complete infilling of voids in the primary beach sediment. We propose that the letter l be used in conjunction with master soil horizon notation to indicate the presence of silt accumulations. Carbonate coatings (stages I and II) occur on clast bottoms within but more commonly below the zone of maximum silt accumulation. Soils on the episode A surface exhibit a 15- to 35-cm-thick Bl horizon with stage II carbonate occurring to 15 to 40 cm depth. Soils on the intermediate surface contain a 40- to 60-cm-thick Bl horizon with stage II carbonate extending to 40- to 75-cm depth. Soils of episode C age have Bl horizons that are 70 to 105 cm thick and stage II carbonate to depths below 80 cm. Selective dissolution, frost and hydration shattering, translocation of released fines, and precipitation of carbonate are the dominant processes operating in these soils. 
10.2307/1552135| In the winter of 1995-96 we investigated the temperature and vapor pressure gradient conditions associated with the formation of faceted crystals that develop in the upper levels of the snowpack due to diurnal recrystallization. We used an array of six thermocouples connected to a datalogger to continuously measure snow temperatures in the region from 0.005 m above the snow surface to 0.20 m below the snow surface. Measurements during clear sky conditions in March showed temperature gradients in excess of 200C m
10.2307/1551174|Radiocarbon dating of fractionated samples from the illuvial organic-rich (Bh) horizon of an in situ buried Humo-ferric podzol has, along with dates obtained previously from its surface organic (FH) horizon, enabled the investigation of various aspects of podzolic soil genesis in an arctic-alpine environment. The dates suggest that the FH horizon began to accumulate before about 4500 yr BP, possibly shortly before about 5000 yr BP, with a major episode of organic matter illuviation commencing soon after this time. Age/depth relationships have been examined in the FH and organic-rich illuvial (Bh) horizons and their pedogenic implications discussed. It is considered that formation of the iron-rich illuvial (Bs) horizon coincided in time with that of the Bh horizon and that both these horizons continued to develop up until the time when the profile became buried in situ beneath the outermost Neoglacial end moraine of Haugabreen, around A.D. 1750. The dating results are compared with those available from present-day podzolic soils in northwestern Europe in order to infer rates of pedogenesis under different environmental conditions. It is speculated that podzolization at the Haugabreen site was initiated by a deteriorating climate.
10.2307/1551720|Five species of microtine rodents occurred in tundra near Toolik Lake, Alaska, but only tundra voles (Microtus oeconomus) and singing voles (M. miurus) were widespread and abundant. The relative abundance of these two species in different habitats corresponded to the availability of their preferred food items in each habitat. Tundra voles reached their highest densities (50 ha
10.2307/1551942|Primula angustifolia and Primula parryi are common alpine primroses in Colorado. We examined the reproductive biology of these species to determine (1) if they were fully distylous (2) what differences in pollinators and in reproductive allocation and success might exist between the species, and (3) whether reproduction was limited by pollen availability during the period of study. We found both taxa to be fully distylous. Primula parryi has numerous, diverse pollinators, a high seed/ovule ratio, and high fecundity. Primula angustifolia has fewer, less diverse pollinators, lower seed/ovule ratios, and lower fecundity. The greater reproductive success of P. parryi may reflect its inflorescence structure and supply of attractants and rewards. Reproduction in both species appears to be limited to some extent by pollen availability, although more so in P. parryi than in P. angustifolia. These results demonstrate while distyly, with obligate outcrossing and reliance on insect pollen vectors, can be a viable reproductive strategy even in a severe environment, it functions differently even in closely related species and understanding individual pollination systems should be a focus for research on other distylous species.
10.2307/1550983|This paper presents and evaluates two methods of estimating the potential for direct insolation to alpine terrain. A computer algorithm facilitates computation of integrated direct insolation receipts at variable spatial scales. Extensive mountain shadowing decreases the accuracy of insolation computations requiring small temporal and spatial scales of analysis. Simulations indicate that the variability associated with daily insolation to Indian Peaks, Colorado Front Range, cirques and glaciers is large (standard deviations often exceed 100 ly d
10.2307/1550592|The origin of lichen-free areas in the High Arctic has been attributed to lichen-kill under permanent snowfields developed 300 yr ago during the Little Ice Age. There are inconsistencies in this hypothesis, particularly in regard to the manner of lichen-kill, the mechanism of dead lichen removal once the previously ice-covered ground is exposed again, the period when the lichen-kill occurred, and the form of lichen trimlines. An alternative hypothesis is suggested whereby lichen-free areas occur where seasonal snowfields persist for a much greater part of the summer than elsewhere. As a result the lichen growth season there is very short.
1550154| Geomorphologists, botanists, and ecologists often cannot ignore the climatic foundation of their studies. Three stages are mentioned in the paper, the first of which is characterized by the use of macroclimatic data. In the Alps such a practice has been favored by a relatively dense network of climatic stations with long observation periods. Nevertheless discrepencies resulted. One example is the calculation of "hygric continentality" for limiting plant areas, another is the altitudinal correlation of patterned ground areas with freeze-thaw frequencies on the basis of air temperature registrations. The second stage of research is a combination of special field investigations with microclimatic measurement. A recent example is a thesis dealing with waste- and block-production in the Silvretta. In order to support the studies on differential frost-weathering between northern and southern aspects, thermograph registrations were made for several months on rock surfaces of a north- and a south-facing wall of a nearly 3,000 m high mountain. The limited possibilities of a single scientist, the unavoidable omissions in the data series, and the short duration of observations render this method problematic despite all the acknowledged progress. The third stage of research, therefore, consists of a detailed and long-lasting microclimatic investigation program. In the Alps there are three projects of this kind: in the tztaler Alps, Stubaier Alps, and in the Rtische Alps ner Davos. Intended afforestation of parts of the subalpine zone was responsible for the establishment of two of the field research stations. Consequently the main research areas of these two stations are situated in or near the level of the recent timberline between 2,000 and 2,200 m. From a general scientific point of view it is very important that a third climatic-ecological station is located at the climatic snow line at about 3,200 m. Some results of the intensive investigation program, concerning the correlation of air and soil temperature, the distribution of snow and wind velocities and their ecological consequences are discussed. A comparative analysis with respect to periglacial morphology is in preparation. 
10.2307/1551833|Trace metals having accumulated in preindustrial (
10.2307/1552067|The effect of muskox herbivory on growth and reproduction in Oxytropis viscida was examined on Banks Island, N.W.T, during three growth seasons. Two levels of grazing were recognized. "Chomping," which occurs primarily early in the season, affects shoot tips and may include removal of all aboveground biomass. Chomping does not affect survival, but reduces plant diameter and probability of flowering for at least 2 yr following grazing. It also decreases the number of shoot tips during the year of grazing, and decreases the number of inflorescences for at least 1 yr following grazing. Chomping results in a change in plant morphology, including more tightly clustered growth tips and greener, more viscid leaves. Chomped plants are less likely to be grazed again in the year following herbivory. "Nibbling" refers to the selective removal of inflorescences and seed pods. Nibbling does not affect plant survival, shoot tip number, or number of inflorescences, but does decrease diameter for at least 1 yr following grazing. Results suggest that O. viscida may not be continually defended and that resistance is induced by chomping but not nibbling. The strategy of this arctic herbaceous dicotyledon appears to be intermediate between that of arctic graminoids which exhibit rapid regrowth and that of slower growing, highly defended arctic shrubs.
10.2307/1551345|Soil catena development is traced through time by comparing soil catenas on Tioga, Tahoe, and Mono Basin moraines in two eastern Sierra Nevada, California, valleys, Green Creek and Walker Creek. Shortly after moraine deposition, slope adjustment takes place and a sandy colluvial wedge is deposited at the footslope. Since the Tioga glaciation of about 20,000 yr ago, A/Bw/Cox soil profiles have formed along the catena, and values of the profile development index, and weighted mean and accumulation index of laboratory properties are similar at most sites. Data for the Tahoe and Mono Basin catenas are used to track catena soil development for the preceding approximately 100,000 yr. In the most impressive case (Green Creek), Bt horizons have formed at most sites along the catena and profile development, as judged from both field data and laboratory data on pedogenic clay and iron, is best at footslope sites. However, in the stratigraphically important moraine sequence of Walker Creek, there are little or only subtle differences in total catena development values with time. Comparison with other recent studies indicates that these results are representative of a larger area in the western United States. When using soils for age differentiation of moraines, it is strongly suggested that footslope soils should be included in the analysis.
10.2307/1551290|This study deals with patterns of phytomass and net primary production of the Trachydium-forb, forb-Danthonia, Danthonia-forb, Danthonia, Kobresia-Danthonia, and Rhododendron-Cassiope plant communities in an Indian Central Himalayan alpine meadow (3100-3750 m a.s.l). The different growth forms (i.e. grass, sedge, forb, and dwarf shrub) varied considerably within and among these communities. Different species of a particular community and at a particular time within the growing season showed a certain degree of convergence in their morphological traits. The proportion of aboveground standing dead during the growing season at the time of peak live shoot phytomass was very different in different communities. Aboveground net primary productivity (ANPP), obtained from the sum of species peak (114-407 g m
10.2307/1551996|Roots of 40 taxa of vascular plants from subantarctic Macquarie Island were examined to determine their mycorrhizal status. Samples comprised 36 flowering plant taxa (Spermatophyta) from 16 families, and 4 nonflowering plant taxa (Pteridophyta) from 4 families. No arbutoid, ericoid, or ectomycorrhizae were observed, nor did we collect the fruiting bodies of any fungi whose presence would indicate or suggest the presence of ectomycorrhizal associations. Fifteen of the plants examined showed vesicles, but vesicles and arbuscles were observed in only three plants: Hydrocotyle novae-zeelandiae (Apiaceae), Pleurophyllum hookeri (Asteraceae), and Acaena magellanica (Rosaceae). Dark septate fungi were observed in the roots of 21 plant species. The one species of orchid found on the island, Corybas dienemus, showed typical orchid mycorrhizae.
10.2307/1551756|An intensive study of long-term revegetation patterns in Erect Deciduous Shrub Tundra on anthropogenic disturbances was conducted in the summer of 1993 within the abandoned CANOL pipeline corridor. Primary and secondary succession were investigated on vehicle tracks and borrow pits by collecting data on the cover of all vascular and nonvascular species. Significant differences in species composition were evident among disturbance types from nested analyses of variance. Disturbance sites were characterized by lower abundance of woody plants and overall greater species richness than undisturbed areas. Borrow pits, still dominated by pioneer species, were in the preliminary stages of succession. Pioneer species persisted on vehicle tracks in the intermediate succession stages, although some species replacement was evident.
10.2307/1550792| During the winter of 1975/76 on Edgeya, Svalbard, an estimated 23% of the reindeer population starved to death. This implies a population net decrease of 16% and a 65% loss of the calves entering the winter in 1975. Animal body weights and fat accumulation in mid-summer indicate that the surviving reindeer seemed to recover rapidly. These data support the hypothesis that weather conditions may limit arctic populations of Rangifer without a preceding overgrazing of ranges. 
10.2307/1552132| Seven stable moraine surfaces in Trllaskagi, northern Iceland, were sampled to produce frequency distributions of the sizes of up to 1000 Rhizocarpon geographicum s.l. thalli at each site. All frequency distributions showed a similar form, with patterns of disruption at the same points in the curves. In order to examine the possible cause(s) of this disruption, the structure of the observed distributions was compared with randomly generated distributions of lichen sizes. In the absence of snowpack data, temperature observations for the last 115 yr were used to produce duplicated model runs simulating the potential effects of snowkill on the lichen communities, producing results in close agreement with the observed data. It is concluded that in this area of northern Iceland, lichen growth was disrupted at four periods over the last 120 yr, and that at these periods possibly 80 to 100% of lichen thalli may have been lost. This has implications for lichenometric dating of moraines in the region, but as yet it is not possible to determine whether disruptions were solely due to climate, or to a combination of factors, including competition. 
10.2307/1550472|A controlled environment unit is described for simulating alpine plant environments. The design permits independent control of aerial and edaphic temperatures and establishment of soil temperature gradients like those encountered in the field. Such units have been used successfully in studies relating to alpine plant ecology and timberline formation.
10.2307/1550255|Notes dating from the British Arctic Expedition of 1875 and the U.S. Army's Lady Franklin Bay Expedition of 1881 to 1884 were found by the author on Ellesmere Island. The first note, typed on board H.M.S. Discovery by Captain Stephenson on March 10, 1876, was found in 1971 in a cylinder near the cairn on the summit of Mt. Campbell, Bellot Island. Two other notes were found together in one cylinder at Record Point on Archer Fiord in 1972. The first of these is dated August 15, 1882, and was deposited by Lt. J. B. Lockwood, U.S.A., of the Lady Franklin Bay Expedition, who removed an earlier note left by Lt. Archer, RN, from H.M.S. Discovery in the spring of 1876. Lockwood returned to Record Point the following spring and on April 29, 1883, deposited an extensive handwritten note prepared at Fort Conger on March 26, 1883, by Lt. A. W. Greely. The Greely/Lockwood note describes the excellent condition of the expedition personnel and their accomplishments at that time. It also includes meteorological observations from August 1881 to July 1882. Facsimilies of the notes appear in the paper. The history of the two expeditions is briefly recounted and the tragic end of the Lady Franklin Bay Expedition described. Only seven out of Greely's party of 25 survived the winter of 1883-84 after the failure of a supply ship to reach them in 1883.
10.2307/1551901|Preliminary analysis of 452 determinations of end-of-summer glacier snowline altitudes (ELAs) made over 17 yr on up to 47 glaciers show good correlation with major climatic events, and conform well with fluctuations of glacier termini when reaction times are taken into consideration. With snowline altitudes used as surrogates for annual mass balance values, there is a recent trend to increased mass balances, i.e. a climate "cooling," which follows a long period of predominantly glacial recession. Snowline trend surfaces plotted for the Southern Alps of New Zealand show considerable warping with variable departures from the steady-state equilibrium-line altitude each year. The current resurgence of the more active glaciers should continue in the near future.
10.2307/1549983| Chromosome numbers are reported for 100 taxa of alpine plants of the Rocky Mountains, almost exclusively from Colorado. Based on cytotaxonomical observations, the following new names or combinations are validated: Botrychium lunaria (L.) Sw. ssp. occidentalis L., L. & K.; Poa abbreviata R. Br. ssp. Pattersonii (Vasey) L., L. & K.; Poa arctica R. Br. ssp. grayana (Vasey) L., L. & K.; Deschampsia caespitosa (L.) PB. var. alpicola (Rydb.) L., L. & K.; Carex capitata L. ssp. arctogena (H. Sm.) Bcher; Carex nardina Fr. ssp. Hepburnii (Boott) L., L. & K.; Salix arctica Pall. ssp. petraea (Anderss.) L., L. & K.; Salix reticulata L. ssp. nivalis (Hook.) L., L. & K.; Trollius laxus Salisb. ssp. albiflorus (A. Gray) L., L. & K.; Anemone narcissiflora L. ssp. zephyra (A. Nels.) L., L. & K.; Saxifraga hyperborea R. Br. ssp. debilis (Engelm.) L., L. & K.; Saxifraga platysepala Trautv. ssp. Crandallii (Gandoger) Tolmatchev; Heuchera parvifolia Nutt. var. nivalis (Rosend., Butt. & Lakela) L., L. & K.; Arctostaphylos adenotricha (Fern. & Macbr.) L., L. & K.; Arctostaphylos uva-ursi (L.) Spreng. ssp. coactilis (Fern. & Macbr.) L., L. & K.; Vaccinium myrtillus L. ssp. oreophilum (Rydb.) L., L. & K. The following names replace those in parentheses which, for various reasons, seem to be less appropriate for the Rocky Mountain taxa: Cryptogramma acrostichoides R. Br. (C. crispa ssp. acrostichoides); Glyceria grandis S. Wats. (G. maxima ssp. grandis); Phleum commutatum Gaud. (P. alpinum L.); Kobresia sibirica Turcz. (K. macrocarpa); Carex tripartita All. (C. Lachenalii); Juncus ambiguus Guss. (J. bufonius L.); Salix planifolia Pursh (S. phylicifolia); Pulsatilla patens (L.) Mill. ssp. hirsutissima Zmels (ssp. multifida); Ranunculus grayi Britt. (R. gelidus); Rhodiola integrifolia Raf. (Sedum rosea ssp. integrifolia); Saxifraga propinqua R. Br. (S. hirculus); Acomastylis Rossii (R. Br.) Greene (Geum Rossii); Rosa Sayi Schweinitz (R. acicularis); Trifolium salictorum Greene (T. Parryi p.p.); Agaloma marginata (Pursh) Lve & Lve (Euphorbia marginata); Chamaenerion Danielsii D. Lve (Epilobium angustifolium ssp. circumvagum); Kalmia microphylla (Hook.) Heller (K. polifolia); Erigeron superbus Greene (E. eximius). 
10.2307/1551124| The size and frequency of blowing snow particles were measured by a photoelectric device during two winters at Niwot Ridge, an alpine site in the Front Range, Colorado. Blowing snow occurred over 50% of the time, with 95% of the days in January having blowing snow. Over 30 blowing snow events occurred each winter, with each event averaging 36 h long. Visibility estimates during blowing snow were derived from information on blowing snow and wind speed. During 80% of the hours with blowing snow, short-term visual ranges were estimated to be less than 50 m. During blowing snow events, median visibility was in the 150-to 200-m range. Visual ranges less than 20 m occurred during precipitation and during some days with clear skies. As daily precipitation increased above amounts of 10 mm, maximum minimum ranges decreased in a linear fashion. An operational system for visibility monitoring and its implications for winter travel at high elevations are discussed. During the winters of 1973/74 and 1974/75, mass transport ranged above 480 g m
10.2307/1550079|The alpine environment is an island-like habitat of conditions which are determined by six climatic factors. It forms a series of marginal situations characterized by strong fluctuations. These habitats are similar everywhere, although the northern mountains show a low degree of insularity due to influences of the Pleistocene as compared to the older tropical highlands. The populations are frequently small, and they fluctuate heavily, and any one of four causes may exterminate the species or the ecosystem. The complete absence of true high altitude or latitude elements in the mountain fauna of northwestern Europe, and disjunct distributions of high altitude invertebrates elsewhere, may be caused by such exterminations followed by the lack of sources for reinvasion.
10.2307/1551855|In carabid beetles, species with both larval and adult overwintering diapause may be advantaged in colonizing alpine zones compared with species without larval overwintering, which have to complete development during a short summer. The ability to diapause in two developmental stages facilitates a shift from an annual (univoltine) to a biennial (semivoltine) life cycle, which is an advantage in cool habitats. To test this hypothesis, I studied altitudinal variation in the life cycles of the subtribe Carabina (Coleoptera, Carabidae, Carabini) at altitudes from 750 m (below the subalpine zone) to 2800 m (alpine zone) in central Honshu, Japan. Of seven species occurring in the study area, five had annual life cycles with adult overwintering and were distributed below the subalpine zone (<2200 m). Two closely related Leptocarabus species overwintered as larvae in the first winter and as adults in the second and later years; one species occurred at altitudes from 750 to 2200 m, and its life cycle changed from annual to biennial in the subalpine zone. The other smaller species occurred from subalpine to alpine zones and had a biennial life cycle. These species showed a continuous decline of body size with increasing altitude. Thus, two species with larval overwintering had wider altitudinal ranges and colonized higher altitudes than other five species without larval overwintering, but there was an interspecific difference in the life cycle strategy between the two species, which was correlated with the difference in the altitudinal range of each species.
10.2307/1551545|Data collected in 1977, before the start of the major retreat in 1981, are used to compute stresses acting on Columbia Glacier. Contrary to the situation in many other glaciers, where the driving stress is a good measure of basal drag, horizontal strain rates are large and spatially variable and the associated viscous forces are large. These result in important force transmissions along and across the glacier. Basal friction is more constant than is the driving stress, except near the terminus where basal resistance is concentrated at certain sites. The use of a valley shape factor as used in many one-dimensional models is tested against the present, more thorough analysis. It is found to be valid for longitudinal averages over more than about three ice thicknesses (about 1500 m). The average shape factor is 0.78, meaning that 78% of the flow resistance to a flowline at the center of the glacier is due to drag at the glacier base.
10.2307/1550456|Snow avalanche paths are major geomorphic features in the Rocky Mountains of Glacier National Park, Montana. They are the most common and geographically widespread form of mass-wasting in the central portion of the park. Field work and aerialphoto studies identified over 800 such paths in the study area. Other mass-wasting phenomena are also common. Snow avalanche path directions in the study area are concentrated in the southeastern, southern, and northwestern compass octants. The most common type of avalanche path has a bowl-shaped catchment area; a narrow track, often associated with a stream channel; and a tongue-shaped runout zone. Geographically, the avalanche paths are concentrated in the high-relief, high-precipitation, western portions of the study area. Statistical analysis of the variables which affect avalanche path runout zones revealed that track width accounted for 36% of the variance in runout widths. Runout zone length variations were not adequately explained by any of the terrain variables measured, including those of the starting zone. Twelve avalanche paths were studied in the field in some detail; these are described. Longitudinal sampling of forest vegetation on these avalanche paths revealed that Abies lasiocarpa, Alnus spp., and Acer glabrum are the most common trees on such sites. Progressing upslope, the number of conifers diminishes, relative to deciduous trees. Ground-cover vegetation is often related to moisture conditions on the avalanche paths. General vegetative conditions on avalanche paths in the study area indicated frequent avalanching, often at least once per season. Conifers on five avalanche paths were subjected to dendrochronologic analysis in order to accurately determine avalanche frequency. One such path experienced avalanches in 1945, 1950, 1954, 1963, 1965?, 1966, 1972, and 1974. This analysis revealed a lack of slope-to-slope synchroneity relative to periods of avalanche activity. Avalanche impact pressures and velocities may be determined from damage to trees on and alongside avalanche paths. Impact pressures and velocities for average (impact pressure, 0.21 to 0.28 t m
10.2307/1551266|The effect of topography and water drainage patterns on the nutrient status, aboveground biomass, vegetative characteristics, and leaf gas exchange of Betula nana and Salix pulchra were studied on an Alaska tussock tundra slope. To help evaluate whether any differences found were due to variation in nutrient availability or other factors that varied along the gradient, fertilizer-treated plots were used as a comparison. The highest nitrogen and phosphorus concentrations occurred in plants from water-drainage areas, indicating improved nutrient availability. Downslope movement and accumulation of these nutrients, on the other hand, appeared limited and localized. While aboveground biomass of the two shrubs was also consistently higher in drainage areas, it was not closely correlated with tissue nutrient levels, indicating that other factors besides nutrients are involved in controlling the biomass of these species along the gradient. The variation in vegetative characteristics suggests that S. pulchra may be more strongly limited by nutrient availability on the slope than B. nana. Net photosynthesis and leaf conductance were unaffected by nutrients both on the slope and in fertilized plots, but were depressed at the drier end of the moisture gradient on the slope during a midseason period of drought.
10.2307/1550942|Carbon balance of intact arctic tundra microcosms (soil cores with vegetation) has been shown to be sensitive to small changes in water table. The persistence of the effect of water table on CO
10.2307/1551426|Seeding tests were established on an abandoned rig site in the Caribou Hills, N.W.T., in June 1973 to determine the cover success of selected grasses when seeded separately and in a mixture and the influence of various seed applications on natural succession. The study, monitored over a 12-yr period, confirmed that although slower establishing, Nugget Kentucky bluegrass and Arctared creeping red fescue are winter-hardy and can provide a maintenance-free, long-lasting cover in this region. However, an extremely dense root mat and litter layer, produced by both species, curtailed invasion by native species to less than 15% cover after 12 yr. The seed mix containing the above species as well as Engmo timothy, Frontier reed canarygrass, and Prolific spring rye provided high first year cover (40%) which died back considerably following the first winter. By the third growing season, however, the cover produced by the long-lived species plus the litter provided a total cover (75%) approaching that achieved individually by Nugget Kentucky bluegrass and Arctared creeping red fescue (80%). Invasion of native species into these plots was significantly higher than in the other seeded plots, reaching 25% cover by year 3 and equalling that (80%) in unseeded control plots by year 12.
10.2307/1551660|The extreme patchiness of plant communities and site conditions in the upper timberline ecotone is primarily controlled by the influence of microtopography and scattered tree islands on windflow near the soil surface, which in turn affects the distribution pattern of the winter snow cover. Snow accumulates inside the tree islands, and large snowdrifts build up behind their leeward end. Both depth and duration of the snow cover as well as vegetation influence other site factors such as soil moisture and soil temperature that are important to soil-forming processes. Moreover, deposition of alpine loess is enhanced by tree islands as revealed by the data on soil texture and Ca content. The study provides evidence for distinct differences in pedogenesis and soil properties on the windward, interior, and leeward sides of tree islands. Such differences are evident in contents of organic matter and nutrients (N, P, K), C/N ratio, cation exchange capacity, and pH. Different soil types belonging to different great groups of Inceptisols developed as a result of specific conditions on windward, interior, and leeward sites. Under tree islands, pedogenesis is deeply influenced by a thick O horizon. Thus, initial podzolization was observed in some cases. Soil-forming processes gradually change due to downwind migration of wind-exposed tree islands. Consequently, differences in pedoecological conditions on windward, interior, and leeward sites can only be explained in terms of microtopography and the long-term development of the migrating tree islands.
10.2307/1551761| High-elevation ecosystems are predicted to be some of the terrestrial habitats most sensitive to changing climates. The ecological consequences of changes in alpine tundra environmental conditions are still unclear especially for habitats in Asia. In this study we report findings from a field experiment where an alpine tundra grassland on the Tibetan plateau (37N, 101E) was exposed to experimental warming, irradiance was lowered, and wind speed reduced to simulate a suite of potential changes in environmental conditions. Our warming treatment increased air temperatures by 5C on average and soil temperatures were elevated by 3C at 5 cm depth. Aboveground biomass of grasses responded rapidly to the warmer conditions whereby biomass was 25% greater than that of controls after only 5 wk of experimental warming. This increase was accompanied by a simultaneous decrease in forb biomass, resulting in almost no net change in community biomass after 5 wk. Lower irradiance reduced grass biomass during the same period. Under ambient conditions total aboveground community biomass increased seasonally from 161 g m
10.2307/1551995|Fat accumulation and delays in reproduction have been documented for various migratory vertebrates. To examine this phenomenon in insects, we chose migratory and nonmigratory moths. Three species of Noctuidae were compared for accumulation of abdominal fat during their periods of activity in the alpine zone of the Rocky Mountains of Colorado from 1978 to 1980. Euxoa auxilliaris is a Class II migrant that enters the alpine zone from the plains in early summer. There it feeds on floral nectar of many species of plants and accumulates neutral fat reserves in the abdomen. These fat reserves start at 13-46%, in late June, and rise to 72-85%, by the end of August and early September, when the moths leave the area. The moths do not aestivate (i.e. enter imaginal diapause for the summer), but are in reproductive diapause throughout the alpine summer. Almost no females have maturing ovaries even by August. Resident moths, E. lewisi and Lasiestra impingens curta, do not show reproductive diapause and do not accumulate fat.
10.2307/1551481| Passive greenhouses can be used to elevate the temperature of natural communities, but they also introduce other effects. We tested the effects of potential greenhouse materials--clear polyethylene plastic film, polyester fabric, and rigid fiberglass panels--on light transmission, photosynthesis of Salix planifolia, elevation of air and soil temperature, and thaw depth. Plastic had the greatest light transmittance and caused the least depression of photosynthesis (-5%). Greenhouses covered with plastic elevated daily maximum and daily mean air temperatures by an average of 7.8 and 2.0C and depressed daily minimum temperature by 1.1C compared with the control. Plastic is impervious to gases and may alter CO
10.2307/1551532|A unique geographical configuration of glaciers exists in the Narsarsuaq district of South Greenland. Two large outlet glaciers divide into seven distributaries, such that each glacier system has land-terminating, tidewater-calving, and fresh-water-calving termini. Despite a similar climatic regime, these seven glaciers have exhibited strongly contrasting terminal behavior in historical time, as shown by historical records, aerial photographs, and fieldwork in 1989. The behavior of the calving glaciers cannot be accounted for with reference solely to climatic parameters. The combination of iceberg calving dynamics and topographic control has partially decoupled them from climatic forcing such that their oscillations relate more closely to glaciodynamic than glacioclimatic factors.
10.2307/1551129| Evaporation from wetland and lake surfaces in the continuous permafrost region of the Low Arctic was studied using an energy balance Bowen ratio approach and lysimeter measurements respectively. Daily evaporation was also estimated using the Priestley-Taylor model. Over the summer, mean evaporation from the wetland and lake were similar, but day-to-day variation was large at times. Differences of available energy and surface roughness between the lake and wetland surface produce a larger Priestly-Taylor  value for wetland evaporation. The approach presented in this paper can be used to estimate evaporation for wetland and lake surfaces in the low arctic region. 
10.2307/1550318|The glaciation level (GL) over the Queen Elizabeth Islands is highest over the main mountain areas. There are extremely steep gradients approaching 15 m cm
10.2307/1551716| Western Montana is ideally situated to have both its climate affected by the presence of Pleistocene ice sheets and those effects be apparent in its distribution of mountain glaciers. Paleoequilibrium line altitudes (paleoELAs) determined through a weighted average of cirque floor elevations, highest lateral moraines, and interpreted glacial extents define a complex pattern which reflects sources of moisture, directions of airflow, and sites of local convergence and divergence of airmasses. The regional trend of paleoELAs is parallel to that of present glacier ELAs but lies about 450 m lower. The parallelism suggests that the regional controls on moisture availability during late Pleistocene time were similar to those at present. Numerical reconstructions of precipitation required to maintain glaciers assuming a uniform regional 10C summer temperature depression indicate a Pleistocene decrease in precipitation, relative to present, of about 25 cm H
10.2307/1550223|Meteorological properties of the tundra are treated within the context of a general ecosystem model. The biosphere is placed in the role of an active interface within a stack of horizontally uniform physical layers under the influence of incident solar radiation, the demonstrably dominant exogenous state variable. Diurnal variation of the thermodynamic states of these physical layers is calculated as the solution of differential equations governing the diffusion of heat and moisture. The results of numerical experiments on dry ground regions demonstrate that atmospheric moisture and temperature, during the biotically active summertime, are influenced by the meteorological history of the immediately preceding summertime level of the permafrost boundary. They are influenced to a degree that is at least comparable to the effect of daily fluctuations in cloud cover and prevailing winds. Numerical experiments on tundra shallow lakes imply a strong influence by the region's heterogeneity on near-surface air temperatures.
10.2307/1551724| Evaporation is an important component of the water balance of lakes in the Hudson Bay Lowlands, but the amount of summer evaporation in this area is not well known. Hourly summertime estimates of evaporation, from a small tundra lake near Churchill, Manitoba, are compared to equilibrium evaporation estimates of the Penman model. For the entire measurement period  = 1.35. For individual days  ranges from 1.0 to 2.0 and for individual hours from 1.0 to 4.0. Local advection is primarily responsible for the large fluxes of latent heat. The latent heat flux exceeds available radiant energy over the summer, with temperature inversions occurring over the lake on the majority of days. The advective enhancement of lake evaporation responds to daily weather variations. The classification of these variations will improve operational estimates of lake evaporation. 
10.2307/1550588|Three types of permafrost feature occur in a nearly flat alluvial valley bottom in the Foothills of west-central Alberta. (1) Frozen mineral soil underlies wet sedge meadows and fluctuates in lateral extent from year to year. (2) A number of palsas with cores of mineral soil have developed in sedge/willow fens since 1952, and others seem to be actively forming. (3) Frozen soil exists in mounds under spruce trees on an abandoned and subsiding levee, but it appears to be a consequence rather than a cause of those landforms. A fortuitous combination of environmental features permits permafrost to exist in this site, as an outlier far south of the discontinuous permafrost zone. The valley bottom possesses the prerequisite saturated fine materials for ice segregation and palsa formation, and few floods occur to thaw or bury permafrost. Strong down-valley winds ensure little winter snow accumulation. There is little peat in the valley but local climatic factors maintain low temperatures in summer, especially at night, which limit thaw.
10.2307/1552046|The dung beetles (Coleoptera, Scarabaeoidea) are divided into several guilds, particularly dwellers and small tunnelers. We analyzed and compared the faunistic composition and the organization of these guilds from several mountain systems in Western Europe. Variation in species richness with altitude, altitudinal turnover, and the taxonomical and biogeographical characteristics of beetles were analyzed. A global analysis enabled an estimation of the importance of the local speciation mechanisms and historical processes, respectively, in the formation of the assemblages in each mountain system. The roles played by each mountain system in the historical perspective of the early Quaternary and in the biogeographical context of the Western Palaearctic are discussed.
10.2307/1551497|Soils on the west side of Dead Indian Pass (2414 m) in the Absaroka Mountains of northwestern Wyoming give indication of climatic and vegetational shift. This change is marked by a buried, truncated calcareous soil with abundant grass phytoliths (perhaps a Calcic Cryoboroll) which is unconformably overlain by a forest soil without abundant grass phytoliths (Typic Cryochrept). Using archaeological, geological, and soil data at the Dead Indian Creek archaeological site (48PA551), this shift appears to have happened sometime between about 5400 and 4400 BP, that is, near the Altithermal-Neoglacial boundary when climates shifted from dry to more humid, respectively. During the Altithermal, the west side of Dead Indian Pass, and much of the general area to elevations at least as high as 2400 m, were probably covered by grassland, including many north-facing slopes. In the Neoglacial, however, greater moisture probably encouraged forestation of north-facing slopes and others, as well as some stream terraces and bottom lands.
10.2307/1551722| Lines of lichen-covered rocks were installed on the floors of two semipermanent snowpatches above timberline in the Colorado Front Range. All Rhizocarpon subgenus Rhizocarpon thalli died within 5 to 8 yr where the average annual duration of snowcover exceeded 40.3 to 42.7 wk. Thalli of snow-tolerant Rhizocarpon species (especially R. riparium) survived for the duration of the study where snow cover was less persistent, and where meltout occurred by 1 July in occasional years. Lichen mortality is attributed to depletion of thallus carbon reserves in late spring and summer, when meltwater was continuously available at the base of the snowpack, light penetration was negligible, and thalli respired but were unable to photosynthesize. Fast-growing lichen species such as Umbilicaria virginis and Xanthoria elegans were less tolerant of late-lying snow than were slow-growing species such as Lecidea atrobrunnea and R. riparium; species-related differences in susceptibility to snowkill make interspecific diameter ratios unreliable. The lichen-free areas that surround modern Front Range snowbanks are products of the 1950s, when snow accumulation was greater than today. Earlier episodes of massive lichen kill on the floors of Front Range alpine valleys may have resulted from warm (0C) subnival winter temperatures rather than from very late-lying general snow cover, as was previously believed. 
10.2307/1552151|In this paper, we present field data and analysis relating avalanche terrain variables and avalanche runout for 46 high-frequency avalanche paths. Most previous studies of this nature have been concerned with the location of extreme runout for return periods of order 100 yr. In our study, we focus on extreme runout avalanche paths where return periods are much less than 100 yr and we compare the results with previous data collections. Our analysis shows that high-frequency avalanche paths are, on average, steeper and shorter than their low frequency counterparts. Our analysis also indicates that the dimensionless measure of avalanche extreme runout, the runout ratio, approximates a Gumbel distribution, consistent with previous results. The calculation of a nonexceedance probability, using the Gumbel distribution, is recommended for the prediction of extreme runout in land-use planning exercises for zones effected by high frequency avalanches.
10.2307/1550944|Six contiguous communities, representative of the diversity in alpine tundra of the Colorado Front Range, show significant differences in soil characteristics, microenvironmental conditions, and vegetation. Some of this variation relates to differences in snow accumulation, but notable disparities also exist among the communities with similar snow conditions. The communities that are snow free except for relatively brief periods have the most and least mature soil profiles, the most and least plant cover, and substantial differences in moisture availability, soil temperatures, and surface erosion. The communities normally covered by snow from November to mid-June have much soil instability and plant cover intermediate to the extremes of snow-free communities. The visually abrupt transitions between communities reflect the small amount of distributional overlap of the dominants, while most secondary species are not similarly restricted. Even though the vegetation and soils in this set of communities range from poorly to highly developed, the topography and resulting snow factors limit the possibility of substantial autogenic change.
10.2307/1550925|In the subalpine zone at Davos, Switzerland, a trial plot of seven tree species was kept artificially snow free during two winter periods and compared with an equivalent trial plot under natural snow cover. Periodic measurement of water potential and water content showed that, during the winter period, there is a higher water stress in the snow free plants, especially Norway spruce (Picea abies [L.] Karst), and deciduous species, including European larch (Larix decidua Mill.). Seedlings of these species showed serious desiccation and an increased mortality compared with the snow-covered seedlings. Desiccation occurred predominately on the parts of the snow-free seedlings that were exposed to the sun. Flushing in spring was retarded in the snow-free plot. All measured growth parameters showed more favorable results in the snow-covered plot. Sufficient snow cover is therefore a very important factor for the success of young seedlings in the subalpine zone, especially for Norway spruce, European larch, and deciduous broadleaf species.
10.2307/1552032|In the Tioga Pass area (upper LeeVining Creek watershed) of the Sierra Nevada (California), snow algae were prevalent in the early summers of 1993 and 1994. Significant negative correlations were found between snow albedo and algal cell numbers, and between albedo and snow water content. However, red snow caused by algal blooms did not decrease mean albedos in representative snowfields. This was due to algal patchiness; mean albedos would not decrease over the whole water catchment basin; and water supplies would not be affected by the presence of algae. Albedo was also reduced by dirt on the snow, and wind-blown dirt may provide a source of allochthonous organic matter for snow bacteria. However, several observations emphasize the importance of an autochthonous source for bacterial nutrition. Bacterial abundances and production rates were higher in red snow containing algae than in noncolored snow. Bacterial production was about two orders-of-magnitude lower than photosynthetic algal production. Bacteria were also sometimes attached to algal cells. In experiments where snow algae were contained in UV-transmitting quartz tubes, ultraviolet radiation inhibited red snow (collected from open, sunlit areas) photosynthesis about 25%, while green snow (collected from forested, shady locations) photosynthesis was inhibited by 85%. Methanol extracts of red snow algae had greater absorbances in blue and UV spectral regions than did algae from green snow. These differences in UV responses and spectra may be due to habitat (sun vs. shade) differences, or may be genetic, since different species were found in the two snow types. However, both habitat and genetic mechanisms may be operating together to cause these differences.
10.2307/1550290| Henry Kater Peninsula was ice covered at least between 34,000 and 10,000 BP. The ice advanced into the sea along the outer part of the peninsula, spreading a thin morainic covering over shell-bearing marine sediments. Ice moved inland from the fiords along the margins of the peninsula, while ice from inland covered the interior. Much of this ice decayed in situ, leaving extensive dead-ice areas. The sea was relatively high as the ice withdrew. The plane of the marine limit slopes down toward 083 from 50 m in the inner part of the peninsula to 25 m at the outer coast. Planes of synchronous isobases slope down toward 052. Deglaciation took place at about 10,000 BP at the outer coast, at about 8,500 BP in Isabella Bay on the north side, and 8,000 BP in Itirbilung Bay on the south side. The last major incursion of fiord ice into the embayments along the inner peninsula took place between approximately 8,700 and 8,000 BP. This moraine may be contemporaneous with the Cockburn moraines. The ice-cored moraines of the present glaciers in the mountain valleys have been static for several years, but it is suggested that locally generated ice was more powerful and vigorous at an earlier period. 
10.2307/1550863|Paleobotany is used to study the human influence on vegetation in the first half of the 17th century around Smeerenburg, a temporary Dutch whaling settlement on Amsterdam Island in northwest Spitsbergen. The local vegetation succession recorded in a settlement diagram indicates that the nutrient level of the soil increased strongly during the settlement period and decreased only slowly after the departure of the whalers. Climatic change since A.D. 1600 is reconstructed with palynological methods. The core from the settlement contained in layers representing the settlement period a great number of pollen types alien to Spitsbergen, evidently brought there by the Dutch whalers. In bird-cliff sediment cores collected 4 km from Smeerenburg these types were used to trace the settlement period. In a peat bog core collected about 100 km south of Smeerenburg the settlement period was traced by a radiocarbon date. Additional chronological correlation was established by means of lithological characteristics. At the bird cliff and in the peat bog no changes in local vegetation type were recorded during the last few hundred years. However, concordant trends observed in the pollen curves of the concentration diagrams were, by means of a simple calculation, rendered into separate curves for each diagram, defined as common-trend curves. The common-trend curves are interpreted in terms of climatic change. The reconstructed climate is as follows: a general deterioration during the first half of the 17th century, only interrupted by a short and passing amelioration. The results are in accord with climatic reconstructions in literature for northwest Spitsbergen based on historical data and for Camp Century (Greenland) based on an ice core. The diagrams indicate the former presence of two taxa not yet known from Spitsbergen: Myriophyllum spicatum and Parnassia.
10.2307/1551779| The vertical distributions of Parmelia olivacea and a few other epiphytic lichens on trunks of deciduous trees were studied in relation to maximum snow depth along an oceanic-continental climate gradient in subarctic Scandinavia. The lower limit of P. olivacea, "the Olivacea-limit," which is usually found above the winter snow surface, showed a high positive correlation with snow depth. This positive correlation also applied to the upper limit of Parmeliopsis ambigua growing on the trunk bases, i.e. "the Parmeliopsis-limit." Hypogymnia physodes and Parmelia sulcata showed a distribution similar to that of P. olivacea on the continental sites but also occurred below the Olivacea-limit at the oceanic sites above the Parmeliopsis-limit. The distribution of Cetraria sepincola showed no relation to either "limit" and thus to snow cover. The field observations and experiments indicated that P. olivacea can be exposed to snow or ice for 2 mo without any loss of vitality, but will be killed when repeatedly covered for several winters for periods longer than 2 mo. There was no decline in the vitality of thalli of P. olivacea eroded due to experimental exposure to lasting snow and measured as chlorophyll fluorescence. Nor did storage in ice in the laboratory for 2 mo in darkness at - 1C decrease vitality as indicated by the fact that the rate of photosynthesis remained unchanged in P. olivacea and increased in P. ambigua, and respiration rates decreased in both species. It is suggested that the degree of definition of the Olivacea- and Parmeliopsis-limits, i.e. their "sharpness," is determined by the polishing effects of wind and ice crystals. 
10.2307/1551211|Frost weathering of rock is widely held to be related fundamentally to the volumetric expansion of pore water during freezing. This hypothesis is in fact at odds with much of the work on freezing of soils and porous building materials; freezing-induced damage in these materials is strongly related to water movement and often unrelated to specific-volume change of the pore fluid during freezing. Not surprisingly, the traditional view of the mechanics of frost weathering leads to predictions, such as the existence of a "critical degree of saturation," that are contradicted by some freezing experiments conducted on rocks. Working within the traditional framework, it is also difficult to explain in a self-consistent fashion the observed importance of freeze-thaw cycling. We elaborate on these and other objections to the volumetric-expansion hypothesis, and suggest how fundamental considerations of the thermodynamics of water and ice in porous media, and of the fracture-mechanical behavior of rock, can lead to a unified view of frost-weathering.
10.2307/1550499|In addition to extreme abiotic conditions, biotic factors such as grazing influence the growth of tundra plants. Strategies of carbon assimilation, accumulation, and utilization must not only satisfy the requirements of a rigorous physical environment but also must simultaneously adjust to the impacts associated with herbivory. Representatives of four growth forms found in northern Alaska (a deciduous shrub, an evergreen shrub, a single-shooted graminoid, and a tussock-forming graminoid) were subjected to various defoliation regimes and their physiological and morphological responses were documented. Results from this study support the hypotheses that (1) carbon allocation patterns are a function of growth form and dictate plant responses to defoliation; (2) maximum photosynthetic rates are a function of growth form and are inversely related to leaf longevity; (3) the impact of grazing is reduced in plant species with rapid leaf turnover and little supportive tissue; (4) defoliation results in an immediate adjustment in carbon allocation pattern within the defoliated plant; and (5) carbon allocation to maintenance tissue or long-lived productive tissue is accompanied by mechanisms that reduce grazing.
10.2307/1551702| Slushflows are a potentially significant hydrological and sediment transport mechanism in the nival zone. They have previously been studied mainly in the context of wet snow avalanches within gullies on the steep slopes of mountain areas, but valley-bottom flows in non-alpine areas of the arctic and subarctic may have been underestimated. Evidence of the repeated occurrence of such slushflows in the Kilpisjrvi region, Finnish Lapland, is presented. Field diagnosis is stressed, since it may be that the underestimation of this important though low-frequency sediment transport process has been a result of failure to recognize its characteristic attributes in nonalpine situations. 
10.2307/1550299|Gizzard stones from 288 adult white-tailed ptarmigan (Lagopus leucurus) collected from 16 locations in Colorado were examined to describe monthly changes in size, weight, type, and wear. Mean grit size was largest during winter months and smallest in July. Seasonal changes in grit size were correlated with dietary changes. Females had a significantly greater mean annual amount of grit than males. Amount of gizzard grit in both sexes fluctuated about a winter level until April when amount decreased in males to a low in June and increased in females to a high in June. Amount of grit then stabilized to the winter levels. Quartz was preferred as grit along with lesser amounts of feldspars, amphiboles, pyroxenes, micas, rhyolite, and andesite. Grit from birds collected in areas of volcanic origin was mixed quartz and tertiary material. Larger stones were more rounded than smaller pieces with more wear evident on grit from birds collected in the San Juan Mountains where tertiary material is softer and quartz is retained in the gizzard. There were no seasonal fluctuations in roundness. There appears to be no shortage of grit in Colorado; however, in some areas ptarmigan have adapted to differences in availability of stones.
10.2307/1550492|Britton's thaw-lake cycle hypothesis is examined and modified in light of new observations on ice-wedges and revegetation following drainage of lakes in the wet coastal tundra of arctic Alaska. Two thaw-lakes which were artificially drained in 1950 provided base-line data for the ages of basin surfaces. Sizes of clonal colonies of Eriophorum angustifolium and Carex aquatilis were used in an attempt to age older, naturally drained lake basins. The floristic composition of the vegetation through the cycle is predictable. Pioneer species are Dupontia fisheri and Arctophila fulva. Eriophorum angustifolium is characteristic throughout all of the terrestrial part of the cycle. Carex aquatilis enters the vegetation slowly but is the most successful competitor and dominates the vegetation for perhaps 2000 to 3000 yr. It disappears locally when thaw-ponds developing from low-center polygons become too deep. Ice-wedges exist longer than the thaw-lakes and persist beneath them. They reassert themselves after drainage and are important in reinitiating the polygonal, terrestrial part of the cycle. Drained lake basins are very susceptible to thermokarst erosion when vehicles damage the insulating peat which covers the ice-wedges. Vegetational succession through the thaw-lake cycle is closely attuned to geomorphic changes and therefore is cyclic. It does not fit most recent models of succession because it is not autogenic but, rather, is controlled by the cold physical environment both above and below ground.
10.2307/1550835|Germinable seed numbers in the surface soil were estimated across three snowbank gradients in montane tundra of interior Alaska. Vegetation, productivity, and disturbance change with distance across these gradients. Seed densities are in the range 500 to 1800 seeds m
10.2307/1551234|The Castleguard area is a classical alpine karst, characterized by high relative relief and partly overlain by glacier ice. Access to the subglacial aquifer is possible via a relict cave. Drainage of the glacier bed occurs at both the conduit and diffuse flow scales. The contemporary hydrology is dominated by supraglacial meltwaters, which have been traced into the groundwater system. More than 100 springs in the Castleguard Valley constitute a hierarchy based on size and relative elevation. Status within the hierarchy is demonstrated by behavior as "underflow" or "overflow" springs. Floods emerging from springs perched 300 m above the valley floor are an overflow probably derived from the Saskatchewan Glacier. Quantitative dye tracing has revealed complex spring behavior, largely in response to changes in the spatial distribution of recharge. The aquifer appears to be mature, with a well-developed conduit network. The numerous springs are a product of disruption by glaciation; disturbance appears to be the major effect of glaciers upon this karst aquifer. Ice may be drained karstically where sufficient pressure gradients exist; decreased ice velocities and erosion rates are possible effects of underlying karst upon glaciers.
10.2307/1550922|New information on equilibrium-line altitudes (ELAs) of present and former glaciers in the Mount Everest area of eastern Nepal and southern Tibet has been derived from field mapping and interpretation of topographic maps and Landsat imagery. Present ELAs rise from south to north across the Himalayan Range from 5200 to 5800 m, as indicated by the altitudes of lowest cirque glaciers and highest lateral and medial moraines on valley glaciers. In contrast, ELAs during maximum late Pleistocene glaciation rose in altitude from 4300 to 5500 m across the range, as indicated by altitudes of lowest cirque floors and maximum extent of glacial deposits. Highest ELAs occurred on previously unrecognized ice caps that formerly covered extensive highland areas in Tibet north of the range crest. During four distinct Holocene glacial advances of subequal magnitude, ELAs were depressed about 30% as much as the late Pleistocene maximum depression. Depression of ELAs during the late Pleistocene glaciation was about twice as great south of the range crest (950 m) as north of it (400 m). Although the present northward decrease in precipitation causes ELAs to rise northward for 85 km at 7.1 m km
10.2307/1551409|Reindeer lichens frequently grow in dense mats which vary in thickness. Chlorophyll a + b profiles of Alaskan populations of two species, Cladina stellaris and Cladonia rangiferina, show a concentration decrease with increased distance down from the thallus tip. This decrease is much steeper in C. stellaris than in C. rangiferina, dropping to a very low value 1.0 to 1.5 cm from the tip in the former and 4.0 to 5.0 cm from the tip in the latter. No size class difference was observed in chlorophyll a + b profiles of C. stellaris. A protein profile in C. stellaris exhibits a pattern closely matching that of chlorophyll a + b. Photosyntheis measurements of mats of different thicknesses (6, 9, 12, and 15 cm) of C. rangiferina showed that the thinnest mat had about twice as high a maximum rate and accumulated drying period carbon dioxide uptake as thicker mats. These patterns correlated with the biomass proportion of the top 1.5 cm of the lichen mat, and have potentially important implications in reindeer range evaluation and management.
10.2307/1550544|On air photographs, light-colored areas representing reduced lichen cover indicate the maximum extent of permanent snow cover in the recent past. Lichen-free areas were mapped on 1:50,000, 1:250,000, and 1:1,000,000 map sheets of north-central Baffin Island using air photographs and LANDSAT-1 satellite imagery. Present ice and lakes cover 37% of the study area (97,000 km
10.2307/1551612|A box model, contiguous with the coastline, 250 m in height, and with variable dimensions is employed to study the storage and the divergence/convergence of heat, water vapor, and mass in the internal boundary layer and to identify their impacts on the surface energy balance. Simultaneous measurements with tethersondes were made at the upwind and downwind boundaries of the box to facilitate these calculations. The analysis includes 2 d of onshore winds and 2 d of offshore winds. Storage terms are negligible and are ignored. The absolute magnitude of the horizontal divergence of latent heat was less than 5% that of sensible heat and the vertical divergence was less than 2% that of sensible heat. Thus the sensible heat flux predominates in divergence within the internal boundary layer. It always coincides in direction with the vertical flux of mass, whereas the latent heat flux is strongly influenced by the vapor pressure gradient and behaves more independently. During onshore winds, a well-developed thermal inversion of marine origin promotes a strong downward flux of mass and sensible heat near the coast. This entrains cold, moist air of marine origin into the surface boundary layer which leads to larger Bowen ratios by enhancing the sensible heat flux and diminishing the latent heat flux. This becomes particularly pronounced during the high sun period around solar noon and helps explain the exponential increase in Bowen ratios toward the coast during onshore winds. During offshore winds, there may be either vertical divergence or convergence near the coast. Divergence is due to backing up of the horizontal wind by denser marine air at the coast. Convergence is due to synoptic scale subsidence and it is hypothesized that, near the coast, it entrains cold marine air into the surface boundary layer. This can explain the observed increase in Bowen ratios toward the coast during offshore winds.
10.2307/1551158|Changes in the distribution of rock forming minerals, such as quartz, feldspars, amphibolines, and pyroxenes, with respect to grain size, are examined within the context of loessic sediments of the northern European USSR. Contrary to trends in temperate or warm climates, quartz is characterized by a high degree of instability under cryogenic conditions and is the cause of the dominant silt fraction (0.05 to 0.01 mm). The yield of heavy minerals is also unusual in that the 0.05 to 0.01-mm fraction is lower than that in the 0.05 to 0.1-mm fraction. An attempt is made to classify soils according to their grain size and mineralogical composition, and to distinguish those formed predominantly by cryogenic processes.
10.2307/1550493|Nine soils, representing three soil orders, occur near Atkasook, Alaska. The soils are mostly sands and loamy sands, and with few exceptions, they are acid. Their morphology is complex and strongly conditioned by site stability and drainage. The exchange complex is largely organic. Exchangeable cations are few and hydrogen ions dominate, particularly in the poorly drained soils. Large quantities of extractable iron (Fe
10.2307/1550885|Two dendroecological procedures are described. The first involves the radiodensitometric analysis of conifer material from an altitudinal transect between the subalpine and the lower, arid timberline. Core samples were taken from selected stands with very differing site conditions at three altitudes, and tree-ring parameters including maximum latewood density, latewood width, and total width were measured. A special type of diagram was developed to assist analysis of the complex relationships between tree-ring growth, weather, and site conditions on a year-for-year basis. This is a departure from the conventional approach of analyzing only mean relationships over long time sequences. An advantage of the elaborated single-year method is that the growth models are allowed to vary with time. Typical cases are illustrated, and the dynamics of the overlapping influences of weather and site conditions are discussed. The second procedure comprises the visual identification and dating of abrupt, persistent changes in the tree-ring pattern and their relation to biotic and abiotic factors. This allows the reconstruction of insect attacks, forest fires, and forest clearing.
10.2307/1551698|Holocene ice advance in the West Arm of Glacier Bay, southeast Alaska, resulted in damming of a tributary, Muir Inlet. Glaciolacustrine sediments record two separate damming events, and radiocarbon dates place these at 2500 to 2000 and 1700 to 900 BP. A third advance is known to have culminated in deposition of an end moraine at the mouth of the Bay ca. 300 BP. Very sketchy evidence from the West Arm suggests initial advance may have begun there ca. 4500 BP. At the resolution afforded by geologic data, the three well-documented advances of the Glacier Bay Glacier are broadly synchronous with advances of the Brady Glacier and glaciers in the Wrangell--St. Elias mountains and Icy Bay Fiord. All of these advances appear to have resulted from climatic fluctuations in the coastal sector of southern Alaska. At least one fiord glacier in the region, Lituya Glacier, has advanced and retreated in a manner apparently independent of climate.
10.2307/1550458| The paper presents the pattern of surficial sediment yield on a colluvial surface during snowpatch meltout in spring 1972. Freeze-thaw cycle frequency and location, plus thaw penetration, are examined with respect to their influence on sediment yield. Two-hourly interval temperature readings establish at least a 6 to 8 wk near-isothermal period preceding meltout. Beneath a snowcover, mean daily ground temperatures at 5-, 10-, and 20-cm depths ranged from +1 to -1C, with numerous freeze-thaw cycles of shallow amplitude and short duration. In addition to the temperature record, probing with a steel rod for the frozen (hard) subsurface indicated thaw penetration of 1 to 2 cm beneath a snowcover,  5 cm right at the snow edge and  10 cm one meter beyond the snow. A few shallow-amplitude, short-duration freeze-thaw cycles accompany seasonal ground thaw after meltout; however, regular diurnal cycles are all but absent, both before and after meltout. Overland flow is ubiquitous for 5 to 10 m downslope of the retreating margin, or for 3 to 7 days after meltout, provided that the surface is unvegetated or only partially vegetated. Maximum sediment transport occurs along rivulets which may function for much greater distances from the snow margin; such rivulets experience frequent relocation. The competence of overland flow is sand, occasionally granules. Sediment transport by overland flow is precluded by a continuous vegetation mat. There is probably a complex interaction between overland flow and solifluction subsequent to meltout. 
10.2307/1551291| The energy fluxes over dry tundra were measured during the period mid-May to mid-June 1988 in Western Greenland at 67N as contribution to a field campaign of the International Satellite Land Surface Climatology Experiment (ISLSCP). In addition to the energy balance station, which was situated about 4 km west of the margin of the inland ice, standard meteorological data were collected at two stations a few kilometers south and west, respectively, from the energy balance site. While air temperature shows little differences between the stations, the wind patterns are strongly modified by comparatively small-scale topography and show clearly decreasing influence of catabatic flow already at scales of a few kilometers from the ice margin. The temporal variations of the energy fluxes are dominated by the incoming solar radiation and the availability of moisture at the soil surface. Desiccation of the soil crust during the first 2 wk of the observation period resulted in decrease of evaporation. On the average, the sensible heat flux clearly surpassed the latent heat flux. Evapotranspiration sums of various surface types, including dry tundra and a swamp, were measured twice daily with lysimeters. Daily evapotranspiration was found to be closely related to net radiation and to the difference between air temperature and surface temperature, which offers the opportunity to apply satellite data for estimation of the latent heat flux. 
10.2307/1550980|The depositional record of late Quaternary glaciation and periglacial activity in the Cataract Creek and North Willow Creek drainage basins was mapped and examined through relative age dating techniques. The glaciated parts of these adjacent basins, located along the east flank of the Tobacco Root Range in southwestern Montana, extend 8.5 km northeastward from cirques just below 3000 m to moraines marking the ice terminus at 2100 m. The petrology of the till and periglacial deposits reflects the bedrock of the granitic Cretaceous Tobacco Root batholith and Precambrian gneisses. The influence on weathering and soil development of variable parent material, vegetation, and climate minimize the use of some relative age dating criteria. However, other criteria, including (1) clast density, (2) weathering-rind thickness, (3) clay enrichment, (4) percent organic matter, and (5) depletion of hornblende, show differences in weathering that indicate three stages of deposition. Tentative correlation with the often-used chronologic framework for the Rocky Mountains suggests the following history: (1) major Pinedale valley glaciation consisting of several stades whose individual deposits cannot be differentiated on the basis of relative age dating criteria; (2) glaciation reaching only about 2 km from the cirque headwalls in the late Pinedale or early Holocene (pre-Altithermal); and (3) periglacial activity and local cirque glaciation during early Neoglacial and Audubon times.
10.2307/1550574|Measurements of belowground standing crops of arctic tundra vegetation near Barrow, Alaska, were made by depth increment and plant category to determine patterns of spatial and seasonal variation. In 1965 in a vegetationally heterogeneous area, total subsurface standing crops (live plus dead) varied horizontally from 1520 to 2185 g m
10.2307/1551037|Mass-balance tabulations are presented and discussed for Peyto Glacier, Alberta, for the period 1965 to 1978. Over the study period there has been a specific loss in mass of 0.21 m yr
10.2307/1550381| Chemical, biological, and a few physical parameters were determined on six lakes and the major tributaries in the Tangle Lakes. The waters are of the calcium bicarbonate type and are of low to moderate hardness (16 to 48 mg CaCO
10.2307/1550423|Several species of high arctic Diptera of several families (Calliphoridae, Muscidae, Culicidae, and Empididae) showed phototactic attraction to wavebands of daylight from 300 to 800 nm. There were peaks of attraction in ultraviolet and yellow-green wavebands which indicate that high arctic Diptera have similar spectral sensitivities to their more southerly counterparts.
10.2307/1550130|Lichenometry and geological evidence permit establishment of a chronology of rock glacier development during Neoglaciation in the northern Sawatch Range. Portions of rock glaciers were assigned approximate absolute ages based on maximum thallus diameters of Rhizocarpon geographicum, Lecanora thomsonii, and Lecidea atrobrunnea. Values for the total percentage of lichen cover also aided in separating younger from older deposits. Although lichen growth-rate curves could not be constructed for the study area, a growth-rate curve for Rhizocarpon geographicum, developed in 1967 by Benedict for the Colorado Front Range, appears to be useful for dating rock surfaces in the northern Sawatch Range. Available data indicate that rock glacier development in four cirques was nearly synchronous during the last several thousand years. An early period of rock glacier development, here termed Temple Lake I, began more than 4,000 years ago and lasted for an unknown length of time. Temple Lake II deposits began to form between 3,750 and 3,500 years BP and continued to accumulate until about 2,500 years ago. Audubon rock glaciers began forming about 1,900 years BP and continued to develop until 1,000 to 900 years ago. Relative sizes of Temple Lake and Audubon rock glaciers indicate that processes and conditions favoring rock glacier formation during the Temple Lake stade were more intense and/or lasted longer than during the Audubon stade. The Gannett Peak stade of Neoglaciation is represented in the study area only by talus. This study supports earlier conclusions that Neoglaciation in the Rocky Mountains was characterized by three main intervals of glacier advance and/or rock glacier development. The Neoglacial record, however, is incomplete in the study area because no evidence was found of glacier or rock glacier activity during the Gannett Peak stade.
10.2307/1551703| A radiocarbon-dated pollen diagram of a 1-m-deep peat section covering the time between ca. 4400 and ca. 800 BP is presented from Brggerhalvya, Spitsbergen. Local changes in vegetation and environment are deduced from palynology, lithology, and chronology; possible regional climatic changes are discussed. The main results are as follows: (1) ca. 4400-ca. 2450 BP: the wetness of the peat-forming vegetation increased in three phases, possibly due to cooling of the climate. (2) ca. 2450-ca. 800 BP: the peat-forming vegetation was dry, probably due to formation of erosion gullies at ca. 2450 BP. (3) After ca. 800 BP the record stops, probably due to progressive erosion of the gully adjacent to the studied site, preventing peat growth. 
10.2307/1550738| Earth mounds in south-central Colorado occur in discrete clusters from 2377 m in the San Luis Valley to 3841 m on an alpine ridge in the Sangre de Cristo Mountains. Discriminant analysis and analysis of variance demonstrates that size and spatial relationships occur between the earth mounds in the different environments of this region. The height of an earth mound increases with altitude and distances between mounds correspondingly decrease. The largest earth mounds are located in the highest field; however, length and width values do not change systematically with elevation. The shape of the earth mounds, slightly longer than wide, is not significantly different between areas although the average slope of the sites studied varies from 1.6 to 10.4. Using a modified nearest neighbor analysis, the discrete pattern or arrangement of earth mounds is identified as being more regular than random. Regularity of pattern and uniformity in nearest neighbor distances are detected even though the size of earth mounds vary at a site. The results of discriminant analysis, analysis of variance, and nearest neighbor analysis indicate that the earth mounds of south-central Colorado are part of one population of landforms rather than being different landforms as visual contrasts might suggest. 
10.2307/1550917| Although permafrost exists in the high plateaus and high mountains of the contiguous United States, little precise information is available about its occurrence. About 100,000 km
10.2307/1550274|A map and glossary of Eskimo place names for the area between Home Bay and Cape Dyer is presented based on information collected while the writer spent a year at the Eskimo settlement of Broughton Island. Remarkably few collections of Eskimo place names have been asembled for the Canadian Arctic despite the considerable anthropological and scientific interest contained therein.
10.2307/1550811|Moss peat banks, which can be up to 3 m deep, greater than 2500 m
10.2307/1550441|A preliminary study in the alpine of the Niwot Ridge, Front Range, Colorado, shows that all the bacteria present are mesophiles. The majority of the bacteria found were rods, Bacillus and Bacterium, which produce gums and other extracellular products. There are pigmented cocci present. No anaerobic bacteria or thermophiles were found. The bacterial counts show an unexpected change with the seasons of the year, the lowest number occurring in the autumn and rising through the winter to a maximum in the summer.
10.2307/1551218|There are 47 species of mammals known from alpine areas of the Pacific Northwest; 12 species form a standard set of mammals which inhabit areas with a variety of well-developed habitats. These species and their preferred habitats are deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) found in all alpine habitats; dusky shrews (Sorex monticolus), in wet meadows and krummholz; pikas (Ochotona princeps), in rocks; a chipmunk (Eutamias spp.), in krummholz; a marmot (Marmota spp.), in a wide variety of habitats, typically near large rocks; a mantled ground squirrel (Spermophilus saturatus, S. lateralis), in krummholz and rocks; a pocket gopher (Thomomys spp.), in grasslands and herbfields; heather voles (Phenacomys intermedius), in a wide variety of habitats; southern red-backed voles (Clethrionomys gapperi), in krummholz; and water shrews (Sorex palustris), water voles (Microtus richardsoni), and Pacific jumping mice (Zapus trinotatus), in willow. Of eight habitat types, krummholz, wet meadow, and rock have the greatest number of small mammal species (22, 21, and 20, respectively), and heather the least (3 species).
10.2307/1551126| Soil disturbances in high-altitude areas frequently require rehabilitation to minimize erosion and reduce further environmental degradation. However, factors such as an abbreviated growing season, cool summer temperatures, high winds, and frost action dictate that only adapted plant materials be used to revegetate these areas. Because of their ability to biologically fix nitrogen and thereby possibly enhance soil nitrogen levels without regular applications of fertilizers, legumes native to high-altitude areas may be particularly beneficial in revegetating such sites. To obtain field estimates of nitrogen fixation activity, plants of Astragalus alpinus, Trifolium parryi, Trifolium nanum, Lupinus caudatus, and Lupinus argenteus growing at high altitudes in Utah and Montana were sampled for acetylene reduction activity. Astragalus alpinus and Trifolium nanum exhibited the highest rates of acetylene reduction on a specific nodule activity basis (101 and 73 mol ethylene g
10.2307/1551667|A piston corer for lacustrine and marine sediments is described. The sampler can core up to 6 m of sediments and can easily be handled by three persons both from ice and rafts in water depths to at least 60 m.
10.2307/1550300| The thermal stabilities and activities of carboxylating enzymes of three arctic grasses were studied. All grasses in the vicinity of Barrow, Alaska, are C
10.2307/1550744| The growth mechanism of the grounded ice feature on Hanna's Shoal, located at approximately 162W, 72N in the Chukchi Sea, has been analyzed using Landsat I and II satellite imagery. The primary mechanism of growth was deduced to be the formation of large wedges of ice against the upstream edge of the feature. These wedges of piled ice form in three stages and may or may not become permanently affixed to the core of the feature. Remains of these growth patterns can sometimes be seen in the interior of the feature on the satellite imagery. 
10.2307/1552070|Late Wisconsinan glacial recession uncovered a fiord where now Bering Glacier descends to the Gulf of Alaska coast. At maximum extent in the early Holocene, the fiord may have reached 50 km inland. Gradual glacial readvance may have begun by 6000 yr BP. At least by 4500 yr BP, and throughout the latter part of this advance, the glacier margin was protected against calving by its own sediment apron. Rhythmically involuted medial debris bands record frequent surging in previous centuries and perhaps throughout Neoglacial history. Air photos document surges that culminated about 1940, 1960, and 1968. An hypothesis of 20 to 30 yr surge cyclicity is strengthened by current activity. Between 1968 and 1993, retreat of 2 to 5 km on the east flank of the piedmont lobe exposed buried forest beds and outwash. Basins, eroded in this drift sequence primarily by glacial action, now contain proglacial lakes 50 to 80 m or more in depth. Continued ice recession at recent rates would, within a few years, have caused these several lakes to join as a single lake temporarily retained a few meters above sea level by an unlithified sediment barrier. Glacier retreat into deeper water, and exposure to tidal activity would have induced more active calving were it not for the surge which began in spring 1993. However, unless the current advance is unusually vigorous, it will only temporarily interrupt rather than completely reverse the recent long-term trend toward retreat.
10.2307/1551876|Although most polar deserts are biologically very barren, there are exceptions. To determine the general pattern of plant distribution from an ice cap to the lower edge of a plateau, two transects were sampled, one each 500 to 720 m above Alexandra Fiord, Ellesmere Island and 350 to 385 m above Truelove Lowland. Devon Island. Where soil surfaces are moist much of the summer, there is a greater floristic richness, a greater percent cover of cryptogams and vascular species, and the development of a cryptogamic crust on both dolomite and granite-derived soils. In addition, the degree of soil churning, the coarseness and type of substrate, and soil nutrient levels are important at the local scale. The limited data indicate that temperatures are higher at these locations than one would expect from normal lapse rates. The sporadic presence of two or three woody species at 350 to 550 m is further indication of relatively mild conditions compared with most polar desert landscapes at these latitudes where woody species are absent.
10.2307/1550093|Examination of carbon allocation for three age classes of Dupontia fischeri R. Br. (Gramineae) leaves in the arctic tundra showed a similar
10.2307/1550358|Investigations were made into the ecological factors governing the distribution of plant communities. In particular, temperatures were studied in the rootlayers of the plant communities and in the microenvironment. The results are recorded for day and night and under different weather conditions. The relationship between vegetation, permafrost and chemical composition of the soil was also investigated. Permafrost is found to be the main factor determining distribution of plant communities through its influence on drainage. The chemical composition of soil is tabulated for two test areas and different Dryas communities. A correlation between vegetation and chemical properties of soil has been attempted, but the need for further investigations is emphasized.
10.2307/1550833| The vegetation of seven subalpine meadows in the southern Sierra Nevada, California, was classified into 19 plant associations. The Braun-Blanquet relev method was used to collect percent cover data for each vascular species present in a stand. A species-stand matrix was formulated using a Ceska-Roemer program for association analysis. The vegetation data was also analyzed using detrended correspondence analysis to elucidate relationships between associations, and between associations and 16 environmental factors. Moisture (soil moisture, depth to ground water, and depth of standing water) was the environmental factor related to the greatest floristic variation in the vegetation. Secondary factors were water temperature, water movement, water conductivity, and soil frost action. The plant associations and the environments in which they occur are described. 
10.2307/1550140| Two peat monoliths were recovered from the high Arctic tundra, now too dry and cold to permit peat growth, near Pelly Lake (66N, 101W). The organic materials began to accumulate at 3,400 and 1,100 BP respectively, and both ceased shortly after 900 BP. Absolute pollen counts, based on numbers of pollen grains per gram (oven-dry weight), revealed parallel changes in representation of Pinus and Picea pollen which were windblown into the tundra from the Boreal conifer forest 400 to 500 km to the south and west. The absolute numbers of pine and spruce pollen declined after 3,360  70 BP to joint minima at about 2,080  60 BP, then rose and culminated in joint maxima at 900  75 BP, and then decreased. These variations in Pinus and Picea counts were probably due to the previously established quasi-latitudinal movements of the forest-tundra ecotone described from Ennadai Lake (500 km south), with which they were synchronous and parallel. The local tundra taxa provided little palynological evidence of climatic changes. The suggested climatic history is that a period of cold summers followed 3,400 BP, with an episode of maximum severity at ca. 2,100 BP, then a period of warmer summers occurred which culminated about 900 BP, and a subsequent cold dry phase, which extended to the present, stopped peat growth in this area. The Pinus and Picea maxima coincided with the shortlived growth of a local peat bank from 1,060  55 to 940  60 BP which was synchronous with the Scandinavian exploration and colonization of the North Atlantic. The detailed correlation of these pollen diagrams with that from Ennadai Lake further encourages the comparison of the late Quaternary climatic history of northern Canada with that of northwest Europe. 
10.2307/1550698| Vegetation types on Melville and Bathurst islands in the Canadian Arctic Archipelago were sampled for plant cover and standing crop to determine the most efficient sampling methods and to recommend procedures for surveying large areas of the High Arctic. Vegetation types ranged from polar deserts to meadows. The estimation of plant cover from color positive film and the point method proved to be the most efficient methods. The polar desert communities were up to 10 times more variable than the wet meadows. Standing crop estimations ranged from a low of 5 g m
10.2307/1550713| Lichen growth curves for dating in the central Brooks Range have been developed and applied using Rhizocarpon geographicum s.l. and the fast-growing Alectoria minuscula/pubescens. Rhizocarpon eupetraeoides and R. inarense, nearly as common in this region, have a growth pattern which correlates with that shown by the R. geographicum curve for thallus diameters up to 150 mm. The R. geographicum curve has a great growth period lasting 200 yr based on historic, dendrochronologic, and direct measurement control; this is followed by a linear growth phase of 3 mm per century based on radiocarbon dates. The lichenometric technique has proved successful in developing the first detailed Holocene glacial chronology for the Brooks Range and indicates that major pulsations of cirque glaciers occurred as recently as 350 yr ago. 
10.2307/1550606| The ability of water freezing in cracks to split rocks is in doubt, mainly because the conditions required of water only (with no air in pores nor dissolved in water) confined in a closed system, with temperature close to -22C and falling, and with enclosing rock strong enough to resist are rarely if ever satisfied in nature. The word "frost" has long been used in this context historically yet often too casually without confirming data or clear statement of real meaning. Experiments support the process of water freezing into ice in previously formed joints, bedding planes, and other planes of weakness capable of prying loose grains and small flakes, but not of detaching or lifting blocks nor of cracking solid rock. Pressure of adsorbed water (hydration) of varying thickness on silicate mineral surfaces drawn between grains by electroosmosis can generate a force up to 2000 kg cm
10.2307/1551069|The aerobiology of a Himalayan alpine zone in Rudranath at 3600 m above sea level was investigated. The atmospheric particulates were analyzed by exposing adhesive-coated slides, at intervals of 24 h, on a gravity sampling device. The aerobiological composition was found to be 65.5% fungal spores, 23.9% pollen grains, and 10.4% miscellaneous biotic objects. The majority of the flowering plants growing in the alpine environment are entomophilous (insect pollinated); their pollen was trapped in lower numbers, while many anemophilous (windborne) pollen grains traveled from the adjacent temperate and subtropical localities of lower altitudes. However, these species from alpine altitudes act as suitable hosts for several of the fungal elements indicating comparatively higher numbers of sporomorphs. Although a number of these microbes are of ubiquitous nature, the presence of liverworts, mosses, Arthrinium plus "hyaline rods," and characteristic unidentified structures, grouped as "miscellaneous," are characteristic of this locality.
10.2307/1550904|Pollen-analytical investigation of an arctic-alpine Brown Soil buried below a terminal moraine of Little Ice Age (18th century A.D.) date at Vestre Memurubreen in the eastern Jotunheimen Mountains, southern Norway, has presented new information on postglacial vegetation change at high altitude in the region. The pollen record shows the substitution of a low-alpine lichen heath dominated by Empetrum and Vaccinium by a mid-alpine Salix herbacea-dominated community, reflecting an altitudinal depression of the local vegetation belts. This depression is related to climatic deterioration either at the onset of the Little Ice Age, possibly ca. 12th century A.D./13th century A.D., or at an earlier, as yet undated, period.
10.2307/1551871|Time domain reflectometry (TDR), a nondestructive technique for monitoring water content of soils, was used to measure volumetric soil moisture in three different communities in the alpine tundra during the summer of 1992. Data were converted to gravimetric estimates in order to allow comparison with 20 yr of records of gravimetric data, some of which date back to 1953. Analysis for growing-season trends indicated progressive depletion of soil moisture in all three community types studied. Using a linear model, mesic meadows showed the strongest seasonal decline and wet meadows the weakest. Curvilinear fits of the data suggested midsummer minima in xeric and mesic meadows and a midsummer maximum in wet meadows. Average summer soil moisture values for xeric meadows during the 1953-1964 interval were lower than those made in later years. This result may reflect sample site differences, but is consistent with a directional trend in increasing precipitation over this interval. Average summer soil moisture content of xeric meadows was correlated with annual precipitation, but not growing season (June-August) rainfall; this pattern was only discernible with the 20 yr data set.
10.2307/1550331|The restricted distribution of tetraploid Phleum alpinum at the northernmost distributional limit of its geographical range is contrasted with its wide ecological tolerance at its southernmost limit. A wide distribution on subantarctic South Georgia is correlated with the presence of considerable morphological and physiological variation. This variation is shown to be genetically, determined and two distinct ecotypes, each adapted to local microenvironments are described. On arctic Disko Island, lack of variation results in one biotype which is shown to be genetically distinct from the South Georgian populations and possesses remarkable lack of phenotypic plasticity in both morphological characters and physiological processes. This lack of plasticity results in a rigid developmental flowering cycle on Disko Island which usually results in failure of seed set. An adaptive strategy whereby a large potential reproductive capacity enables sufficient seedling recruitment in occasional long growing seasons, leads to population explosions and widely fluctuating plant densities on Disko Island in contrast to the stable annual seed output and plant densities on South Georgia. It is concluded that the length of the growing season is probably the most critical environmental feature limiting the distribution of P. alpinum. On Disko Island, the species is probably at an evolutionary limit in that the depauperized gene pool cannot produce the adaptations necessary for survival in the shorter growing seasons on this island. On the other hand, the genecological variation and marked plasticity on South Georgia suggests that the distributional limit here is geographical, resulting from the scarcity of land masses.
10.2307/1551566|The hydrochemistry of stream waters in an alpine basin and alpine-subalpine basin were characterized after intensive chemical sampling from May 1986 to May 1987. The basins are within the Hourglass drainage basin which is tributary to the Cache la Poudre River in northern Colorado and are underlain by Silver Plume granite. The alpine basin had an annual water yield of 115 cm and was characterized as an ultra-oligotrophic sodium-bicarbonate type water. The alpine stream averaged 130  eq L
10.2307/1550704|The Geographical Symposium "The Alps-The Caucasus" was sponsored in the summer of 1974 by the Soviet-French Commission on Scientific, Technical, and Economic Cooperation. During the two field excursions comprising the symposium, Soviet geographers examined the various regions of the French Alps and French geographers toured the north and south slopes of the Caucasus. Several conclusions are drawn regarding the physical and biotic differences between the two mountain areas. Although the Alps and the Caucasus belong to the same orogenic belt, they are morphostructurally quite different. Details of glaciation also differ. Neotectonic subsidence in the Caucasus prevents the fourfold glaciation of the Alps being recognized in the Caucasus. The Caucasus are shown to be an area of much more diverse glaciation than the Alps. In the Alps there are few high mountain species of flora and fauna while in the Caucasus there are many endemics. In the Alps four altitudinal vegetation belts are distinguished; in the Caucasus there are seven. The longer history of human influence in the Alps has contributed to the reduced diversity of flora and fauna, and more intense economic development. The symposium was concluded with a session in Moscow at which new approaches to mountain geography were discussed.
10.2307/1551154| Although relatively high densities of buried but nonviable seeds have been found in forest and krummholz stands at the forest line (black spruce, Picea mariana [Mill.] BSP., and tamarack, Larix laricina [DuRoi] K. Koch, forests) and at the treeline (tamarack) in the Rivire aux Feuilles area, the tree vegetation is not presently being renewed by a seed bank. The concept of a seedling bank appears to be more appropriate to explain the regeneration pattern of the northernmost tree populations of the forest-tundra in interior northern Quebec. The treeline is in equilibrium with the present climate, although tamarack seed regeneration is episodic. Tamarack seed production does not seem to be totally limited by the cooling trend of the 1970s, but seed germination is strongly climate-controlled, especially at the treeline where a low percentage of viable seeds has been observed, and where seedlings are rare. Insect predation causes high seed mortality, reducing eventually the tamarack seedling pool, particularly in forest stands. 
10.2307/1550455| The surface heat balance is seldom investigated at high alpine altitudes, and more rarely in combined high latitude-high altitude environments. This paper reports summertime energy-balance results from the 5365 m snow plateau on Mt. Logan, Yukon (6036N, 14030W). The research station was located at a pressure level close to the 500-mb surface and experienced below-freezing temperatures throughout the summer season. For the period 30 June to 21 July 1970, the heat balance was small (the largest overall flux was a net radiation -4.9 MJ  m
10.2307/1551112| Despite the complex interrelationships between climate, mass balance, and glacier response, simplified mass-balance calculations can be correlated with observed glacial behavior. A monthly temperature and precipitation record, extending back to 1850, has been reconstructed for Longmire, Washington, on the southwest flank of Mount Rainier. Calculated mass-balance variations agree with observed glacier behavior since 1850 and with five sets of moraines constructed between 1850 and 1930 at Mount Rainier. Following periods of positive mass balances, trends toward more negative mass balances precede glacial recession with lag times of 1 to 5 yr. Analyses of the reconstructed temperature record and former ice frontal positions suggest that much of a 1C temperature rise since the latest Neoglacial advances occurred prior to 1850. Correlations of the Mount Rainier mass-balance record with similar ones from Norway and Antarctica indicate generally synchronous climatic trends in the Northern Hemisphere and opposing short-term trends in the Southern Hemisphere since 1850. 
10.2307/1550315|Various aspects of the water relations of six species (Arctophila fulva, Dupontia fischeri, Carex aquatilis, Eriophorum angustifolium, Potentilla hyparctica, and Salix pulchra) characteristic of the wet, coastal tundra near Barrow, Alaska, were measured during the summers of 1972 and 1973 to examine the hypothesis that water stress may increase stomatal resistance and inhibit photosynthesis. A simulation model of internal water status was constructed to examine this hypothesis. The slopes of the leaf water potential vs. relative saturation deficit (RSD) curves were between -0.6 and 1.8 bars RSD
10.2307/1551921|Many of the dry and mesic subalpine meadows in Yellowstone National Park are bordered by bands of small lodgepole pine trees (Pinus contorta var. latifolia). We asked whether these stands of small trees represent a directional process of meadow invasion, or, alternatively, (1) small patches of postfire succession or (2) more-or-less stable populations of trees having small stature because of adverse site conditions. Transect studies revealed that the bands of small trees were consistently younger than adjacent forest stands of obvious fire origin, that they lacked any evidence of fire, and that the trees were progressively younger as they approached the meadow. Soils under the young trees generally were more similar to meadow soils than to coniferous forest soils. We concluded, therefore, that meadow invasion has been occurring as a directional process since at least the mid- to late 1800s. Frequency of tree establishment in two dry meadows was positively correlated with mean June temperature and total summer precipitation (R
10.2307/1551299|Three types of calcite precipitate are found in the proglacial area of the Glacier de Tsanfleuron, Switzerland. Sparite and micrite form part of an evolutionary series precipitated in response to solute concentration as a result of progressive freezing of the subglacial water film. Sparite forms under open-system conditions or during the early stages of freezing under closed-system conditions, while micrite forms during the final stages of closed-system freezing. Sparite has a 
10.2307/1551954|The histories of four iceberg-calving outlet-glacier systems in the Kenai Fjords National Park underscore the importance of fiord depth, sediment supply, and fiord geometry on glacier stability. These parameters, in turn, limit the reliability of calving glacier chronologies as records of climatic change. Tree-ring analysis together with radiocarbon dating show that the Northwestern and McCarty glaciers, with large drainage basins, were advancing in concert with nearby land-terminating glaciers about A.D. 600. After an interval of retreat and possible nonclimatically induced extension during the Medieval Warm Period, these ice margins advanced again through the Little Ice Age and then retreated synchronously with the surrounding land-terminating glaciers about A.D. 1900. In contrast, Holgate and Aialik glaciers, with deeper fiords and smaller basins, retreated about 300 yr earlier. Reconstructions of Little Ice Age glaciers suggest that equilibrium-line altitudes of Northwestern and McCarty glaciers were, respectively, 270 and 500 m lower than now. Furthermore, the reconstructions show that these two glaciers were climatically sensitive when at their terminal moraines. However, with ice margins at their present recessional positions and accumulation area ratios between 0.8 and 0.9, only McCarty Glacier shows evidence of advance. Aialik and Holgate glaciers were climatically insensitive during the Little Ice Age maxima and remain insensitive to climate.
10.2307/1551683|In the crater of Mount St. Helens, formed during the eruption of 18 May 1980, thousands of rockfalls may occur in a single day, and some rock and dirty-snow avalanches have traveled more than 1 km from their source. Because most seismic activity in the crater is produced by mass wasting, the former can be used to monitor the latter. The number and amplitude of seismic events per unit time provide a generalized measure of mass-wasting activity. In this study 1-min averages of seismic amplitudes were used as an index of rockfall activity during summer and early fall. Plots of this index show the diurnal cycle of rockfall activity and establish that the peak in activity occurs in mid to late afternoon. A correlation coefficient of 0.61 was found between daily maximum temperature and average seismic amplitude, although this value increases to 0.72 if a composite temperature variable that includes the maximum temperature of 1 to 3 preceding days as well as the present day is used. Correlation with precipitation is much weaker.
10.2307/1550781|The mountains of the Pacific Northwest generally evoke an impression of heavy precipitation, lush conifer forests, and high snow-covered volcanic peaks. While this is true for the Cascades, the region encompasses one of the most diverse collections of mountainscapes in the world. Three areas, all within the state of Oregon, have been chosen for study on a comparative basis--Cascades, Wallowas, and Steens. These mountain regions reach similar elevations (3000 m), but vary in mountain mass and are very different geologically, climatically, and biologically. The Cascades are constructed of extrusive volcanics consisting of both shield volcanoes and composite cones, the Wallowas are updomed and underlain by a batholith, and the Steens is fault-block in origin. Climatically, the western Cascades experience heavy precipitation and ameliorated temperatures with a strong marine influence, while the Wallowas receive only half as much precipitation and are much more strongly continental in regime. The Steens is in the most arid region of the Pacific Northwest. Vegetatively, the Cascades are dominated by mesic conifer species while the Wallowas share some of these but also contain several species found principally in the Rocky Mountains. In the Steens, conifers are unimportant and the upper timberline is formed by Populus tremuloides. More detailed investigation of the vegetation occurring above 1800 m in the three areas reveals that the Wallowas have the largest total number of species, followed by the Steens and Cascades. In addition, the Wallowas have the highest percentage of circumpolar and Rocky Mountain species whereas those in the Cascades have a greater affinity for Sierra Nevada and western California species. The Steens contains the heaviest presence of Basin and Range and Southwest Desert species. Within the study areas a number of species are found in all three mountain regions whereas others occur only in one or two of the areas. Reasons for these patterns are given and discussed.
10.2307/1550561|Geomorphological, geophysical, lichenometrical, and photogrammetrical data and information are presented and discussed. The rock glacier is in an environment of discontinuous permafrost, partially cold glacier ice, and groundwater in Quaternary sediments. It consists of frozen debris from the taluses at the valley walls and carries some buried massive ice on its back that mainly represents buried snowbank ice from avalanche cones. The stress field within the rock glacier must have been changed during the Neoglacial advances of the Grubengletscher at its southern margin. The interaction of permafrost and groundwater is important for the behavior of the rock glacier as well as for the evolution of marginal glacier lakes in similar cases. The ecological conditions for the growth of lichens at the rock-glacier surface vary extremely in space and time. Lecidea promiscens occurs most frequently and in all exposures. Rhizocarpon geographicum and Sporastatia testudinea lichens generally are very rare and even absent within the limits of the 1850 advance of the Grubengletscher. The maximum snow-cover duration that still allows lichen growth may be on the order of 46 weeks per year for Lecidea promiscens and 40 weeks for Rhizocarpon geographicum. Rhizocarpon geographicum prefers northerly exposed surfaces; Sporastatia testudinea seems to prefer areas with a long snow-cover duration. Growth rates for Rhizocarpon geographicum and Sporastatia testudinea are estimated to be 1 to 2 cm per 100 yr. Growth of larger thalli may be strongly inhibited.
10.2307/1552006|The Tyndall Glacier of Mt. Kenya retreated at a steady rate from the late 1950s to 1996. The first colonist species over the new till, Senecio keniophytum, advanced at a rate similar to the retreat of the glacier. The species growing near the ice-front of Tyndall Glacier colonize in tandem with retreat of the glacier. Till age and stability of land surface are important environmental factors controlling the vegetation pattern around Tyndall Glacier. Till age is affected by the glacial fluctuation. The stability of the land surface is governed by the particle-size of the surface material which is controlled by landform, geology, and past climatic conditions. The pioneer species make humus which results in improved soil condition. About 70 to 100 yr elapse from the glacial release for such large woody plants as Senecio keniodendron and Lobelia telekii to grow on the glacier foreland.
10.2307/1550697|Continuous radio transmissions from brown lemmings (Lemmus trimucronatus) under field conditions revealed that the lemmings spent an average of 62% of their time engaged in activities requiring movement. Most activity occurred outside the burrow and was associated with locomotion, foraging, and social interactions. Activity levels on any particular day were negatively correlated with ambient temperature. Higher activity on cooler days probably was the result of increased foraging in order to meet higher metabolic requirements. Measurements of metabolic rates in the field using heavy isotopes indicated that laboratory respirometry seriously underestimated natural metabolic rates, probably because of reduced locomotion and social activity during laboratory trials. Fat deposits in carcasses were extremely low, apparently because it is more important for lemmings to limit their foraging activity than to increase their energy reserves.
10.2307/1550996|Arctic and alpine plants grown from seed collected from different locations along a latitudinal gradient were studied to determine if populations inhabiting different solar UV-B radiation environments would show differential photosynthetic inhibition under supplemental UV-B irradiation in the field. In general, plants collected from equatorial, alpine sites where solar UV-B irradiance is high, showed no UV-B induced damage of either light-saturated or light-limited photosynthesis, as measured by intact-leaf gas exchange. Photosynthetic inhibition was detected in some but not all ecotypes or species collected from higher latitude locations where effective UV-B irradiance is lower. When exposed to supplemental UV-B irradiation under a full solar spectrum in the field, significant accumulation of UV-absorbing leaf pigments occurred only in populations from higher latitudes. Most alpine populations were apparently protected from UV-B damage without additional pigment accumulation, whereas increased pigment levels did not necessarily act to completely protect populations from higher latitudes. Photosynthesis damage in these species was also not related to leaf weight/leaf area ratios. These results provide additional corroborative evidence for the existence of an appreciable latitudinal gradient in UV-B radiation but suggest that the variation in UV-B sensitivity within and between species cannot be attributed solely to differences in the shielding of UV-B radiation by UV-absorbing leaf pigments and/or leaf structure.
10.2307/1551108| The cuticular resistance of Pinus albicaulis Engelm. needles was estimated throughout the 1979 growing season at altitudes of 2730, 2800, and 2940 m in the Sierra Nevada of California to determine differences in rate and degree of culticle maturation within the timberline ecotone. Cuticular transpiration was measured using excised fascicles within constant humidity chambers at 20C and 44% relative humidity. Foliage from the forest limit (2730 m) began growth earlier and developed rapidly, while transition zone (2800 m) and krummholz (2940 m) foliage growth was delayed and developed more slowly. Cuticular resistances of needles at season's end were significantly lower with increasing altitude (p = 0.01). Our findings using transpiration rates predicted under estimated winter conditions, support the hypothesis that the shorter growing seasons of higher altitudes, slower growth, and the resulting lower cuticular resistance may be important in the winter desiccation of exposed foliage at high altitudes. 
10.2307/1552071|Soils developed in glacial deposits in the Fremont Lake area of the Wind River Range of western Wyoming were investigated to provide a better basis for assessing the age and correlation of the deposits. Previous investigators have identified two sets of moraines in the area, assigning the older set to the Bull Lake glaciation and the younger set to the Pinedale glaciation. The Bull Lake is now commonly correlated with late Illinoian (marine-isotope stage 6) and the Pinedale with late Wisconsin (stage 2) and perhaps the later part of middle Wisconsin (stage 3). However, the soils developed in the youngest moraine of the Bull Lake set (moraine V) have characteristics such as soil morphology, clay content, and calcium carbonate content and morphology that are intermediate between those of the soils in the older Bull Lake moraines and those of the soils in the Pinedale moraines. We suggest that these soil characteristics reflect an intermediate age for this moraine, most likely early Wisconsin, correlative with marine-isotope stage 4.
10.2307/1551520|Growth-rate curves for Silene acaulis, a pioneer tundra cushion-plant species, were constructed for the Front Range of north-central Colorado by (1) measuring the diameters of 27 plants on moraines at the front of Arapaho Glacier in 1985 and 1987, and (2) measuring the largest cushions on seven historically dated substrates 9 to 82 yr old. Both curves are sigmoidal. Growth begins slowly, accelerates to a maximum rate of 2 to 3 cm yr
10.2307/1550114|The general characteristics of arctic beaches are considered. Sample data on size distribution characteristics and roundness due to abrasion of modern beach material from three beaches in the Cape Ricketts-Radstock Bay area of southwest Devon Island are presented. The area is one of limited wave action due to the inhibiting effects of sea ice. Sorting and roundness values of the beach material provide indirect measures of wave energy and allow comparisons to be made with beaches in other environments. Changes in mean size, sorting and roundness values both along and across the beaches suggest longshore transport by wave action.
10.2307/1551246|The variation of modern April-first water equivalent of the snowpack at the late Pleistocene equilibrium-line altitude (ELA) across the Great Basin is analyzed as a method of evaluating relative changes in late Pleistocene climates. Modern snow-course records were used to establish vertical April-first water-equivalent gradients for 24 mountain ranges in and near the Great Basin. These gradients were used to extrapolate the April-first water equivalent at the late Pleistocene ELA for 22 of the mountain ranges. Late Pleistocene ELAs were determined from the altitudes of lowest cirque floors and were taken from the literature. The results show a small increase in paleo-ELA with a large increase in water equivalent in the mountain ranges across the northern Great Basin. This suggests either that late Pleistocene temperature changes were not uniform across the northern Great Basin or that late Pleistocene snow accumulation patterns differed from those of the present or a combination of both.
10.2307/1551533|Recent investigations of fossil insect assemblages from 11 late Quaternary sites in the southwestern Alaska region of Eastern Beringia demonstrate the survival of an abundant mesic to hygrophilous beetle fauna in this refugium before, during, and after the last glacial interval. These faunas contrast sharply with late Quaternary fossil insect assemblages described from interior and northern sites in Eastern Beringia, where xeric and steppe-tundra species dominated regional faunas. Proximity of southwestern Alaskan to maritime sources of moisture may have played a role in the development of a refugium for mesic and hygrophilous species by maintaining wet habitats even through the last glaciation.
10.2307/1551033|In northern Quebec, black spruce (Picea mariana [Mill.] B.S.P.) occurs throughout the hemiarctic zone along with white spruce and larch. Black spruce reproduces mostly vegetatively by layering. Population study of a clonal stand located in the Lake Minto area, northern Quebec, was undertaken to provide a better understanding of these populations. The smooth straight line trend of age, height, and diameter distributions indicated a stable population. The inverse J-shaped depletion model suggested by the population structure was similar to those described for southern stable tree populations. The inverse exponential model which best described the population implied a constant death rate through time. Clonal population growth was little disturbed by climatic change. Small variations (statistically not significant) that were still apparent in the growth curve could be related to more or less favorable growth periods. In the forest tundra, where disturbances are mostly linked to climatic changes, the opportunistic use of both vegetative and seed reproduction constituted an important asset for black spruce populations. Spatial growth pattern of the black spruce clone was determined using cartographic data related to above- and belowground components of the population. Because it reproduced mainly by layering, the black spruce clonal stand displayed a radial development. Older individuals were found near the middle of the stand while regeneration was most active on the border. Few living ramets occurred in the immediate center of the clonal stand while rotten roots and stems were found buried in the soil organic layer. These rotten structures were probably the remains of individuals that gave birth to the clone. Spatial distribution of above and belowground structure showed three units that resulted from the decay of branch connection between layerings. If the population were to expand, these units would be expected to develop either towards stability or towards extinction depending on topography and space available.
10.2307/1551482|Studies from glacier forefields in the Canadian Cordillera report that conifers ecize in ca. 5 to 60 yr. Comparative studies of four methods of ecesis determination in two glacier forefields in British Columbia indicate that the traditional approach of sampling trees on small dated surfaces may produce ecesis estimates that are too large. Results from sampling on transects running orthogonal to moraines, interpolating surface age between fixed points based on historical photographs, provided improved estimates of ecesis by enlarging the area and range of environments sampled. Although both the traditional and transect techniques may give comparable results in well-vegetated forefields, the transect technique is recommended as a better estimate of ecesis in sparsely vegetated terrain.
10.2307/1551301|This paper consolidates and interprets the information collected from 1981 to 1985 on the hydrological regime of various lakes located in three regions along the eastern section of the Mackenzie River Delta, Northwest Territories. Information is presented on the frequency, duration, and spatial pattern of spring flooding, as well as on the hydrologic processes and mechanisms which control lake levels from break-up to freeze-up. This information is used to interpret the hydrological regime of three lake types found in the delta with respect to spring flood recharge, rapid spring drainage, and summer lake evaporation. Two characteristics are shared by all the lakes: the spring flood is the dominant hydrologic event, and evaporation is greater than summer precipitation and is similar to or greater in amount to annual precipitation. Each lake type also has its own particular combination of processes and mechanisms which controls the water level. Some lakes, however, are more sensitive to summer evaporation losses than others, causing them to have a negative annual water balance until flooding occurs.
10.2307/1551680|Two Pleistocene nonglacial units underlie eolian deposits of the last glaciation in the southern part of the Nushagak lowland, a major Quaternary basin in southwestern Alaska. The Flounder Flat complex, the lower of the two units, consists mainly of deposits of tundra lakes. Pollen and beetle data suggest a somewhat mesic graminoid tundra without significant birch and ericaceous shrubs and a climate colder than present. The overlying Etolin complex includes organic silt, nonwoody peat, and associated inorganic sediments that accumulated in swales and on lower slopes. Lowermost peaty silt of the Etolin complex locally contains pollen spectra indicative of birch-shrub tundra and beetle assemblages characteristic of mesic-to-wet habitats broadly similar to those of the Holocene tundra. Evidence for full-interglacial climates, however, is ambiguous. Stratigraphically higher samples from the Etolin complex suggest a colder-than-modern graminoid tundra with local mesic-to-wet habitats but restricted shrub cover. Radiocarbon and paleoecological data suggest at least partial correlation of the Etolin complex with the middle Wisconsin (Boutellier) nonglacial interval, mostly >38,000 yr BP.
10.2307/1550214|Wood remnants above the present upper tree line are the basis for reconstruction of past changes in tree form and distribution. Living bristlecone pines (Pinus longaeva Bailey) on Mt. Washington, in the Snake Range of east-central Nevada, show progressive gradation in form from tall, erect trees in the upper forest zone to dwarfed, prostrate krummholz at the highest elevations. A similar gradient existed from 4,000 to at least 2,000 radiocarbon years ago, but the boundaries between vegetational zones based on tree stature were at least 100 m higher than today. The altitude of the krummholz zone is probably controlled by environmental factors affecting hardiness of the tree foliage. The downward shift of the krummholz zone since late Altithermal time can be attributed either to a decrease in summer temperature, an increase in summer precipitation, or both. The krummholz forms of bristlecone pine do not appear to be genetically distinct from the erect trees growing at lower elevations.
10.2307/1551746|Living and dead foraminifera have been investigated along three transects away from tidewater glaciers of northern Novaya Zemlya. There are three glacier-proximal dominant foraminiferal taxa: Allogromiina (unidentified species), Elphidium excavatum f. clavata, and Cassidulina reniforme. In this environment the sediment consists of ice-front diamicton (0.17 km from the terminus) and massive glaciomarine clay (0.2 to 7 km). Allogromiids dominate the low-diverse fauna closest to the glacier outlet, followed by E. e. clavata. Diagenetic decay of the allogromiid tests will result in the preservation of an E. e. clavata dominated fossil assemblage. The occurrence of C. reniforme increases with nutrient enrichment reflected in phytoplankton abundance and sediment C
10.2307/1550306| Soil-movement rates, processes, and landforms were studied above timberline on the east slope of the Colorado Front Range. Maximum rates of downslope movement measured in sorted stripes, turf-banked lobes and terraces, and stone-banked lobes and terraces at nine experimental sites on Niwot Range ranged from 0.4 to 4.3 cm/yr. Rates of displacement were strongly influenced by differences in moisture availability and gradient, but were relatively unaffected by differences in soil texture and temperature. Movement is currently confined to the upper 50 cm of soil; columns of small cement rods placed in vertical drillholes showed no downslope displacement below this depth after four years of burial. Periodic measurements of downslope movement and frost heaving during the 1965-66 annual freeze-thaw cycle suggest that solifluction is a more effective process than frost creep in the saturated axial areas of turf-banked lobes in wet sites, but is less effective than frost creep at their edges. Potential frost creep at one experimental site exceeded theoretical values calculated from heave and slope measurements. Retrograde movement was larger than anticipated. At a site where frost creep is the dominant movement process, stone-banked lobes moved three times as rapidly as the finer-textured soil between them; at a site where shallow solifluction is important, stripes of coarse debris moved only half as rapidly as stripes of fine material. Turf-banked lobes and terraces are the result of intense solifluction beneath a cover of vegetation; they form where downslope movement is impeded, and are normally associated with a decrease in gradient such as occurs on concave lower slopes. The shape of the front (linear or lobate) is determined by the uniformity of moisture distribution parallel to the contour of the slope. At least two generations of turf-banked lobes and terraces occur in the Niwot Ridge area. Terraces with gentle, subdued fronts and patterned treads date from the late Pleistocene, and were used as camping and butchering areas by prehistoric man as long ago as 7,650  190 radiocarbon years. Most bear an Altithermal soil: five dates for the soil range from 5,800  125 to 5,300  130 BP. Lobes and terraces with overhanging fronts and unpatterned treads postdate the Altithermal interval: radiocarbon and stratigraphic evidence suggest that they formed late in the Temple Lake Stade of Neoglaciation. The front of one small Neoglacial turf-banked lobe has advanced at an average rate of 0.19 cm/yr during the past 2,340  130 radiocarbon years. Stone-banked lobes and terraces are caused by frost creep and are favored by an absence of vegetation; they commonly develop where moving sorted stripes or blockfields encounter a decrease in gradient. Sorting is partially inherited, but is accentuated as the lobe or terrace moves downslope. Stone-banked lobes and terraces in the Niwot Ridge area developed late in the Temple Lake Stade of Neoglaciation. A series of radiocarbon dates from the buried A horizon in one stone-banked terrace suggests that its front has advanced at an average rate of 0.34 cm/yr during the past 2,470  110 radiocarbon years. Movement was slow during the Temple Lake-Arikaree interstade (2,650 to 1,850 BP), a time of soil formation and intense cavernous weathering, and during the Arikaree glacial maximum, when lichen measurements show that the slope was covered with an insulating blanket of perennial snow. Disappearance of the snowbank led to an eight-fold increase in the rate of terrace advance between about 1,150 and 1,050 BP. The widespread occurrence of stone-banked lobes and terraces, sorted polygons, and sorted stripes on the treads of turf-banked lobes and terraces suggests a general decline in the availability of moisture and the effectiveness of solifluction since the end of the Middle Stade of Pinedale (Late Wisconsin) Glaciation. During the latest Pinedale and earliest Neoglacial ice advances frost creep replaced solifluction as the dominant movement process on many slopes. Neither process is particularly effective today, except in specialized microenvironments that are saturated with meltwater in the autumn. 
10.2307/1551077|An approximately 8-ha fen-palsa is located in the Beartooth Mountains, Wyoming, at an altitude of 2950 m. The graminoid palsa is raised 1 m above a surrounding Carex fen and subalpine wet meadow. It is underlain by permafrost at a depth of 38 to 46 cm. Thermokarst topography, including thaw depression lakes, characterize the palsa. This is the only known palsa in the 48 contiguous United States and represents the southernmost such occurrence in North America.
10.2307/1550113| The daytime budget of energy and moisture has been constructed for an alpine tundra at about 3,580 m (373350N, 1181345W) elevation in the White Mountains of California during mid July. Parameters observed were direct and diffuse solar radiation on a horizontal surface, on slopes of 45 and 90 for the cardinal directions, and albedo. Net radiation was measured over the tundra interface and the water surface of a pond. Radiant temperatures (or counterradiation) and the actual surface temperature (or terrestrial radiation) were utilized to derive "environmental radiant temperature." This index proved to be of much greater utility than air temperature. Other data included soil temperatures and logarithmic wind profiles. The disposition of net radiation (minus soil heat flux) via sensible and latent heat flux (evapotranspiration) were computed via the Bowen ratio and aerodynamic equations. A series of highly correlated empirical relationships between the data are presented, together with a daily budget of input and output. The data indicate that the alpine tundra undergoes one of the greatest energy fluctuations observed on this planet. 
10.2307/1550366| Temperature-related photosynthetic and respiratory acclimation responses were examined in alpine, subarctic, and bog populations of Ledum groenlandicum Oeder, a widespread ericaceous shrub species. Acclimation responses to temperature were measured both after 12- to 16-week exposures to either cool (15 C light - 10C dark) or warm (30C light - 25C dark) thermal regimes and again after each of a series of 2-week exposures to new thermal regimes. Dark respiratory rates were decreased by warm acclimation and increased by cool acclimation. These shifts in rates were frequently completed within 2 weeks in a new thermal regime. Maximal net photosynthetic rates generally did not differ significantly among either populations or thermal regimes; however, the temperature for maximal net photosynthesis in each population was increased to 25C by warm acclimation and decreased to 20C by cool acclimation. Net photosynthetic rates were increased at cool temperatures by cool acclimation and increased at warm temperatures by warm acclimation. In contrast to respiratory responses, these photosynthetic acclimation shifts were not completed within 2 weeks in a new thermal regime. Ledum groenlandicum populations differed markedly in their potentials for net photosynthetic and dark respiratory acclimation. Alpine and subarctic populations acclimated to greater degrees than their continental and maritime bog counterparts. 
10.2307/1551659|Inorganic nitrogen concentrations in winter snow were measured on Niwot Ridge, Colorado, to estimate the potential inputs of this nutrient into an alpine ecosystem for support of early season growth of plants and soil microorganisms. Concentrations of both NO
10.2307/1551936| A glacioclimatological study of the interannual variation of mass of perennial ice in the Fuji Ice Cave at the foot of Mt. Fuji, in central Japan is presented. The cave is a 150-m-long lava tube located in a dense forest area at an altitude of 1120 m. It has a perennial floor ice of areas approximately 3000 m
10.2307/1551959|Shoreward movements and grounding of lake ice resulting from air temperature variations are observed in many inland lakes at mid-temperate latitudes. In these lakes, onshore sediment transport often occurs when sediments in the shallow water region are bulldozed by the front of the ice sheet and or frozen sediments within the lower part of the ice are carried up the beach. Surveys of lake ice profiles were made repeatedly in 1992 on Lake Kussharo in eastern Hokkaido, Japan. The results showed that lake ice profiles which conform to predictions from a two-dimensional elastic model appeared at the beginning of the survey period. Subsequently, continuous wide cracks formed along the shoreline and divided the lake ice in the study area into segments, but the lake ice profiles consistently showed a wave-like shape and the portion near the shoreline in each profile was always concave. This characteristic in these profiles enhances sediment attachment to the underside of the ice cover along the nearshore zone and the transport and shoving of sediment in the shoreward direction.
10.2307/1550027|Approaches to paleoclimatic reconstruction on a local-regional scale through synoptic climatology and on a global scale through numerical modeling are discussed. Synoptic climatological considerations indicate the importance of southeasterly flow components for glacierization in Baffin Island, Labrador-Ungava, and Keewatin. It appears that no individual synoptic pattern is responsible for most of the ablation of ice bodies in eastern Baffin Island so that a synoptic climatological approach to deglacierization is likely to be indeterminate. The NCAR global circulation model with modified surface boundary conditions has been used to simulate the circulation at the last glacial maximum in January and July. The input data include the vertical and horizontal extent of ice, albedos relating to snow cover and vegetation distributions, and ocean temperature. Comparisons with control cases for present conditions show weaker jet maxima, but rather stronger low to mid-tropospheric westerly flow in the Northern Hemisphere, than at present for January and stronger upper westerlies in July. The MSL pressure maps, which must be interpreted with care in the vicinity of the ice sheets, are also discussed. The reconstructions provide a starting point on which hypotheses relating to the Wisconsin deglaciation must be based.
10.2307/1550985| We obtained data on geographical variation in the rumen contents of Peary caribou (Rangifer tarandus pearyi) by visual estimation of the proportionate composition of plants in 188 rumen samples obtained in March and April from five regions (eight islands). The floral composition of the samples obtained in 1974 through 1977 were highly variable among sites on some of the islands and among some of the regions. Among-year differences were slight despite highly variable snowfalls. Only a few species dominated the rumen samples from all regions but the apparent winter diets were more diverse and there was more variability among sites on Somerset and Prince of Wales islands than on the more northerly islands. Monocotyledons (predominantly Luzula spp.) and mosses each comprised 13 to 58% and together 33 to 97% (x 70%) of the rumen contents of caribou in the five regions. They and lichens (2 to 15%) were the only plant groups common to the samples from all regions. High proportions of mosses (34 to 58%) characterized the rumen samples from caribou on Bathurst, Melville, and Eglinton/Prince Patrick islands. Mosses comprised >50% of the rumen contents of caribou sampled on Bathurst and Melville islands in March 1974 when foraging was extremely difficult and malnutrition widespread. 
10.2307/1550085|Correlations made between vegetational characteristics of a cut-over area near tree line at Boreas Pass (Continental Divide, Summit County, Colorado) and the soil characteristics of each major plant community emphasize various parallel vegetation-soil conditions and trends. Disturbed sites and adjacent undisturbed sites occur in this area due to the nature of cutting and fire. These are studied comparatively with respect to differences in vegetation and soils and the processes affecting them. The pattern of vegetation and soils includes stable, surviving phytoedaphic units and regressional phytoedaphic units and complexes. The stable, surviving units include forb and grass meadows underlain by Alpine Meadow soils and grass-dominated sods underlain by Alpine Turf soils. These units reflect a lack of disturbance and show essential balance. The deforested, regressional units and complexes include (1) sods composed of sedges underlain by Brown Podzolic soils, which are giving way on deforested sites to grass-dominated lag gravels due to erosion pressures; (2) mixed sedge and forb meadows underlain by gleyed Brown Podzolic soils, which have formed on deforested sites due to the mixed invasion by the dominants of sedge sods and forb meadows as a response to increasing erosion pressures; and (3) grass-dominated sods underlain by disturbed Brown Podzolic soils that have formed on deforested sites in response to rodent activity. The vegetation and soils of these units reflect the nature and direction of changes caused by forest cutting and fire. These regressional tendencies are the result of increased soil instability that has led to increased erosion. The evidence presented supports the thesis that vegetation and soil are parallel systems externally controlled by dominant environmental processes.
10.2307/1551034|Snowmelt runoff in the Knob Lake basin at Schefferville, Quebec, passes through a complex drainage system composed of rough snow-covered slopes and a chain of lakes connected by poorly developed snow- and ice-filled channels. This study examines the hydrographs of inflow, outflow, and storage for this complex system and identifies the roles of each of the above elements in the snowmelt hydrology of this drainage system. The land surface elements are the most important component of the drainage system. This is due to the very large storage capacity (5 to 15 cm) on the land surface and the time delay of the runoff from the land surfaces (3 to 4 d). Lake storage is also of importance but is volumetrically less than that on the land surfaces. The resultant discharge hydrograph is a smoothed seasonal hydrograph rather than daily response to the snowmelt.
10.2307/1550737| Many authors have presented photographs illustrating coarse-grained deposits within the otherwise fine-grained, winter components of glaciolacustrine varves. Few have realized the significance of these coarse units and in several cases they have been misinterpreted as summer deposits. Examples of such coarse units are given in a literature review. Conclusive examples of deposition of coarse-grained sediments during winter are presented from a modern environment at Lillooet Lake, British Columbia, and from Pleistocene glaciolacustrine deposits in central British Columbia, and in Sweden. Low sediment concentrations in the lake water, winter storms, failure of deltaic deposits, and possibly jkulhlaups are shown to be potential controls on the occurrence of underflows which deposit the coarse-grained, winter sediments. Misinterpretation of coarse-grained deposits leads to overestimation of the time represented by glaciolacustrine sedimentary sequences. 
10.2307/1550001|Two eroded pingos, of the closed system type abundant in the uplands east of the Mackenzie Delta, yielded sections of pond sediment of Holocene age. Pollen stratigraphy of both sections confirms the general sequence established earlier by Ritchie (1972): Zone I dominated by Betula glandulosa associated with low frequencies of Salix and Artemisia; Zone II dominated by Picea (20 to 40%) and Betula (50%) and Zone III showing roughly equal representation of Alnus, Betula, and Picea. Zone IV is represented only at the Hendrickson Island site and is distinguished from Zone III by the increases in Betula, ericads, and sedges, and a decline of Alnus. Radiocarbon analyses suggest that the growth of the two pingos was initiated at least 2,500 years ago. The Zone I assemblage, which has been widely reported in the northwest Arctic-Subarctic of North America, was replaced by Zone II about 9,000 BP; at Eskimo Lakes it represents a migration of spruce into birch-dominated tundra, but it is unlikely that spruce actually grew at Hendrickson Island. The Zone III to IV changes confirm the proposition (Ritchie and Hare, 1972) that the tree line has retreated to its present position during the post-glacial.
10.2307/1552152|Soil organic matter (SOM) of an Antarctic Pergelic Cryohemist was studied with special emphasis on soil formation processes under extreme climate conditions. An integrated approach using wet-chemical analyses, cross polarization magic angle spinning carbon-13 nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (CPMAS
10.2307/1551074|Rock weathering-rind thicknesses were measured on surface boulders of moraines in the six main valleys of Mount Cook National Park, New Zealand. A revised moraine chronology is presented which describes fifteen episodes of glacier deposition related to stillstands and glacier expansion during the last 7500 yr. The events dated from about ca. 7200, 4200, 3790, 3350, 2940, 2540, 2160, 1830, 1490, 1150, 840, 580, 340, 135, and 100 yr ago. The same sequence of moraines was earlier examined with the oldest member dated as older than 700 yr, although there are suggestions in the literature that the chronology had underestimated the ages of the oldest events.
10.2307/1551664|The distribution patterns of dictyostelid cellular slime molds (CSM) in soils of 14 different study sites in the Kantishna Hills of Denali National Park and Preserve were investigated during the 1991 field season. Study sites included examples of all major natural vegetation types found in the region as well as a number of study plots representing different types of riparian zone restoration treatments being carried out as part of the National Park Service's Glen Creek Restoration Project. Six CSM species were isolated, but two of these--Dictyostelium mucoroides and D. sphaerocephalum--were overwhelming dominants. The total number of clones per gram of wet soil ranged from 0 to 1203, with an average value of 259 for all 14 study sites. The mean value recorded for the seven natural vegetation study sites (430) was considerably higher than the corresponding value (87) for the seven restoration study sites. Interestingly, D. mucoroides ranked as the dominant species (59-98% of all clones) for all six of the natural vegetation study sites from which CSM were isolated, whereas D. sphaerocephalum was dominant (50-100% of all clones) in the six restoration study plots with CSM present.
10.2307/1550562| The probable sites of Laurentide Ice Sheet inception and the amount of climatic change required are examined by means of a computer model of the energy balance of a snow cover. With various amounts of climatic change, the climatic snowline over northern Canada is computed, and its intersection with the land surface predicts the broad distribution of perennial snow cover. It is found that (1) as expected, Baffin Island is the most probable site of ice sheet initiation, but contrary to previous opinion, Keewatin is just as susceptible to glacierization as Labrador-Ungava; (2) much more climatic change is required for very extensive glacierization of either Keewatin or Labrador-Ungava than has been suggested, equivalent to a 10 to 12C summer temperature decrease; (3) increased winter snow accumulation (the maximum observed at each station) does not greatly increase the area of perennial snow cover, nor does the possible effect of unrecovered glacioisostatic rebound; and (4) an estimate of the local climatic effects of a Northern Hemisphere summer insolation minimum (due to Earth-orbital variations) gives perennial snow cover on Baffin Island and the central Canadian Arctic west of Baffin Island. The probability of ice sheet growth on Keewatin is supported by other evidence. A map of 30 June snow-cover probability based on satellite observations is produced; it shows that extensive summer snow cover is more likely on Keewatin than on Labrador-Ungava. Comparison of old glacial striae mapped in Keewatin with computed potential boundaries of perennial snow cover suggests that ice spread south from the central Canadian Arctic, including northern Keewatin, initiated with summer temperatures perhaps 8C lower than at present. 
10.2307/1552091| A body of data on snow density at different phases of snow-cover formation, in different areas provided the basis for building a model accounting for variation of snow density with the most essential factors. The obtained equation shows that the snow density increases with snow depth, snow-cover period, and mean January air temperature. The most intensive is the change of the snow density with air temperature variation in the range from -2 to -10C. Within the range of -10 to -25C, the snow density varies slightly, and below -25C the changes in temperatures do not cause marked changes in snow density. Spatial distribution of snow-cover density background values in North Eurasia is given. The scheme presented shows that there are two regions where the density of the snow cover is very low and does not exceed 0.15 to 0.18 g cm
10.2307/1551317|From phytolith and soil data, earlier researchers concluded that Cinnabar Park, a dry grassland surrounded by coniferous forest on a high interfluve (2928 m) in the Medicine Bow Mountains, Wyoming, has migrated downwind (east) by snowdrift action. However, recent soil mapping and studies of soil morphologies and stratigraphy, aided by radiocarbon dating and soil laboratory data, indicate precise alignment of modern soil-vegetation boundaries along the park edge and thus stability of the boundaries. An alternative explanation is that soil formation at the boundaries may be sufficiently rapid so that surface horizons readily reflect slow encroachment of forest onto parkland. In either case, soil characteristics do not support the interpretation that Cinnabar Park is migratory. In the park, ribbon forest, and snowglade (and some forested areas to the west), soil-sediment units give evidence of wind erosion of the interfluve modified by colluviation, resulting in a quartzite-rich, wind-polished stone line (or lines?) about 3 to 10 cm thick that acted as a lag gravel when erosion removed fine particles. The stone line, dated as old as about 2000 yr, is overlain by a surface eolian unit (or locally colluvium) about 5 to 20 cm thick. Soils in the park are developed into the eolian unit, the stone line (or colluvium), and underlying bedrock. We found no evidence that Cinnabar Park was ever forested since the time the stone line formed. Rather, the park is interpreted as a dry park, resulting from soil moisture deficits that prohibit tree expansion. In addition to snow deflation common across the park, moisture deficits are probably caused by poor water penetration from the eolian unit across the stone line into the coarse-textured subsoil. Only where snowdrifts adequately recharge the soil along park margins, or where the eolian unit is thin, can some tree invasion occur, providing that snowdrifting does not fatally damage young seedlings.
10.2307/1552048|The seed banks of Colobanthus quitensis and Deschampsia antarctica, the only two vascular plants native to Antarctica, were assayed by collecting soils from two sites near Palmer Station, Antarctica, and germinating seeds in a laboratory germination facility. Both species were found to have a substantial seed bank (107-1648 seeds m
10.2307/1551563| A comparison of modern climates at late Pleistocene glacier equilibrium lines in the Colorado Rocky Mountains with the range of climates which occur at the equilibrium lines of modern glaciers worldwide allows an evaluation of the combinations of temperature and precipitation change which would have been necessary to sustain the late Pleistocene glaciers. Modern climatic conditions at late Pleistocene equilibrium lines at 12 sites in 7 ranges are approximated using instrumental and snow survey data. The comparison provides paired values of temperature and precipitation changes which would maintain the glaciers at their late Pleistocene maximum positions. If no change occurred in total precipitation or in seasonal distribution of precipitation between the late Pleistocene and the present, an approximately 8.5C summer temperature depression would have been necessary to sustain the late Pleistocene glaciers. A 10 to 13C late Pleistocene temperature depression, which has been suggested on the basis of other lines of evidence, would have been accompanied by a reduction of at least 44% in fall-through-spring precipitation compared to present-day values. 
10.2307/1550685|During the severe winter of 1976/77 an unusual ice mass developed at the base of the unconsolidated bluffs along portions of the eastern shore of Green Bay in Brown County, Wisconsin. The ice was formed by ground water forced to the surface under cryostatic pressure resulting from very deep frost penetration caused by extremely low temperatures, a lack of soil moisture, and thin snow cover. The phenomenon resulted in water flooding of at least one basement, and facilitated the erosion and retreat of the bluffs by contributing to slope failures of the unconsolidated material.
10.2307/1550257|Master chronologies were constructed for each of four Colorado stands of Pinus aristata Engelm. Apishapa Pass, Cochetopa Pass, Mt. Bross-Windy Ridge, and Mt. Goliath stands are located in south, central, north-central, and north Colorado, respectively. The low level of correspondence among the master chronologies prohibit the merging of the four separate chronologies into one. The validity of merging chronologies over extensive geographic areas for dendrochronologic purposes is questioned. Results of this study refute generalizations made in a previous study of the Mt. Goliath bristlecone pine stand. Located in the Mt. Goliath stand is the oldest reported bristlecone pine in Colorado dating back to A.D. 403, 1,570 years. Densewood damage, previously not described, is a distinctive morphologic feature of some growth layers, and is useful as a diagnostic character in dendrochronologic analysis. Of the 29 previously unreported sites for P. aristata in Colorado located during the field reconnaissance, one significant cluster of stands on the east side of the San Juan Mountains complex near the Colorado-New Mexico border is the first reported for the San Juan Mountains proper.
10.2307/1552084|Taku Glacier is the largest glacier draining the Juneau Icefield, and reaches tidewater near the mouth of the Taku River. Taku Glacier historically calved icebergs into a 100-m-deep tidal basin but presently terminates on its shoal moraine and outwash apron. Radiocarbon dates, dendrochronology, and investigations of lateral moraines indicate that five major cycles of growth and recession of Taku Glacier occurred during the last 3000 yr. The timing of advances and retreats between 3000 and 2000 yr ago appear asynchronous with nearby glaciers. Those between 2000 and 100 yr ago generally coincide with land-terminating Juneau Icefield glaciers, suggesting these events were driven by changes in glacier mass balance caused by regional climatic fluctuations. However, a retreat of Taku Glacier ca. 1650 yr BP preceded retreats at nearby glaciers by about 200 yr. In addition, since 1890 Taku Glacier has advanced 7.3 km, during a period when virtually all nearby land-terminating glaciers have been retreating. The history of Taku Glacier shows that the behavior of tidewater glaciers can reflect climatic changes occurring over sustained periods of time (>100 yr), but that intrinsic dynamic instabilities may cause retreats and advances unrelated to climate shifts.
10.2307/1551701|Fossil rock glaciers are described from two locations in central Vorarlberg, Austria. Special attention is paid to the surface shape of the rock glaciers and to the geomorphological setting in which they occur. A variety of forms occurs, from simple lobes on talus to complex festoon-shaped patterns associated with protalus ramparts and moraines. The rock glaciers are preferentially situated in north-facing cirques with steep Haupt Dolomite walls which produce abundant coarse debris. Two generations of rock glaciers can be distinguished based on geomorphological considerations. With the help of climatic data, an Egesen (Younger Dryas) age is considered for the younger rock glaciers and a Daun age for the older.
10.2307/1551920| Two North American bird-dispersed pines, Pinus albicaulis and Pinus flexilis, were previously found to occur in three growth forms: single-trunk, single genet multi-trunk, and multi-genet tree cluster. The latter two forms are morphologically similar and distinguishable only by genetic analysis; they are togetehr referred to as "tree clumps." In the Upper Engadine, Switzerland, we studied Pinus cembra to determine whether this pine species, which is dispersed by Nucifraga caryocatactes, also occurs in three growth forms. Examining the relative frequency of single-trunk trees and tree clumps, we surveyed P. cembra in three different forest areas and at elevations ranging from 1810 to 2300 m. Tree clumps occurred at 19 to 30% of the tree sites and up to 45% of the seedling sites. We sampled foliage from all trunks of 23 tree clumps (2 to 7 trunks per clump, x = 3.4, SD = 1.3) for analysis by starch gel protein electrophoresis at four gene loci: FE, PGI, PGM-1, and PGM-2. Sixteen of the 23 tree clumps (70%) contained more than one genet and thus were tree clusters. Extrapolation of this percentage suggests that tree clusters occupied from 13 to 21% of the P. cembra tree sites surveyed. A comparison of genotypes and degree of fusion between adjacent trunks in tree clumps confirmed that morphology is a poor indicator of growth form. 
10.2307/1551219|A Symposium on High Mountain Plant Ecology was held in the Georgian Republic, USSR, 19 to 25 June 1984. Representatives from nine countries presented papers on ecophysiology, phytosociology, vegetation mapping, biogeography, and human influences of mountain ecosystems. A summary of the symposium is given.
10.2307/1550227|A microbiological survey was carried out among different types of frost scars. Surface samples from soils supporting extensive vegetation contained significantly more mesophilic and psychrophilic bacteria than samples from bare, mineral soils. There were no differences among the mold flora, and no thermophilic bacteria were detected. Those scares with little or no vegetation were also correlated with high concentrations of nitrate-nitrogen and chloride ions. The possible ecological significance of these differences is discussed.
10.2307/1550645|Excavation in the distal slopes of three Neoglacial moraine ridges has exposed in situ paleosols, some parts of which appear to be intact. Micromorphological analysis of these parts of the paleosols confirms that their internal structure corresponds closely to that of extra-Neoglacial profiles developed under similar environmental conditions and that the soils are little disturbed by burial. Carbon-14 dates from the surface organic horizons of the paleosols indicate glacial maxima at ca. 2700 and 1300 years BP and during the Little Ice Age. Since these dates agree closely with preexisting data,
10.2307/1552009| Climate-induced environmental changes are likely to have pronounced impacts on CO
10.2307/1551458|Strong consolidation of fine-grained fluvial and glaciolacustrine deposits in formerly glaciated mountain ranges, such as in the Alps of Vorarlberg, Austria, may be entirely due to ice loading during the Late-Pleistocene. Consolidation values can be used, in principle, to reconstruct ice thicknesses, surface heights, and surface gradients of (temperate) Pleistocene valley glaciers. In order to test this technique, 11 sediment samples were collected at various sites, roughly following a line parallel to the main direction of ice flow of the Pleistocene Rhine glacier in Vorarlberg. Grain size distribution, consolidation values, shear strength, and Atterberg consistency limits were determined; thin sections were studied by microscope. Rounded consolidation values varied from 3800 to 5250 kN m
10.2307/1551053|The rate of root respiration as a function of temperature has been studied in four plant species growing in Svalbard. Ranunculus sulphureus has a relatively low respiration rate at low temperatures with a Q
10.2307/1550988| Wind exposure strongly affected needle water relations and mortality in Picea engelmannii and Abies lasiocarpa krummholz during winter at timberline in Wyoming. Windward needles had lower water contents, xylem pressure potentials, and viability, compared to leeward needles. Water content and viability increased for windward needles with height above the snow level. Below the snow surface, needle dehydration and mortality were minimal. Both absolute and relative water content were highly correlated with needle viability (a needle viability of near 50% corresponded to a water content of about 60% of dry weight). Air temperatures did not drop below -29C in 1980/81, and needle mortality was not correlated with low nighttime needle temperatures. However, dehydration and mortality of wind-exposed needles were associated with low daytime needle temperatures and low cuticular resistance to water vapor loss. A preliminary experiment with excised shoots indicated that summer pre-disposition probably was not the primary cause of winter needle death, and that dehydration and death could have resulted from winter wind exposure alone, perhaps through cuticle abrasion. 
10.2307/1552124|In this study, we quantify the distribution patterns of vascular plant species among microsites (stony border, transition, and center) of sorted stone nets and stripes. We also monitored edaphic factors (frost heave, temperature, moisture, and texture) at three intensive sites to identify controls on plant distribution. Adult plants were more abundant in the transition microsite (73 and 77%) with its cryptogamic crust than random distribution would predict (transition cover 17 and 14%) at the noncrusted stone nets and stone stripes, respectively. Adult plants were frost heaved (10 and 32%) from the bare-soil center microsites at both sites. Nearly all of the few seedlings were in the transition microsite. At the crusted stone net, three species were randomly distributed; five species were over-represented in the two border microsites and two species were under-represented there. No plants were frost heaved at this site and seedlings were abundant. There were 7.3 plants per lineal meter at the crusted net and only 3.0 and 2.3 plants per lineal meter at the noncrusted stone stripes and stone nets respectively. Of the environmental factors measured, soil heave (measured as soil settlement) appears most influential. Surface soils (0-1 cm) dry between summer rains and this may inhibit seedling establishment some summers. Soils at depth (5-10 cm) remain near saturation. Soil temperatures differed little between microsites as did soil texture.
10.2307/1551665|The macroscopical plant and animal remains of a nearshore peat deposit in West Greenland are described and documented. The assemblages contain a mixture of limnic, terrestrial, and marine plants and animals. These are divided into four local macrofossil assemblage zones, of which zone 3, ca. A.D. 950 to ca. A.D. 1760, represents a wet phase which is correlated in part with the Little Ice Age.
10.2307/1550649| Frost action is normally regarded as the primary mechanism responsible for rock disintegration and the production of fines in cold climates. However, the results of previous studies aimed at establishing its effectiveness on the basis of weight loss incurred or the amount of debris liberated by samples during experimental freeze-thaw have been inconclusive. In this study, a sonometer is used to detect the progressive deterioration in the strength of two carbonate rocks during a sequence of freeze-thaw cycles by measuring the reduction in Young's modules of elasticity. The results are compared with those derived from the more conventional weight loss procedure. Hand specimens and trimmed blocks lost less than 0.5% of their total weight after 200 "accelerated" freeze-thaw cycles (duration 5 h; range +25 to -20C). In the sonic test, a 60 to 80% decrease in wet Young's modulus was experienced by all samples during the first 10 to 12 cycles. Little change was observed beyond 25 cycles. The potential applicability of the technique to the resolution of controversial topics in periglacial weathering is mentioned. 
10.2307/1552026|Field measurements on two well-drained slopes on the Tibet Plateau indicate that active-layer frost heave ranges between 4.3 and 7.7 cm yr
10.2307/1551611| The effects of advection, from a cold polar sea to a warmer terrestrial surface, on the energy balance in the surface boundary layer are reported. Results indicate that mesoscale advective influences are strongly developed. Over a 10-km coastal zone, Bowen ratios () decrease exponentially inland, 2.7 fold during onshore winds and 1.8 fold during offshore winds. This decrease is due both to boundary layer adjustments to a new surface under onshore winds and to horizontal and vertical convergence and divergence in the atmosphere under all wind conditions. Horizontal convergence and divergence is most evident near the coast. The former is most common during periods of low wind speed and the latter during stronger winds. The strongest mesoscale advective impacts on the turbulent fluxes occur within 10 km of the coast. Although in hummocky tundra, the surface may appear to be saturated because of standing water, the drier hummocks serve to reduce the average surface vapor pressure substantially below saturation and thus to reduce the latent heat flux. 
10.2307/1551380|CO
10.2307/1551648|Loss of leaf surface wax during winter could contribute to the extreme desiccation and leaf mortality previously observed for timberline conifers. For Picea engelmannii, leaf surface wax declined most rapidly for leaves above the snowpack as winter progressed, until there was approximately 60% less surface wax than for leaves protected by snow cover. Near the upper limit of the timberline ecotone (3400 m), leaves of P. engelmannii had less surface wax compared to individuals near the lower ecotone limit (3200 m), as well as smaller differences between windward versus leeward sides of the same shoot. Abies lasiocarpa leaves at 3400 m had the least amount of wax, while leaves of Pinus contorta at a lower, wind-exposed site (3100 m) had the greatest amount. Only small differences in wax quantities occurred on windward versus leeward leaves on P. contorta saplings, despite much higher mortality for windward leaves near the snow surface. From measurements on artificial wax cylinders placed in the field, an increase from 20 cm to 4 m in height above the snowpack would result in an estimated 90% decrease in surface wax erosion. Also, wax erosion as a function of height above the snow surface was similar to a typical vertical profile of the kinetic energy flux of blowing snow. A similar estimate using wax erosion from actual leaves showed that a similar decrease in cuticle erosion would result for an approximate decrease in elevation of about 230 m. Leaf surface wax erosion via blowing snow may be a primary force influencing the distribution of evergreen plants in the timberline ecotone of the central Rocky Mountains.
10.2307/1551864| An inexpensive digital color scanner with a 3  2 mm viewing window is used to measure the color of sediments in two marine cores with the objective of determining variations in sediment provenance and depositional history. We focus mainly on the three Commission Internationale de l'Eclairage (CIE) Laboratory designations of color, sometimes referred to as L a* b*. In one core, comparisons were made between measurements on color photographs and on dry sediment fractions, and in the other example, we compared measurements on the sediment surface itself versus color measurements on glossy and matte photographic finishes. In the case of core HU87033-015 from the Labrador Shelf, the color measurements correlate significantly with changes in the detrital carbonate content of the sediment and with the rock magnetic susceptibility. Comparisons between a scanned gray-scale photographic image and a detailed 1 cm sampling by the spectrophotometer indicate a close correlation between the gray-scale and the "brightness" parameter, L. 
10.2307/1551239| Uranium-series and conventional
10.2307/1550660|The extent and causes of winter desiccation were studied in three tree-line species on Mt. Washington, New Hampshire. We did not find excessively low relative water contents in intact foliage of balsam fir (Abies balsamea [L.] Mill.) or black spruce (Picea mariana [Mill.] BSP.) during the winter. Relative water contents were lowest following damage by ice abrasion and in intact stems of paper birch (Betula papyrifera Marsh.). Winter transpiration in conifer foliage is very low perhaps due to several dormancy-related mechanisms. Transpiration is further reduced by high wind speeds which maintain thermal equilibrium between leaf and air. Thus winter desiccation is not universal at tree line and is probably related to factors other than the high-wind regime.
10.2307/1550716| Stratigraphic mapping and pebble-count data suggest that ice flowed in three different directions in the lower Skagit drainage of the northern Cascade Range during the Fraser Glaciation ( 10K to 20K BP). Glacier reconstructions suggest that till exposed at one site in the lower Skagit Valley was deposited by a Baker Valley glacier that flowed westward down the Skagit Valley during the early part of the Fraser Glaciation (Evans Creek Stade). Stratigraphic relations show that the Cordilleran Ice Sheet subsequently advanced up the Skagit Valley and into the Baker Valley during the Vashon Stade. Flow-direction indicators, as well as clast compositional variations in till and recessional deposits of Vashon age, indicate that this upvalley, eastward-advancing glacier was later overwhelmed by southeast-flowing ice of the Cordilleran Ice Sheet which entered the Baker Valley across the valley divide to the northwest. 
10.2307/1551719|Long mass-balance series are compared within four areas of the Northern Hemisphere (The Alps, Scandinavia, the Tien Shan in the Soviet Union, and western North America), using Lliboutry's linear model. This model separates the mass-balance into two main additive terms, one of them depending on time only, and the other one being characteristic of the glacier situation. This study shows that for each mountain range the same type of spatio-temporal distribution pattern for the mass balance can be found that classifies the glaciers according to their distance from the main humidity source. Beyond the mountain range scale, this pattern can no longer be recognized. Available reconstructed mass-balance series for the century are then used. They show that secular trends compare well within Europe and the USSR, but not beyond the continent.
10.2307/1550418| On southwestern Cumberland Peninsula, Baffin Island, Minimal Podzol (Pergelic Cryopsamments), Arctic Brown (P. Cryorthents), and Tundra (P. Cryaquepts) soils occur along moist fiords and Polar Desert (P. Cryorthents) soils occur in the more xeric uplands. Polar Desert soils have undergone acid leaching but maintain some features of Polar Desert soils in the high arctic, above ca. 75N latitude. Most of the soils are extremely to strongly acid and contain low amounts of organic matter, exchangeable bases, extractable phosphorus, and clay. Arctic Brown and Minimal Podzol soils contain the greatest amount of water-soluble salts. The order of abundance of cations in water extracts is Ca>Mg>Na>K>H, and thus are typical of well-drained soils of semiarid regions. Dominant textures are gravelly or cobbly sand and loamy sand. Silt increases markedly with soil depth, possibly due to vertical frost sorting. Kaolinite is prevalent in the clay fraction of Polar Desert soils; mica is most abundant in the other soils. Poor profile development, frost sorting, variable snow cover, and differences in vegetation and microclimate over short distances have affected soil properties, thereby limiting the use of soils in estimating relative age of moraines. Soil properties most related to age are depth of oxidation, maximum percent free iron, color of the surface mineral horizon, and kaolinite/mica ratio in the clay-size fraction. 
10.2307/1551072| In connection with a hydropower project in Johan Dahl Land, South Greenland, observations were made on an ice-dammed lake situated at the margin of Nordbogletscher, Greenland. Water level variations in the lake were measured during the period 1978 to 1982. The lake refills in May and June, reaches a maximum level in early July, and then drains slowly into a lower-lying large lake, Nordbos, by a submarginal stream. Since 1980 the daily inflow of water to the lake has been recorded, and from knowledge of the relationship between water level and volume in the lake, the daily outflow is calculated. The outflow depends upon the amount of inflow and the depth of the outlet stream beneath the margin of Nordbogletscher. The water balance of the lake shows that the year-to-year storage is of minor importance compared to the annual throughflow. 
10.2307/1551109| Temperatures were recorded in Peary Land in and around the sparse vegetation in a number of microenvironments of differing snow cover, moisture, slope effect, insolation and plant species, during the summer of 1978. Temperature measurements of this kind have not previously been made so far north. Some of the results compare well with existing knowledge from other arctic investigations, whereas others appear to be previously unrecorded. (1) Under sunny conditions plant temperatures are very high, often more than 20C above ambient air temperature. (2) There is a marked diurnal temperature variation in plants and soil as well as in the air close to the ground and under the midnight sun. The variation is less pronounced 2 m above the ground and is almost absent with overcast sky. (3) Slope has a pronounced effect on microclimate. On a 20 north-facing slope the diurnal variation is opposite that of level ground and of that of south slopes. Inversion was observed only on a south-facing slope. (4) The response of arctic plants to insolation differs between species. Dryas integrifolia, Saxifraga caespitosa, and S. oppositifolia, for example, attain much higher temperatures than other members of the high arctic flora. (5) Organs with no obvious design for heat accumulation or heat conservation often show the highest temperatures. Most pronounced are the shoot apices of the species listed above. It is suggested that this heat generation may have a physiological rather than physical explanation. 
10.2307/1551324|Detailed analysis of evolutionary mechanisms in a single genus can provide insight into the processes shaping a regional flora. The genus Primula (primrose) offers a model for the complex origins of the modern Alaskan flora. The arctic species in this genus represent strong ties to Asia and to other parts of North America, as well as an autochthonous element. Migration routes have been along mountain chains, coastlines, and river systems. Speciation has been facilitated by reproductive specialization, notably distyly with obligate outcrossing, and homostyly with self-fertility. Separation of gene pools, isolation, chance mutations acted upon by selection for reproductive assurance, hybridization, and polyploidy have contributed heavily to speciation. A model for the interrelationship of homostyly and polyploidy is suggested.
10.2307/1552008|The rates of many processes that control rock breakdown into transportable particles are dependent upon rock temperature. In particular, frost-cracking depends largely upon the time spent within a range of subzero temperatures I call the frost cracking window. I present simple analytic solutions, detailed time series of thermal data from a field site, and a numerical model of subsurface temperatures that constrain the expected depth dependence of frost cracking. Analytic solutions using sinusoidal surface temperature histories result in predicted vertical profiles of frost-cracking intensity that depend upon the location of the frost-cracking window within the range of surface temperatures. In some cases, the expected frost cracking intensity decreases monotonically with depth, while in others it displays a distinct maximum at depth. I use hourly temperatures measured over the 1-yr interval April 1995 through March 1996, at 8 depths up to 42 cm into a granitic bedrock surface in the Laramie Range, Wyoming, to constrain an in situ thermal diffusivity of 1.7 mm
10.2307/1552089| This study examined nitrogen (N) transformations in two sites at Truelove Lowland (Devon Island, NWT, Canada). The two sites (sedge meadow and willow/herb hummocks) were located at the low end and midway along the beach ridge-basin topographic gradient typical of Truelove Lowland. Net N-mineralization and nitrification rates were measured using both field (late June through July) and laboratory incubations. Denitrification rates (July) were measured using the acetylene blockage technique. Natural abundance of
10.2307/1550139| During the last 70 years, Fjallsjkull has been retreating from a position clearly marked by moraine ridges 5 to 10 m high. Inside these large moraines a series of moraine ridges, 1 to 4 m high, has been superimposed on an undulating surface. The patterns exhibited by these moraine ridges, their internal character, and surface form suggest that they have been formed by the squeezing of semi-liquid till from beneath the glacier. Analyses of the orientation of pebbles within the moraine ridges support this hypothesis. Large-scale photogrammetric maps of the moraine system were produced using air photographs taken in 1945 and 1965. The importance of the slope of the sub-ice surface in determining the position of the ice margin is discussed in terms of the position and orientation of the moraine ridges. Evidence which indicates that the moraine ridges may have been formed annually is presented. Moraine ridges similar to those discussed in this paper have been observed in process of formation along the margin of Fjallsjkull during the summers of 1966 and 1968. 
10.2307/1551432|Lakes and seas are oases of life in winter, when the land is frozen. Differences between lakes and seas result because the sea has a much higher salinity and much larger size. Thus the frozen sea has a lower temperature, a macroscopic porous ice structure at the water interface, higher current velocities, and discontinuous ice cover compared with frozen lakes. Both systems exhibit complex differential movements of water masses with differing solute content resulting from freezeout distillation. The biological differences resulting from the physical differences include the absence of ice communities, shorter food chains, lower diversity, lower benthic and higher fish biomass, and lack of mammals and birds in lakes compared with seas in winter.
10.2307/1551836|A sediment core taken from Dome Creek Meadow located within the Bear River corridor provides proxy data for paleoenvironmental conditions on the White River Plateau. Changes in pollen stratigraphy, macrofossil abundance, and sediment stratigraphy document at least four major shifts in environmental conditions during the last 10,600 yr. The oldest levels of the core document cool-dry, near-glacial conditions followed by the establishment of a closed spruce-fir forest around the site. The middle Holocene witnessed a major change in the local forest community, probably as a result of increased temperature. The data also indicate middle Holocene conditions at the site were warmer and drier than any other time in the Holocene. The late Holocene is characterized by a closed spruce-fir forest, signifying a return to moister conditions. The correlation of the basal date of the core and the glacial geology that formed the meadow indicates that the Dome Creek record is potentially out of phase with other Colorado Holocene glacial chronologies. Additionally, the record from Dome Creek meadow supports an earlier hypothesis (1995) that suggest the middle Holocene saw little spatial variation in summer-dominant vs. winter-dominant precipitation regimes, but instead witnessed an intensification of these patterns.
10.2307/1551231|Castleguard Cave is developed in massive limestones of the upper Cathedral Formation (Middle Cambrian), overlain by shaly or dolomitic carbonates that function today as a leaky caprock. The cave contains ca. 18 km of explored passages, with a relief of 350 m. It displays three sections: (1) a headward complex beneath the Columbia Icefield, (2) a central, linear cave that passes through Castleguard Mountain, and (3) a downstream or entrance complex underlying the Meadows; part of this discharges floodwaters in summer. The remainder of the cave is hydrologically relict, except for local invasion waters. Development of the central and downstream cave in vertical section was as a State 2 phreatic looping system, incorporating dip tube passages in four principal bedding planes that were connected together at three groundwater lifting sites. With enlargement, upstream portions of tubes underwent vadose entrenchment. A model for the plan development of the cave envisages an initial southwest system underneath the icefield. This was disrupted, probably by glacial injecta, and two new protocaves extended through the mountain towards "target" caves beneath the Meadows. Linkup of the protocaves via a sedimentary dike created the central cave. Most of the cave was abruptly abandoned by the genetic waters. Later invasion waters from the Columbia Icefield and caprock have carved local shafts and trenches that direct flow to an inaccessible lower cave.
10.2307/1552094| Bird sightings made in the high Arctic Ocean during a cruise to the North Pole from 18-24 July 1994 on board the Russian ice breaker Kapitan Dranitsyn are presented. Twenty-eight sightings of 6 species were made north of 83N, 13 sightings of 5 species north of 87N, and 7 sightings of 3 species above 89N. The most common species were the Black-legged Kittiwake (Rissa tridactyla), Ross's Gull (Rhodostethia rosea), and Ivory Gull (Pagophila eburnea), followed by the Northern Fulmar (Fulmarus glacialis). No landbirds were seen. A review of the literature on bird sightings at high latitudes in the Arctic Ocean, including observations made during a similar cruise in 1993 by Parmelee and Parmelee, reveals that a total of 29 species have been recorded during a number of expeditions. In addition to the 4 species above, these include 3 geese, 2 ducks, 1 plover, 1 sandpiper, 1 phalarope, 3 jaegers, 4 gulls, 1 tern, 4 alcids, and 5 species of passerines (1 wheatear, 1 wagtail, and 3 buntings). 
10.2307/1551261|Failure to accurately identify the lichen species used in lichenometry is a serious potential source of dating error. This paper provides a dichotomous key to the thirty-seven species of Rhizocarpon subgenus Rhizocarpon currently recognized in Europe; eighteen of these species have also been reported from North America. The key is presented in the hope that it will encourage greater taxonomic precision among lichenometrists (Translator).
10.2307/1552052|The sensitivity of Franz Josef Glacier is studied with a numerical ice-flow model. The model calculates ice mass flux along a central flow line and deals with the three-dimensional geometry in a parameterized way. Forcing is provided through a mass balance model that generates specific balance from climatological input data. Because of the very large mass turnover, e-folding response times are short: about 15 yr for ice volume and about 25 yr for glacier length. The sensitivity of glacier length to uniform warming is about 1.5 km K
10.2307/1550845| Sorted and nonsorted circles are patterned ground forms that develop within silt-rich pockets of alpine tundra that have been stripped of vegetation. Although both circle types are relatively silt-rich compared to the average soil texture beneath the still vegetated areas, sorted circles are richer than nonsorted circles in silt, but nonsorted circles are richer in granule-size (-2 to -1) material. An inverse relationship between silt and granule proportions occurs in the 0 to 10 cm depth range within both circle types and nearby vegetated sections; a similar relationship also occurs beneath nonsorted circles and vegetated areas from 10 to 40 cm, but not beneath sorted circles. Diurnal ground/frost-heave cycles are presumed to produce sorting to  10 cm, and seasonal ground/frost-heave cycles to produce the same effect at greater depths. Clay/silt ratios and clay mineral assemblages indicate that weathering is retarded below the circles in comparison to nearby vegetated areas. Eolian infall is accumulating on vegetated areas but deflation dominates the circle surfaces; as a result clay assemblages differ markedly at a microscale. These well-defined mineralogic differences indicate that circle centers are stable for quite long periods. The results obtained from the crest of Niwot Ridge, Front Range, Colorado, U.S.A., in this study tend to corroborate a model for circle development in central Labrador-Ungava, Canada, previously proposed. 
10.2307/1550882| Adaptations to low temperatures and desiccation were studied in insects from the Andean paramos in Venezuela at 3600 and 4200 m asl. Temperature fluctuations in the paramos range from 15 to 20C during daytime to below freezing during the night. Two species of carabid beetles (Colpodes spp.) collected within senescent leaves of the Espeletia rosette plants or in sheltered ground microhabitats had low supercooling capacity and were killed by freezing for 1 or 2 h at -50C. All specimens of the acridid grasshopper Meridacris subaptera that lives in open, exposed habitats, however, survived freezing for 8 h at -6C, and some survived for 2 h at -9C. A curculionid beetle from the green Espeletia rosettes apparently survives low temperatures by supercooling. The rates of water loss in the two species of Colpodes at 20C and 6% RH were 9 and 14 mg H
10.2307/1551912|Patchy podzolic soil and paleosol profiles are composed of discontinuous but closely imbricated, multicolored A and B horizons, in the form of more or less discrete 3- to 10-cm-long patches. These soils are either modern soils or paleosols developed in subarctic sites on eolian, fluvial, marine, or fluvioglacial medium-sand deposits. The particular conditions for the inception of patchy horizons are probably the large amount of snow (80-150 cm) accumulated by forest or krummholz vegetation and its melting and percolation in a frozen, but nonicy (dry) soil. The pedogenic activities of patchy podzolic profiles probably occur during snowmelt, i.e. the period of the growing season of maximum water supply, indicating that these poorly developed soils are a direct response to xeric site conditions prevailing during most of the growing season. Because patchy soil profiles also occurred in the past, the ecological history of past xeric environments may be inferred, particularly from eolian paleosol sequences. In northern Quebec, the dune paleosols analyzed suggest the prevalence of boreal-like soil conditions before 4200 BP and of subarctic soil conditions after this period in the southern part of the Forest-Tundra. The absence of pedogenic development after 1000 BP in the northern part of the Forest-Tundra is evidence for a lack of water supply associated with a postfire shift from lichen-spruce (snowrich) to lichen-heath (snowfree) vegetation. Patchy paleosol profiles appear as a useful tool for the reconstruction of Holocene and Pleistocene environments in high-latitude areas.
10.2307/1550111| In Europe the warm Allerd interval ended about 11,000 BP with a sharp temperature reversal that lasted for several centuries. Elsewhere the oscillation was weak or unrecognizable. The suggested cause of this localized cooling is an abrupt increase in the amount of ice in the northern North Atlantic Ocean as rising temperatures in and over the Arctic Ocean began to break up an extensive ice shelf cover. Such a mechanism can also account for the oceanographic changes in the North Atlantic about 11,000 BP. 
10.2307/1551168| The density and habitat distribution of adult Chiloxanthus stellatus (Curtis), a predatory shore bug (Hemiptera:Saldidae), were studied using mark and recapture trapping on polygonal tundra near Barrow, Alaska. This is the only species of the order Hemiptera in the Barrow insect fauna. Captures occurred more frequently in traps on elevated and well-drained polygon rims than on lower and wetter polygon troughs and basins. Two methods of analysis were used to estimate population density: a modified Jolly-Seber analysis and the Fisher-Ford method. Both methods gave population estimates of about 250 adults on the 10  10 m study grid during the marking period, corresponding to 3.4 individuals m
10.2307/1551774|Three snow-avalanche impact pool and mound complexes in the Canadian Rocky Mountains are described. Recent and historical evidence of fresh ejecta and the depth, stratification, and
10.2307/1551882| Examination of digital Landsat TM and MSS imagery of Franz Josef Land, Russian High Arctic, reveals a number of ice caps with apparently very low surface gradients at their seaward margins. The largest of these low gradient areas is 45 km
10.2307/1551958|Morphological characteristics and modes of formation of 10 pronival ("protalus") ramparts are examined. The landforms are vegetated but active, and comprise arcuate and sinuous ridges and ramps at the downslope margins of semipermanent snowbeds. They are characterized by single, double, and even multiple, sharp-crested lateral ridges and terminal ramp-like frontal sections, and they are composed partly of matrix-supported sediments containing less angular clasts than current-season rockfall and avalanche debris. Alternative modes of formation are considered in explaining the observed morphological and sedimentological characteristics. The "conventional" supranival debris supply route, involving rockfall, debris flow, and avalanches, is thought to be supplemented by subnival debris supply, including debris flows (observed in a subnival position), fluvial action, and solifluction. The term "protalus" rampart is misleading in describing the Romsdalsalpane features; "protalus" is clearly a misnomer as none of the features occurs in a talus-foot position. Hence, the term "pronival" is suggested as a widely applicable descriptor suitable for any debris accumulations forming ramps or ridges at the downslope margins of snowbeds irrespective of location in relation to slope position.
1550166| Soil creep is an important component of mass wasting in the Rocky Mountains of southern Alberta. Near the Continental Divide, the movement takes place principally in summer when the soil contains 40% moisture by volume. Movement may range up to 323 mm and the trees move with the soil. In the Front Range, soil creep may amount to 210 mm per year at a site, but occurs mainly in late summer and fall when soil moisture contents are minimal. It is independent of freeze-thaw cycles. Some movement (20 mm) also occurs in winter when the ground is frozen. Continuous recording apparatus demonstrates diurnal fluctuations on bare ground. Insolation correlates with downslope movement, and similar fluctuations occur in a vertical direction. Heaving correlates with increased humidity of the air at night or in early morning. The combined result is that a given soil particle tends to follow an orbital path elongated in a horizontal direction, unlike the diurnal movement proposed in many current theoretical studies. Retrograde creep also occurs in colder weather. The logarithm of the sine of the angle of slope correlates with the amount of movement on a south-facing slope, movement apparently ceasing at angles below 2. Movement usually decreases with depth except on screes or in shallow soils over bedrock. In the latter, water abstraction by plants or a perched water table produce increased soil creep with depth. 
10.2307/1551260|Species of Rhizocarpon subgenus Rhizocarpon are distinguished from each other based on differences in external thallus morphology, internal anatomy of fruiting bodies, and chemistry of intracellular and extracellular lichen substances. Differences in geographical distribution and ecology aid in identifying certain species. Using the procedures described in this paper, and keys such as that of J. Poelt (1988, this volume), it should be possible for a lichenometrist with no previous taxonomic experience to identify rhizocarpons to the section level with little difficulty, and to the species and subspecies levels under many circumstances. In regions where the subgenus has been inadequately studied (e.g., the Rocky Mountains of western North America), specimens having intermediate characteristics may prove difficult to identify using existing keys.
10.2307/1550836| Changes in mass and quantities of potassium, calcium, magnesium, nitrogen, and phosphorus and extractable phenolics and carbohydrates were monitored over winter in three tissue types: Picea mariana needles, Betula glandulosa leaves, and Cladina stellaris. Samples were set out in litter bags on the lichen mat on 4 September 1981 and retrieved 7 November 1981, and 1 February, 17 April, and 3 June 1982. Over-winter mass losses ranged from 13 to 29% (lichen <spruce<birch) and between 46 and 80% of this loss occurred during the first sampling period, before a permanent snow cover was established. Loss of potassium, magnesium, and phosphorus and phenolics and carbohydrates was also rapid in most tissues during the first sampling period, and over-winter losses of these constituents ranged from 4 to 97%. Nitrogen losses were small in the spruce needles, but the lichen showed an increase in nitrogen over the winter. The results show the importance of winter-time litter decomposition, particularly during the period before a snow cover is established but also under the relatively warm (0 to -3C) conditions imposed by a thick (>100 cm) snow cover. 
10.2307/1551021|Two distinctive types of small dome-shaped hills occur in the Prudhoe Bay region. One type has small basal diameters, steep side slopes, and occurs primarily in drained thaw-lake basins; the other type consists of mounds of larger diameter and commonly occurs outside modern lake basins. The U.S. Army Cold Regions Research and Engineering Laboratory drilled three of the mounds including one broad-based mound and encountered massive ice in all of them. It is thus likely that all of the steep-sided mounds and at least the larger broad-based mounds are pingos. It is clear that the largest of the broad-based mounds are neither dunes, unmodified remnants, nor highly eroded steep-sided pingos of the type common in the region today. Discriminant analysis of topographic-map data indicates that mean slope and length of the longest axis are the clearest discriminators between the two groups of mounds. The broad-based mounds are limited to older surfaces in the region and are thus likely to be quite old (<12,000 yr). Explanations for the large size of many of the broad-based mounds and their occurrence outside lake basins will have to await detailed drilling studies.
10.2307/1551018|Present-day pollen deposition in the 5000-km
10.2307/1550579|Data from three summertime flights of the NCAR Electra across the Alaskan north slope is presented. The measured variables include temperature, potential temperature, dewpoint temperature, radiometric surface temperature, and wind speed and direction. The data analysis shows that the arctic tundra is characterized by large surface temperature variations over relatively small spatial scales, and that the air temperature changes rather abruptly near the coastline. The land-sea temperature contrast is examined as a possible source of a local thermal circulation.
10.2307/1550764| Observations on the dynamics of vegetation within permanently marked plots in the Mount Elbrus region have been undertaken since 1968. Four categories of vegetation change were determined through the application of various methods, including phytocoenotic, lichenometric, and dendrochronologic. Seasonal fluctuations are most conspicuous during cold and wet vegetative periods when phenological stages are retarded by 2 to 2 weeks, and some are totally absent. Height and thickness of grass stands decrease. Floristic compositional changes of up to 35 to 45% occur, and height and phytomass show variations of up to 100%. Changes over 10-yr periods have a pronounced influence on phytocoenosis limits (some tens of meters) and alter the status of the codominants. Hundred-year dynamics are reflected in the limits of phytocoenosis on the order of hundreds of meters. For example, between the 8th and the 12th centuries, the altitude of the upper timberline increased by 200 to 300 m, while a lowering of similar magnitude occurred between the 13th and the 19th centuries. During the 20th century there has once more been a reversal in this trend. Grasses and shrubs respond to climatic changes through variations in abundance and vitality, while tree species adjust their geographic limits by tens or hundreds of meters. In the event of the entire destruction of vegetation communities by exogenetic processes such as avalanches, 20 to 50 yr will be required before restoration of continuous grass cover, and 200 to 300 yr before the climax phytocoenosis is reestablished. 
10.2307/1550496|Three species of microtine rodents occur near Atkasook, Alaska: the brown lemming (Lemmus sibiricus), the collared lemming (Dicrostonyx torquatus), and the tundra vole (Microtus oeconomus). Population densities do not fluctuate as widely as do those of the brown lemming near Barrow, where densities may reach 200 ha
10.2307/1551975| Lichenometric ages of active glacigenic rock glaciers and Matthes (Little Ice Age) moraines, together with sediment cores from basins below these landforms, provide evidence for a glacier advance 3000 yr ago in the Sierra Nevada, California. Diameters of the largest lichens (70-108 mm) on the Mendel rock glacier indicate that it began forming well before the onset of the Little Ice Age (LIA) (700 yr BP). Smaller lichens (30-45 mm) on the Matthes moraines of Darwin and Conness glaciers suggest that they formed during the LIA. The apparent lack of pre-LIA Holocene moraines below "clean" glaciers in the Sierra Nevada demonstrates that the pre-LIA Neoglacial advance must have been less extensive than the Matthes advance. Sediment cores recovered below Matthes glacial deposits provide additional support for a pre-LIA Neoglacial advance. Three cores from a meadow directly below the Powell rock glacier record grus deposition (suggesting nonglacial, summer-dominant mass wasting) between about 5300 and 3600
10.2307/1551531|Morphological, chemical, and mineralogical properties of three well-dated buried paleosols within Bugaboo Glacier lateral moraines suggest a complex history of Holocene pedogenesis in which soil development was intermittently interrupted by periods of glacial advance and slope instability. Multiple, buried horizons and cumulic horizons of the paleosols probably resulted from local colluviation, disturbance during accretion of overlying tills, and/or frost activity. Comparison of buried paleosols with otherwise similar nearby surface soils suggests diagenetic processes have altered reversible properties (pH, organic matter, and pyrophosphate-extractable forms of iron and aluminum) but not metastable soil properties (horizon sequence, color, texture, clay mineralogy, and dithionite- and oxalate-extractable forms of iron and aluminum). Despite these complicating factors, a chronosequence of 17 well-dated buried and surface soils indicates that relative development generally increases in older soils. Bwj and Bw, Bw and Bfj, Bf (Bsj and probably Bs), and Bs horizons have formed within approximately 120 to 350, 1000, 6800, 10,000 yr, respectively.
10.2307/1551838|The relationship between surface sediment diatom (Division: Bacillariophyta) assemblages and measured water chemical and environmental variables in 30 lakes from northern Fennoscandia were examined using multivariate statistical techniques. The lakes are distributed across the treeline, spanning boreal coniferous forest to treeless tundra zones along a steep climatic gradient. Such lakes at an ecotonal boundary offer excellent opportunities to study the interactions of physicochemical environment and biotic assemblages. Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA), with forward selection and associated Monte Carlo permutation tests, suggested that pH, surface-water temperature, conductivity, altitude, and sodium made significant (P < 0.05) contributions to explaining the variation in the diatom assemblages. A constrained CCA with temperature as the only explanatory variable revealed that the surface-water temperature was a strong variable, and accounted for a statistically significant proportion of the variance in the diatom data. The data-set will be expanded and used to create a quantitative predictive model (transfer function) for temperature which can be applied to sediment-core diatoms to reconstruct lake-water paleotemperatures.
10.2307/1551439|A large raven (Corvus corax) population was studied over two winters at Churchill, Manitoba, to determine the relationship between roost selection, wind speed, and air temperature. A preferred roost was located in the eaves of an abandoned building which provided protection from prevailing winds. Raven abundance at the preferred roost site had a positive correlation with wind speed and a negative correlation with air temperature. Overall, the number of birds roosting increased with windchill. The preferred roost site may be a critical component in the overwinter survival rate of ravens on the southwestern coast of Hudson Bay.
10.2307/1550065| When originally described in the 1940s the type Temple Lake moraine was regarded as probably of latest Wisconsin, or late preclimatic optimum, age. In subsequent stratigraphic usage, however, the name Temple Lake has generally been applied to the initial, post-Altithermal, stade of Neoglaciation. The present study indicates that the type Temple Lake moraine is indeed pre-Neoglacial, as originally suspected; evidence for this includes a minimum limiting date of 6,500  230
10.2307/1551339|The morphology and surface characteristics of the Soler Glacier, Patagonia, were analyzed utilizing vertical aerial photographs taken in 1984 and 1986, coupled with a field survey. The bedrock topography was measured in a gravimetric survey. The three subglacial cross-profiles indicate that a longitudinal subglacial ridge runs roughly along the median of the glacier. The major surface features recognized include an ablation medial moraine, ice-cored lateral and supraglacial moraines, ice mounds, crevasses, supraglacial stream systems, and five sets of ogive patterns. Ogive band spacings indicate that ice flow velocities range from less than 100 m yr
10.2307/1551075|Lichens growing on moraines at Storbreen and Nigardsbreen, southwest Norway, were investigated. The mean of the five largest thalli is the optimum lichenometric index of the lichens growing in a quadrat of a given size. The variability of this index is closely related to the size of the quadrat, and decreases with increasing sampling area. Rhizocarpon alpicola is much more variable than species within the Section Rhizocarpon, although this may be due to the relatively young R. alpicola populations on the moraines that were examined. With increasing sampling area, the mean of the five largest thalli per quadrat approaches the single largest diameter, reflecting the population structure of the lichens growing on the moraines.
10.2307/1551630|The postfire recovery sequence during the last 150 to 200 yr, lichen-ground colonization pattern, and soil development in a parabolic-dune system along the east coast of Hudson Bay, northern Quebec, were documented using fifteen contiguous vegetation belts. Differential plant colonization takes place during succession because of a sustained exposure gradient associated with site position in the dune environment. Along the colonization gradient, seven developmental stages were identified, showing distinct vegetation and soil types and particular lichen-ground polygonal patterns. Soil development proceeded successively from bare sands, regosol, and shallow eluviated dystric brunisol. Bare sands are first colonized by Polytrichum piliferum and subsequently by Stereocaulon paschale and Rhacomitrium canescens. At stage 2, Rhacomitrium forms an extensive cover, while Stereocaulon takes over at stage 3 with a significant increase of invading species. The formation of thin desiccation cracks and inception of lichen polygons, resulting in the development of confined sand outcrops, are closely associated with the dominance of Cladina mitis at stage 4. The progressive dominance of Cladina alpestris and podzolic soil development toward a late lichen--spruce woodland (stages 5 to 7) are characterized by a sharp decline in species diversity and the appearance of mostly ephemeral lichen polygons. It is concluded that the two lichen-polygon types are associated with vegetation and soil development during plant stabilization of eolian sands: the C. mitis type and the C. alpestris type, respectively, formed during transient successional stages and late lichen--woodland stages.
10.2307/1551235|Castleguard Cave has a climate dominated by chimney-effect winds, due to temperature differences between interior and exterior air. A theory is developed relating the magnitude of winds to these differences and to friction at cave walls. Friction factors derived are the first for cave conduits, and agree with values expected from wall roughness and known values from mines. Radon-222 content of air and waters indicates that radon is added to cave air by exhalation, direct emanation, and diffusion from cracks in rock around principal passages. Radon dilution in the central cave is attributed to tributary air currents from larger fissures. These results demonstrate that the cave is embedded in a porous medium which has a significant influence on air flows. Temperature profiles demonstrate geothermal heating of the central cave. Isotherms on a cross section of Castleguard Mountain indicate that conductive heat flow to the base of the Columbia Icefield is substantially less than to adjacent ice-free areas, due to abstraction by meltwaters percolating downwards from the ice. Relative humidity and vapor pressure profiles show rapid increases of water content in dry air blowing into the entrance, as predicted by theory. In the central cave, temperature and vapor pressure profiles reflect heat and moisture exchange with the walls. These predominate over adiabatic effects. Evaporation amounts to a few millimeters of water per year.
10.2307/1550883|The effects of nitrogen-phosphorus-potassium fertilization on primary production and plant biomass were determined for four tussock tundra sites in Alaska. The results generally supported conclusions drawn from studies of single species and processes, i.e., that production is overall nutrient limited, but the results also showed that individualistic responses of single species and individual processes are not good indicators of the whole-plant or the whole-vegetation response. The most responsive species were the grasses, which were rare in unfertilized tundra. Production: biomass ratio increased under fertilization, especially in sites where grasses became important members of the fertilized community.
10.2307/1550865| The only two native antarctic vascular plants, Deschampsia antarctica Desv. and Colobanthus quitensis (Kunth.) Bartl., occur mainly in the three areas with the most extensive ice-free surfaces along the Antarctic Peninsula: South Shetlands, area between Cierva Point and Cape Garcia, and Marguerite Bay. Deschampsia antarctica has a considerably wider ecological range than C. quitensis and occurs alone in the majority (58%) of the 116 localities listed; C. quitensis occurs alone only in 3% of the localities. Twenty-four new localities (14 for D. antarctica, 2 for C. quitensis, and 8 for both species) are reported. The new southernmost locality for both species are the Terra Firma Islands (6842S, 6732W). Both plants were growing vigorously and reproduced well there in 1984 and could probably occur farther south if suitable habitats were available. Cape Calmette (6804S, 6713W) is the new southernmost locality of D. antarctica on the Antarctic Peninsula mainland. Large stands of vascular plants on flat, mesic, zonal surfaces with fine soil are very rare along the Antarctic Peninsula and occur only in the offshore South Shetland Islands and in the Arthur Harbor, Anvers Island area. The ecological optimum for both species probably occurs at Point Thomas, King George Island, South Shetland Islands, where their largest stand is located. A newly found thick mossbank dominated by Polytrichum alpestre Hoppe is reported from Lainez Point, Pourquoi Pas Island, Marguerite Bay (6741S, 6748W). 
10.2307/1551940|Campbell Island, situated in the middle of the belt of southern ocean gales, experiences a mean windspeed above that at which sea spray forms. Ionic concentration and related parameters were measured in precipitation collected throughout a year along a transect of rain gauges extending inland from the windward, westerly coast and up to the highest point on the island (558 m). Concentrations decreased logarithmically away from the coast and varied between seasons. Seasonal variation was correlated with the frequency of gales. The calculated annual input of ions ranged from 2507 kg ha
10.2307/1550576|This study confirms, amplifies, and, in part, explains earlier work showing that arctic plants effectively compensate both morphologically and physiologically for low soil temperatures. High root-to-shoot ratios in coldsoil species were achieved in part by lower temperature optima for root initiation, elongation, and production in species from cold soil environments. However, at low soil temperatures all species invested more biomass to grow a given distance or produce a given unit of surface area. The rate of phosphate absorption was greater in the tundra species Eriophorum vaginatum than in the temperate Scirpus microcarpus when both were acclimated to and measured at the same temperature. The higher phosphate absorption capacity of Eriophorum compensated for depressing effects of low soil temperature upon phosphate absorption rates in tundra soils. Higher rates of phosphate absorption were observed when plants were acclimated to low root temperature. The potential to acclimate in response to temperature change was greatest in the species from the more fluctuating environment. The tundra species showed a linear decrease in apparent K
10.2307/1552005|A 538-yr tree-ring chronology and reconstruction of June temperatures were developed from living and dead Larix dahurica trees. The samples were obtained near the lower Lena River in northern Siberia. Dendrochronological techniques were used to estimate the ages of establishment and mortality of Larix dahurica on the presently treeless uplands and to determine the establishment dates of living trees in the lowlands. The 20th century may have experienced the greatest prolonged period of high June temperatures over the past 538 yr. In contrast the greatest prolonged period of cold appears to have occurred during the first half of the 19th century. It was during the 19th century that the uplands lost much of their tree and soil cover. Recruitment of trees occurred in the lowlands during the 20th century, but trees have not been able to recolonize the uplands, possibly due to the lack of suitable soil.
10.2307/1551818| The diversion of part of the Thjorsa river created a series of lakes and waterways in the central highland of Iceland. Every winter, ice jams have formed, raising lake levels and inundating upshore vegetation. At five sites by two lakes, the vegetation has remained flooded for about 160 d from mid-winter until spring. To monitor the effects of inundation, species frequency in 10-  10- cm quadrats was recorded on permanent transects prior to disturbance and again after periods of up to 8 yr. At one site, measurements were made annually for the first 6 yr and again 8 yr after disturbance. Two types of response to winter inundation were distinguished: (1) species showing a steady decrease in frequency and (2) species apparently little affected for a number of years, then suddenly collapsing. Combining the five sites, the common species were classified according to the strength and nature of their response into four groups: (1) nine sensitive species that rapidly declined or disappeared with repeated submergence, (2) six species showing variable negative response, (3) five species showing little response, and 4) one species showing a positive response. The results show that arctic species which are characteristic of dry or moist habitats are intolerant of inundation, even when it occurs outside of the growing season. This conclusion has implications for hydroelectric development in other arctic areas. 
10.2307/1550563|The digestive organs were examined in 18 Svalbard reindeer and 17 domestic reindeer from northern Norway. The main difference found was that the Svalbard reindeer had a relatively larger cecum/colon complex compared to the whole digestive system and to the body weight than the Norwegian animals. It was also found that in Svalbard reindeer this system relative to the whole digestive system was larger in animals during winter than in animals shot in summer. No such seasonal variation was noted in Norwegian reindeer. The findings are discussed in relation to the ecology of the Svalbard reindeer. It is suggested that the development of a large cecum/colon complex in Svalbard reindeer could allow for enhanced absorption of water, ions, and products of cecal fermentation when reindeer consume foods of extremely low digestibility such as mosses.
10.2307/1550924|The alpine vegetation in the Sangre de Cristo Mountains of northern New Mexico was studied using gradient analysis and numerical classification techniques. Ordinations produced using detrended correspondence analysis (DECORANA) correlated with two environmental gradients, a complex wind-related snow and surface rock distribution gradient, and a simple gradient in effective incident radiation. Complete linkage hierarchical cluster analysis was used to define ten community types. Nine of these communities are similar in dominant species, species composition, and environmental location to communities in the northern Colorado Front Range. A Festuca thurberi meadow type is apparently restricted to the western slope of the Rockies from central Colorado southward. Analysis of biogeographic distributional groups suggests the alpine in New Mexico to be similar to other parts of the southern Rockies in the percentage of the flora that is also found in the Arctic (32%), and that is widespread in the western mountains (28%). Widespread western mountain species have greatest coverage in protected, snowy alpine habitats, while species restricted to the Rocky Mountain axis are most important in open windy and low radiation alpine habitats. This pattern may be related to (1) the common occurrence of protected, late-lying snow habitats throughout the west, and (2) the rarity in the west, outside the Rocky Mountain axis, of dry, windy habitats that have moisture replenished by growing season thundershowers.
10.2307/1550726|Inadequate data base and insufficient consultation of earlier works, apparently, lead to poor placement of isotherms of mean daily temperature on 12 maps, one for each month. The placement errors are toward higher temperatures than were observed at drifting ice stations.
10.2307/1551687|Sampling height-age errors in tree-ring dating are estimated by extrapolation of mean apical growth rates for 188 Engelmann spruce growing in four glacier forefields in the southern Canadian Cordillera. Average correction factors obtained are 1 to 4 yr for sampling heights of 10 cm and 6 to 19 yr for sampling heights of 50 cm. These data suggest sampling height is a relatively minor source of error in the determination of tree age in glacier forefields if the trees are sampled within 10 cm of the root crown.
10.2307/1550755|Approximately 10
10.2307/1551852|Tundra soil carbon stores ranged from a low of 16 kg C m
10.2307/1551476|The altitudinal tree-limit of Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) has been surveyed at the population level since the early- and mid-1970s in the Swedish Scandes. Elevational tree-limit advance was recorded for the majority of sites, despite statistically stable, although highly fluctuating climate with clusters of exceptionally cold winters and many relatively cool summers. The new tree-limit derived from pines established in the late 1950s. Tree-limit rise was concurrent with net population decline for the period 1972 to 1991, mainly as a result of failing regeneration. The main factor of individual vitality depression and mortality was deduced to be winter desiccation. The progressive tree-limit shift relates to lower thermal thresholds for growth and survival of established pines compared to initial life stages. It is hypothesized that the tree-limit has a tendency for slow upslope advance during periods of climatic stability, even if punctuated by shorter events of unfavorable climate. Pine tree-limit dynamics is suggested to be a complex of climate/age/disturbance interactions. The tree-limit may decline altitudinally mainly in response to secular climate cooling, which makes it best suited for surveying sustained climatic trends and analogous paleoclimatic reconstruction.
10.2307/1550288| The major characteristics of the summer weather and climate for 1963-67 at Tanquary Fiord, N.W.T., are described and compared with conditions at Eureka and at Lake Hazen. The analysis shows the importance of the local wind regime with respect to temperature conditions at Tanquary Fiord. Fhn effects are apparent with winds between north and east although understanding of their onset is still incomplete. Precipitation records indicate the great spatial variability of amounts for individual months. For example, there is no statistical relationship between the occurrence of measureable falls at Eureka and Tanquary Fiord, and the incidence of relatively heavy falls cannot in all cases be ascribed simply to organized synoptic-scale weather systems. 
10.2307/1550197|The spatial distribution of terminal moraines in alpine valleys can be quantitatively described using distance/regression models. Surface parameters indicative of age may also be numerically analyzed. Evaluation of postglacial modification of valley sides between terminal moraines provides an additional indicator of relative age of valley segments. Analysis of the geomorphology of alpine features in the upper Rock Creek drainage in the southeastern Beartooth Mountains, Montana, shows that glaciers in this area deposited evidence of two Bull Lake, four Pinedale, and two Neoglacial advances.
10.2307/1550613| Heavy precipitation fell over the eastern Queen Elizabeth Islands on July 21-23, 1973; 54.6 mm fell at Vendom Fiord, south central Ellesmere Island. The rainfall at Vendom Fiord was associated with a depression which had moved over the rest of the archipelago without producing unusual precipitation. None of the official weather stations in the region reported exceptional amounts, yet there is evidence that the record from Vendom Fiord was representative of a much larger area. The storm was responsible for inundation of flood plains, re-working of coarse alluvium, and rapid mass movements on slopes in the locality of Vendom Fiord, and it is possible that it was the catalyst for a glacier outburst flood (jkulhlaup) which issued from an ice-dammed lake 10 days later. Depressions which impinge upon the mountains of the eastern High Arctic merit further climatological attention. 
10.2307/1551812|A strain of Phialocephala fortinii isolated from Luetkea pectinata was used to inoculate axenically grown 1-wk-old Menziesia ferruginea (Ericaceae) seedlings in cellulose agar petri dish cultures. After 3 mo, P. fortinii was observed in cortical cells of whole root mounts, but not in the stele. The fungus produced dark, simple septate hyphae forming extensive wefts on the root surface and intracortical sclerotia consisting of compact masses of darkly pigmented and irregularly lobed, thick-walled hyphae. Isolates of P. fortinii also formed numerous sclerotia in the cellulose agar medium. Presence of P. fortinii caused a ten-fold increase in seedling mortality over controls. Growth rates, based on whole plant fresh weight, were not affected by the presence of P. fortinii. Cenococcum geophilum, Phialocephala dimorphospora, and Phialophora finlandia, which were also used as inoculum for comparative purposes, did not form sclerotia in M. ferruginea. This is the first report to show that the distinct fungus-root associations formed between P. fortinii and subalpine plants can be reproduced consistently in pure culture under laboratory conditions.
10.2307/1551403|Investigations of spatial patterns, environmental gradients, directly measured changes, and plant population structures in front of the Storbreen glacier, southern Norway, have extended the traditional chronosequence approach to the study of primary vegetation succession. A geoecological approach has been developed which does not assume that the vegetation patterns represent a simple linear time sequence. The whole suite of studies is reviewed with particular reference to implications for vegetation succession theory and hence applications in the field of vegetation restoration. Distribution patterns of plant species demonstrate that pioneer colonizers are replaced at various rates and by different species depending on local environmental factors, particularly altitude, aspect, and microtopography. Analyses of community types and vegetation gradients indicate a two-stage high-altitude succession which diverges from a three-stage low-altitude succession. Measurement of environmental variables has distinguished two factor complexes which are important in explaining the vegetation landscape. One of these (the snow melt/exposure/moisture factor complex) is relatively independent of terrain age. Direct measurements of vegetation change over 12 yr show strong progressive succession on terrain ages of 20 to 50 yr and retrogression associated with disturbance on older terrain. Finally, sampling of the size structures of species populations has identified varying patterns of behavior; some commonality in population patterns between species suggests common roles within the succession and common patterns in response to available resources.
10.2307/1551800|Modern pollen spectra provide a picture of vegetation communities in the Wind River Range. The broad valleys of western Wyoming, which are covered by big sagebrush steppe, are dominated by Artemisia pollen (averaging 75%) with lesser amounts of Pinus, Tubuliflorae, Gramineae, Chenopodiaceae-Amaranthus, and Ambrosia pollen. The majority of the pollen deposited in the Artemisia steppe comes from local plants. Although all the forests in the Wind River Range are dominated by Pinus contorta-type pollen, each forest type has a unique palynological signature. Populus tremuloides forest stands produce up to 5% Populus pollen. Pseudotsuga menziesii is not widespread in the southern part of the range, and its pollen is most abundant (1%) near where the trees grow. Pinus contorta-type pollen (over 80%) dominates Pinus contorta forest stands. Picea and Abies trees in the mixed conifer forest are represented by low, but significant pollen percentages, 3 and 0.5%, respectively. The Pinus albicaulis parkland represents a transitional forest community between the mixed conifer forest and alpine tundra. Palynologically it is indistinct from alpine tundra. While over 50% of the pollen deposited in alpine tundra comes from lower elevations, tundra can be characterized by its relatively high frequency of herbaceous pollen (17%) and significant amounts of Cyperaceae, Gramineae, Tubuliflorae, Salix, and Bistorta pollen from local plants.
10.2307/1551114| Some recent literature concerned with the freezing of water in rocks has suggested that -5C is a possible upper limit for frost shattering to occur. This paper reviews work which suggests that -3C may be a more appropriate value, at least for some limestones and sandstones. It is argued that freezing rate is not as critical as previously thought. Some care needs to be taken in applying laboratory-derived "critical" threshold values to field situations. Both laboratory and field experiments need to be continued and refined before the significance of rate and intensity of freezing can be related to geomorphological features. 
10.2307/1550060| Subnivean temperatures at Barrow, Alaska, were near -7C until meltwater percolated through the snow shortly before complete snowmelt. Prior to meltoff photosynthetic capacities and carboxylation activities of three species were very low. The combination of low temperatures, reduced radiation, and incompetent photosynthetic structures results in very little CO
10.2307/1551014|Components of reproductive strategy are described for seven species of Saxifraga representing three important forb growth forms (dwarf erect, cushion, and rosette) in the High Arctic. Reproductive effort, flowering frequency, dispersal patterns, and carbon allocation (dry weight, caloric) to roots, leaves, and inflorescences were determined for each species. Although reproductive strategies could not be generalized for each growth form, three trends in carbon allocation and reproduction were apparent. Saxifraga cernua (dwarf erect forb), S. foliolosa (rosette), and S. flagellaris (rosette) had high carbon allocation to vegetative versus flowering tissue, and reproduced by vegetative means (bulbils, basal budding, stoloniferous bulbils). Saxifraga rivularis (dwarf erect forb) and S. nivalis (rosette) had a high carbon allocation to flowering versus vegetative tissue, reproduced by seed, and had a high ratio of immature to mature plants. Saxifraga caespitosa (cushion) and S. tenuis (rosette) had a high carbon allocation to flowering versus vegetative tissue, reproduced by seeds, and had a high ratio of mature to immature plants. These three reproductive patterns roughly follow those outlined in 1979 by other workers.
10.2307/1550575| Most of the living plant material of moist tundra in arctic Alaska is in the 0-to-10-cm layer of the cold soil, and above permafrost. This research measured root growth at low temperatures in plants of three dominant species of this tundra: a grass (Dupontia fischeri R.Br.) and two sedges (Carex aquatilis Wahlenb. and Eriophorum angustifolium Honck.). Respiration rates of roots and rhizomes were measured both in the field and under controlled conditions using an infrared gas analysis system. Two variations of measuring root respiration were used: excised new root segments and intact whole root systems. The latter method provided lower but probably more realistic rates. Under controlled conditions, root growth rates of the three species were similar. However, Eriophorum roots grew more rapidly than those of other species at temperatures just above 0C. This was also noted in the field where roots of this species grew along the upper edge of the frozen soil. Roots of all species could be frozen for several days and resume normal growth within 12 h after thawing. The 0-to-10-cm layer of tundra soil at Barrow accounts for 80 to 90% of total soil carbon dioxide evolution. Rough estimates indicate that 50 to 90% of this soil carbon dioxide flux is derived from respiration of roots and rhizomes of vascular plants. 
10.2307/1552088| Disturbances in shoreline forest margins during the past century were dated at Lake Bienville, Qubec, using various dendroecological indicators. Trees in upper shore positions were disturbed by waves and ice erosion. These geomorphic events were dated using compression wood, ice scars, and traumatic annual rings. Trees that established during favorable episodes in the 19th century have been severely destabilized by shoreline disturbances in most decades since 1881; 1881-83, 1912, 1922, 1936, 1947-48, 1958-59 and 1974-79. The age structure of shoreline shrubs indicates recent colonization associated with low lake levels (gauged since 1974). The results support a hypothesis of shoreline disturbances caused by early snowy winters and subsequent high lake levels. 
10.2307/1551263|Alpine pollen spectra in the Swiss Alps were found to be highly similar to one another, but different from forested sample sites at lower elevations. Principal components analysis confirms this subjectively assessed pattern. Nonarboreal pollen (NAP) values (including Alnus viridis) are greater than 70% in treeless sites, characterized by high grasses, sedges, and composites, as well as many rare alpine indicators. Pollen concentrations are consistently highest in alpine sediments, suggesting low rates of sediment accumulation. The smallest water-body, termed a "microbasin," ( 100 m
10.2307/1551156| Dendrochronological research in Greenland has met with only qualified success in the last two decades, and no dendroclimatic interpretations have resulted from these initial efforts. During the summer of 1978, field work was conducted on stands of birch (Betula pubescens) in a uniquely fertile and isolated valley, Qinguadalen (60 16N, 40 30W). Although the birch suffer considerable geomorphic stress, conventional dendroclimatic procedures revealed significant growth response to climate. Trees generally exhibit contorted or near-horizontal stems, producing asymmetry in the pith-to-bark dimensions, and frequently develop heart-rot. Of the 35 trees sampled, the oldest datable stem was 143 yr old. A growth response function derived from multivariate analysis of the chronology and 35 yr of climatic (principal component) data from Ivigtut relates 38% of the chronology variance to climate and a total of 60% to climate plus prior growth. Although the Qinguadalen birch chronology is relatively short, it does contain considerable information concerning the relationship between climatic variables and tree growth for the region. 
10.2307/1550348|Snow avalanches and their geomorphic effects have been studied in the Lake Louise area of the Canadian Rocky Mountains. Data are presented for avalanche frequency in the late-spring through summer and diurnal periods. In the course of a year, avalanches occur widely in the area but the presence of distinctive geomorphic features above tree line suggests that they are most effective as geomorphic agents in areas devoid of vegetation. Avalanches carry rock material of assorted sizes on a variety of debris slopes including avalanche boulder tongues of the fan and roadbank types. In addition to the form and sedimentology of these features, the presence of debris tails on their surfaces also indicates avalanche activity.
10.2307/1550238|Thick sequences of late Pleistocene frozen silts and peats are exposed in many areas of forested interior Alaska. Pollen samples from such sediments show, like other types of paleoenvironmental evidence (fossil mammals, fossil insects, etc.), that an arctic environment once prevailed in large areas of lowland interior Alaska. Furthermore, a few of these pollen samples are referred to Livingstone's Herb Zone, suggesting that the Late Wisconsin environment of lowland interior Alaska was similar in some respects to that of present day Barrow, Alaska. During that time, spruce woodlands would have been nearly eliminated from interior Alaska. Two of the pollen samples represent forested conditions. One of these, of probable interglacial age, provides the first evidence from interior Alaska of a westward advance of pines during the Pleistocene. Surface samples from interior Alaska are presented for comparison with the fossil pollen samples.
10.2307/1552033|Eighty species of lichens were identified from upper timberline and alpine meadows on the Beartooth Plateau in Montana and Wyoming. About 85% of the species are common in arctic and other alpine regions in western North America. Forty-nine percent of the species grow on rock, with 51% on soil, moss, and plant detritus. Fifty-seven percent of the species are crustose, 23% are fruticose, and 20% are foliose or umbilicate. The percentage of lichen cover on rock and soil is highest in fellfields, ranging from 20 to 54%; the percentage of vascular plant cover in fellfields is 41 to 58%. In grass/sedge turfs, vascular plant cover is the highest (67% to over 99%), and lichen cover is lowest (0 to 5%). In turfs dominated by Geum rossii (R.Br.) Ser. var. turbinatum (Rydb.) Hitchc., lichen cover is between 7 and 21% and that of vascular plants ranges between 51 and 92%. The percentage of total vegetation cover contributed by lichens is from 0% in a grass/sedge community to 54% in a fellfield.
1550159|The vegetation belts at high altitudes in the Central Mexican Highlands are not exclusively tropical in character. This is especially true of the "tierra fria." Even the main part of the "tierra templada" contains a considerable variety of holarctic floristic elements. The timberline in the Mexican Highlands (approximately 4,000 m) is formed by one species of pine (Pinus hartwegii), and the slopes to the Caribbean side are characterized down to an altitude of 1,200 m by a number of boreal species among them many oaks and a Mexican beech species (Fagus mexicana). The climatic conditions suggest that this region should be considered rim-tropical. Using the three-dimensional weather system classification of D. Klaus it is demonstrated that dynamically the Central Mexican plateau bears only rim-tropical character. Only under summer conditions does the tropical circulation of atmosphere form a part of the trade wind regime; in winter atmospheric conditions largely derive their genetic impulse from extra-tropical sources of circulation. The temperature pattern of the Mexican plateau shows both tropical and extratropical conditions. By comparing vertical temperature gradients within the area of the Central Mexican upland it is possible also to demonstrate the influence here of the extratropical elements of circulation. The vegetation has largely adapted to climatic conditions, especially to the minimum factor of the cooler season.
10.2307/1551894|This study is a comparison of certain facets of the alpine vegetation in Rocky Mountain National Park, U.S.A. with that of Mt. Kazbegi, central Caucasus, Republic of Georgia. There are many similarities in climate and geological history between the two sites. Also, their alpine floras contain 60 congeneric and 17 conspecific species, but great disparity of human history exists between the two sites. For at least 2000 yr, the Georgian area has been occupied by herders and their flocks of domestic sheep and, to a lesser extent, domestic cattle. The New World study area has experienced little influence of domestic stock. Comparative work with plants between sites included vegetation composition, phenology, seed germinability, growth rates, responses to clipping, digestibility, and arrangement of vegetative and reproductive parts within related taxa. Workers have suggested that genetic change can occur in relatively short periods of time in response to herbivory. This hypothesis was investigated by comparative studies of response to clipping, digestibility of selected species, dominant plant families at the two sites, and the morphology of plant structures. The clipping and digestibility studies did not fit the common wisdom concerning response to directional selection by herbivores. Plant family patterns and morphology may reflect the long presence of domestic stock in the Caucasus. The relationship between ungulates and higher plant evolution merits further clarification.
10.2307/1551913|Coal, once widely distributed over most of east-central Ellesmere Island, is only present in restricted outcrops of Eureka Sound Group sediments that survive in the Bache Peninsula Graben (BPG) on eastern Bache Peninsula. The discovery of coals similar to those of Bache Peninsula in modern moraine sediments at the Jewell, Leffert, and Alfred Newton glaciers on Johan Peninsula to the south, provide evidence that (1) the Eureka Sound Group was more extensive in the past and is present today beneath modern glaciers and (2) the glaciers are likely filling grabens similar to the BPG. Twelve samples of coal were recovered from Thule culture house ruins dating from the 12th to 17th centuries A.D. Four samples have huminite reflectance levels and compositional features of lignites, and most likely originated in nearby seams of the Tertiary Eureka Sound Group. The remaining eight pieces were either boghead coal, cannel shale, or jet materials that are as yet unknown in the Eureka Sound Group coal-bearing strata. There is no evidence that coal was burned by the early native peoples. At the turn of the century exploration of the area and the quest for the North Pole saw the importation of coal into the area from Nova Scotia. Many references to coal can be found in journals and other literature from the period, and its use was an important element in the exploration period. Caches of coal brought by the explorers Robert Peary and Robert Stein are found in the Cape Herschel area and at Pim Island. In 1905, Peary also cached a large quantity of coal at Bartlett Bay, 5 km to the east of the coal outcrops on eastern Bache Peninsula. Peary, who travelled widely in the area on hunting expeditions, likely knew of the local coal but did not choose to use it. Samples of coals from the caches proved to be identical to Nova Scotia bituminous coals and very different from the Eureka Sound lignites and sub-bituminous coals. The R.C.M.P. manned a post on Bache Peninsula from 1926 to 1933 and later at Alexandra Fiord (until 1962). The coal, used for cooking and heating, was purchased from a company that imported high rank (anthracite) coal from Wales. Samples of coals from the two posts and a way-station at Rice Strait are very different from both the local and the Nova Scotia coals in terms of rank.
10.2307/1550891|This study describes the distribution and morphology of weathering pits found on schist tors and associated detached blocks on the summits and flanks of the fault-block mountains of Central Otago, New Zealand. Ten summits ranging in elevation from 450 to 1760 m were visited. The higher summits exist under a periglacial climatic regime. A total of 775 pits were examined, some with diameters exceeding 1 m. Very few pits are present below 1000 m elevation. Morphological evidence coupled with an analysis of water and regolith samples collected from representative pits suggests that frost weathering (microgelivation) and hydration effects are the current formative mechanisms. Pits in all stages of development were observed, suggesting that their formation is an on-going process. The larger pits found on the exposed surfaces of degraded schist tors are believed to be older than the last glaciation.
10.2307/1551803|Variation in the wood anatomy of a white spruce (Picea glauca [Moench] Voss) growing in the surroundings of an active dune and subjected to burial by eolian sands and subsequent exposure of its main stem under wind action was studied. Maximum thickness of eolian sediments accumulated above the root collar was 3.4 m, and the stem was subsequently exposed to a depth of 1.86 m along the bole. The size of cell cavities was processed using a digitizing video camera mounted on an optical microscope for image analysis. Our results indicate that the mean increase in size of tracheids for all levels was close to 50%. The increase in tracheid size and decrease of radial growth in response to stem burial were not synchronous, the change being more rapid in cell size than in radial growth. The frequency distribution of tracheid sizes at the time of maximum sand deposition showed a general trend towards larger tracheids from lower to upper sections of the tree stem, and it differed at all levels from that of a reference tree. Because of the spontaneous response in wood anatomy of affected trees, the variation in wood structure can become a useful temporal marker, especially in sites affected by slow environmental changes.
10.2307/1551090| In order to investigate the effect of differing sampling area size in preparation of Glaciation Level (GL) maps, four GL maps have been prepared for the Disko-Nugssuaq region in West Greenland (70N). Three maps are constructed using sampling areas of 100 km
10.2307/1550437|A modified system of patterned-ground field description was developed following observations in eastern England, northwest Alaska, and north Norway. Four major criteria were used: pattern surface form (equiform, elongate, stripe, step); pattern grouping (isolated, semigrouped, contiguous); pattern marking (relief, stone, vegetation); and pattern size. Field evidence of movements in the patterns, mainly from large excavated sections, is presented, which indicates movements downwards and inwards from beneath pattern margins and upwards in the pattern centers. These movements are believed to be mainly due to inclined freezing fronts, the consequent stress pattern and the relative compressional and tensional strengths of frozen ground. The movement towards the center at depth, together with well-known pattern movements, indicates a circulatory model of movement of fines. An approximately radial model of movement for sorting is envisaged. If the two models are combined, the development of many forms of patterned ground can be explained. A tentative hypothesis for pattern initiation suggests that, under critical conditions, pattern centers, which are centers of greater than average heaving, subdue heaving in the margins. These marginal areas of subdued heaving in turn encourage greater heaving a unit distance away, hence triggering new units at regular intervals.
10.2307/1551607| In ice-free seasons, phytoplankton production in subalpine Eastern Brook Lake, Sierra Nevada, California, ranged from 11.9 to 61.4 g C L
10.2307/1551054| Samples of precipitation and streamflow water were taken for chemical analysis from Upper Indian River on Chichagof Island for water years 1979 and 1980. The alpine watershed of 8.0 km
10.2307/1551131|The percentage cover technique is a lichenometric method that has been proposed as a means of obtaining both absolute and relative dates of deposits. The technique is subjective, and the results obtained by different observers are not reproducible. Errors are not randomly distributed: some observers obtain consistently high estimates of cover whereas others are consistently low. There are substantial variations in the cover on individual moraines, with the least heterogeneity occurring at the bases of moraines. The percentage cover appears to be more sensitive to environmental variations than the diameters of the largest lichens and substantial anomalies in the cover-age relationship may occur as a result. The technique appears to be relatively unreliable, although it has considerable potential for the relative dating of small deposits which may not be datable by conventional lichenometric techniques.
10.2307/1550097| Between Narpaing and Quajon fiords, wavecut cliffs expose three glacial and three marine units. An upper till, Kivituiba'k Till, overlies marine unit 3 with shells that have a
10.2307/1551040|The relative age of late Quaternary glacial deposits above 1600 m in Hell Roaring Valley on Mount Adams, Washington, is determined on the basis of several criteria including lichenometry, soil characteristics, and pyroclastic layers. A four-fold sequence (units I, II, III, and IV) can be identified, and tentatively correlated with the Garda and Burroughs Mountain stades of Neoglaciation, and the Fraser Glaciation, respectively, as described on Mount Rainier. The sequence is also believed to be broadly correlative with that described in the Wallowa Mountains, Oregon, the Wind River Mountains, Wyoming, and the Front Range, Colorado.
10.2307/1551015|Annuals and ephemeral perennials (leaves present for about 2 mon) are rare plant life forms in all treeline areas. The results of this floristic study show that they are much more abundant in the Sierra Nevada, California than in other western North American mountain ranges. Approximately one-half of the Sierran treeline annuals and ephemeral perennials occur in the montane and subalpine zones of other ranges but are absent at treeline. Information from published vegetation studies, climatic data, floras and herbarium specimens was used to hypothesize reasons for the high life-form diversity in the Sierra Nevada. Compared to the Cascade, Olympic, or Rocky mountain ranges, the summer environmental regime in the Sierra Nevada is warmer and drier, factors that favor life forms with short growth periods. Another reason for the high numbers of species possessing these life forms at treeline in the Sierra Nevada is the proximity to an additional source area. Almost one-half of the treeline annuals and ephemeral perennials are Sierran endemics. In the Sierra Nevada, species of these life forms that occur above treeline have broad altitudinal distributions, mainly extending into the montane coniferous forest zone. Most are not species from the desert as suggested by their floristic origins and by the low abundance of these high-altitude species in montane sagebrush communities as demonstrated by vegetation sampling along an altitudinal gradient. Geographical and altitudinal distributions of annuals and ephemeral perennials therefore suggest that their relative abundance above treeline in the Sierra Nevada is due partially to an additional source of pre-adapted species with Pacific coastal affinities. It can also be attributed to unusually favorable summer conditions in the Sierran alpine zone, suggesting that the failure of montane species to survive under the more stressful environmental regime at treeline, rather than failure to arrive in the alpine zone, may explain the rareness of these life forms in most alpine areas.
10.2307/1551777|Numbers and lengths of snow patches above 600 m altitude in northeast Scotland were recorded in summer and autumn during the period 1974-1989, and were compared with regional climate in those years. The number of patches and their total length declined from July to October and varied between years. Only two patches survived through the study. Both number and total length were strongly related to winter and spring temperature and to amounts of snow-drift. Areal density of patches increased with altitude up to 1200 m but decreased sharply on the exposed hill tops above this altitude. The direction of snow-drift affected the distribution of patches among slopes of different aspect. Most patches faced northeast or southeast, the same aspect as most corries. In summer, the previous months' climate had little effect on the number or total length of patches in the following month, or on the rate of loss between months. Patch losses in most summers followed a negative exponential decay curve. Our results indicate that summer snow patches are a useful short-term integrative index of climate change.
10.2307/1550844|Uphill-facing scarps and surface ruptures on Gamma Ridge cut late-Pleistocene and Holocene tephra layers. Tephrochronologic dating of two scarps and two eroded slip faces indicates that one formed more recently than 11,200 yr BP, two formed more recently than 5100 yr BP, and one has probably formed within the last few hundred years. Episodic Holocene rock creep and gravitational spreading of Gamma Ridge may have occurred during times of alpine glacial retreat and debuttressing of the ridge flanks. This process does not appear to have occurred as a consequence of paleoseismic events.
10.2307/1551169| Air temperatures and soil moisture percentages were measured below forest canopies along an environmental gradient in the White Mountains of New Hampshire, U.S.A. The following gradients of decline with altitude were estimated from these data: within-forest air temperature, growing degree-days (0C base), and potential and actual evapotranspiration. These gradients provide a basis for the development of predictors for rates of ecologically significant phenomena such as water balance, net primary production, and decomposition rates. 
10.2307/1550984|Over the past decade incoming shortwave solar radiation has been recorded during the summer months at several locations on the Cumberland Peninsula of Baffin Island. Analysis of the resulting data indicates transmittances on the order of 50%, or slightly higher than values reported for Frobisher Bay in southern Baffin Island. Interstation variability, expressed by the coefficient of variability, is found to be higher than has been reported for comparable interstation distances in other regions, confirming that the varied topography of eastern Baffin Island results in a complex regional radiation climate.
10.2307/1550516| In the southwest Yukon Territory rock glaciers of both the glacier debris system type and the talus type are common. In addition there are many examples of the transition between glaciers and the glacier-ice-cored type of feature. The glacier-ice-cored forms characteristically develop within or emanate from cirque basins where the formation of a complete debris cover of the glacier surface has been possible. Flow of these rock glaciers is due to periods of glacier advance with some secondary deformation of the ice under the debris cover after the retreat of the glacier. This secondary deformation accounts for movements measured at the present day. Comparisons are made among an ice-cored moraine system, a transitional form, and a large glacier-ice-cored rock glacier. The different flow lobes of the Grizzly Creek Rock Glacier indicate a number of periods of glacier activity in post Pleistocene times which may fit with the Denton and Karln Holocene fluctuation model. 
10.2307/1550742|A model of irradiance partitioning in vegetation canopies was tested using PAR irradiance profiles measured in dwarf birch canopies near Eagle Summit, Alaska. Leaf and stem area indices were between 1.4 and 3.9 m
10.2307/1550195|Aerial photographs taken in 1961, 1964, and 1965 have provided evidence of drainage and morphological changes of a small sandur and have allowed measurements of some of these changes by photogrammetric methods. Some parts of the sandur surface were lowered by the wastage of buried ice and the development of kettle holes between 1961 and 1965, but other parts of the sandur increased in altitude. The areas that had increased in altitude can be explained in terms of the drainage of an ice-dammed lake and the associated increase in discharge and sediment load of the meltwater stream which crossed the sandur surface after the 1961 photography was taken but which had abandoned the sandur before the 1965 photography was taken.
10.2307/1550380| This paper presents data on the influence of physical and chemical properties of the forest floor, and moisture and temperature on respiration rates in birch and aspen forest floors in central Alaskan Boreal forests. Physical and chemical properties of birch and aspen forest floors did not differ sufficiently to cause significant differences in forest floor respiration between the two vegetation types. Minimum forest floor moisture contents of 20 to 50% in aspen and 20 to 70% in birch produced marked decreases in forest floor respiration rates. This effect was greatest at 1 and 5C where respiration dropped to zero. During periods of adequate moisture litter respiration rates were approximately 5 to 10 times greater at 20C than at 1C. Maximum average respiration rates during the experimental period, obtained at 30C, were approximately 0.05, 0.20, and > 0.30 g CO
10.2307/1550572| A model of physical processes of heat transfer through vegetation canopies and soil was developed for the tundra and tested with data from the wet coastal tundra near Point Barrow, Alaska. The total leaf area index of the canopy was varied by clipping and adding dead material to different plots. Air and soil temperatures were monitored continuously in the growing season to validate the model. Calculated air and soil temperatures were within 1C of the measured temperatures through the profiles. Calculated and observed depths of thaw were usually within 0.01 m through the season. Deviations were greatest during a period of snow. Sensitivity analyses indicated that the important variables and processes, many difficult to measure, are those relating to evaporation from the wet moss surface under the canopy. 
10.2307/1551992| Pollen and plant-macrofossil data are presented for two lakes near the timberline in the Italian (Lago Basso, 2250 m) and Swiss Central Alps (Gouill Rion, 2343 m). The reforestation at both sites started at 9700-9500 BP with Pinus cembra, Larix decidua, and Betula. The timberline reached its highest elevation between 8700 and 5000 BP and retreated after 5000 BP, due to a mid-Holocene climatic change and increasing human impact since about 3500 BP (Bronze Age). The expansion of Picea abies at Lago Basso between ca. 7500 and 6200 BP was probably favored by cold phases accompanied by increased oceanicity, whereas in the area of Gouill Rion, where spruce expanded rather late (between 4500 and 3500 BP), human influence equally might have been important. The mass expansion of Alnus viridis between ca. 5000 and 3500 BP probably can be related to both climatic change and human activity at timberline. During the early and middle Holocene a series of timberline fluctuations is recorded as declines in pollen and macrofossil concentrations of the major tree species, and as increases in nonarboreal pollen in the pollen percentage diagram of Gouill Rion. Most of the periods of low timberline can be correlated by radiocarbon dating with climatic changes in the Alps as indicated by glacier advances in combination with palynological records, solifluction, and dendroclimatical data. Lago Basso and Gouill Rion are the only sites in the Alps showing complete palaeobotanical records of cold phases between 10,000 and 2000 BP with very good time control. The altitudinal range of the Holocene treeline fluctuations caused by climate most likely was not more than 100 to 150 m. A possible correlation of a cold period at ca. 7500-6500 BP (Misox oscillation) in the Alps is made with paleoecological data from North America and Scandinavia and a climatic signal in the GRIP ice core from central Greenland 8200 yr ago (ca. 7400 yr uncal. BP). 
10.2307/1550096| Isoglacihypses depicting the glaciation limit in New Zealand closely parallel the crest of the Southern Alps and conform approximately to isohyets of mean annual precipitation. The glaciation limit rises southeastward with a gradient of 19  6 m km
10.2307/1550927| Vascular plant cover is low (5 to 25%) in semidesert communities in the High Arctic. Snow was cored over two plant communities for winter seed rain. Seeds were found roughly in proportion to plant cover in the immediate area. In snow cores sampled over a moss-herb community, 63 diaspores m
10.2307/1551173|Equilibrium-line altitudes (ELAs) are determined for 85 reconstructed late Pleistocene glaciers in the San Juan Mountains of Colorado. Paleo-ELA contours rise broadly from west to east across the range and wrap around the range's central core, where the highest ELA values are found. Detailed comparison of modern and paleosnowline variations within the range is not possible because there are too few modern snow fields. Snow survey data, however, allow comparison of modern snow accumulation patterns with paleo-ELAs. When the effect of elevation on accumulation is removed, modern accumulation patterns bear striking similarity to paleo-ELA patterns, with lowest late Pleistocene ELAs in areas of highest modern snow accumulation and vice versa. Modern accumulation contours show the same west to east gradient and also wrap around the high, dry, central core of the range. Accumulation data suggest that "theoretical" modern ELAs would increase by approximately 600 m across the range, a figure closely comparable to cross-range Pleistocene ELA differences. These similarities suggest that accumulation-season general circulation patterns and moisture sources did not alter greatly between the time of the late Pleistocene glacial maximum and the present. They appear to rule out any strong increase in fall, winter, or spring southeasterly (Gulf of Mexico) flow as a mechanism for enhancement of precipitation in the range.
10.2307/1551898|Changes in the spatial distribution of permafrost in the Ouiatchouane palsa peatland (northern Quebec) were monitored from 1957 to present, using aerial photographs taken in 1957 (starting date) and three field surveys in 1973, 1983, and 1993, respectively. Between 1983 and 1993, palsa degradation occurred at about the same rate as between 1957 and 1983, although minor differences in rate of permafrost decay during the three periods (1957-1973, 1973-1983, 1983-1993) may be attributed in part to misidentification of marginal permafrost landforms. Permafrost degradation appeared to be influenced by height of individual palsas and their location within the peatland. Since 1983, thermokarst ponds have been progressively invaded by sedges and Sphagnum, a situation promoting successional peatland development and palsa formation as suggested by the presence of a small incipient palsa. Although the main geomorphic process at work is palsa degradation, permafrost aggradation is possible under present climatic conditions.
1550149|The geographical term high mountain belt refers to a landscape scenery with certain peculiarities of landscape elements. It originates from Central Europe, where the "Hochgebirge" (Alps, Tatra) rise above the "Mittelgebirge." Between subpolar and equatorial latitudes we meet high mountain landscapes of physiographic and ecological character at very different elevations: Central Europe above 1,600 to 1,700 m; Colorado Rockies above 3,100 to 3,300 m; Cordilleras of southern Peru above 4,500 m; northern Scandinavia in a few hundred metres above sea level. For the determination of the lower limit of high mountain belts three criteria are proposed: (1) the upper timberline; (2) the cold Pleistocene snow line as responsible for the high mountain relief; (3) the lower limit of solifluction or actual periglacial dynamics. The three criteria are discussed and compared for different high mountain ranges. For the upper timberline the world survey of Hermes (1955) is used. The Pleistocene snow line and the actual timberline ascend and descend in the same direction. In extratropical latitudes their distances become greater from humid to arid regions. In areas of high oceanity the upper timberline comes very near to the actual snow line and is more appropriate to the limitation of the high mountain stage. Conversely, in the most arid cores of the continents the snow line rises to its highest elevations (5,000 to above 6,000 m), where tree growth is impossible for coldness and dryness. There only the high mountain relief can be used as the criterion. The lower limit of solifluction in the humid temperate zones coincides rather well with the upper timberline (Alps, Scandinavia, Scotland, Rockies). The Bolivian Cordillera Real is used as an example for tropical high mountains.
10.2307/1550846|The fabric of clasts on a rock glacier on Mount Mestas, Colorado, was assessed using eigenvalue analysis. Orientation and dip of 100 clasts were sampled at 20 sites on the rock glacier, including sites on ridges, furrows, lobe faces, and the side interface. The fabric of each site had a significant preferred orientation although shape varied from cluster through cluster-girdle transition to girdle. Clast imbrication was a function of slope angle; in all instances the angle with the surface was in a position of stability. Clast alignment has a tendency to approach parallel to the trend of surface phenomena, such as ridges and furrows, although the statistical test for this relationship would not support this conclusion. Observed differences in the fabric of a rock glacier and fabrics from glacial till suggest fabric can be used to differentiate mechanics of formation of different phenomena.
10.2307/1551879| This study examines the influence of environmental factors (temperature, light intensity, wind speed, time of day and flowering season, and flower density) on flower visitation activity of insects in a middle alpine area in southwestern Norway. Data were obtained by measuring the environmental factors and simultaneously observing the visitation activity to flowers within squares (1  1 m) for 10-min periods. Flies (Diptera) were the only flower visitors. In a simple linear regression analysis, mean daily temperature best explained the variation in mean daily visitation activity within the squares (R
10.2307/1550062|Four cottongrass tundra communities in Alaska and the Yukon Territory were investigated to determine phytomass components and primary production rates. The cottongrass (Eriophorum vaginatum ssp. spissum) community produces much of its new growth early in the summer, largely because of the early growth of cottongrass. Yearly primary production was estimated to be between 35 and 96 g m
10.2307/1550778|The high-mountain vegetation of the Balkan Peninsula and of the Caucasus are compared. Due to the higher absolute altitude of the Caucasus, there is a greater richness and more abundant variety of its vegetation. Only about 50 to 60 species are established to be common to high mountains of both regions, and the greater part of these are widely distributed arctic-alpine taxons. On the level of genera and of the ecology of major formations, there are many analogies and similarities resulting from the common origin of the flora of the two regions which derives from the ancient Mediterranean. At the species and plant-association level, in contrast, great differences and high endemism mark the high-mountain species and communities of each region. This results from their ancient isolation. Only three formations with common dominants are found in the higher mountain vegetation belts: Festucetum variae, Nardetum strictae, and Eriophoretum vaginati. For the Balkan Peninsula, the subalpine belt of dwarf-pine elfin-wood formations is characteristic (except Greece). In the Caucasus they are entirely absent, being replaced by birch crook-stem forests with an undergrowth of Rhododendron spp. which, in turn, are not found in the Balkan Peninsula. This indicates a close connection between the Caucasus and the Himalayas. The upper forest belt in each region consists of vicarious species of the same arboreous genera. Three schemes are given here for the comparison of the vegetative cover: Scheme 1 for the high-mountain belts of the humid, central part of the Balkan Peninsula and the northwest Caucasus; Scheme 2 for the dry, high-mountain regions--karstic terrain in the Balkan Peninsula and interior, dry valleys in the Caucasus; Scheme 3 for the east slopes within the Submediterranean Zone (with subtropical vegetation in the lower belts)--in central Greece and the Caucasian Hyrcanian province.
10.2307/1551645|The effects of hydraulics, sediment supply, channel condition, and riparian vegetation on stream development were examined in a chronosequence of five streams in Glacier Bay National Park where rapid retreat of glacial ice has exposed landscapes of different ages within a confined region. The youngest stream, Wolf Point Creek (deglaciated around 1955), is fed by a remnant glacier and had the highest suspended sediment concentrations of all streams (103-111 mg L
10.2307/1550298|A revised map of marine limit elevations and the amount of postglacial rebound in the area formerly covered by the Laurentide ice sheet has been produced in color at a scale of 1:30 million for "The National Atlas of Canada" and is included in this paper. The map is compared with others published in 1892, 1918, 1934, and 1962. Because of the scale factor, detailed research is unlikely to alter the main features of the map but it is stressed that detailed mapping of marine limits is a powerful and sensitive tool for deciphering local deglacial histories. Such local studies, combined with the mapping of lower significant strandlines and their dating by
10.2307/1550647|The applications of NOAA and Landsat imagery for monitoring and mapping sea-ice breakup and freezeup are discussed. In particular, the results of studies using imagery collected over Canadian Arctic seas during July to November, 1975 through 1977, are presented in three maps. The maps indicate important features of areal and temporal variations in processes of sea-ice deformation and growth. This study has shown that much information concerning sea-ice breakup and freezeup can be obtained by combined use of NOAA and Landsat imagery. Moreover, it is suggested that satellite imagery could be used in obtaining long-term sea-ice statistical data which are necessary for climatological modeling and future planning of navigation as well as offshore gas and oil exploration in Arctic Canada.
10.2307/1551748|The potential impact of global warming on sea-level rise in the Hudson Bay area was examined. Land-based ice melt and thermal expansion of ocean waters were compared to isostatic rebound rates. Thermal expansion was estimated using a one-dimensional analysis and a three-dimensional world ocean general circulation model. It was found that the combined impact on sea-level rise of land-based ice melt and thermal expansion of the world ocean was the same order of magnitude as the sea-level fall rates due to isostatic rebound. Thus, there is the possibility of a cessation or reversal of sea-level fall in the Hudson Bay area in the next 100 yr.
10.2307/1550406|Seven soils belonging to four soil orders are described from the Prudhoe Bay area, Alaska. The soils and their associated land-forms, macro- and micro-, have been strongly conditioned by the progression of events related to the thaw-lake cycle. Pergelic Cryoborolls (Mollisols) occur on pingos and some high center polygons. Their thick mollic epipedons were produced, for the most part, in organic materials reworked in the bed of the lake from which the pingo originated. Less well drained Mollisols, Pergelic Cryaquolls, are found on slopes marginal to drainages, some interfluves and high center polygons, and occasionally on the rims of well-developed low center polygons. Histic Pergelic Cryaquepts (Inceptisols) and Pergelic Cryohemists and Cryofibrists (Histosols) are commonly associated with drained lake basins and low center polygon terrain. The Histosols may be the products of long stable conditions which permitted the development of thick peaty deposits or their organic material may represent the products of present vegetation laid down on old reworked organic materials of the former lake. Pergelic Cryaquepts are common in areas lacking reworked organic materials in relatively recently drained lake basins and on some floodplains. Elevation of areas of reworked organic materials to better drained positions by the processes of thermokarst and thermal erosion or by uplift of polygon rims due to expansion of their underlying ice wedges results in oxidation of the mineral-rich organic materials and in many cases the production of a mollic epipedon. Sand dunes and low river terraces are sites of Entisols--Pergelic Cryopsamments and Pergelic Cryorthents, respectively.
10.2307/1551594|Debris transport by snow avalanches in the front ranges of the Himalaya in northern Pakistan is described using estimates of sediment concentration in avalanche snow deposits. Data were collected from two end-of-season avalanche deposits in Kaghan Valley. Sediment concentration estimates and measurements of avalanche deposit volumes are used to produce estimates of total sediment load. From these, deposit area accretion values of 0.74 and 0.21 mm for the two deposits representing the 1986/87 avalanche season are derived.
10.2307/1550779|The altitudinal vegetation belts of Japan are divided into four: (1) the hilly belt, (2) the montane belt, (3) the subalpine belt, and (4) the alpine belt. In Central Japan, the montane belt occurs between elevations of 500 to 1500 m, the subalpine belt, between 1500 to 2500 m, and the alpine belt, over 2500 m. In winter, the Japan Sea side of the islands has heavy snow accumulation in contrast to the Pacific side which is snow-free. The effects of strong monsoon winds upon the vegetation on the ridges and summits through the silver thaw phenomenon above the snow surface may be observed. On the other hand, the effects of snow accumulation in protecting vegetation from low temperatures are noticeable in the valleys and on the mountain slopes. The vegetation in the alpine and subalpine belts, therefore, does not only depend upon altitude, but also upon geographical position. This is demonstrated by a cross section along a line from the Japan Sea coast to the Pacific coast. Distributions and lifeforms of Sasa kurilensis, S. palmata, S. paniculata, S. nipponica, and Sasamorpha purpurascens show a clear contrast between the Japan Sea side and the Pacific side. This contrast is caused by the differences in depth and duration of snow cover, the number of days with clear weather, sunshine hours, and prevailing wind directions.
10.2307/1550699|Terrestrial and aquatic environments on Richards Island (Mackenzie Delta) were classified by a computer-implemented pattern recognition technique using LANDSAT (formerly ERTS) data. A clustering sampling procedure applied to a portion of the area divided the data into groups of sample points of similar spectral characteristics. These cluster groups were used as reference or training samples in the classification of each data point on Richards Island into one of 22 spectral classes (14 terrestrial and 8 aquatic). The description of the cluster classes and the evaluation of the classification accuracy were based on data collected at the ground truth sites. The maximum overall classification accuracy was 88%.
10.2307/1551562|In western Montana the presence of active weather stations, snowpack monitoring sites, and modern glaciers allows the regionalization of summer temperature and winter precipitation data through trend surface analysis, and their comparison to the location of modern glaciers and the morphology of their cirques. Summer temperatures at 71 sites are well explained (80%) by a trend surface based on altitude, longitude, and latitude. In contrast, winter precipitation at 261 sites shows coherent residuals to a weaker (65%) regression on those variables. The residuals show the importance of local windflow and regional moisture sources in controlling precipitation. A trend surface on equilibrium-line altitudes (ELAs) of 88 modern cirque glaciers explains 92% of the variance with latitude and longitude alone. Cool moist air, as recognized in the climatic data, controls present glacier elevations. The residuals to the trend reflect control of cirque glacier elevation by local windflow (7-64%), cirque orientation (20-30%), and backwall height (0-60%). Glaciers in Montana persist at higher summer temperatures for a given winter precipitation than most glaciers worldwide, a difference which can be explained by the minimal longwave radiation inputs and sensible heat available from warm, but dry continental air. Regression of ELAs against the estimated temperature/precipitation relationship yields consistent residuals which can be explained in part (13-36%) by cirque orientation and backwall height.
10.2307/1551340| Measurements of diurnal frost heave and ground temperature were conducted on a humid debris slope in the Sr-Rondane Mountains, an inland ice-free area of East Antarctica. In the antarctic midsummer of 1987, diurnal freeze-thaw activity frequently occurred to form a diurnal active layer, the thickness of which had an influence on the amount of diurnal frost heave. Refreezing just after a thaw of more than 8 cm in depth produced a visible heave (0.2 mm), when the frozen layer seems to be supersaturated through water migration from the active layer. Further increase in the thaw depth also results in an increase in the amount of heave. The maximum heave (1.8 mm) during the measurement period occurred after the period of maximum thaw (15 cm in depth). Simple calculation based on cumulative diurnal frost heave in this period predicts the maximum potential frost creep rate on a 20 slope of about 5 to 7 mm yr
10.2307/1550559| Observations are reported of the morphology and processes on debris slopes in Home Bay and northern Cumberland Peninsula regions of east Baffin Island. The area is block-faulted, heavily glaciated Precambrian gneiss and migmatite. The climate is marine Arctic. Accumulations range from debris mantles on bedding plane slopes, through conical and sheet talus, to slopes on which snow avalanche or water flow has modified features. The classification of Rapp is extended to encompass these forms. Other features include protalus debris accumulations, and "talus rock glaciers." Most slopes are planar-concave, with mean unconstrained angles in the range 30 to 38 (mode at 32 to 33): few slopes appear to be near failure. Size gradation of material occurs downslope: size distribution of material also changes, with Rosin-type distributions near the top and log-normal distributions farther down. Below the surface is a matrix of fines. Size distributions of rock lichens suggest that activity on these debris slopes has been greater in the recent past than at present. Observations of material delivery and slope stability at Ekalugad Fiord reveal that rockfall is the primary rock delivery mechanism, though dirty snow avalanches are also significant. Rock release appears to be associated principally with the seasonal "freeze-burst-thaw" cycle in water-filled joints and fractures. Material is transferred and rearranged on the slope by impact scattering, creep and settlement, and minor slumps and slides. A concluding discussion compares observations from east Baffin Island with the assumptions and results of models for debris slope development. 
10.2307/1550099|Heating fuel consumption and sealskin yields are considered in relation to climatic conditions for the eastern Baffin Island settlement of Broughton Island over the period 1971 to 1973. Fuel use is an indicator of seasonal severity of climate. Consumption of 0.06 to 0.10 gal per heating degree-day was found for the typical family dwelling. Climate is now less important to the harvest of seals, the yield being largely determined by the price offered and alternative employment opportunities.
10.2307/1552131|We compared 22 pedons derived from silty materials in moist nonacidic tundra (MNT) and moist acidic tundra (MAT) in the arctic foothills of the 9200-km
10.2307/1551536|Measurements and observations of lake ice movements and lacustrine shore modifications were made in 1986 and 1987 on Lake Kussharo in eastern Hokkaido, Japan. The survey results of lake ice movements showed that lake ice moved toward the shore in the daytime and away from the shore at night; the net movement of lake ice for the entire period when active ice movement repeatedly occurred was about 3 m, and its direction was shoreward. The survey results of lacustrine shore modifications, i.e., the survey of shore profiles and the observation on the cross section of typical ice-made rampart, showed that as an ice-made rampart grows, the landing types of lake ice changes in order from "horizontal thrust" (an ice plate or a frozen soil slab horizontally thrusts against the shore in the same direction as its surface) to "overthrust" (an ice plate or a frozen soil slab thrusts up onto the shore) and then to "intrusion" (an ice plate or a frozen soil slab intrudes into the shore).
10.2307/1550868|Grain-size parameters (mean, standard deviation, kurtosis, skewness, and delta variate) are used to describe the character of eolian infall to the alpine zone of the Indian Peaks section of the Colorado Front Range, U.S.A., in 1980 and 1981. Sample sites, the central sections of seasonal snowpatches, were arrayed in a four-by-five matrix which permitted the data to be agglomerated in four west-east profiles of differing topographic nature [ridge crest, valley side (north), valley bottom (headwall), and valley side (south)] or as a series of five north-south cross-sections of the Green Lakes Valley with increasing distance from the Continental Divide. The ridge crest received statistically significant finer materials than the valley bottom and valley side (south) in 1980, but the pattern was not repeated in 1981. In general, the upper valley, although closer to the Continental Divide, received finer material than the lower valley. Although the samples exhibited some local, mesoscale variability this appears to be secondary and the emergent picture in both years is of a thoroughly homogenized, silt-rich deposit of relatively uniform grain-size falling onto the entire alpine zone.
10.2307/1551973| We enriched cold-adapted diesel-oil-degrading microorganisms (inocula) from 29 alpine habitats (soils and glaciers) and evaluated the biodegradation of diesel oil at low temperatures. All microbial inocula tested utilized diesel oil (5000 mg L
10.2307/1550683|A system of end and lateral moraines, extending from near Frobisher, Baffin Island, to the west of the Penny Ice Cap, and roughly parallel to the fiord heads of the northeast coast to Bernier Bay, was identified in the 1960s and given the name "Cockburn end-moraine system." Since then the name "Cockburn" has been used in conjunction with several distinct types of stratigraphic units and landform assemblages. The three main uses are (1) Cockburn end-moraine system, Cockburn moraines. Cockburn Moraine, which are all morphostratigraphic units; (2) Cockburn Stade, which is a geologic-climatic unit; and (3) Cockburn Glacial Phase, which was originally defined as occurring between 8000 and 9000 radiocarbon years ago, and which is, therefore, a chronostratigraphic unit. Thus there is an ambiguity in present usage that has developed over the last 15 yr as knowledge of the glacial morphology and stratigraphy of the eastern Canadian Arctic has expanded. In this paper an attempt is made to reduce this ambiguity by preparing new definitions. Cockburn Substage. A chronostratigraphic division of the Holocene Series based upon radiocarbon-dated sediments between 8000 and 9000 BP. Analysis of available radiocarbon dates, all on marine shells, indicates that the original definition of the "Cockburn Glacial Phase" is sufficiently within the possible margin of dating errors and stratigraphic content to warrant retention of the time span prior to the disintegration of the Laurentide ice sheet and entry of the sea into Hudson Bay. Many major moraines were deposited during that period and in places the Laurentide ice sheet may have readvanced to reach its maximum late-glacial extent. Moraines deposited between 8000 and 9000 BP can properly be referred to as "moraines of Cockburn age." Baffinland Drift. This litho- / morphostratigraphic unit replaces "Cockburn end-moraine system," as originally described, and synonymous terms. The Baffinland Drift includes the complex of moraines, till, outwash deposits, and glaciomarine deposits that together form the recognizable and mappable unit paralleling the fiord heads of northeastern Baffin Island. It can be differentiated from older Quaternary units on air photographs by freshness of topographic expression and a general absence of solifluction features and large-scale patterned ground. The type region for the Baffinland Drift is defined as the fiord heads between Iterbilung and Cambridge fiords; the type area is the inner reaches of Sam Ford Fiord. The youngest glaciomarine units within the Baffinland Drift are radiocarbon dated at between 5000 and 6000 BP. The moraines of Cockburn age (8000 to 9000 BP) are found within the Baffinland Drift on Baffin Island. Correlative units, such as the MacAlpine Moraine of north central Keewatin, and the moraines fringing the west coast of Melville Peninsula, were formed during a period of Laurentide ice sheet stillstand and / or readvance that had been preceded by and was followed by, periods of rapid retreat, thus contrasting with events along the northeastern perimeter of the ice sheet on Baffin Island. The use of terms such as "Cockburn Moraines" or "Cockburn end-moraines" should be discontinued. Individual morainic ridges need to be mapped, named, and correlated, either by direct field mapping or by reference to radiocarbon dated glaciomarine facies. Kangilo Substage (5000 to 8000 BP) and Remote Lake Substage (9000 to 10,000 BP) are defined as subdivisions, along with Cockburn Substage, of the Holocene.
10.2307/1552044|As an ecological boundary zone, the forest-tundra ecotone is a valuable location to study the initial response of vegetation to global climate change. The purpose of this study is to predict the potential response of the forest-tundra ecotone in Rocky Mountain National Park to future climate change using data on historical episodes of establishment in patch forest openings of the forest-tundra ecotone. We hypothesized that recent seedling establishment in patch forest openings of the forest-tundra ecotone, not balanced by mortality, was triggered by a warm, but wet period following the end of the Little Ice Age ca. A.D. 1850. At four sampling locations distributed throughout the Park, we determined dates of establishment among patch forest trees using increment cores and basal disks. We studied the relationship between establishment dates in relation to historical climate records using t-tests and logistic regression. In Rocky Mountian National Park, tree invasion in patch forest openings is episodic in nature, concentrated between 1951-1964, and is not balanced by mortality, suggesting more than a short-term change in the ecotone. On the basis of the climate record, t-tests, and logistic models, we concluded that both high temperatures and high snow depths must occur simultaneously for several years in order to generate climatic conditions suitable for tree establishment. The historic climate record indicates that a warmer and wetter period occurred during the 1950s and 1960s, but climate data are unavailable before 1880. According to proxy climate records, it appears that the regional climate of the southern Rocky Mountain region has been both warmer and wetter since the end of the Little Ice Age (ca. A.D. 1350-1850). We conclude that these climatic conditions may be related to the tree invasion we observed in patch forest openings of Rocky Mountain National Park.
10.2307/1551478| An analysis of soil temperature data from the Fort Simpson CDA climatological station and from two nearby sites at Manner's Creek on the Norman Wells pipeline in the Mackenzie Valley, Canada, is used to examine the sensitivity of the northern environment to changes in land use. One site along the pipeline was located on the disturbed right-of-way and the other was adjacent to it in the undisturbed natural vegetation. The data from adjacent pipeline sites quantify the increase in soil temperature and in the depth of thaw which resulted from disturbing the natural vegetative and the organic mat in this discontinuous permafrost zone. Between 1988 and 1991 the 150 cm soil temperature remained below 0C at the undisturbed site but reached a high of 3.9C at the disturbed site. Numerical models are used to gain insight into the changes in the soil thermal regime and to demonstrate the accuracy of a simplified diffusion-based soil temperature model in fitting the mean annual soil temperature cycle at the 20-, 50-, and 100-cm depth. The data suggest a continuing warming trend along the pipeline right-of-way over the period from 1988 to 1991. There was no corresponding increase in the soil temperature at the adjacent undisturbed site. 
10.2307/1551647|The climate of Niwot Ridge is described using monthly and annual mean temperatures and monthly and annual total precipitation values for the period 1951 to 1985 and comparable precipitation values for the nearby Silver Lake station from 1915. Summary statistics and water budget values are presented. Time series analysis indicates abnormally low temperatures in the early 1980s and an overall downward trend in temperature. Autoregressive moving average forecasting models and spectral analysis hint at some cyclicity in the data series of annual values of both temperature and precipitation. Silver Lake annual precipitation data show only a slight downward trend when the extremely high value for the year of 1921 is excluded. Implications of these changes for the alpine tundra ecosystem are briefly discussed.
10.2307/1551357|Alaska's wetland resources are vast and the literature dealing directly with any given aspect of Alaskan wetland hydrology is sparse. This review focuses on hydrological function and pays particular attention to (1) hydrologic inputs to and outputs from wetlands, and (2) the influence of wetlands on peak flow regulation. The influence of several characteristic high-latitude phenomena (permafrost, glaciers, and seasonal stream icings) on the overall water balance and the volume, areal distribution, rate, and timing of water release are discussed. We find that (1) measured annual precipitation exceeds calculated annual evapotranspiration in most areas of the state, creating conditions suitable for the development of ombrotrophic wetlands; (2) during snowmelt, which is the principal event in the annual hydrologic cycle in most areas of the state, wetland soils typically have high ice contents, and thus probably do not contribute significantly to either flood storage or groundwater recharge, and (3) the existence of permafrost is critical to the existence and functioning of much of the areal extent of wetlands in the state. The implications of the state of our current understanding of Alaskan wetland hydrology for wetlands management are discussed.
10.2307/1551765| A 9-yr study (1983-1991) was carried out in Thjrsrver, central highland of Iceland, to investigate the seasonal and annual dynamics of frozen ground and explore the relationship with environmental factors. The presence/absence of frozen ground and active layer thickness were recorded three times over the growing season (4-7 July, 1-4 August, and 20-24 August) at 51 permanent points in different plant communities and on 12 palsas. There were large annual fluctuations in the proportion of frozen ground, varying from about 20-100% in 4-7 July and from 0-50% in 20-24 August. The incidence of frozen ground in early summer was related to conditions in the previous early winter. The combination of a wet (high water availability) and mild weather (allowing percolation) in September to November may maximize soil moisture content at the onset of winter, facilitating frost penetration through higher conductivity of wet rather than dry soil, and lead to widespread frozen ground in early July. In contrast to frozen ground, active layer depth showed very little annual variation. This indicates that much of the frozen ground melts from below. Widespread frozen ground in early August was primarily associated with a dry July although a correlation with cold weather in July was also found. Both indicate the importance of water in melting seasonally frozen ground, probably by heat transported by flowing groundwater. The wide annual variation in frozen ground incidence in late August supports earlier notions about the marginal nature of permafrost in Iceland. The results indicate that changes in the amount and seasonal pattern of precipitation may be more important than summer temperatures in influencing the aggradation and degradation of permafrost in the central highland of Iceland. 
10.2307/1551985|Active-layer thickness was mapped over a 26,278-km
10.2307/1550131|Data from several relative age-dating methods were collected on rock glacier debris mantles to test the usefulness of each in assigning a relative age to various parts of the mantles. Lichens, rock weathering, and soils provide the best information on age. No single method is adequate to differentiate all the deposits, most of which have been formed within the past 20,000 to 30,000 years. Each method has an ages to the Neoglacial deposits. The Neoglacial- of each method differs. Lichen data, specifically Rhizocarpon geographicum s.l. size, percentage of total lichen cover, and species composition provide the best information for assigning ages to the Neoglacial deposits. The Neoglacial-Pinedale break is recognized from a much thicker surface deposit of loess, thicker and more common rock weathering rinds, and greater soil development on Pinedale deposits relative to early Neoglacial deposits. The Pinedale-Bull Lake break was not satisfactorily recognized in many places. Where exposures are present, however, the granitic rocks in the weathered zone in Pinedale deposits are fresh whereas a substantial number of those in Bull Lake deposits are grusified.
10.2307/1552106| The annual thermal cycle in the active layer above permafrost can be divided in to four distinct thermal regimes. Each regime is uniquely characterized by the dominating effects of different heat-transfer processes. In chronological order beginning just after snowmelt, these are the active layer thaw regime in spring and summer, the zero curtain regime in early winter, the winter freezing regime, and the snowmelt regime. Snowmelt is followed by renewed active layer thaw in spring to continue the cycle. The effects of nonconductive heat-transfer were detected in the near-surface permafrost at two continuous permafrost sites using apparent thermal diffusivity estimates, a moving window fractal dimension filter, a Hurst Exponent filter, and temperature-solute concentration or bit mapping. These time series transformations also signal seasonal regime transitions, with trace patterns similar to those observed in the active layer. The phase change and coupled-flow processes operative within the active layer strongly modulate the surface climate signal; these effects are observed extending to a depth of at least 1 m--well into the underlying permafrost. In the near-surface permafrost, there is a narrow temperature zone just below 0C in which coupled-flow effects are pronounced. At colder temperatures, coupled-flow effects are detectable although pure massive ice layers appear to be an effective local barrier against this mode of heat transport. 
10.2307/1550723|Psyllids--small, pholem-feeding insects--were collected from the vegetation at 23 sites along a transect across arctic and subarctic Alaska, from the arctic coast at Prudhoe Bay to Fairbanks. Seventeen psyllid species were collected from willows (Salix spp.); nine additional species were collected from other host plants. The Salix-feeding psyllids extend nearly to the arctic coast, and are as rich in species in arctic as in subarctic Alaska. The richness of psyllid species on other host plants increases from the arctic to the subarctic portions of the transect, and increases further in Alaska south of the transect. Holarctic and Amphi-Beringean species dominate the psyllid fauna of the arctic; Nearctic species dominate the subarctic and more southerly areas. Comparable distribution patterns are seen in the psyllid fauna of Fennoscandia.
10.2307/1551435|Snowpack characteristics of an open meadow habitat were examined by students of the Teton Science School's Winter Ecology Course. Characteristics evaluated are inherent in snowpacks throughout circumpolar regions. Snowpits were sampled for 9 yr on a north-facing slope, a valley bottom, and a south-facing slope (situated in the same locations all years). Snow was deepest on the north-facing slope and shallowest on the valley bottom each year. Snowpack thermal index values less than 200 in some years in the valley bottom and on the south-facing slope indicated a possible failure to provide temperature buffering of the nivean environment. Despite lower air temperatures, ground temperatures of the north-facing slope snowpits appear to be higher than the other two aspects, especially in colder years. Temperature gradient snow (TG, depth hoar, or pukak) was well developed in all years for all aspects. We speculate that the depth of formation of cohesionless TG crystals has been sufficient for small mammal movement beneath the snow in all years. Snowpacks with little temperature buffering capability (indicated by low thermal indices), however, may discourage usage of certain locations by mobile mammals in some years. Fluctuating ground temperatures may also influence plant species composition and distribution beneath the snowpack.
10.2307/1550175| The surface energy balance of an alpine tundra in the Front Range of Colorado is determined for the summer season 1973. The problems of using conventional flux-profile relationships to estimate the turbulent fluxes over an alpine tundra are discussed. Because of the massive advection of cool dry air and heterogeneity of the surface, these one-dimensional models must be discarded. An empirical formula for evapotranspiration is derived for the Niwot Ridge site from lysimeter measurements of the vapor flux and vertical profiles of humidity and temperature. The average partition of energy was as follows: Net radiation 298 cal  cm
10.2307/1551802|Continuous measurements of the energy balance components were made during the 1991 growing season over a willow-birch forest located near Churchill, Manitoba, Canada. On the basis of measurements of leaf area index, the growing season was divided into three distinct periods: growth, mature, and senescence. Changes in surface albedo were strongly correlated with changing leaf area index during the growth period with albedo increasing as leaf area increased. The latent heat flux density, Q
10.2307/1550514|Termini fluctuations for glaciers in the Himalayas and Trans-Himalayas are examined for the period AD 1850 to 1960. This period can be characterized as one of general retreat. Differentiation by geographic subdivision, however, reveals that Himalayan glaciers (best exemplified in Lahaul-Spiti, Kolahoi, Nanga Parbat, and Garwhal) show consistent retreat throughout the period, while Trans-Himalayan glaciers (best exemplified on the north side of the Karakoram and in Batura Mustagh and Rakaposhi-Haramosh) deviate from this pattern by displaying a major period of advance from AD 1890 to 1910. Although no apparent relationship exists between the magnitude of termini advances and glacier lengths, termini retreat records are commonly characterized by short- to medium-length glaciers (<30 km). Termini advances are, however, related to flow direction; advancing termini most commonly face east, southeast, northwest, and west. Glaciers characterized predominantly by retreat flow commonly, but not exclusively, east and southeast. Advances of Trans-Himalayan glaciers during the period AD 1890 to 1910 are attributed to strengthened monsoon wind currents and to secular variations in Indian rainfall. Such changes in the general atmospheric circulation, implied by climatic data, produce subsequent increases of moisture influx to the Asian land mass.
10.2307/1550657|Fourteen years (1961 through 1974) of synoptic weather charts for June through August were examined along with available meteorological and glaciological data from the northwest region of Devon Island ice cap, N.W.T., Canada. Use of a simple synoptic classification system facilitated investigation of the manner in which summer synoptic conditions control mass-balance fluctuations on the ice cap. Dominance of the Baffin Bay Cyclone suppresses melt and often results in solid precipitation. Cyclonic systems tracking into the region from elsewhere may also contribute to summer snow accumulation on the ice cap, but when the warm sector of such a system intrudes north of Devon Island substantial melt occurs on the ice cap and outlet glaciers. Sporadic anticyclonic periods produce proportionally more melt on the valley glaciers than over the ice cap but prolonged periods of anticyclonic blocking and warm air advection result in highly negative massbalance conditions. A season dominated by anticyclonic conditions and the accompanying northward shift of the Arctic Front is capable of erasing the positive mass balance of five seasons dominated by the Baffin Bay Cyclone.
10.2307/1551813| Seed bank sizes of two alpine plant communities in the Central Alps with differing substrates and of one subarctic alpine site were estimated on the basis of the emergence of seedlings. Estimates of seed bank size to 5 cm depth were 1350  177 and 1521  236 seedlings m
10.2307/1551051| A time series of ring-width indices from 27 cores of 13 white spruce trees (Picea glauca [Moench] Voss) from Yukon Territory shows growth response to summer temperatures and other climatic variables. The correlations with various temperature parameters are high enough that past temperature information can be inferred for the last 400 yr. The highest simple correlation is between tree growth and total degree-days above 10C for June and July. A substantial moisture stress in the trees towards the end of the growing season is also indicated. The chronology shows effects of the "Little Ice Age," of the subsequent NOrthern Hemisphere warming, and of a recent cooling trend. A second time-series of the first amplitude from a principal component analysis of the ring widths yields a better climatic signal than the time series of ring-width indices. These and other temperature-sensitive trees from near the northern tree line are being used in conjunction with improved analytical techniques to reconstruct temperature parameters for high-latitude areas. 
10.2307/1550611|A comparison between the 319 cirques that contain glaciers and a sample of 240 empty cirques in the Rocky Mountains shows that in the present climatic situation, landforms are strong factors in determining the locations of glaciers. An optimum glacier location is a large cirque facing northeast, with a planimetric shape of width greater than length, high steep walls, a pass located to the windward, and a peak to the southwest. Glaciers survive in the present climatic conditions because of a geomorphic feedback system, whereby glaciers are protected by cirque forms that owe their morphology to glacial processes.
10.2307/1551002|Cliffed margins of cold glaciers are common in polar regions and are an important source of meltwater. Because of low sun angles, the cliff face receives more solar radiation than does the upper glacier surface and therefore melts at a faster rate. Ablation of an ice-cliff is particularly enhanced, and melt is initiated early in the season where the cliff impinges against a steep (rock) slope. On subdued ice cliffs which do not calve, differential ablation can form ice terraces, which in turn increase ablation by increasing the area of ice-cliff faces.
10.2307/1551859|A modern moraine complex in front of a small subpolar valley glacier in Svalbard, the Scott Turnerbreen glacier, has been investigated by ground-penetrating radar (GPR) (pulseEKKO IV system). The proglacial area is characterized by low relief ridges, which are concentric about the present ice front, and locally dissected by meltwater channels. Exposures suggest that the moraine sediments consist of mud-rich, debris-flow deposits with outsized clasts (reworked "till"). A profile, oriented parallel with the direction of ice-flow, was measured with 50 and 200 MHz antennae, affording depth penetration of 400 ns TWT (ca. 30 m) and 170 ns TWT (ca. 13 m), respectively. The high resolution of these continuous subsurface radar-profiles (distance between each trace is 50 cm), clearly displays the architecture of the moraine. Three sets of reflectors are observed and interpreted as (1) primary bedding, dipping towards the northeast (downvalley), (2) buried ice-blocks, and (3) numerous thrust faults. The faults, truncating both sediment and ice-blocks, postdate the burying of the ice, and are attributed to proglacial shear by the Scott Turnerbreen glacier. Thus, the present-day morphology of this low-relief moraine is controlled primarily by zones of intense thrust faults and secondarily by the position of the ice blocks.
10.2307/1550360|Dendrochronology, tephrochronology, and lichenometry, together with geological evidence establish a chronology of glacier fluctuations during Neoglaciation in the Dome Peak area. Tree-ring counts proved to be the most satisfactory method for dating moraines. Dated W and Y ash layers in the Dome Peak area made it possible to assign limiting ages to some glacial deposits. Lichenometry could not be used reliably for absolute dating, but proved useful in relative dating of Neoglacial deposits. The earliest recognized Neoglacial advance in the area was that of South Cascade Glacier about 4,900 years ago. South Cascade, Dana, and Le Conte glaciers reached their Neoglacial maxima in the 16th century and subsequently built moraines in the 19th and 20th centuries. Chickamin Glacier, however, reached its Neoglacial maximum in the 13th century and later built several moraines between the 16th century and the early part of the 20th century. The apparently anomalous behavior of Chickamin Glacier may reflect a steeper profile and higher accumulation area than for the other three glaciers. Glacier fluctuations in the Dome Peak area during the later part of Neoglaciation appear to be broadly synchronous with those elsewhere in the Pacific Northwest and are in agreement with a generalized curve constructed by Porter and Denton (1967). The Neoglacial record, however, is incomplete, for no evidence was found of an early period of glacier expansion about 2,800 to 2,600 years ago, which is well documented in other parts of western North America.
10.2307/1551606|We measured phytoplankton and bacteria stocks and production in subalpine Eastern Brook Lake (Sierra Nevada, California) from August 1986 to November 1987 in order to characterize carbon pools and fluxes of the two biotic components. This paper discusses seasonal interrelationships between microalgae and bacteria; an accompanying paper synthesizes the data, gives ranges for the values, and compares them with data from other high-elevation lakes. Phytoplankton and bacteria responded physiologically to physiochemical variations. In late fall (1986) phytoplankton and bacteria were inversely related--algal parameters declined and bacterial parameters increased--probably because of release of organic matter from algae stressed by low light and temperatures. Bacterial carbon demand increased from 20% of contemporaneous primary production to as high as 260%. This suggests a substantial role of bacteria in lake carbon dynamics. Values > 100% may indicate utilization of algal detritus and/or allochthonous organic matter. Another inverse relationship between chlorophyll levels and bacterial abundance/production occurred under the ice cover in 1987. The bacterivorous alga Dinobryon bloomed, chlorophyll increased, and bacterial parameters decreased. Bacterial production, based on detritus and dissolved organic matter, may have sustained Dinobryon and the lake ecosystem under the ice. In the late spring 1987, algae and bacteria were positively related as all parameters increased from winter conditions.
10.2307/1551684| The Japanese alpine zone, defined as the zone above timberline, is characterized by the presence of Pinus pumila scrub zone. This study shows that Pinus pumila on the Japanese mountains is not an alpine species, but a subalpine one. This conclusion is based on the species' thermal conditions deduced from its distribution in the extensive area including Eastern Siberia. The upper boundary of Pinus pumila scrub is expressed by the 10C mean August temperature, while its lower boundary is the 2C annual mean temperature. The lower boundary of the Japanese alpine zone is delimited not by timberline, but by the scrubline, which means the upper boundary of the Pinus pumila scrub zone occurs on the Chubu mountains higher than 2800 m. The altitudinal position of the lower boundary of the Japanese alpine zone represented by the scrubline compares well with those of the lower boundaries of the European alpine zones in the corresponding latitude. 
10.2307/1551250|Five crown forms of treeline white spruce are used to define open forest, forest-tundra, and tundra regions at Churchill, Manitoba, Canada. Shoot elongation of 25-, 50-, and 100-yr-old open forest trees was studied on a transect through an area of forest succession during 1983. During 1984, shoot elongation of different crown forms was examined relative to ground temperatures, air temperatures, and precipitation. Stem and branch elongation of open forest trees was greatest and occurred over the longest period of time, followed by forest-tundra trees, and tundra trees. The increasing density of spruce in the zone of invading open forest is associated with moss development that moderates the ground temperature, increasing the lower root zone temperature early in the growing season and maintaining lower temperatures in the upper root zone later in the season. Continued moss accumulation coincides with permafrost formation into the root base. On the forest-tundra and tundra, moss development is patchy. Early warming of the peat surface results in drying that impedes heat influx to the lower root zone. The temperatures in the lower root zone appear limiting to forest-tundra trees and restricting to tundra trees at the start of the growing season. Shoot elongation is over before the upper root zone becomes very hot. Treeline crown forms are grouped according to similar patterns of elongation and common types of development. The wind-abraded crown forms are caused by slow growth that leaves a tree exposed to wind effects for a longer period of time.
10.2307/1550408| An attempt to estimate climatic change from the retreat of small mountain glaciers is made for the tropical Carstensz Glacier and Meren Glacier in Irian Jaya, Indonesia. The central flowline of each glacier is modeled with a three-dimensionally parameterized numerical model. The measured net balance is increased by an amount sufficient to grow the modeled glacier to a steady-state length equal to the maximum Neoglacial extent, as determined from terminal moraines. The modeled glacier is then made to retreat by steadily decreasing the mass balance. The mass balance changes applied are of two types: either a shift of the net balance versus elevation curve on the balance axis (an accumulation change), or a shift on the elevation axis (a change in the equilibrium line altitude). While changes in the accumulation are the most likely form of year-to-year variation in the mass balance, a change in the equilibrium line altitude is considered to be the more important perturbation for secular changes in the length of the Mt. Jaya glaciers. The results show that the present day equilibrium line altitude needs to be lowered by 96 m for the Carstenz Glacier to reach a steady state length equivalent to the actual Neoglacial extent, and that the observed retreat rate of the glacier can be well matched by increasing the equilibrium line altitude at a rate of about 80 m/century. The model matches known surface profiles of the glacier at various times and the measured surface velocities as well as the terminus retreat rate. The increase of the equilibrium line altitude at a rate of 80 m/century can be considered, in a first approximation, to be due to an air temperature warming rate of 0.6C/century. There can be no unique solution to the relationship between glacier net balance change and climatic change, but evidence from other sources of a general warming in tropical zones of 0.4 to 0.6C for the last century supports the conclusion that the glacier retreat is due to increasing temperature. 
10.2307/1551878|Dahurian larch (Larix gmelini) growing in the Upper Kolyma region of north-eastern Siberia provide the first tree-ring chronology from this area. Ring widths in this long-lived species are highly correlated (r = 0.33 to 0.62) with average daily maximum temperatures for summer months and weakly correlated with other monthly climate variables. The correlation with summer temperature was sufficiently strong to reconstruct a long (1545-1989) temperature record for a nearby meteorological station at Atka. This reconstruction indicates that temperature during the 20th century has been generally less variable than during much of the past 400 yr. A period of warming from 1910 to 1965 has ended and a cooling trend has prevailed since 1977. Comparison with a Siberian larch (Larix siberica) chronology from the polar Urals reveals decades-long periods of agreement and of disagreement between the two chronologies. These suggest the presence of occasional persistent anomalies in the atmospheric circulation of arctic Asia, which warrant exploration by further dendroclimatic studies in this region.
10.2307/1551465|From March 1982 to March 1983, the subalpine tract of the Bogong High Plains in southeastern Australia was subject to a series of unusual climatic events. Relatively severe frosts occurred during autumn and winter, snow cover during winter was low, and the 1982/83 summer was particularly dry. This combination of frost and drought is the only one recorded over the past 50 yr. The net annual aboveground production of the dominant shrubs from open grassy-heath and closed heath communities ranged from 480 to 830 g m
10.2307/1551570| Inflorescence initiation and development in viviparous Poa alpina L. and seminiferous and viviparous Poa alpigena (Fries) Lindman from Svalbard have been studied in controlled environments. A dual induction requirement was found in all plant types with pronounced effects of photoperiod and temperature. Floral primordia were initiated in short days (SD) at temperatures up to 18C, while at low temperatures (3 to 6C) long days (LD) were equally effective. Normal culm elongation and panicle development were dependent on LD (>17 h), although a few abnormal or stunted panicles were formed in SD as well, with high temperature partially substituting for long photoperiods. In the seminiferous form of P. alpigena (ephemeral) proliferation was induced by marginal induction (primary and secondary) and it was especially stimulated by SD during inflorescence development. In the habitually viviparous plants mixed inflorescences with a high proportion of sexual flowers were induced by saturating induction, primary and secondary induction acting additively. Long days (LD) and high temperature during inflorescence development were especially conductive. Comparison with other temperate perennial grasses are made and the adaptive value of these responses in the arctic environment is discussed with the literature in the field. 
10.2307/1551564|The Toiyabe Range is a prominent north-south-trending range in the Great Basin, a region whose glacial history is poorly known. The most complete sequences of glacial deposits occur in north- and east-trending valleys in the vicinity of Arc Dome, the highest point in the range. In these valleys rock glaciers and small cirque moraines, unbreached by erosion (Group I deposits), lie a few hundred meters or less from cirque headwalls. Thick, hummocky terminal moraines, breached by stream courses but generally well preserved (Group II deposits), lie 2 to 3 km farther downvalley. In a few valleys isolated bodies of till (Group III deposits) extend up to 1 km beyond Group II moraines. Locally reworked tuffaceous sediments recovered from Group I moraines are mostly of Mono Craters (California) origin but contain some Mazama and Inyo Craters glass. At least the Mono Craters glass shards are considered to represent an original airfall deposit, providing a minimum age of ca. 1200 yr BP for Group I deposits. The Toiyabes did not harbor glacier ice during the "Little Ice Age" of the last few centuries. Group II deposits match the physiographic descriptions of and are considered equivalent to Tioga and Angel Lake moraines in the Sierra Nevada and Ruby Mountains, respectively. Group III correlations are uncertain. Weathering comparisons cannot be made to deposits in the other studied ranges because of the welded-tuff lithologies in the Toiyabes. Patina development and cavernous weathering of clasts are distinctly different between Group I deposits and older deposits, but there is little difference between weathering characteristics of Group II and III deposits.
10.2307/1550519|A hydrologic study was made on a small lake (area 0.2 km
10.2307/1550795| Quaternary events interpreted from deposits along the central west coast of Spitsbergen are subdivided and correlated by amino acid enantiomeric ratios in enclosed molluscan fossils. Deposition is characterized by relatively short episodes of rapid sedimentation associated with glacial activity and high relative sea level. Depositional episodes are separated by relatively longer periods of subaerial exposure and pedogenesis. At least five major depositional episodes, each terminated by an emergence cycle, are identified by characteristic isoleucine epimerization ratios (aIle/Ile) in Mya truncata and Hiatella arctica. Absolute age limitations are derived by calibrating the aIle/Ile ratios against radiometrically dated samples and diagnostic faunal communities. Glacial activity and sea-level change are inferred from the facies relationships within each depositional episode. The oldest recognized unit, episode H, is characterized by aIle/Ile Total ratios of 0.15  0.02. At least three emergence cycles and two distinct glacial events are recorded within deposits of this episode. The absolute age is estimated to be between 300 and 1000 ka. The next younger episode, D, is represented at only one site, although reworked shells with the same ratios were also found. Total aIle/Ile ratios are ca. 0.08 and the age is estimated to be between 170 and 480 ka. Deposits of the three youngest depositional episodes, C, B, and A, are widespread throughout the study area, and are characterized by Total aIle/Ile ratios of 0.051  0.006, 0.033  0.0022, and 0.019  0.001, respectively. Episode C deposits represent the last major regional glaciation of the area, an event estimated to have occurred between 90 and 260 ka ago. Episode B deposits are associated with a restricted regional glaciation estimated to have occurred between 40 and 130 ka ago. The associated fauna indicates marine conditions as warm or warmer than present. Episode A deposits are related to a latest Weichselian/earliest Holocene marine transgression/regression cycle during a period of restricted local glacier expansion, ca. 9 to 12 ka ago. These findings place constraints on the timing and extent of Spitsbergen/Barents Sea glacial events. The 18 ka BP open-ocean 18O minimum is not associated with extensive glacierization of the Forlandsund region of western Spitsbergen, nor did outlet glaciers of the postulated Barents Sea ice sheet reach the study area in the last 40 ka or more. 
10.2307/1550396|Land rent assessments from western Norway and documents concerned with applications for their reduction provide detailed information about the incidence of landslides, rockfalls, and avalanches, as well as floods, during the period of the Little Ice Age. The nature and reliability of the available data is discussed and is shown to be adequate to demonstrate a much increased incidence of major mass movements and floods which started in the late 17th century and continued into the 19th century in valleys adjacent to Jostedalsbre. This environmental change began abruptly and there was a striking concentration of disastrous incidents between 1650 and 1760 and in certain years during that period, such as 1687, 1693, and 1702.
10.2307/1551651|A field of nonsorted circles was discovered along the southeast coast of Cape Breton Island, Nova Scotia, that appear to be actively forming. The circles vary in their degree of development from prominent well-developed forms with flat bare centers and vegetated raised rims to incipient circles nearly covered with vegetation. Current activity of the forms is indicated by recently displaced ploughing blocks, sediment displacement along frost cracks, and oriented stones lying within the loosely packed rims. The formation of patterned ground in this relatively mild maritime environment is attributed to a saturated soil layer, similar to the active layer of permafrost, that is maintained by impermeable bedrock and high annual precipitation. The saturated sediment and frequent freeze-thaw cycles during winter provide a mechanism for the formation and maintenance of patterned ground. Stones within the rims of the circles are strongly oriented, dipping toward the interiors of the circles. A few of the circles exhibit a trend toward sorting. However, sorting is not favored, probably because of the thin "active layer" and the vegetation cover. Stone orientations within the rims suggest that frost heaving is concentrated along the rim axes. Cryostatic pressure produced by the advance of the freezing front apparently forces water into the rims. Subsequent freezing and the formation of ice lenses enhance frost heave and maintain the oriented structure of the rim cores.
10.2307/1551914|The question is posed: "what limits the presence, distribution, and abundance of life in Antarctica?" Traditionally, continental isolation has been considered to restrict the arrival of new species and extreme cold to limit the survival of successful immigrants. However, recent biogeographical evidence suggests that water may play a primary role: clear correlations exist between moisture availability and the distribution and abundance of organisms on the vertical, horizontal, and temporal scales. At the continental scale there is a close relationship between substratum biotic/abiotic status and gradients in meltwater, seepage, and upwelling. At the microhabitat level, the abundance of nematodes, tardigrades, rotifers, and microarthropods is directly proportional to microvariations in relative humidity. Upward migration of soil microalgae in response to water availability, together with seasonal population peaks of bacteria, algae, and protozoa at snowthaw, suggest moisture limitation on vertical and temporal scales. It is concluded that, in Antarctica, many of the limiting effects previously attributed to low temperature may in fact operate through the water balance of organisms. Although Antarctica is the coldest place on Earth, water appears to be the primary limiting factor.
10.2307/1551699|Soil displacements caused by frost heave and thaw consolidation are an important deterrent to plant growth in northern temperate regions subject to seasonal freezing. They are a major cause of mortality among overwintering forage crops and influence vegetation succession in natural communities. Lack of quantitative data has limited our understanding of the upheaval process. Plant uplift is commonly ascribed to "jacking" by minor freeze-thaw cycles in the fall and spring, with no consideration of the major winter-long heave cycle. This scenario appears to be untenable because the forces involved are insufficient to uproot mature tap-rooted species. We monitored soil and plant displacements in established Medicago sativa (L.) stands throughout two winters at Ithaca, New York. Uplift of 2- and 3-yr-old plants occurred in conjunction with the major heave cycle, not during alternate freeze-thaw episodes. Consequently, we suggest the process of plant upheaval be divided into two modes corresponding to the type of frost action. While seedlings and transplants may be uprooted by surficial soil freezing in the fall and/or spring, well-anchored plants are displaced by deep frost penetration during midwinter.
10.2307/1550512|Five sites are examined near Schefferville, Quebec; two sites represent mature open spruce-lichen woodlands and the remaining three sites are regenerating woodlands. The soils are acid and have very low amounts of available macro-nutrients (Ca, Mg, K, P, and N). The nutrient inputs into the soil through precipitation, spruce canopy drip and stemflow are low, as are the leaching losses from the soil. The spruce trees act as the major nutrient accumulators in the ecosystem and the soil around the trees shows increased nutrient availability. Although burning increases the pH and available nutrient status of the soil, this increase is short-lived (less than 5 yr) and smaller than observed in other ecosystems. The soils remain oligotrophic.
10.2307/1550979| More than 70 samples of Holocene driftwood between present sea level and the marine limit are plotted on an emergence curve from Clements Markham Inlet (8240N). Three periods of driftwood abundance and sparsity are recognized. These are interpreted as indications of climatically induced changes in summer sea ice conditions. Period 1 extends from initial driftwood entry ca. 8900 BP until ca. 4200 BP. During this period driftwood penetration increases with greatest abundance (= reduced summer sea ice) ca. 6000 to 4200 BP. During Period 2 (ca. 4200 to 500 BP) driftwood penetration is sparse whereas in Period 3 (<500 BP) driftwood bordering the present shoreline exceeds all the samples in the previous periods. Driftwood dates from elsewhere in the Canadian and Greenland High Arctic show similar periods. In Clements Markham Inlet the initiation of abundant driftwood penetration corresponds with the deposition in marine sediments of fossil bryophytes (25 species) dated 6400 BP. This increased plant productivity is also interpreted as indicating summer warmth/higher precipitation associated with the greater open water. Accompanying these bryophytes is the disjunct marine pelecypod Limatula (Lima) subauriculata which presently has a subarctic-boreal distribution. This paleoenvironmental information is discussed in relation to Holocene ice core records and the history of Arctic Ocean sea ice stability. 
10.2307/1552050|Soil/litter samples for isolation of dictyostelid cellular slime molds were collected from seven sites in eastern Russia and five sites in western Alaska, including the Pribilof Island of St. Paul. The two study areas are located in portions of Asia and North America that were once linked by a land mass that has become known as Beringia. Seven species of dictyostelids were recovered from the samples collected in Russia and two species were recorded for samples from Alaska. Densities (clones/gram) were sometimes surprisingly high, especially for eastern Russia, where three sites had densities >1000 clones/gram. Dictyostelium mucoroides was the single most consistently abundant species in both study areas.
1550148|In the past the upper timberlines and their ecological causality were mostly studied in high mountains of the humid temperate zones of the Northern Hemisphere with their strong thermal contrasts of summer and winter. They are generally determined by the duration of certain summer temperature values and in their topoclimatic differentiation controlled by the accumulation and deflation of snow. But they are not climatically equivalent, not even in a relatively small mountain system such as the Alps or the Tatra mountains from what is shown by the change in the limit-forming trees (spruce, larch, pine, fir, beech, birch, etc.). The upper timberlines in the humid tropics are completely different in physiognomy, life forms, climatic conditions, and topoclimatic effects; they are without seasonal variations of temperatures. In most cases they are formed by a dense evergreen forest with dozens of broad-leaved trees, sometimes by a fringing woodland (Polylepis, Ericacea, Hagenia, Leptospermum). In the arid belts, which extend from tropical to cold temperate latitudes, where the forest belts have a lower and an upper limit ("girdle forests"), also the upper timberline can be caused, at least in part, by aridity factors. In the Mediterranean area and in the Middle East we distinguish a sub-Mediterranean subzone with upper timber belts of boreal types, a fully Mediterranean subzone with specific Mediterranean trees as uppermost timber belt (Quercus ilex, Q. tozza, Pinus leucodermis, Cedrus atlantica), and a southerly Mediterranean steppe belt where generally juniper species are upper limiting trees. The timberlines in the cool temperature zone of the Southern Hemisphere with its high oceanity show more affinity to the tropical highlands than to the boreal zones.
10.2307/1550540|As an example of one of the emerging native rights movements in the Western world, the case of the Lapps in northern Finland and the various stages of the development of the "Lappish Movement" are described. These developments are discussed in relation with similar trends in Norway and Sweden which led to the establishment of the Nord Lapp Council in the 1950s. This council has combined Lappish interests and has achieved political, although not cultural acknowledgment by the Nordic governments and their various bodies for Lappish Affairs. The Finnish Government's reaction to the Lappish Movement in the form of numerous state committees between 1949 and 1974 is outlined in relation to its repercussions on the minority status of the Lapps in Finland. Finally, the connections between the Lapps and worldwide native rights organizations are seen in the light of a new political force, the "Fourth World," in the altercations over power and influence in the world.
10.2307/1551123|A conceptual model of the alpine geosystem is presented. The model is based upon system-level interactions identified in the Front Range, Colorado, and is represented as four distinct hierarchical levels or subsystems, each of which interacts with two additional subsystems: Climate and Hydrology-Geochemistry. Subsystem models are structured upon major processes that determine subsystem function. Components (compartments) are then added to account for process linkages. The four hierarchical levels represent different spatial and temporal scales. The Geomorphology-Paleoecology subsystem encompasses an area the size of a water-shed and a time scale of 10,000 yr, and is structured on processes that result in mass wasting or clastic movement. The Soil-Vegetation Community Development subsystem functions in an area of one or more hectares and a time period up to 1000 yr. It is structured on processes and site characteristics which determine the soil-vegetation complex of the locality. The Biotic Production-Phenology-Decomposition subsystem involves seasonal time scale and area occupied by a population and is structured on group processes. The Physiological-Behavioral subsystem functions on the diurnal time scale of the individual organism and is structured on individual processes that affect physiological condition and energy balance.
10.2307/1551245| The article presents a synthesis of the pattern and chronology of the retreat of the late Wisconsin ice sheet on the Ungava Peninsula. The spatial distribution of landforms of deglaciation is discussed. These include De Geer moraines, eskers, kames, outwash deltas and fans, meltwater gorges, moraine ridges, and ice disintegration features. These data permitted the authors to demarcate the former glacial drainage divide on the peninsula, and to identify major zones of important meltwater activity, on either side of a central zone where subglacial drainage was of little importance. The data also show contrasts between an active, calving ice front on the Hudson Bay coastal fringe, and a stagnating ice margin on the Hudson Strait and Ungava Bay coasts. Radiocarbon dates indicate that deglaciation of the Cap de Nouvelle-France sector of the Hudson Strait coast commenced prior to 10,000 BP, that most of the present Hudson Bay coast was deglaciated at about 8000 BP, and that southern Ungava Bay only became deglaciated after 7000 BP. The ice lingered in the Baie-aux-Feuilles area in southwestern Ungava Bay and in the lower Rivire Kovik basin until about 6500 BP. The interior plateau and the long trenches, occupied by Rivire aux Mlzes, Rivire aux Feuilles, and Rivire Arnaud, were deglaciated between 7000 and 5000 BP in two major phases. During the first phase, eskers were built at the base of a stagnant ice sheet which still covered almost the entire peninsula. During the second phase, the ice sheet on the Ungava plateau separated into several residual ice caps. At least two important ice-dammed lakes were formed between heights of land and these ice masses. On the Ungava Bay flank of the peninsula, penetration of the postglacial D'Iberville Sea far inland, up the trenches of the major river valleys, between 6500 and 5000 BP accompanied retreat of these ice masses. Final disappearance of ice sheet remnants on the plateau occurred at about 5000 BP. 
10.2307/1551604|The presence and abundance of plant species on active geomorphological surfaces, such as fluvial gravel bars in subalpine rivers, may reveal different effects of the environment, location, and chance on the assemblage of species during succession. Two-dimensional ordination mapping of species and correlations of abundance with simple environmental variables were used to examine relationships between the individual species and this dynamic environment. The ordination indicates that species are segregated by adaptations suggestive of successional pathway and successional stage. An examination of the distribution of species abundances plotted against the environmental variables reveals few distinct relationships. The differences in species abundances and associations not related to the physical environment are hypothesized to be related to successional processes because of the attributes of the species themselves. Differences in abundances between native herbaceous species and European ruderals and between Populus and Salix species suggest that founder effects may be important.
10.2307/1550095|Topographic anomalies near Washington Pass attest that a former glacier at the head of Early Winters Valley, a Methow Valley tributary, captured the former head of State Valley, a Chelan Valley tributary. Striations at high altitudes and drift-dispersal patterns inconsistent with the configuration of small local glaciers, either before or after capture, indicate that ice-sheet glaciation postdated the most recent alpine glaciation. Because the erosional landforms are sharp and the drift unweathered, alpine and ice-sheet histories at Washington Pass are correlated with stades of the Fraser Glaciation in the Puget Lowland.
10.2307/1550702|Stream adjustment to environmental constraints, particularly those related to the effects of past glacial events, and the potential for continued adjustment are examined for a stream in a high energy environment. The extent to which the longitudinal profile deviates from a typical fluvial form suggests that the stream is in disequilibrium. However, the fact that cross-sectional form and planimetric geometry covary with channel slope (regarded here as largely an inherited characteristic) is used to indicate possible modes of adjustment to the constraints imposed. The extensive development of braiding is a response to the high rate of sediment supply, most of the material being derived from poorly consolidated Pleistocene deposits. Analysis of hydraulic conditions suggests that the shear stress required for sediment transport is attained relatively frequently even in reaches of moderate slope. The stream appears competent not only to transport the load supplied but also to degrade its channel. The presence of well-defined knickpoints in tributary channels provides the strongest morphological evidence for degradation. With erosion concentrated in the steeper sections, the development of a more typical longitudinal profile can be expected in time.
10.2307/1550532| A study was conducted comparing growth and development in arctic and alpine populations of the bulbiliferous plant Saxifraga cernua L., and morphological, physiological, and cytological differences were observed. Alpine plants from Colorado required shorter photoperiods for optimum growth and produced larger bulbils and more bulbils per plant than arctic plants from Alaska. At 8 to 10C plants from both populations required long days to elongate and to flower, but the critical daylength was longer in arctic plants. Increasing the temperature to 16C reduced critical daylengths for plants of both populations. Fresh pollen grains from arctic plants were viable and hand pollination of arctic plants resulted in viable seeds, whereas pollen grains from alpine plants were not viable and seed set could not be effected. The diploid number of chromosomes is 60 for alpine plants and ca. 68 for arctic plants. Overwintering buds of S. cernua from Colorado are vegetative, rather than floral. Flowering is initiated in early summer subsequent to bolting and is completed within a single season. No observations were made on this aspect of development in arctic plants. 
10.2307/1551592|The energy balance of a large perennial snowbank located in the continuous permafrost zone was examined during the summer of 1986. Three meteorological towers allowed energy fluxes to be determined for separate zones of the snowbank. Over the melt season, net radiation accounted for 85% of the energy absorbed by the snow surface, while sensible heat contributed 15% and latent heat was a net loss of 2%. Albedo varied across the snowbank due to an irregular distribution of surface aeolian deposits. Direct measurements of snowmelt from a snow survey compare favorably with calculated values obtained from the energy balance. The net shortwave radiation flux was a significant influence on ablation, explaining on average 77% of the variance in the measured melt. The predominance of the radiant fluxes is attributed to the large size of the snowbank and its sustained melt through the cool arctic summer.
10.2307/1550751| This paper discusses the problems of natural hazard mapping in mountainous regions through the example of actual production of two types of map: a basic geomorphological map, and a map of combined natural hazards derived from the former. The hazards considered are those associated with mass movements on or below the surface and include snow- and ice-avalanches, landslides, rockfalls, icefalls, torrents, and floods. The mapping scale is 1:10,000 and the area chosen for study was the environs of Grindelwald, 60 km southeast of Bern, Switzerland. The mapping was based upon extensive fieldwork combined with airphotograph interpretation. To emphasize the practical concerns of the land-use planner, the traditional approach to geomorphological mapping was substantially modified. Thus, special attention was given to those processes and associated forms of surface instability that constitute a danger or obstacle to man and his effects. Prominent amongst these in the Grindelwald vicinity are landslides, torrents and avalanches. Since the aim of the mapping was to provide a practical basis for land-use decision-making, only strictly objective scientific criteria have been employed. More than 4000 unit areas with estimated hazard ratings were demarcated, using the geomorphological map, topographic and geologic maps, and stereoscopic air photography. These demarcations were then further checked by additional fieldwork. Field indications of former and actual movements provided the principal means of assessing the degree of current danger, using the stumme Zeugen of Aulitzky (1973). In some instances simple calculations have been used; for the avalanche hazards, however, technical calculations were made by the Avalanche Service of the Forestry Office. To ensure a high degree of objectivity, check lists and test systems have been developed. Degrees of hazard are represented by different colors ranging from red (maximum danger) to white (no danger). Letters identifying the specific hazard involved are superimposed on the color. On the 1:10,000 mapping scale many practical problems arose and these are discussed at length in the text. The final hazard map shows that the upper slopes of the Grindelwald basin are most prone to avalanche, icefall, and rockfall activity; the area between the eastern part of the village and Grosse Scheidegg and the area south of Wrgistalbach (torrent under the Eiger north wall) experience serious problems from landsliding; the lower sections of the basin are threatened by floods from glacial lakes, while part of this area is also endangered by torrent activity. The work demonstrates that applied geomorphological mapping can produce an effective basis for rational land-use planning. 
10.2307/1551723|Atmospheric rime icing, resulting primarily from supercooled cloud droplet impaction on objects at the Earth's surface, was monitored and analyzed as a function of elevation on the west faces of Madonna Peak and Mount Mansfield in the Green Mountains, Vermont, and at the summit of Mount Washington, New Hampshire. Measurements were made of ice accretion rates on passive, manually operated collection baskets and automatic ice detectors. Icing rates increase exponentially with elevation above about 800 m, with secondary controls of rate suggested by microtopographic relief exposure. The illustrated dependence of icing rate upon elevation is largely a function of New England wind and cloud regimes and differs from other selected mountainous locations. The relationships presented may help assess the magnitude of frozen moisture inputs to high-elevation mountain ecosystems.
10.2307/1551130|The 1-in-1000 thallus and the gradient of the log-linear regressions of lichen size-frequency distributions have been suggested as potential age indices. Both are dependent on the assumption that the frequency distribution fits the log-linear model. Distributions drawn from a single moraine show major variations depending on the location at which they are obtained. The variations primarily reflect the effect of late-lying snowbanks and secondarily the effect of altitude. The goodness-of-fit with the log-linear model is significantly affected by the class of measurement interval used, with 5-mm intervals yielding a much better fit than 1-mm intervals. The 1-in-1000 thallus diameter is less variable than the gradient of the log-linear regression, but the relative advantages of the two may be masked by differences in their time sensitivity.
10.2307/1550491| Using data from summer air temperature stations from the inland tundra to the immediate coastal area, regression analyses of the air temperature data from 1975 to 1978 were used to predict temperature values across the Alaskan Arctic Coastal Plain based upon latitude and longitude. This provides the best approximation of average values based on existing data. Mean monthly temperature, mean daily range of temperature, and thawing-degree days all increase with distance from the coast. The estimated July normal for Atkasook, 48 km south of the coast, is 8.7C, while the established 30-yr normal for Barrow, on the coast, is 3.7C. The July average temperature 6 km due south of the open water of Prudhoe Bay is 2C higher than on the immediate coast. Within the area under the dominant influence of the sea breeze, regression analyses suggest a more precise relationship between air temperature and distance along the prevailing wind vector (N75E) than between temperature and distance due north to the sea. The appropriate regression equation was used to locate the average 7C isotherm for July, which corresponds to the southern border of the littoral zone. Precipitation differences are less distinct across the coastal plain. Trace amounts are observed more frequently along the coast than inland; total amounts inland are somewhat greater, but more variable in occurrence. 
10.2307/1550825|The use of size frequency distributions of lichen populations has, in the past, been recommended as a lichenometric technique. Theoretically, saxicolous lichen populations should be density-dependent with the result that the size frequency distributions of older populations should be best described by a Poisson model. Evidence from Scotland and Norway indicates that the size frequency distributions are extremely variable, ranging from truncated log-normal to Poisson in form. Consequently, the use of the 1-in-1000 thallus, derived from a log-normal model, is not universally applicable as a descriptive index, particularly in the case of older lichen populations.
10.2307/1552125| The thermal microenvironment and leaf temperatures of two plants (Saxifraga caespitosa and S. oppositifolia) were studied in a high arctic polar desert over four summers. Surface and plant temperatures exceeded air temperatures by 5 to 15C during sunny periods, with smaller effects on soil temperature in plant rooting zones. Midday plant temperatures of 20 to 30C measured during good weather are favorable for physiological activity, but the number of such days is restricted by a short snow-free period (16-45 d). Surfaces in polar deserts are dominated by sorted stones and bare mineral soil with sparse vascular plant cover (usually <5%). Infrequent snowflush sites are scattered within this landscape, containing greater plant cover and a cryptogamic crust on the mineral soil surfaces. The potential role of this black crust in facilitating greater plant cover by enhancing the thermal relations of plants was investigated in this cold environment. Reduced albedo of crusted surfaces led to higher surface (8-12C) and soil (4-5C) temperatures than in noncrusted areas. However, adult plants did not differ in tissue temperature on cryptogamic and bare surfaces. Root growth and survival of seedlings, which were thermally coupled to the surface by their small mass, are more likely to be highly influenced by the presence of crusted surfaces in this high arctic polar desert ecosystem. 
10.2307/1551851|Flowering pattern, mating system, and seed set were investigated for four species of Pedicularis: P. lanata (syn. P. kanei), P. hirsuta, P. flammea, and P. lapponica in West Greenland. Pedicularis lanata depends on insects for seed set. P. hirsuta and P. flammea are able to set seed by autodeposition, but P. flammea less successfully than P. hirsuta. Pedicularis lapponica mainly propagates vegetatively. Insects are rarely seen visiting the four species in the investigated area. In P. lanata the number of germinated pollen grains per stigma is much lower on average than the number of ovules per ovary, and the seed set is consequently well below its potential. Accordingly, we believe that pollen availability limits seed. Multispiked individuals of P. lanata have a lower seed set and a higher mortality rate than single-spiked plants. Pedicularis hirsuta allocates most resources to reproduction and has the highest P/O-ratio and relative reproductive success (RRS) in the area, thus being the most successful species of the four regarding seed production. Pedicularis lanata has the lowest relative reproductive success of the three sexually reproducing species due to low seed set. The four species possess flowers adapted for insect pollination, but are using different and alternative means to maintain populations: vegetative propagation, autogamy, visits by unspecialized insects, and by being perennial.
10.2307/1551842| Rates of evolutionary thermal adaptation (i.e. hereditary adjustment to the thermal environment) of plant dark respiration will likely be too slow to keep up with predicted rapid climate changes. However, thermal acclimation to novel temperatures (i.e. shorter-term phenotypic adjustment to changes in the thermal environment) may be sufficient for plants to adjust to rapidly changing temperatures. We measured nighttime leaf dark respiration in the arctic/alpine species Ranunculus glacialis, and in the temperate lowland Ranunculus repens, on plants grown under either cold (10C/8C day/night) or warm (22C/18C) conditions. Adaptation to their respective native thermal environments was apparent in this pair of species as indicated by similar respiration rates measured at 8C in R. glacialis grown at cold temperatures and those measured at 18C in R. repens grown at warm temperatures. Phenotypic thermal acclimation to warmer temperatures was apparent in R. glacialis as indicated by similar rates measured at 8C in cold-grown and at 18C in warm-grown plants. Whether this holds true for root systems awaits testing. Our results reemphasize the need to include acclimatory adjustments of plant metabolism in computer models designed to predict the response of vegetation to global change. 
10.2307/1550725|It has been maintained by several writers that American whalers substantially depleted the Porcupine caribou herd while wintering at Herschel Island, Yukon Territory. My research, based on the logbooks and journals of their vessels, has led me to conclude that the hunting pressure was not deleterious to the herd.
10.2307/1552118|State factor controls of soil and forest development were examined in floodplain primary and upland secondary successional ecosystems along the Tanana River in interior Alaska. Topography is the principal difference in state factor control of structure and function of these systems. It interacts with type of disturbance, sedimentation, or fire, thus conditioning ecosystem response. Sedimentation adds new, low-fertility inorganic alluvium to new or established floodplain surfaces and may bury established soils exposing them to a more constant physical environment. Mineralization of buried organic matter then occurs under more favorable conditions of temperature and moisture, providing for a higher, sustained recycling of nutrients for plant grown compared with decomposition of surface litter. The new alluvium is low in organic matter and nitrogen, and improvement in soil fertility depends on the growth of alder with its nitrogen-fixing capability. These soils are salt-affected and alkaline because of salts inherited in the alluvium and surface evaporation of soil solution that rises by capillary movement from shallow ground water. In the uplands, fire acts as a rapid decomposer mineralizing nutrients as organic materials burn. Combustion of surface organic matter reduces the insulating effect of these detrital layers, warming the soil. In areas underlain by permafrost the thickness of the active layer increases and soil drainage may improve following fire. Although some carbon and nitrogen may be lost by volatilization, the postfire soil for plant colonization has a legacy of fertility from the previous ecosystem. There is a reserve of soil nutrition available to support early seedling establishment and growth. In floodplain soils, the legacy may appear in buried organic layers.
10.2307/1550193|Interdisciplinary investigation was carried out by the Ice Mountain Archaeological Project during the summers of 1969 and 1970 in the subarctic region of northern British Columbia, near Telegraph Creek. One important result of this research was the recovery of a series of components which may represent the most complete inventory of East-Asian derived artifact types yet known in North America. The author discusses the chronological and contextual character of the assemblage and the formal and technological analysis upon which the industry and phase is defined. Comments on comparative methodology conclude the presentation.
10.2307/1551721|We analyzed 17 photographs, taken between 1873 and 1915, that illustrate widespread mortality in subalpine forests of western Colorado. Eight of these photographs, reproduced here, contain three general patterns of mortality, interpreted to result from spruce beetle (Dendroctonus rufipennis) attacks, fires, and wind. Tree-ring chronologies at four of the sites corroborated the role of spruce beetle in killing the trees visible in the photographs. The photographs and tree-ring dates suggest that the spruce beetle outbreak occurred between the 1850s and the 1880s, and affected forests from central New Mexico to north-central Colorado. Spruce beetle outbreaks are a significant type of natural disturbance in these forests. The relative contribution of beetles and fires to subalpine forest structure is in need of further research. The sequence and spatial configuration of disturbances by spruce beetles, fire, and wind varies, and can be spatially heterogeneous, even on small land areas. In such areas, forest responses to uniformly applied disturbance controls (e.g., fire suppression) will be spatially heterogeneous, not affecting all parts of the landscape uniformly.
10.2307/1550372|Observations have been carried out on needle ice striped ground in southwestern British Columbia and in New Zealand. The stripe orientations are shown to develop parallel to the shadows cast by the sun when the needle ice, with its soil cap, thaws and collapses. Differential thaw of the needle ice, and adhesion of some unsupported particles of the soil cap to the adjacent needle ice supported soil cap, are believed to contribute to the striping of the ground.
10.2307/1551941|The number of individual plants and colonies of the two native Antarctic vascular plants, Colobanthus quitensis and Deschampsia antarctica, have been monitored between 1964 and 1990 on three islands in the Argentine Islands archipelago, western Antarctic Peninsula. The Deschampsia population increased by nearly 25-fold and Colobanthus by over 5-fold. Furthermore there was a considerable increase in the number of Deschampsia colonies, although no additional colonies of Colobanthus were recorded. An analysis of Colobanthus plant size in 1974 and 1990 indicated that recruitment was probably irregular although the population structure remained essentially the same. The reasons for this and the increases in population size of both species are discussed. The relatively rapid increase in the abundance and distribution of these species is considered to be a response to the increasing summer air temperatures being experienced in the region of the maritime Antarctic. In particular, there is probably improved success in reproductive behavior resulting from warmer and/or longer growing seasons.
10.2307/1550987|Seedling densities, recruitment, and survival of Sedum lanceolatum during the growing season at seven populations between 2257 and 3726 m were studied to assess one aspect of successful sexual reproduction above and below timberline. Seedling densities declined drastically at timberline and above, even when corrections were made for differences in adult densities among populations. Seedlings can be so rare and patchily distributed in the alpine that they could not be detected using random sampling. However, above timberline there were microsites where seedling densities exceeded those at lower elevations and survivorship was homogeneous among most populations. Alpine seedlings can be just as successful as their below-timberline counterparts, depending upon the criteria selected for evaluation of performance.
10.2307/1550960|A series of four Holocene age sites in the Front Range, Colorado, forms an altitudinal transect from subalpine forest to alpine tundra in the modern environment. Insect fossil assemblages from these sites have been analyzed for paleoenvironmental changes, including tree-limit shifts. Tree-limit altitudes have been inferred from the forest-tundra insect species ratios of the fossil assemblages, supplemented by plant macrofossil data. A climatic optimum is suggested by maximal forest-tundra ratios between 9000 and about 7000 BP. From 7000 to 4500 BP, the insect evidence suggests the continued nearby presence of conifers at the sites, as supported by the plant macrofossil record. Faunal evidence indicates a tree-limit decline at 4500 BP. Declining forest-tundra insect ratios, combined with the conifer macrofossil record, suggest a climatic deterioration from 4500 to 3100 BP followed by a rapid amelioration, from 3000 to 2000 BP. A gradual decline in the forest-tundra ratios occurred after 2000 BP, reaching 1:1 ratios at or before 1000 BP. The timing of Holocene changes was found to be broadly similar to the chronology of changes from the insect fossil record at La Poudre Pass and a north-south transect of Holocene paleobotanical sites from Alberta to southern Colorado.
10.2307/1550940|Maximum lichen diameter (Alectoria minuscula, Rhizocarpon geographicum), percentage lichen cover, and depth of pitting on surface boulders were used to define a Holocene and late Pleistocene chronology for a Grinnell Ice Cap outlet glacier and a nearby cirque glacier in southernmost Baffin Island. Thirty-two sites were classified into 5 units of late Neoglacial (Units 1, 2, and 3), Cockburn-late Foxe (Unit 4), and pre-late Foxe (Unit 5) age. Discriminant analysis confirmed this classification. Moraines of Unit 1 were deposited very recently and are still unstable. Unit 2 and 3 moraines, which define the maximum late Neoglacial extent of glaciers in this area, were deposited less than 130 yr ago. Cockburn-late Foxe moraines (ca. 8000 to 11,000 yr BP) occur only a few tens of meters beyond the late Neoglacial maximum. Comparison with other records of Neoglacial fluctuations on Baffin Island shows that earlier Neoglacial activity is well documented to the north (e.g., Cumberland Peninsula, Barnes Ice Cap). The late Neoglacial moraines at the Watts Bay margin of the Grinnell Ice Cap therefore represent the youngest Neoglacial maximum so far recorded in Baffin Island. The ice cap outlet glacier and cirque glacier studied reached their maximum Neoglacial extent ca. 60 yr apart, perhaps due to a lag in the response of the ice cap to climatic change. An investigation of clast rounding as a relative dating parameter indicated that it should be applied with particular care to glacial deposits, because roundness is a function of environment of transport as well as time since deposition.
10.2307/1550659| A method for the graphical analysis of diurnal and seasonal structure of climatic variables is presented; graphs of long-term means and standard deviations for each variable show the pattern and predictability of the climate. The 1953 through 1970 hourly weather records for Schefferville, Quebec (5448N, 6649W), are analyzed to illustrate the method. Graphs of estimated shortwave radiation flux, air temperature, vapor pressure, wind speed, and probability of measurable rainfall characterize the site. The distinctive diurnal and seasonal structure of the climate is readily apparent in the graphs. The method may be useful in explaining plant and animal adaptations that are effected by the diurnal and seasonal patterns of climatic events. 
10.2307/1550511|Reproductive characteristics are reported for four plant species identified as potential early colonizers of disturbed alpine tundra in the White Mountains of New Hampshire. Arenaria groenlandica and Juncus trifidus showed high production of viable seed, high germination percentages, and relatively high (albeit short-range) seed mobility combining the advantages of perennial longevity with reproductive vigor more typical of annuals. Potentilla tridentata and Diapensia lapponica lacked the above characteristics and appear to be much less opportunistic in their reproductive behavior. The frequent occurrence of P. tridentata in soils disturbed by heavy foot trampling was more likely related to its former presence and belowground vegetative persistence at these sites. While A. groenlandica and J. trifidus appear capable of sexual reproduction, successful invasion of disturbed sites by these species is probably restricted to fairly local areas where there is a high fallout of seed.
10.2307/1552062| Estimations of the amount of aboveground vegetation mass were made for four pramo grassland sites with different grazing management and burning histories in the Central Cordillera of Colombia. The total mass of live plus dead grassland vegetation showed a decrease from 2820  190 g m
10.2307/1550019|A method for measuring the orientation fabric of coarse surface material by photographic means is described. On the two talus slopes where this method has been applied, the results obtained are comparable with those due to field measurement and support earlier findings of isotropic fabrics on the surface of talus slopes. These fabrics are interpreted as a response to random processes of talus accumulation and creep and suggest that particles are moved as single units rather than en masse.
10.2307/1550890|Particle size data and SEM observations are used to assess both the nature of some Weichselian (ca. 9000 yr of age) and Neoglacial (ca. 230 yr of age) till parent materials and subsequent pedogenesis occurring within them at four sites in southern Norway. Regarding these aspects, comparisons are made between the different aged surfaces at two low-altitude maritime sites which are geologically acidic, and at two higher altitude sites which are relatively continental and geologically basic. The Weichselian tills are texturally more mature than their Neoglacial counterparts, and since both tills are considered to be locally derived, the degree of textural maturity is largely influenced by the time period over which the till was formed. Pedogenesis, in terms of weathering and translocation, is more advanced on the older surfaces and becomes less intense with increasing depth in the soil. Tills at the geologically acidic sites are slightly coarser than those at the geologically basic sites, probably owing to the presence of relatively large amounts of mechanically resistant quartz at the former locations. The intensity of pedogenic weathering and translocation is greater at the low-altitude sites where environmental conditions, in terms of climate and vegetation, are more favorable than at the higher altitude sites.
10.2307/1552144|Kobresia myosuroides is a well-known circumpolar taxon and an important community dominant in many arctic and alpine regions of the Holarctic. It typically occurs on xeric to mesic, windblown ridges, and in meadows and heaths. In this paper we report on K. myosuroides populations more than 700 m below treeline in extreme rich fens in South Park, Colorado. The distinctive Thalictrum alpinum--K. myosuroides community type includes many wetland plant species and appears to be a unique fen community, endemic to South Park. The K. myosuroides populations in South Park are a well-marked race, or ecotype, forming tussocks up to 400 mm tall, with culms averaging 300 mm in height, and leaves more than 200 mm in length. These communities and populations are threatened by the peat mining industry.
10.2307/1551068|Three grasses (Phleum alpinum L., Deschampsia antarctica Desv., Festuca contracta T. Kirk) and one perennial herb (Acaena tenera Alboff) are the earliest important colonizers of small-scale sorted stone stripes in fellfield areas on South Georgia. Survival potential differs considerably between the grass species and appears to be related to both tiller and root morphology. The principal species, Phleum alpinum, produces stable "islands" later colonized by other species. Its growth form and life cycle appear to be especially well adapted to this habitat. The rate of downslope movement of plants on a given slope appears to be directly related to size. The age of individual Phleum plants was assessed using morphological features and a relationship derived between age and number of tillers. A model is proposed describing the development of Phleum in fellfield areas, and its relationship to stabilization of the soil.
10.2307/1551993| Techniques of retrospective growth analysis, adapted from dendrochronology, were applied to Cassiope tetragona, an evergreen dwarf-shrub, sampled at Alexandra Fiord. Ellesmere Island, Canada. A new method of delimiting annual growth increments through patterns in leaf node placement along a stem was utilized. Chronologies of mean annual stem elongation, leaf production, and flower production were developed, and estimates of these parameters agree with those obtained for other arctic populations of C. tetragona. Stem elongation and leaf production were positively correlated in the same year. Flower production was positively correlated with growth in the previous year, but negatively correlated with growth in the same year. This pattern was interpreted as the effects of resource allocation strategies, namely, the preemption of within-plant resources by flower production once flowering is initiated. All chronologies were significantly correlated with climate records from Alexandra Fiord and Eureka, Ellesmere Island, with the majority of significant correlations occurring with June and July temperatures. Flower production appeared to be most sensitive to variations in summer temperatures, and climate response functions which included previous growth explained up to 84% of the variation in the flowering chronology. Unstandardized leaf and flower number chronologies were used to provide an independent test of the climate transfer function presented in Havstrm et al. (1995). The results indicate that C. tetragona may be used successfully to generate proxy climate data, although use of standardized chronologies is recommended. Two predictive models for July temperatures at Alexandra Fiord, based on standardized chronologies, are presented to provide future opportunities for verification and application of this technique. 
10.2307/1551933|We use three sequential "water-sediment transport" numerical models to evaluate changes in fluvial sediment outputs for two near-future contrasting climate-change scenarios (warmer summers or warmer and moister winters) for the eastern Canadian Arctic. Our integrated model generates values for deposition into a fiord basin. The effects of climate warming are imposed on 200-yr fluctuations in relative sea level (base level) that in turn have a long-term forcing associated with late Quaternary glacial unloading. Thus some areas are submerging (around the periphery of the former ice sheet) and others are emerging (inland at the heads of fiords). Small, short-term changes in sea level may involve meltwater supply to the world ocean from the melting of glaciers and ice sheets, and sea water expansion with a warming ocean. Alternatively, large ice sheets may also thicken over the short term (200 yr), thereby withdrawing water from the global hydrological cycle. Both climate scenarios result in an increased sediment flux over the next 200 yr. However, warmer summers will have the largest impact by (1) causing ice caps to melt, (2) inducing more expansive and turbid river plumes, (3) increasing progradation of the coastline into the sea, (4) raising relative sea level, and by (5) increasing the number and size of turbidity currents generated off river mouths. Warmer and moister winters that may lead to deviations from these impacts include (1) growth of ice caps, (2) fall of relative sea level, (3) stability of coastlines as increased sediment delivery keeps pace with changes in regional relative sea level, and (4) fewer basin turbidity currents, as more of the bedload is trapped on top of sandur surfaces.
10.2307/1552014|Seedling establishment of Japanese stone pine, Pinus pumila, primarily depends on seed dispersal by Japanese nutcrackers (Nucifraga caryocatactes var. japonica). To assess how this mode of seed dispersal affects regeneration and habitat expansion of P. pumila, we made field observations concerning foraging behavior of nutcrackers, past annual production of pine cones, and age structure of established pine seedlings. Nutcrackers used various microsites for feeding and removing the pine seeds, especially on bare ground or around rocks. The pine seedlings occurred mainly in open patches sparsely covered with dwarf woody shrubs in wind-exposed sites, suggested that the nutcrackers preferred such open patches for caching. Age structure of the seedlings (<20 yr old) showed a clumped age distribution. Most of the younger pine seedlings (<10 yr old) grew as clusters, averaging four to five in number per cluster. Past cone production, estimated using a cone scar technique, varied annually, with some remarkable poor-crop years during the recent 12 yr. However, extensive recruitment of the pine seedlings did not necessarily follow a mast year. Fluctuation of the seedling recruitment was closely related to annual changes in early summer precipitation rather than air-temperature, indicating positive effect of water supply on seed germination. Our findings suggested that regeneration success of P. pumila was limited for two reasons: (1) spatially due to site preference of nutcrackers for seed caching, i.e., open patches at windy sites near the seed source of mature pine scrubs; and (2) temporally by annual fluctuation in climatic factors, especially soil moisture availability. Consequently, nutcrackers do not seem to help the pines expand more widely in the Japanese subalpine region.
10.2307/1551191|Mudboils were measured at 183 locations in the arctic and subarctic regions of Canada. A consistent relationship was found between the internal and external characteristics of the mudboils, permitting the identification of three different types of mudboils. Low-center mudboils have a circular or irregular, flat central part surrounded by a peaty rim and are found in areas of poor drainage. Raised-center mudboils occur in better-drained areas and have a slightly domed or elevated center. Step mudboils develop on slopes, and their surface remains nearly level. The material in mudboils is about two-thirds medium grained; however, the raised-center type contains slightly more fine-grained material.
10.2307/1551035|Radiation balance data from three boreal forest sites determine the relationship between solar and net radiation over a melting, woodland snowpack. Simple linear equations are suitable for describing the dependence of forest net radiation upon forest solar radiation. The effect of the forest is apparent in both the intercept and slope of the calculated relationships. A greater amount of available solar radiation is used as net radiation as forest density increases; for example, approximately 25% of the forest solar flux is utilized as forest net radiation at a forest density of 16%, whereas almost 60% is used at a density of 50%. However, smaller amounts of the shortwave flux incident on the top of the canopy are actually received at the snow surface below; for example, the forest with a density of 16% reduces the incident solar flux by approximately 15 to 20%, while a forest density of 50% reduces the incident solar flux by 53%. These results indicate a close relationship between the incident solar flux and net radiation beneath the canopy with minimal dependence on forest density. Further analysis of the combined data sets from all three sites suggests that one predictive equation may be used to estimate boreal forest net radiation from solar radiation measured in a nearby open location.
10.2307/1550721| Subsurface soil displacements resulting from thaw of 5 slopes in large-scale laboratory experiments show that most of the motion was associated with thawing soil layers rich in segregated ice (ice content > 150%) and indicate the necessity of knowing the vertical ice distribution when evaluating slope stability. 
10.2307/1550123|Lichen growth rates are used to determine glacier behavior in West Greenland in modern times where no documents are available. The vegetation and flora of the areas visited by the authors in 1961 and the plant succession on glacier forelands are described. The earliest pioneers are vascular plants and bryophytes, initially in silty pockets. Rock surfaces are invaded by algae and fungus spores which succeed after about 10 years. The first lichen to appear on loose ground is commonly Stereocaulon alpinum. When foliose or nearly fruticose species reach about 2 cm diameter, crust lichens, including Rhizocarpon spp. and Lecidea spp., can be identified. During the first seven decades the growth of Rhizocarpon spp. is slow; maximum size is attained only on moraines exceeding 1,000 years. Direct comparison of lichens appearing in photographs taken on Disko Island in 1896 and 1961 show that the majority have not increased measurably in size in the following 63 years. Comparison with photographs taken in 1958 show increases of only 1 to 4 mm for the fastest growing lichens. Datable substrates, e.g., cairns and graves, were also used to establish lichen growth rates. Photographic records of glacier outlets confirm an advance maximum around 1880-1890. Rapid retreat appears to have commenced shortly before 1961. The maximum diameters of lichens on the outermost moraines are recorded. The lichen factor defined as the diameter attained by Rhizocarpon tinei in 100 years of growth varies considerably, and correlates with the oceanic or continental character of the vegetation and is least in continental areas. By extrapolating growth rates, a number of older moraines have been dated and from this the history of moraine deposition reconstructed. Growth rates of lichens do not appear to be affected by rock types; differences are more likely to be explained by climate.
10.2307/1551210| The detection of permafrost and determination of active layer thickness using single channel hammer seismic refraction equipment is described and assessed. Four sites between 1810 and 2200 m asl in Veodalen, Jotunheimen, southern Norway, were surveyed. At these sites the substrate consisted of a heterogeneous diamicton in which sorted circles were well developed At all sites a shallow refracting surface was detected, and excavation at the two higher sites showed this to be permafrost. The permafrost table was shallowest at the highest site (average depth 0.95 m) and deepest at the lowest site (average depth 1.37 m). At many sites a second, deeper refractor, probably bedrock, may have been indicated by field data. Seismic velocities of 0.34 to 0.46 km s
10.2307/1552023|Research at 11 glaciers in the western European Alps has resulted in the definition of 7 basal ice facies. The formation of each is investigated on the basis of its debris distribution, sedimentology, and stable isotope composition. Isotopic data are interpreted within an analytical framework that allows for variations in the isotopic composition of source waters. Ice facies formed by metamorphism are distinguished from those formed by open-system refreezing within basal cavities and from those formed by closed-system regelation. Individual basal ice facies are thereby linked to the subglacial physical conditions required for their formation. These associations allow inferences relating to bed type, basal temperature, and subglacial hydrology to be made on the basis of the presence of specific, diagnostic basal ice facies at any glacier where they may be observed.
10.2307/1551412| Studies of lightning-caused tundra fires were carried out between 1977 and 1983 in three areas of northwestern Alaska (Seward Peninsula [6535N], Noatak River [6800N], and Kokolik River [6930N]) representing a latitudinal gradient of 460 km. Postfire vegetation and permafrost recovery rates were documented in both tussock and low-shrub tundra ecosystems burned up to 10 yr prior to sampling. Within 5 to 6 yr following 1977 tundra fires, total vascular plant cover reached 50 to 100% of the unburned control at all sites with the slowest recovery at the northernmost Kokolik River site. This difference may be accounted for by the greater severity of burning at the Kokolik River sites where the fire occurred late in the season (1 August) and where there is a longer interval between fires. Postfire increases in soil thaw in tussock tundra appeared to stabilize or return to prefire levels within the same 5- to 6-yr time span. Many tundra plants appear to be well adapted to fire through one or a combination of strategies described. Eriophorum vaginatum tussocks may be dependent on fire for removal of competing low shrubs and mosses. Seed and seedling fluxes of certain species increase dramatically following fire. A model is presented which relates species fire survival strategies to the severity of burning and the seasonal timing of fire. 
10.2307/1550982|Consideration of the factors influencing talus accumulation leads to an hypothesis that slope morphometry, bedrock fracture density, and topoclimatic situation combine to determine degree of cliff-to-talus transformation within recently deglaciated terrain. A statistical analysis of 27 cirque walls from a portion of the Sangre de Cristo Mountains, southern Colorado, provides indirect support for the research hypothesis. Differences in potential insolation, altitude, windward/leeward aspect, and bedrock fracturing explain 66% of the observed variability in degree of postglacial cliff-to-talus transformation within Blanca Massif. Free-face fracture density has the strongest statistical effect on degree of postglacial slope modification and this may be indicative of a functional relationship between bedrock weathering susceptibility and rate of cliff retreat. Average rockwall weathering rates (estimates from a subsample of slopes with similar topoclimatic situation) range between 0.05 and 0.82 mm yr
10.2307/1549981|A palsa complex, 106 m in diameter, having a maximum height of 224 cm above the water table is described in detail. Permafrost occurred under the elevated, densely wooded palsa, extending into the underlying clay. The height of doming was largely due to ice accumulation in the clay and peat. The thickness of the active layer was least under the densest black spruce stands and greatest in the openings. The cumulative depth of snow was greatest in openings and least in dense stands. The volumetric moisture content of the peat in the active layer was about 30% in the fall, but this figure nearly doubled in the winter; the moisture content of the frozen core remained constant at over 90%. The peat material was largely mesic sedge peat near the bottom with mesic forest peat closer to the surface.
10.2307/1550379|Amchitka Island, a western member of the Aleutian chain, supports a nearly unbroken cover of organic soils over 75% of its area. Four organic soil types are recognized. These are based largely upon differences in the relative amounts of peat in the three decomposition states recognized, field moisture, and bulk density. To a lesser degree differentiation is based on thin-section characteristics and selected chemical parameters. The soils are arranged toposequentially from thick, raw, fibrous peat of low, very poorly drained areas to thinner sequences of very highly decomposed (Sapric) organic matter on better drained steep slopes and near-crest positions. Organic soil morphology and radiocarbon dating suggest the organic blanket began to accumulate some 10,550 years BP, at the end of the Late Glacial, in a climate slightly drier and cooler than present. Within at least the last 9,000 years a rather abrupt shift to moister conditions occurred with the accumulation of much of the present organic cover. There is no evidence, at present, that any major floristic change has occurred during this time.
10.2307/1550422| Rates and percentages of germination of Papaver radicatum Rottb. seeds were determined at constant temperatures from 5 to 35C. Differences between populations in both viability and percent germination of viable seed were found. Although genetic differences are not ruled out, a correlation between growing season solar radiation and production of germinable seed is suggested. An extremely sharp threshold temperature (19C) for germination was found in all populations tested. Germination occurred most rapidly at that temperature and declined at higher temperatures, but final germination percentages were not statistically different than that at the threshold temperature. Arctic poppy seeds are adapted to arctic environments in temperature response and rate of germination near threshold temperatures. 
10.2307/1550654|Niwot Ridge represents an altitudinal, east-west oriented gradient on the east slope of the Front Range. A large scale (1:10,000) map of its alpine vegetation provides information on the extent and the spatial and environmental relationships of the mapped units of a Braun-Blanquet vegetation classification hierarchy. Patterns of moisture and snow, influenced to a high degree by wind and topography, appear to be the factors controlling vegetation distribution. Distance from the Continental Divide combined with altitude, rather than altitude alone, appears to be of importance for the distribution of most vegetation units. The average elevation of treeline on the ridge is 3406 m s.m. Treeline is lowered on the south slope by strong westerly winds; it is higher in valleys than on ridges, lowest positions occurring below snowpatches. The net aboveground vascular productivity of the mapped alpine area is estimated at 1.725 ton ha
10.2307/1550138|Four stands on varying aged river deposits were compared with a climax stand on a higher and older terrace to show changes in soil and vegetation with time on the flood plain at the Chena River near Fairbanks, Alaska. The stands were a 15-year-old willow stand on a newly formed gravel bar, a 50-year-old balsam poplar stand, a 120-year-old white spruce stand, a 220-year-old white spruce/black spruce stand, and a climax black spruce/sphagnum stand. The vegetation characteristics of each stand are given. Soil temperature and moisture were taken to depths of 150 cm in each of the successional stands for a period of two years. In the early successional stands of willow and balsam poplar, the soil froze quicker and deeper and reached lower temperatures than in the later successional stages. In the willow stand, thawing was completed by the end of May, whereas in the white spruce/black spruce stand, thawing did not begin until the end of May and was never completed--a continuously frozen layer being present at a depth of 40 to 80 cm. The insulating effects of a thick moss layer under the spruce and the deposit of fine river alluvium during flooding account for delayed thawing and colder soil temperatures. The soil moisture regime changes from a xeric situation on the gravel bar to a mesic one in the poplar and white spruce stands to a hydric situation in the climax stand.
10.2307/1550920|Topography controls soil development and vegetation wherein well-drained Cryoboralfs, Cryochrepts, and Cryumbrepts under coniferous-aspen forest in higher parts of a catena in the Medicine Bow Mountains, Wyoming, merge with Cryaquepts and Cryofibrists in a poorly drained fen having grasses, sedges, rushes, and shrubs at the base of the chain. Soil development began in late Pleistocene time on Pinedale till, probably under forest. Calcium carbonate in some profiles implies former dry climates under grasses and possibly sagebrush during the Altithermal. An erosional unconformity separates late Pleistocene and Altithermal soil-forming events from those of the Neoglacial. Data suggest that the Neoglacial brought a return of forest, and podzolization is presently removing carbonates from soil profiles. The soils are in a state of disequilibrium in relation to the current environment because of changing paleo-environments and oscillations of ecotones along the mountain front during the late Pleistocene and Holocene.
10.2307/1551190|A variety of noncatastrophic and distinctly alpine mass movement forms may be classified under three basic terms: (1) talus, with rockfall talus, alluvial talus, avalanche talus, avalanche boulder tongue, and protalus rampart as subtypes; (2) rock glacier, subdivided into tongue-shaped and lobate; and (3) block slope, with the rare (in the alpine) block field, and block stream as subtypes. These mass movement forms reveal past and present local and microclimates, rates of erosion, postglacial valley wall, cliff, and ridge crest changes, and periglacial events during Neoglaciation.
10.2307/1550718|A core of varved lake sediments from Devlins Park, Front Range, Colorado, has yielded a radiocarbon-dated pollen record of environments during the last major advance of Pinedale ice. The downstream end of Devlins Park was dammed by Pinedale ice from 22,400 to 12,180 BP, creating the lake. The pollen diagram is dominated by Artemisia (40 to 60%) and Pinus (10 to 25%). Gramineae, Chenopodiaceae-Amaranthaceae, Compositae, Juniperus, and Picea pollen are also constantly present at low percentages. Arboreal pollen percentages are low, ranging from 13 to 30%. Pollen concentration varies from 6000 to 40,000 grains cc
10.2307/1551110|Minuartia groenlandica, an abundant alpine plant inhabiting exposed rocky slopes on Mount Washington, is attractive to at least 15 nectarivorous and pollinivorous insect species, all, except bumblebees, in the Order Diptera. The most common dipterous visitors are Muscidae, Anthomyiidae, and noneristaline Syrphidae not specialized for carrying pollen and therefore having smaller pollen loads on the body than eristaline Syrphidae, and bumblebees possessing specialized pollen retaining bristles. These unspecialized flies may compensate for relatively inefficient pollen transfer by their numerical superiority and by remaining active on cold, cloudy, windy days when specialized pollinators are not active. Abundance and variety of insect visitors to the plant and their ability to function in the rigorous alpine environment unique to Mount Washington ensures cross-pollination. The plant's ubiquity ensures abundant pollen and nectar resources for insects during peak flowering, allowing them to exist in otherwise marginal or inhospitable habitats such as exposed rocky slopes.
10.2307/1550629| The composition, structure, and seasonal development of zooplankton communities in Great Bear Lake were determined from monthly collections made between April and October 1978. Samples were taken 2 km off shore near Echo Bay and Conjuror Bay in the upper 40 m of the water column. There were 20 species found in the plankton, of which 10 were crustaceans, 7 were rotifers, and 3 were protozoans. The most common crustaceans in both areas were Diaptomus sicilis, Cyclops scutifer, and Holopedium gibberum; dominant rotifers included Keratella cochlearis, Kellicottia longispina, and Asplanchna priodonta; and the prevalent protozoan was Codonella cratera. Crustaceans reached a total maximum density of 3.1  10
10.2307/1551569|Paleoecological data do not permit a definitive characterization of the treeless vegetation that covered unglaciated interior Alaska during the last glacial period. Knowledge of the potential ranges of modern taxa can help determine which species could have comprised full-glacial plant communities. Azonal grassland (steppe) communities that currently occupy steep south-facing bluffs within the boreal forest of interior Alaska contain species that may have been more widespread during the full glacial. In order to investigate the potential ecological range of steppe taxa we studied the vegetation at Kathul Mountain, where continuous treeless vegetation occurs from low elevation to alpine tundra. The results from 27 vegetation plots placed along an elevational gradient from 290 to 910 m suggest a gradual transition from steppe to tundra. Species responded individualistically to changing elevation, and steppe and tundra taxa were intermixed over a broad zone of intermediate elevation. Two important steppe taxa, Agropyron spicatum and Artemisia frigida, were consistently present to elevations over 800 m. Regression of DCA scores on environmental variables indicated that both the interaction of slope and aspect and elevation were important factors controlling vegetation composition. Assuming that changes in elevation, slope, and aspect cause a change in temperature and growing-season length, it appears that some steppe taxa could have survived full-glacial conditions, at least on lower-elevation slopes with a south-facing aspect. The vegetation on such sites during the last glacial period may have been similar to that of the tundra-steppe transition seen today at Kathul Mountain.
10.2307/1550177|Trees growing on severely cryoturbed soils on permafrost terrain produce reaction wood in response to tilting of trees by ground heave movements. A total of 157 tree disks taken from 59 different earth hummocks show multiple tilting and recovery. The direction of tilt is generally away from the center of active hummocks. The chronology of ground heave movements as recorded by reaction wood shows brief periods of high activity and quiescence in the last 160 years. Such periods can be matched in two areas 450 km apart, but occur two years earlier in the north than in the south. Above-average levels of activity are indicated for the period 1847 to 1943, and low levels of activity during the last two decades. There are indications that high levels of activity are related to higher than normal fall temperatures and precipitation.
10.2307/1550581|Archaeological research suggests that cultural changes in the Canadian Arctic are closely linked to environmental changes. Current knowledge of postglacial climate and marine conditions in the eastern Canadian Arctic -- an area demonstrably sensitive to small fluctuations in these conditions -- is reviewed in the context of the prehistoric cultural sequence. Most of the major cultural events since 4500 BP appear to correlate well with the paleoclimatic conditions inferred from environmental data, although specific causal mechanisms cannot be documented. The expansions of Arctic Small Tool tradition (ASTt) and later of the Thule people seem to be related to warmer climatic conditions, whereas the evolution and decline of Dorset culture seems to show an inverse relation to temperature trends. More work is required on the dating of environmental and cultural changes and on the precise nature of possible interactions between environmental factors and cultural response.
10.2307/1551347|In the Snake River, an acidic mountain stream in the Colorado Rocky Mountains, the concentration of dissolved iron is apparently unrelated to seasonal changes in hydrologic regime, which strongly influence the concentrations of most other dissolved constituents. Hourly sampling indicated that short-term fluctuations in iron chemistry occur, whereas the concentrations of most other dissolved constituents, including other trace metals, remain stable. During the day, greater concentrations of dissolved total and ferrous iron generally occurred during periods of full sunlight. Photoreduction of hydrous iron oxides, which are abundant in the fine sediment and as coatings on the rocks, may be responsible for these observations. Iron chemistry also varied at night, decreasing in dissolved total and ferrous iron until about midnight and increasing until dawn. Oxidation of ferrous iron, and several microbial processes, may contribute to these nighttime changes. In an on-site batch experiment using rocks and streamwater, an increase in dissolved total and ferrous iron occurred on exposure to sunlight, and ferrous oxidation occurred on return to darkness. Short-term fluctuations in iron chemistry are consistent with the lack of correlation between iron and other constituents in the long-term data, and illustrate the potential importance of complex in-stream processes in such stream systems.
10.2307/1550964| Ground ice masses are exposed in some areas of Prince Albert Peninsula, Victoria Island. Two of them were studied along the scarps of slumps during the summer of 1982. The ice was beneath a 1-m-thick Wisconsinan till and showed a clear subvertical banding. Sampling was done mainly for ice isotopic analyses but also for particle analyses. The isotopic study indicates that the sampled ground ice was formed during the Wisconsinan period because the 18O values are about  lower than those of present-day surface waters. The D-18O relationships indicate that the ice is buried glacier ice rather than segregation ice. These ground ice masses are most probably the first example cited in the literature of Wisconsinan glacier ice in the present-day unglaciated part of the Canadian Arctic. 
10.2307/1551252|An extensive floristic survey was made during the years 1981-1983 near the snowline areas of Central Himalaya. In this sector of Himalaya, the snowline generally varies between 5400 and 5600 m asl. The area has been broadly divided into three geobotanical subunits: (1) chocolate-colored limestone ridges, (2) old sandur, and (3) pioneer environments. Christolea himalayensis (Camb.) Tafri (Brassicaceae) was recorded at the highest elevation, i.e., 5600 m. In all, 60 angiosperm taxa belonging to 18 families were found. Six dominant families of this zone are Brassicaceae (10 spp.), Asteraceae (8 spp.), Ranunculaceae (7 spp.), Poaceae (4 spp.), Fumariaceae (3 spp.), and Caryophyllaceae (3 spp.). The life form spectrum of the flora reveals that 46.66% species are chamaephytes, 30% hemicryptophytes, 18.33% geophytes, and only 5% therophytes; pteridophytes and gymnosperms were not recorded from the snowline areas. Lichens, algae, and mosses are frequent. The seasonality, habitats, and altitudinal distribution of each species were studied. The vegetation seems to be ecologically similar to that of arctic and tundra regions.
10.2307/1551325| Four hundred and thirty psychrotrophic strains of microorganisms were isolated from high alpine environments of the Western and Eastern Alps in Europe. Of the isolates, 77% were bacteria, 5% among them were actinomycetes. 20% of the isolates were yeasts, and 3% were hyphomycetes. All bacterial strains, with the exception of actinomycetes, were tested for their optimum growth temperature and screened for the production of extracellular proteases. The optimum temperature for growth of the majority of the bacterial strains was within the range of 10 to 25C. Almost half of the bacterial strains excreted protease into the medium at a cultivation temperature of 10C. The major part of cell-free protease-containing culture filtrates showed a maximum caseinolytic activity at pH 7 and 30C. Sensitivity to EDTA indicates that most bacteria produced metalloproteases. Fifty-four producers of protease were selected for taxonomic characterization. The genus Pseudomonas, especially the species P. fluorescens and P. paucimobilis, was found to be dominating. 
10.2307/1550813|Annuals and ephemeral perennials which become dormant early in the snow-free season are uncommon life forms in most alpine areas. In Slate Creek Valley in the Sierra Nevada, California, few of the numerous subalpine ephemeral species grow in alpine communities above 3400 m. Vegetation sampling within the subalpine zone showed that ephemeral species are most abundant in terraced Carex exserta communities on south-facing slopes. Within these communities, annuals were sampled most frequently on bare soil or lag gravel substrates while ephemeral perennials prefer bare soil or moss and lichen mats. Along a transect from the upper subalpine to the alpine, ephemerals, especially annuals, decrease within Carex exserta communities (15 to 5 species per site) while persistent perennials increase (10 to 14 species per site). Vegetation sampling found that most ephemeral species are best adapted to grow in communities with warm and moist soils for one to two months and in low plant cover which results in open, unshaded microsites. We hypothesize that ephemeral life forms are preadapted to succeed in the short subalpine growing season, but our data suggest that most such species require higher temperatures and longer water stress-free periods than are found above treeline in the Sierra Nevada.
10.2307/1550383|Rapid downstream changes in particle size, form, sorting, and grain size distributions are demonstrated to occur in the bed sediments of Two O'Clock Creek, a small stream in the Canadian Rockies. These changes are related to distance from the stream mouth, bed slope, and rock lithology. Pebble size, maximum projection area, and sorting alter systematically downstream while pebble roundness and flatness do not change. Particle size, maximum projection area, roundness, and sorting correlate significantly with bed slope, with the larger, better rounded and more poorly sorted gravels occuring on the steeper channel segments. Rock lithology correlates more highly with pebble size, maximum projection area, roundness, and flatness than either distance from the stream mouth or local bed slope, proving it to be the single most important factor influencing particle character. The high degree of variance displayed by the relationships most probably reflects the addition of fresh material to the stream along its course.
10.2307/1550500|The deciduous shrubs Salix pulchra and Betula nana and the deciduous graminoids Eriophorum vaginatum and Carex aquatilis have high rates of nutrient absorption and growth and large belowground storage reserves relative to the evergreen shrub Ledum palustre. Because of these characteristics, deciduous species can rapidly translocate nutrients into new growth early in the season and are most vulnerable to herbivores at this time. In contrast, the evergreen Ledum has a constant large allocation of nutrients to leaves throughout the year; these nutrient reserves are always accessible to herbivores and are chemically protected to a corresponding degree. Removal of leaf nutrients by defoliation causes greater mortality and reduction in productivity in Ledum than in deciduous species. Defoliation of the graminoids Eriophorum and Carex results in a large nutrient investment in leaf regrowth. Under such circumstances roots increase phosphate absorption and respiration rates, which helps to maintain plant nutrient reserves. Root growth rate decreases following defoliation, but root mortality increases only after severe, chronic defoliation.
10.2307/1550866|Prolonged snow cover and streams exert an influence on the growth rates of Rhizocarpon section Rhizocarpon lichen taxa, with considerable implications for lichenometric dating. Thalli are smaller than expected close to snow patches, due to a reduced growing season and ground instability. At some sites, these negative influences may be balanced or outweighed by the effects of increased moisture availability, resulting in increased growth at a particular point. At the site investigated, streams have little effect on Rhizocarpon section Rhizocarpon growth rates. The discrepancy between this and results obtained from other environments may indicate that Storbreen does not represent a particularly moisture-stressed environment for Rhizocarpon lichens.
10.2307/1551013|Environmental factors responsible for differential growth and fitness in fellfield and snowbed ecotypes of Dryas octopetala were examined. Field manipulations to alter levels of nutrient availability, water availability, exposure, and competition were performed in 1979, 1980, and 1981. Factors associated with nutrient availability and competition had the greatest effect on growth in both ecotypes. However, shading and fertilization treatments had strong negative effects on fellfield plants, whereas snowbed plants were more shade-tolerant and growth increased in response to fertilization. Relative effects of nutrients and light were examined further in a factorial experiment under controlled conditions. The two ecotypes responded differently to variation in light level, reaffirming the ecotypic difference in shade-tolerance. However, unlike the results of field fertilization, high nutrient availability did not differentially affect the two ecotypes. Therefore, the differential response of ecotypes to high nutrient availability in the field was most likely due to an increase in the biomass and productivity of the competitors of D. octopetala. Field and growth chamber studies suggested that the snowbed ecotype was better able to withstand the diminished light availability associated with increased competition.
10.2307/1551000| The magnitude and behavior of net radiation, albedo, and surface radiative temperatures for three coastal wetland sites on southern James Bay were monitored during the snow-free season. The three terrains were a relatively dry coastal backshore, an inner marsh, and an alder/willow forest. Surface wetness was found to be the most important factor prior to vegetation growth. During this period the drier site had an albedo of 0.18, while albedo for the wet marsh and the forest averaged 0.11. Albedos at the wetter sites increased rapidly after the initiation of vegetation growth and during the period of grand growth. The increase in albedo is shown to be linearly related to changes in leaf area. After the vegetation cover was fully established, albedos at all sites were similar. Net radiation in the wetland was primarily determined by albedo and incoming solar radiation. Site to site differences were small in all periods. Although mean daily radiative temperatures were similar at all sites before growth, the backshore had a larger daily temperature range than the wetter sites. Radiative temperatures at the forest site averaged 2 to 3C less than at the other sites after leafing had occurred. Wind direction had a significant influence on the radiative temperature regime at all sites. Radiative temperatures during onshore winds wee substantially smaller than for offshore winds. The implications of this to the surface heat balance are discussed. 
10.2307/1550460|The objective of this study was to measure plant water potentials and related environmental factors in different montane tundra types occurring in a gradient of snow accumulation and in tussock tundra in order to relate tundra vegetation to environmental gradients in Alaska. Plant water potentials, air and soil temperatures, air humidities, and solar irradiance were measured through the day every 2 weeks during the 1977 growing season in central Alaska and between 27 July and 5 August in Eriophorum vaginatum tussock tundra in central, western, and northern Alaska. The vegetation types studied included tussock tundra, fellfield, lichen heath, deciduous shrub, forb-grass, evergreen shrub (Cassiope), and sedge-moss. The Cassiope zone had the shortest growing season, determined by latelying snow and water stress, the highest temperatures, but the lowest seasonal temperature sums. Plant water potentials in the fellfield and lichen heath were moderate. Water potentials in tussock tundra in central, western, and northern Alaska were similarly high. In most vegetation types, water potentials were moderate, low water potentials occurred only in shallow rooted shrubs and in the Cassiope zone.
10.2307/1552043| We characterized 12 pedons from alpine and upper subalpine areas (>3300 m) along the south slope of the eastern Uinta Mountains in northeast Utah. Although the soils are derived mostly from quartzitic residuum and till, half of them have received calcareous eolian sediment, probably from the Uinta Basin. This eolian sediment is trapped effectively by Geum/sedge communities and has changed the soil chemistry to where more than half of the soils have a base saturation in excess of 50%. One of the pedons (U90-5) above treeline has a distinct argillic horizon, suggesting that clay movement is either a contemporary process in alpine soils of the central Rocky Mountains or that the argillans are relict features from a previous milder soil climate. Although some soils above 3400 m have a mean annual temperature of -2C or lower, they do not contain permafrost in the upper 2 m. Alpine soils of the Uintas described in this study are Aquic Cryorthents; Pergelic, Dystric, and Typic Cryochrepts; Typic, Lithic, and Pergelic Cryumbrepts; Pergelic Cryoborolls; and Pergelic and Typic Cryoboralfs. 
10.2307/1550370|Measurements of seasonal frost heave and frost penetration were conducted on frost boils occupying the tread of a windswept, snowfree, turf-banked lobe just above tree line in the Colorado Front Range. Heave magnitudes of up to 30 cm were recorded on frost boil centers. Values were lower on intervening vegetated areas. Temporal variations in surface heave and subsidence are also described. Frost penetration rates reached 2.3 cm day
10.2307/1550000| Insect fossils and plant macrofossils have been recovered at two exposures in the Old Crow-Porcupine region (northern Yukon Territory). One assemblage of fossils, from an exposure on the Porcupine River in the Bluefish Basin, is probably about 32,400 years old, while the other, from an exposure in the Old Crow Basin, is older than 44,000 years. Both assemblages seem to have been deposited when the sites from which they come were within a region of forest-tundra. The Porcupine River assemblage indicates that tree line along the middle Porcupine drainage during mid-Wisconsin time was significantly lower than at present. At that time more northern areas such as the Old Crow Basin would have been totally treeless in contrast with the forest-tundra vegetation there today. The Old Crow assemblage probably represents climatic conditions as warm as at present. It includes fossils of one insect species and two plant species that do not occur today in the Old Crow Basin. The insect, a beetle (Micralymma brevilingue Schidt), is now found farther north in a special type of tundra habitat. One of the plants, Alnus incana, may be absent today simply because of paucity of suitable habitat. The other, Najas flexilis, has a contemporary northern limit far to the south of the Yukon Territory. Because Najas does not grow in the Yukon Territory today, it is possible that its fossils imply warmer climate. However, such a conclusion is tempered by the further possibility that Najas is absent today not because of present climatic conditions but because of the severity of late Wisconsin climate in eastern Beringia (the Alaska-Yukon unglaciated refugium). 
10.2307/1550112|Soil evidence in the Cypress Hills suggests that the tree line has advanced beyond its present position several times since the Wisconsin glaciation. The first and major of these events extended from about 4,500 to 3,600 years BP. The tree line fluctuations, which are presumably due to climatic changes, are recorded in polygenetic soil profiles on erosional sites, and in a sequence of buried soils on depositional sites.
10.2307/1551820|Vegetation in thermally subsided peatlands (collapse scars) grades from the wettest part near the collapsing peat bank with Sphagnum riparium to successively drier conditions with S. angustifolium and S. fuscum until the peat plateau surface is reached, covered with Picea mariana-lichen woodlands. The same sequence can be found in the peat stratigraphy, where the charred surface of the treed peat plateaus (sylvic peat) is overlain by a sequence of Sphagnum riparium, S. angustifolium, and S. fuscum, capped by sylvic peat. Often several such sequences occur in the peat stratigraphy, indicating periodic permafrost degradation, triggered by fires, and regeneration. Radiocarbon dates show that such cycles can be as short as 600 yr. The earliest incidence of permafrost in the study area was dated at 3700 yr BP, indicating the end of the mid-Holocene warm period and the onset of the current climatic regime.
10.2307/1551050| The relative modern pollen spectra is reported for a transect from the edge of the boreal forest of Keewatin (ca. 60N), northeastward to the high arctic/polar desert environments of Clyde River, Baffin Island (ca. 71N). Two hundred and ninety-three surface moss polsters are analyzed from 29 sites. Thirteen modern pollen taxa (Alnus, Betula, Picea, Pinus, Salix, Artemisia, Chenopodiaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Compositae, Gramineae, Cyperaceae, Ericaceae, and Sphagnum) are used, in association with estimates of present temperature and precipitation, to construct transfer function equations from fossil pollen diagrams. Equations are derived using the Imbrie/Kipp (1971) approach and multiplex regression procedures. The resulting equations are all statistically significant with multiple correlation coefficients for summer temperatures of better than 0.9 with standard errors of  1.0C or less. The transfer functions are used on four published pollen diagrams (Nichols, 1975) to predict July temperatures. The resulting time-series are presented as standardized departures from the mean July TC at each of the four sites. A generalized reconstruction of the July temperature history of central northern Canada is then made by taking average departures for each of the four sites over the last 6000 yr. This shows (1) temperatures above average between 5500 and 4000 BP; (2) temperatures below average (or average) between 4000 and 3000 BP; (3) temperatures above average between 3000 and 2000 BP; and (4) temperatures below average between 2000 and the last few hundred years. In addition, on the basis of multivariate statistical analysis, we define four geographic pollen assemblage regions. Proceeding from south to north the pollen assemblages are Region I: Betula/Pinus/Picea/Ericaceae; Region II: Betula/Pinus/Ericaceae/Alnus; Region III: Ericaceae/Salix/Cyperaceae/Pinus; and Region IV: Gramineae/Cyperaceae/Ericaceae/Salix. 
10.2307/1550347| Eight marine strandlines are delimited on morphological evidence. They dip toward 050 at gradients that decrease with age to the present. The maximum ice load was therefore located southwest of Baffin Island, possibly between Baker Lake and Southampton Island. Five strandlines are associated with stillstands of the western margin of the residual Baffin Island ice cap. Each strandline is dated by reference to a radiocarbon-controlled emergence curve. The validity of the strandlines is tested by four methods; the strandlines appear as reasonable approximations of crustal deformation through time. Correlative geologic-climatic phases along the western margin of the late-glacial Barnes Ice Cap are indicated by the moraine evidence. The Isortoq Phase is dated about 6,700 BP. It was succeeded by a period of retreat with limited halts. Another major glacial phase, the Flint, occurred about 5,000 BP, and is correlative with the growth of the Ellesmere ice shelf and glacier readvance in other parts of the world. Younger prominent moraines are > 1,700, 700, and 250 years old. 
10.2307/1550101|Two permafrost profiles in the alpine region of Banff National Park, Alberta, and an adjacent region of British Columbia were observed throughout the summer of 1970. This report of permafrost is only the second from the Rocky Mountain region of Alberta and southern British Columbia.
10.2307/1551400|Plant metabolism, growth, and reproduction in the Arctic are controlled by the interactions of physical environment and the genetic structure of an old, relatively small, winter-adapted flora. Gradients of both are described with particular reference to decreasing floristic richness toward the cold summer climates of high latitudes. Photosynthesis is restricted to the C
10.2307/1552034|Seed viability and dormancy mechanisms were investigated in seven herbaceous plant species and one low shrub species common in the first few years of postfire succession in subalpine forests of Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming, U.S.A. Seeds of Epilobium angustifolium (fireweed) had rapid and high percent germination in both the fall and spring after seeds were collected. Seeds of Lupinus argenteus (lupine) germinated well after several months of warm or cold storage, and the rate of germination but not the final percent germination was increased by scarification. Seeds of Arnica cordifolia (heartleaf arnica) were nearly all nonviable; only one seed germinated out of 650 tested, and no seedlings were observed in the field. Small sample sizes limited the scope of testing of the other species, but both Cirsium arvense (Canada thistle) and Epilobium ciliatum (willow-herb) showed moderate to high germination in the spring after several months of storage, Hieracium albiflorum (hawkweed) germinated better in the fall than in the following spring, Vaccinium scoparium (dwarf huckleberry) seeds germinated in the fall 1 mo after collection, and seeds of Antennaria racemosa (pussytoes) failed to germinate when tested in the fall 1 mo after collection. These results, combined with field studies, indicate that large-scale fires provide opportunities for recruitment of new genetic individuals, increased genetic diversity, and colonization of new patches on the forest floor in several species, including Epilobium angustifolium, Lupinus argenteus, Hieracium albiflorum, and Cirsium arvense. These effects are likely to persist for many decades in these long-lived perennial plant species.
10.2307/1550473|Germination of seeds from many populations of the widespread arctic-alpine grass species Trisetum spicatum was studied under controlled temperature and light conditions. Seeds from populations from lower latitudes reached maximum germination more slowly but at higher temperatures than those from higher latitudes. Germination in high latitude populations was light-stimulated, while in low latitude populations, it was dark-stimulated, independent of thermal regime. The trend was clinal. Stratification stimulated germination of high latitude populations but not in lower latitude ones. Vivipary, unreported in native populations of Trisetum, was common under greenhouse and controlled-chamber conditions. Plantlets in some viviparous inflorescences flowered and produced full seeds.
10.2307/1551300|Micrometeorological techniques were used to compute hourly melt energy for ablating ice and snow surfaces on Peyto Glacier, Alberta, Canada. The computations were compared with measurements taken from electronic ablatometers which directly monitored surface lowering. Agreement between daily totals obtained from the two methods was found to be excellent for ice and reasonably good for snow. Hourly differences between computed and measured values tended to exhibit a diurnal pattern wherein ablation lags the energy input to the surface. Thus the delay in runoff from melting ice and snow is linked to diurnal changes in surface water storage.
10.2307/1550958|The effect of removal of moss and low-growing shrubs on the growth of the tussock-forming cotton sedge Eriophorum vaginatum was studied at Eagle Creek in central Alaska. Shrubs and/or moss were removed from heavily infested tussocks with greater or lesser amounts of self-shading. Removal of moss produced little effect. Removal of shrubs resulted in an increase in the irradiance at the tussock surface and increases in tussock temperatures on afternoons of clear days. Tussocks with less self-shading also received more irradiance and showed higher temperatures. Tussocks from which shrubs had been removed produced many more daughter tillers and had smaller adult tillers than did the controls. Tussocks with less self-shading produced more daughter tillers than tussocks with more self-shading. Shrub removal caused increases in concentration of potassium in tillers, but did not change the concentration of nitrogen, phosphorus, magnesium, calcium, total nonstructural carbohydrates, and micronutrients. The results of the experiment indicate that shrub removal did not greatly affect the nutrient regime of the tussocks. Instead, most of the results of shrub removal can be attributed to alterations of the radiation regime of the tussocks. Increased tiller production probably resulted from changes in light quantity, light quality, or the direct effect of increased temperatures in the meristematic region. The combination of shading by shrubs and self-shading may have important effects on the vegetative demography of E. vaginatum and on macro- and microsuccession in tussock tundra.
10.2307/1551590|Vegetation was sampled in three types of tundra habitat (upland, wet meadow, and lake) in southwestern Alaska. Aboveground and belowground biomass were measured by harvesting, and the depth to frozen soil was measured using ground-penetrating radar. Live and dead aboveground biomass increased, and dead belowground biomass decreased, as habitat wetness and depth to frozen soil increased. The proportion of live aerial biomass that was graminoid increased as habitat wetness and depth to frozen soil increased, whereas the proportion that was woody shrub biomass decreased with increases in habitat wetness and depth to frozen soil. The results indicate that information pertaining to either vegetation type/biomass, habitat wetness, or depth to frozen soil, could be used to infer information about the other two variables. Vegetation and frozen soil depth could be monitored remotely for large areas using tools such as satellite images and radar. Since the cycling of carbon is related to carbon storage (biomass) and depth of the biologically active (thawed) layer, it should be possible to study carbon cycles in tundra remotely, based on the relationships stated above.
10.2307/1552051|Gongga Shan (Tibetan: Minya Gongkar, alt. 7556 m) is located west of the Sichuan Basin bordering the Tibetan Plateau. It is the highest mountain in China, excluding Himalayan summits in Tibet. The eastern slopes reach down into the Dadu Valley (1100 m) and are colder and more humid at comparable altitudes than the western slopes which blend into the Tibetan Plateau (3000 to 3500 m). Maximum precipitation along the east slope occurs at 2900 to 3200 m at far higher altitudes than in other Chinese mountain ranges. Due to the combination of high evaporation rates at low altitudes and generally increasing precipitation with altitude, high-altitude belts with humid conditions have developed above arid valley zones. Climatic differences between east and west slopes cannot be explained only by exposure. Located at the northern end of the climatic transition zone between southwest and southeast monsoonal air masses, the orographic barrier of the Gongga Shan range is thought to anchor the climatic boundary which farther south moves about 400 km seasonally in an east/west direction. Differences in winter climatic conditions and summer precipitation patterns between both sides of the range support this assumption.
10.2307/1551796|Vegetation succession in river gravel bars is described in seven sites, arranged approximately along south-north and east-west lines across the mountains. Early successional stages, dominated by the typical river gravel species Myricaria germanica and Hippophae rhamnoides, were highly uniform among the study sites throughout the mountains, in contrast to diverse mid and late stages which ranged from coniferous forests to a semidesert. At one site, succession was studied in detail in relation to elevation above a river. It was concluded that succession was divergent on a broad geographic scale and convergent on a local scale.
10.2307/1551840|Soil development was investigated as part of an intensive study of long-term revegetation patterns of shrub tundra on anthropogenic disturbances within a 15-km section of the CANOL pipeline corridor, N.W.T. Soil temperature, pH, percent organic matter, moisture content, and particle size composition were determined for sites in vehicle tracks and borrow pits during the summer of 1993. Elevated temperature was the most substantial difference between soils in vehicle tracks and undisturbed sites. Warmer, drier, and less acidic soils in borrow pits contained less organic matter and were more coarse textured than undisturbed soils. Low levels of organic matter on borrow pits suggest slow soil development over nearly 5 decades of primary succession. Soils were well developed on CANOL vehicle tracks, where they were moister with higher organic matter content than undisturbed soils.
10.2307/1551747|The distributions of host-specific herbivorous insects along latitudinal and altitudinal gradients, particularly within arctic and alpine environments, provide useful analogs for predicted future changes that are likely to occur over time at any one location, given a gradually changing thermal environment. It is suggested that selected examples of these insect/plant systems can serve as highly responsive sensors of changing climatic temperatures. Distributions of insects that show a restricted occurrence within the overall range of their host plant are predicted to respond more rapidly than the distribution of the host plants themselves. Examples are given to show how these insect-plant systems might be used to monitor long-term temperature change. These examples, drawn from both our published and unpublished work on Homoptera (Insecta), include the following common and widely distributed host plant species within the Northern Hemisphere: Dryas octopetala, Chamerion angustifolium, dwarf Salix species including S. lapponum, and Calluna vulgaris/Erica cinerea.
10.2307/1550124| In order to use lichenometry to investigate absolute as well as relative chronologies of moraines, it is necessary to establish the growth rates of the lichens used. To establish this directly in the Tarfala Valley (67N, 18E), where dated surfaces older than 50 to 60 years are absent, photographs were taken of 335 thalli of the species Rhizocarpon geographicum coll. and Rhizocarpon alpicola growing on the moraines of Storglaciren. A grid of transparent plastic film, divided into square millimeters, was placed over the lichen to be photographed. In order to discover any variations in growth rates, lichens of different sizes from localities with a range of microclimatic conditions and with varying degrees of lichen cover were selected. The photographs were taken in 1972 and are intended to be repeated after a suitable number of years in order to measure the growth of the thalli. 
10.2307/1550517|The recurring springtime flaw polynyi south of Cape Thompson-Point Hope, Alaska, are examined in relation to the meteorological controls of wind-induced divergence and thermal advection. The polynyi are mapped from Landsat imagery for February to June of 1973 to 1977, while sea-level geostrophic winds are computed for six National Meteorological Center (NMC) grid points in the area together with temperature data for Kotzebue. Frictional divergence over the pack ice, created by strong offshore winds, appears to be the dominant control on polynya growth for the early part of the season. However, rapid enlargement of the open-water area in late spring seems to be related more to advection of warmer air from the adjacent snowfree land surface.
10.2307/1550365|Winter nests of brown and collared lemmings were examined following melt-off in 1969 through 1973 for evidence of predation by weasels during the preceding winter. In the winter of 1968-69 heavy weasel predation (34.7% of nests examined) contributed to the decline of a breeding lemming population. Weasel and bird predation in summer 1969 then drove the lemmings to a very low density. Weasel predation remained low for the duration of the study. Lemming population changes were related to the intensity of summer and, especially, winter reproduction. Reproduction was impaired in winters of unusually shallow snow cover and cold subnivean conditions. We conclude that subnivean conditions, as they affect winter reproduction, influence the timing of the rise to a population peak, and thus influence the period of the cycle. Predation on a declining lemming population is important in sustaining the amplitude of the cycle. This crucial predation need not occur at the point of maximum prey density and need not account for the majority of post-high mortality.
10.2307/1550530|Parts of the southern end of Libby Flats at approximately 3200 m altitude were originally vegetated by a spruce-fir climax forest which was destroyed by fires in the 1860s. Since then, plant succession in these areas has proceeded as far as the meadow stage. Soils within this meadow or alpine tundra area have retained most of the characteristics of the original forest profiles, but also have assumed some subtle differences. These are evident only near the soil surface and are a result of the changes in vegetation and local environment during the past century. Features of the meadow soils which distinguish them from the adjacent forest soils include (1) charcoal fragments in A horizons, relict from the fires of the 1860s; (2) a thickening of A1 horizons in sideslope and toeslope locations which has resulted from sheetwash and colluviation that followed destruction of the forest; (3) an increase in clay content of A1 horizons in these locations which has resulted from the same sheetwash and colluviation; (4) the presence of gravels closer to the soil surface at high topographic locations resulting from their erosion following the burns; (5) a general absence of O horizons; (6) an increase in organic matter and organic carbon contents in A1 horizons; (7) slightly higher pH values in A1 horizons; and (8) a slight increase in the cation exchange capacity of A1 horizons.
10.2307/1551407|Surtsey is the newest member of a group of islands named Vestmannaeyjar (Westmann Islands) off the southern coast of Iceland. All the islands are of volcanic origin with palagonite tuff or basaltic lava. The eruption, which gradually built up Surtsey, started on 14 November 1963 and lasted over 3.5 yr. The island reached the size of 2.7 km
10.2307/1550627|Bow Lake, Alberta, Canada, is a deep, thermally stratified alpine lake fed by an overland meltwater stream from Bow Glacier. The glacier has been generally receding from its Neoglacial maximum, and around 1955 a pond began to form at the terminus. Prior to pond development, sedimentation in Bow Lake was dominated by underflows which formed thick varves in the lower areas of the lake floor. Since 1955, however, the pond has deprived the stream of much of its sediment load, and inflows are now dispersed through the lake mainly as rightward-deflected interflows moving above the hypolimnion. The effect of the pond, therefore, has been to alter the pattern of sedimentation in the lake as well as to reduce its overall rate of deposition.
10.2307/1551781| The northernmost black spruce (Picea mariana) outpost in the Ungava Peninsula (arctic Quebec) is about 80 km north of the treeline. It is a confined (440 m
10.2307/1551924| Column and thin-layer chromatography revealed the presence of the following carotenoids in the thalli of 19 lichen species from West Greenland: -carotene, -carotene, -carotene, -cryptoxanthin, lutein, 3-epilutein, zeaxanthin, lutein epoxide, antheraxanthin, canthaxanthin, astaxanthin, violaxanthin, mutatoxanthin, auroxanthin, neoxanthin, and capsochrome. The total content of carotenoids ranged from 13.13 (Cetraria nivalis) to 88.67 g g
10.2307/1550959| The flora of Neoglacial till at 12 sites in the Teton Range, Wyoming, was investigated. Ten sites are moraines fronting glaciers, one is a moraine fronting a nv patch, and one is a rock glacier. A total of 109 species of vascular plants were collected. Only seven species were found at all sites. Most species were found at only a few sites, with 25% restricted to a single site. Comparisons between the flora on Neoglacial deposits and two hypothesized source floras indicated that no significant differences exist with respect to propagule dispersal type or phytogeographic distribution. Species richness ranged from 17 to 68 species per site. Sites which were adjacent or in the same canyon were significantly more similar to each other floristically than more distant sites. Rank correlation of species richness with six site variables showed that the type of vegetation, including alpine meadow, subalpine meadow, streamside, talus, and timberline forest, which surrounds each site had the strongest correlation with species richness. Topographic diversity of site deposits and aspect also showed significant correlations with species richness. Site elevation, deposit area, and deposit age were not correlated with species richness. Detailed floristic studies on dated deposits of differing age indicated that floristic and vegetational relationships change little over time, perhaps because of extensive mass wasting on the Neoglacial deposits. 
10.2307/1552053| The 31-km
10.2307/1551649| Temperature records are presented for average years in two vertical rockwalls situated in two extreme microenvironments of the alpine periglacial zone of the French Alps (Brianonnais). Temperatures recorded at the southwest-facing site of the Crte de Vars (altitude 2450 m) show a variation pattern characterized by many superficial freeze-thaw cycles and uninterrupted frost at depth (48 cm) for 2 mo. Minimum annual temperatures are rarely lower than -8C. At the north-facing site of the Roc Noir du Combeynot (altitude 3000 m) the record shows a different temperature pattern with few superficial freeze-thaw cycles and 7 mo of uninterrupted frost. Temperatures are often lower than -8 to -10C. A comparison during a short period on a south-facing site of the Roc Noir document the influence of the orientation of the cliff. At both sites, the rock (limestone and granite) has a low porosity, 0.7 to 3.5%, but is micro- and macrocracked with a fracture spacing from 10 to 25 cm. Winter and spring field observations suggest that rock breaking is essentially due to the dissociation of blocks along the macro-fissures filled by ice. This process is more active at the north-facing site where the water supply is more constant and freezing longer and more intense. 
10.2307/1551990| In order to determine the paths of sediment transport to the Laptev Sea and on to the Arctic Ocean we measured
1550157|On the basis of observations made on a one-day field excursion to Marmot Creek and Plateau Mountain in the Canadian Rockies, the author outlines the principal features and compositions of the timberline. These aspects are compared with those of Central Europe, especially the Czechoslovakian Carpathians. Timberline trees in the visited areas in Canada are Picea engelmannii, Abies lasiocarpa, Larix lyallii, and Pinus albicaulis; in Central Europe they are Picea excelsa, Larix decidua, and Pinus cembra. Local conditions dictate the dominant timberline species. The form of tree regeneration also influences the nature of the timberline. In the region of the upper timberline the forest growths are regenerated most often by branches touching the ground. In the place visited in the Rocky Mountains above the upper timberline the species which occur only in shrub form are missing. Therefore, the forest growths are gradually changed into shrub without breaking the crown cover. In Central Europe the branches of the shrub Pinus mugo ssp. mughus lie on the ground and prevent the branches of spruce (Picea excelsa) from touching the ground and rooting. Since the generative regeneration from seeds is low, the tree forest growth disintegrates into tree groups.
10.2307/1550494|Two maps (Map 1 -- 1:21,000, 177 km
10.2307/1550624|Weathering rinds on surface boulders of the Torlesse Supergroup sandstones of New Zealand thicken with time. The rate of rind growth has been determined using age control from radiocarbon dated deposits. The rate decays exponentially, suggesting that the weathering is determined by rates of diffusion of reactants through the rind. Weathering-rind thicknesses thus provide a means of determining the age of surfaces where age (years) = 1030 R
10.2307/1550081|Alpine environments are characterized by short, cold, unpredictable growing seasons. Outside of the Arctic this growing season is characterized by cold nights as well. Alpine plant adaptations are much like those of the Arctic in morphological and physiological characteristics. However, they appear to acclimate metabolically to changes in temperature more easily than do arctic ecotypes. In fact, almost all representatives of arctic-alpine species are ecotypically different from their congeners in the Arctic. This is particularly true in reproduction and metabolism, the real heart of adaptation to cold alpine environments. While there are relatively ancient alpine plant taxa, the accelerated rise of new mountain ranges in late Pliocene and Pleistocene times has led to new floristic aggregations in alpine vegetations by migration and adaptive radiation. Fluctuations in Pleistocene glaciations have alternately allowed migrations and blocked them. Interglacial refugia may be more important than glacial refugia in consolidating evolutionary changes in alpine taxa which evolve in response to decreasing temperatures, increasing light intensities, and in some cases to increasing drought stress.
10.2307/1551089|Milne Ice Shelf has an area of about 290 km
10.2307/1550923|Analysis of short-term ice-floe displacement fields in western Norton Sound, Alaska, yields a statistical model for long-term ice-floe drift. The short-term ice motions are found to be normally distributed with an average velocity of 3.6 km d
10.2307/1551586|Growth trends of whitebark pine and lodgepole pine in a subalpine forest of the Sierra Nevada were studied with dendroecological methods. Principal components analyses show a dominant trend of increasing basal area increment over time in all age classes of both species. Although this pattern is normal for young trees, it is unusual for old conifers. Climatic variables account for a relatively small portion of the variance in short-term tree growth, and there is no clear relationship with long-term growth. Growth trends in this study resemble those of bristlecone pine at other high elevation sites in California but differ from those of conifers at lower elevations in the Sierra Nevada. Possible causes for the striking growth increases are stand dynamics effects, climatic factors not evaluated in this study, or increased atmospheric CO
10.2307/1552128| Soils in the Antarctic Dry Valleys have been significantly influenced by soil formation factors such as parent material, climate, and topography. Factors common in more temperate zones, including chemical weathering and leaching of minerals, occur to a much lesser extent in these cold arid soils, leading to an accumulation of salts and bases, which will likely affect the distribution of soil biota. Since the intensity of these factors may vary with topography, this study examined the soil properties and soil invertebrate communities along an elevational gradient in Taylor Valley, Antarctica. We sampled from two spatial scales (1  1 m and 10  10 m) at three sites (83, 121, and 188 m a.s.l) on the south side of Lake Hoare in Taylor Valley, and examined soil moisture, nitrogen, carbon, pH, and electrical conductivity (which provides an estimation of soil salinity), as well as the distribution and community structure of soil invertebrates. We found significant differences in soil properties with elevation, along with associated differences in soil communities. Biodiversity was greatest at the lowest elevation, closest to the shore of Lake Hoare, where soil moisture, carbon, and nitrogen were highest, and salinity was lowest. Scottnema lindsayae dominated the nematode communities found at all sites. Electrical conductivity was higher and carbon and nitrogen contents were lower at the upper elevations. The distribution of both Eudorylaimus and Plectus appeared to be influenced by soil moisture; electrical conductivity affected the mortality of all three nematode genera found. Soil properties did differ with sampling scale, suggesting that changes in microhabitats not detected at sampling intervals of a meter or more may be more reliably detected by sampling at a smaller scale. 
10.2307/1551381|The hypothesized presence of large regions of grass and forb-dominated "steppe tundra" across Alaska and Siberia during the Pleistocene glacial epochs has led to a search for modern analogs. Evidence is presented for the presence of steppe vegetation on south-facing slopes and summits of pingos within the central Arctic Coastal Plain of Alaska. Vegetation, floristics, soils, and climatic factors are each considered, and together support the idea of an ecologically-physiognomically defined steppe on these sites. Grasses and forbs dominate this vegetation, and Dryas integrifolia, which is dominant in most dry sites regionally, is absent or has only minimal cover. Although the floristic evidence indicates that the pingo vegetation is most strongly related to the circumpolar arctic vegetation, the steppe-like vegetation has more North American-Asian and low arctic taxa than do other sites. Soils are Pergelic Cryoborolls, and the microclimates on south slopes have greater daily and annual fluctuations than do other microsites. Other pingo vegetation is related to fellfield and snowbeds. These communities represent the northernmost known examples of steppe in North America, and help explain the complex relationships that can exist within the vegetation of well-drained arctic sites.
10.2307/1549998|The estimation of clear sky atmospheric emittance in mountainous regions from screen-level climatological data poses several problems, both with respect to the implicit assumptions of the models and features of the input data. The significance of these problems is discussed for a site in the Front Range of Colorado (3,500 m). A modified form of the Brunt model is presented for use at this altitude for the summer months of June, July, and August. For estimates of atmospheric emittance in the region examined, it is preferable to use a model based on observations of both humidity and temperature. The predictive power of models which use temperature only as input is markedly less significant for single-point estimates at 12-hr intervals. It is shown that the use of screen-level data will result in a sizable error in the model predictions and that equivalent pressure level sounding data from a nearby radiosonde station is preferable as input.
10.2307/1550276|Two glacial fluctuations, Temple Lake (4,500 to 2,700 BP) and Gannett Peak (300 to 100 BP), are recognized in the Colorado Front Range. Lichenometrical investigations led to the identification and dating of an intermediate period of ice and rock glacier advance, locally called the "Arikaree" (1,900 to 950 BP). Because the name "Arikaree" is preempted in the Colorado stratigraphic column, it is suggested that the intermediate age Neoglacial deposits be renamed Audubon.
10.2307/1551799| Occurrence of pikas (Ochotona princeps) in the southern Rocky Mountains is closely tied to past and present distribution of alpine permafrost conditions, which produce and maintain appropriate talus-slope habitat. Estimates of full-Wisconsin elevational depression of alpine permafrost and vegetation zones support the existence of glacial-maximum dispersal corridors between currently isolated populations of O. princeps. Altithermal warming accounts for 66.7% of apparent post-Wisconsin extinctions of insular populations of pikas in the region. Populations at sites with altithermal refugia >100 km
10.2307/1550957| A method is described for approximating the minimum ages of mature tussocks of the wide-spread cotton sedge Eriophorum vaginatum. It is based on measured values for tussock height and annual increments of the vertically oriented stems with adjustments to account for some loss in height when the relatively short lived tillers (<8 yr) are superseded by daughter tillers. Values for plant height and annual stem increment both varied about threefold between the extremes of tussock populations from six sites covering 513 of latitude (ca. 590 km) in central Alaska. Values for both criteria correlate closely with each other and with thaw degree-days for the three summer months at each of the sites. By contrast, values for estimated minimum ages of mature tussocks at the six sites showed no such correlations and were within 22% of the mean value (158 yr). Estimated ages ranged from 122 to 187 yr, confirming the general impression that plants of this species are relatively long lived. 
10.2307/1550929|Observations of two wet snow avalanches indicate that their erosive effects are highly specific and cannot be readily generalized. One full-depth, wet snow avalanche moving over snow-free and thawed debris surfaces had no erosional impact. This effect was the result of a protective veneer of wet snow deposited by the avalanche as it moved over the ground. The other example which occurred in apparently similar snow and terrain conditions produced measurable erosive effects. These observations suggest that care must be taken when inferring or assuming avalanche erosion processes in interpretation of landforms and deposits.
10.2307/1550129| The use of lichenometry for dating neoglacial deposits in the San Juan Mountains of southwestern Colorado encounters several difficulties, primarily (1) the lack of a locally-derived growth curve for Rhizocarpon geographicum, (2) the small size and susceptibility to weathering of volcanic tuffs, andesites, and other rock debris, which limit the size of maximum-diameter lichen thalli, and (3) the fact that many deposits in the high basins above timberline (>3,550 m a.s.l.) are older than the effective range of lichenometry. Lichens found on tombstones in cemeteries of local mining towns in the San Juan Mountains are used to construct initial growth curves for R. geographicum, Lecanora thomsonii, Lecidea atrobrunnea, Xanthoria elegans, and Parmelia spp. The results indicate respective growth rates of 30, 146, 150, 150, and 330 mm for the first 100 years. Lichen measurements and weathering data for three rock glaciers and one blockstream suggest a general age increase from the source area to the snout. One
10.2307/1551743|The effect of established shrub willows (Salix commutata and S. phylicifolia) was tested in a primary successional ecosystem at Lyman Glacier forefront in the North Cascade Range (Washington, U.S.A.). To examine the hypothesis that early successional plant individuals form centers of establishment for subsequent vascular plant colonizers, two experiments were conducted to assay the effect of shrub willows on the establishment and survival of indigenous plants. First, the occurrence of indigenous plant species under willow canopies was compared with their occurrence beyond the canopies (experiment 1). Second, the separate effects of willow canopies and associated soils on germinant emergence and survival of an indigenous taxon, Pinus contorta, were evaluated (experiment 2). Both experiments indicated that the shrub willows do not serve as nuclei that facilitate the establishment of new, emerging plant individuals. In experiment 1, the willow canopy had no effect on the observed frequency of most indigenous taxa. Five species, however, were negatively associated with the willow canopies. In experiment 2, willow canopies inhibited the germinant emergence of P. contorta. The greatest emergence occurred in soils transferred from beneath willow canopies to areas beyond the canopies. Results from the two experiments suggest that while the willow canopy is either neutral or inhibitory in its effect on establishment of indigenous plants, the soil developing beneath the willow can actually be a positive factor towards plant establishment.
10.2307/1550182|In a High Arctic lowland ecosystem wind transported organic matter is frequently deposited in late snowbank habitats on the slopes of raised beachridges. Analysis of this detritus indicates its principal source is the adjacent snowfree beachcrest. In some snowbank locations this wind transported detritus may account for 10 to 20% of the yearly accumulation of organic matter and may provide an additional supply of nutrients.
10.2307/1551987| We estimate the means and the interannual variability during the last 30 yr of the mass balances of the small glaciers of the world (all glaciers except for the two large ice sheets), as well as the influence of these mass balance changes on fluctuations of sea level and their relation to climate. The mass balance data base was enriched by data for glaciers of the Arctic islands, Antarctica, and mountainous areas of Siberia, Central Asia, and the Caucasus, which have not been included in previous compilations. We also use a new estimate of the total area for the small glaciers on Earth: 680  10
10.2307/1551258|The flow of water in the vicinity of ice layers within an isothermal snowpack is examined using Darcian laws. Treated as semipermeable boundaries, ice layers may reduce the residence time of water within the pack by delivering saturated flow to the downslope ice-layer edges, whence flow is transmitted downward faster than the speed of an unsaturated wave of meltwater that would exist in the absence of ice layers. This could produce a more rapid runoff than might be expected from a homogeneous snowpack. The effectiveness of this flow-timing mechanism depends on changing rates of meltwater influx. If a stratified snowpack is treated as an anisotropic medium, the anisotropy must be modeled as time-dependent over individual diurnal cycles.
10.2307/1550826|The Rhizocarpon green zone hypothesis states that maximum thallus diameters of the yellow species in this taxon are largest at the foot of the proximal slopes of moraine ridges. The hypothesis is tested by data from two glacial forelands: Storbreen in the Jotunheimen and Nigardsbreen in the Jostedal, Norway. The results support the green zone hypothesis and suggest that the phenomenon is mainly due to the behavior of Rhizocarpon geographicum. It is generally presumed that the proximal slope of any one moraine is of a uniform age. Therefore, the existence of a zone where mean maximum thallus diameters are larger than elsewhere on the proximal slope is considered to have important implications for the use of this species group for lichenometric dating.
10.2307/1551549|The impact of a lemming population on a snowbed in northern Fennoscandia was examined during a population peak. Twelve exclosures and 12 open plots were established on a moderately early snowbed. The plots were photographed in autumn 1988, spring 1989, autumn 1989, and autumn 1990, and the cover of graminoids, woody plants, lichens, litter, lemming feces, and mosses were measured. The changes in cover were analyzed with repeated measures ANOVAs. The lemmings significantly decreased cover of graminoids by 33% and mosses by 66% during the peak winter. Our results show that grazing needs to be considered when discussing the development of snowbed vegetation.
10.2307/1551892|The first stages of soil formation in the subantarctic are poorly known. In the Kerguelen Islands, initial soil development was studied along a chronosequence (0-200 yr old) on a glacier foreland in a largely ahumic environment. The role of organic matter and attendant weathering is much less than the physical processes related to the high precipitation on the Kerguelen glacier forelands where mechanical weathering, frost-heaving, and particle translocation are dominant. These processes can be considered as an initial, prebiotic pedogenesis development in oligotrophic conditions. Colonization processes occur but the establishment of plant communities is slow, limited by nutrient and water availability. After a delay of two centuries, biotic pedogenesis could supplement mechanical pedogenesis as shown by the development of the new A0/A1 horizon, rejuvenating the old sites. This new trend increases the stability of the soil surfaces, increases the nutrient and water availability for plant, and consequently favors the establishment of new plant communities. The resulting biotic pedogenesis is still incipient within the time scale of our observations.
10.2307/1550420| Nitrogenase activities of moss associations in the White Mountains of New Hampshire were assayed by the acetylene reduction method. A Sphagnum association growing under upper subalpine forest was the only moss association found to have significant activity. Acetylene reduction occurred in the green head of the moss and was probably caused by bacteria, although possibly by blue-green algae. The average reduction rate for the subalpine Sphagnum association was 34 nmoles C
10.2307/1551704|Chromosome numbers of 156 individuals representing 19 species from western arctic North America are reported. Previously unreported species include A. alborosea (2n = 56, 70), A. crymophila (2n = 28, 56, 70), A. densifolia (2n = 28), A. ekmaniana (2n = 56, 70), A. elegans (2n = 28, 56, 70), A. isolepis (2n = 56), A. laingii (2n = 56), A. neoalaskana (2n = 28), A. oxyphylla (2n = 56), A. pallida (2n = 56, 70), A. philonipha (2n = 28), and A. subviscosa (2n = 28, 56, 60, 70). Two species were represented by cytotypes previously unreported, A. angustata (2n = 70) and A. monocephala (2n = 42). The remaining counts support previously reported chromosome number determinations for the respective species and are presented to supplement our knowledge relative to chromosome number distributions for these. In populations where staminate and pistillate plants co-occurred, the sex ratios were generally 1:1, but deviations from this ratio existed among the diploid species.
10.2307/1550369| Permafrost was discovered in 1969 at an altitude of 4,140 m near the surface of Summit Cone crater on Mauna Kea, a dormant volcano on the island of Hawaii. Although the mean annual air temperature of the nearby Mauna Kea Observatory (alt. 4,200 m) is well above freezing, the permafrost is at least 10 m thick. Its survival is shown to be associated with the local trapping of radiationally cooled air, a low angle of incidence of sunlight, and a very dry atmosphere. Indications are that it can survive for long periods in the volcanic cones of the dry alpine regions of Hawaii, with a lowering of the mean air temperature immediately over its surface to only a few tenths of a degree below 0C. The permafrost does not appear to be in thermal equilibrium with the present microclimate of the crater. Though its upper surface shows no signs of degradation during 4 years, the lower surface is probably slowly melting. 
10.2307/1551759|In high arctic, subarctic, and alpine populations of Polygonum viviparum L. (Bistorta vivipara [L.] S.F. Gray) intermediate to high levels of genetic diversity were detected. In lowland populations in the Alps, which are outside of the typical ecological range of P. viviparum, none or very little genetic variability was found. Most genotypes were restricted to one or a few populations. High arctic, subarctic, and alpine populations had no genotype in common. Plants from Scandinavia needed considerably longer photoperiods for floral induction than plants from lower latitudes (Alps). The Scandinavian plants proved to be genetically adapted to the long, continuous daylight in summer at high latitudes. Stem length differences of lowland and highland clones of the Alps persisted under identical conditions in culture. Polygonum viviparum reproduces almost exclusively asexually by bulbils, but the development of seeds can occasionally be observed even in arctic and alpine populations. The differentiation of ecotypes and medium to high levels of genetic diversity in arctic and alpine populations is thought to be the result of occasional sexual reproduction.
10.2307/1551464| Arctic, subarctic, and alpine regions support widely distributed populations of thermophilic bacteria among habitats where ambient temperatures vary from below lower psychrophilic to above upper thermophilic ranges. Although spore-forming bacilli are the most prevalent thermophiles, large numbers [290 to 1000 Colony Forming Units (CFUs) per g dry wt] of thermophilic actinomycetes were found in soils from parks in Reyjkavik, Iceland. Soils from arctic Greenland and alpine Colorado exhibited low numbers of thermophilic microorganisms (0 to 20 and 1 to 19 CFUs per g dry wt, respectively), but generally supported between 10
10.2307/1550648|This paper presents preliminary data on the reproductive capacity of the northern Canadian trees (Larix laricina, Picea glauca, and Picea mariana) in Keewatin, N.W.T. A 140-km transect of nine study sites was set up from the northern boreal forest (Kasba Lake) through the forest-tundra ecotone (northern end of Ennadai Lake). The hypothesis that the northern trees are historical (i.e., relicts), established during a warmer climate and out of phase with today's climate, is supported by (1) a pollen viability of 0%, (2) a seed viability of 0% at tree line and in the frost-tundra ecotone, (3) the lack of a buried conifer seed store for ecotonal tree stands, and (4) an almost total lack of either sexually or asexually produced tree juveniles in the ecotone.
10.2307/1552029| This paper compares winter soil temperatures at five high arctic sites (Ny lesund, West Spitsbergen) and one subarctic site (Slttatjkka, Abisko) during 1992/93 and 1993/94. At the high arctic sites snow cover afforded slight insulation where minimum air temperatures were as low as -32C (March 1993). However, snow did not accumulate significantly until late winter, by which time the ground had cooled to approximately -20C. The polar night aided soil cooling by minimizing solar heat gain. Soil temperatures at 3 cm depth during the autumn freeze were initially higher than surface temperatures, but once frozen, the zone inhabited by soil microarthropods (approximately 10 cm depth) remained isothermal and closely tracked air temperature. By contrast, throughout the spring thaw, the soil at 3 cm depth was cooler than the surface. Hence, snow cover reduced absolute minimum temperatures in late winter but prolonged the effective winter period. Hence soil organisms may be inactive for up to 79% (289 d) of the year, owing to the extended period that the ground is frozen. The incidence of daily ground freeze/thaw events was reduced at high arctic sites compared with a subarctic location. Similarly, there were differences in temperature means and minima at the adjacent high arctic sites dependent on location and topography; for example, on opposite coasts of the Brggerhalya, West Spitsbergen the minimum temperatures in 1993/94 were -15.7C (Stuphallet) and -8.2C (Kjrstranda). Terrestrial microarthropods inhabiting sites with late snow accumulation and cold air temperatures experience extreme low soil temperatures and hence require effective cold-hardiness strategies. 
10.2307/1552142|In most alpine and arctic plants there is selection for early flowering because of the short time available to complete seed production before the season terminates. Despite this, some species initiate flowering late in the season, but little work has been done on the reproductive ecology of such species. This work investigates the reproductive consequences of late flowering in Leontodon autumnalis var. taraxaci in alpine southwest Norway during two seasons. In addition, the effects of an experimental increase in growing-season temperature on growth and reproduction are also examined. The reproductive success of Leontodon decreased strongly as the flowering season progressed, possibly as a result of increased climatic severity and increased extent of pollen and resource limitation on reproduction. Experimentally warmed plants produced significantly more and heavier seeds, and flowered more than 1 wk earlier than control plants, showing that temperature conditions influence both reproductive processes and flowering phenology. The results suggest that this late-flowering alpine species will bloom earlier, reproduce more, and grow larger under global warming.
10.2307/1550546| Preliminary results of a field excursion to the Siberian Arctic in July 1976 are reported. The excursion was part of a bilateral exchange of American scientists to the Institute for Extreme North Agricultural Research at Norilsk. Two field sites were visited: Lake Ayan (ca. 69N, 9430E) in the mountainous Putorana Plateau 200 km east of Norilsk; and Pura River (ca. 7230N, 86E) in the rolling, moderately drained tundra of the western part of the Taimyr Peninsula. The ecosystems at each site are described, emphasizing associations between landforms, plant communities, and fauna. Generalized profiles illustrate the landform/plant community relations. The main plant species of each community are tabulated. Both study sites are important wildlife habitats. Lake Ayan is surrounded by Larix dahurica forest, Snow-sheep (Ovis nivicola) live above the forest on the higher slopes and on the plateau surface. Of special interest is a bench landform on the valley sides which supports extensive lichen carpets heavily used in winter by wild reindeer (Rangifer tarandus). The Pura River site is situated in Low Arctic tundra with a rich vascular but poor lichen flora. The site is similar to that at Meade River, Alaska, where there is a current extensive program of ecological research. Large numbers of wild reindeer and waterfowl are regular summer residents in the Pura River region. 
10.2307/1551249| Previous studies of protalus ramparts have largely concerned relict examples, and the process of rampart formation has been simply assumed or inferred. Study of two actively accumulating ramparts in northern Norway demonstrates that although rockfall boulders with sufficient momentum do accumulate at the foot of perennial firn fields (as previously envisaged), deposition of avalanche debris incorporating a high proportion of fine material also contributes substantially to rampart development. The study ramparts both comprise four morphological units, each characterized by a distinctive sedimentary facies. These are (1) a gentle proximal slope underlain by an openwork mixture of rockfall boulders and smaller avalanche-transported clasts; (2) a crest over which the frequency of rockfall boulders decreases outwards such that the distal part is dominated by avalanche deposits; (3) a steep (up to 43) unstable and approximately rectilinear distal slope underlain by a diamicton consisting of avalanche deposits from which a large proportion of clasts has been lost downslope; and (4) a basal talus comprising fall-sorted clasts that accumulated mainly by rolling down the distal slope. These findings have wider implications in terms of the correct identification and interpretation of relict protalus ramparts, and in particular help to account for the presence of abundant fines in such ramparts. 
10.2307/1550644| Southwestern Cumberland Peninsula has been glacierized at various times by eastward flowing Laurentide ice, by an expanded Penny Ice Cap, and by fiord and valley glaciers fed from cirques. Two major weathering zones (A and B) and a fivefold subdivision of the younger zone (A) are recognized. The zone boundaries are marked by end and lateral moraines, some of which are related to raised marine deltas. Radiocarbon dates and amino acid age estimates on fossils from these deltas and correlations with the stratigraphic record of northern Cumberland Peninsula allow establishment of a tentative "absolute" chronology. The oldest terrain is that glaciated before the last interglaciation. The last glaciation is subdivided locally into the Duval, Outer Usualuk and Ranger stades, named for the end and lateral moraines which mark their maximum extents. During the Duval Stade (ca. 100,000 to 60,000 yr BP), Laurentide ice filled the inner one-third of Cumberland Sound and ice from local sources filled Pangnirtung and Kingnait fiords. Relative sea level was 100 m above present at the ice margin (Duval marine limit). Retreat from the Duval stadial maximum was followed by a readvance of Laurentide ice and by coastal emergence. Much of the area was glacierized during the Outer Usualuk Stade (ca. 40,000 yr BP?) when relative sea level was 108 to 120 m above present at the ice margin (Shark marine limit). Retreat was followed by coastal 0004-0851/79/0011-0002$03.60  1979, Regents of the University of Colorado emergence. During the Ranger Stade, Laurentide ice reached the head of Cumberland Sound and coalesced with the western lobe of the Penny Ice Cap, and outlet glaciers from the southern part of the ice cap reached 20 km beyond their present positions. General deglaciation from the Ranger stadial maximum and coastal emergence from the Holocene marine limit began about 8700 yr BP. Relative sea level at the Laurentide margin at that time was 88 m above present. During an early Holocene warm interval, Penny outlet glaciers receded rapidly and were at or behind their present margins by 7000 yr BP. The Laurentide ice retreated much more slowly, forming eleven recessional moraines before it uncovered the head of Clearwater Fiord at 5700 yr BP. The lowland between the head of Cumberland Sound and Foxe Basin was deglaciated between 7000 and 5700 yr BP by an eastward calving bay. After separation from Laurentide ice, the western lobe of the Penny Ice Cap readvanced about 4500 yr BP to form the Outer Penny Moraine. This was followed by recession during a warm interval which was followed in turn by several smaller advances. The Holocene marine limit forms a synchronous strandline declining beyond the Ranger Moraine and intersects present sea level about 100 km beyond the Laurentide margin. Behind the Ranger Moraine it is a metachronous feature which dips in the opposite direction. All dates can be fitted to a series of relative sea level curves, that show glacioisostatic emergence at the head of Cumberland Sound grading to submergence at the mouth of the Sound. The zero isobase on emergence has migrated about 100 km westward since 8700 yr BP. 
10.2307/1550179|The Prairie Divide deposit possesses four strengths of pedogenic development. These include intensely and strongly developed soils on the western part of the deposit and moderately and weakly developed types on the mass-wasted eastern portion. Intensely developed soils in part are typical of Pre-Wisconsin (Pre-Bull Lake) soil genesis and are differentiated from strongly developed soils on basis of abundant clay concentration (50 to 90%) and nearly complete absence of coarse particles (> 2 mm) in truncated, buried B horizons. Strongly developed soils in part represent pedogenesis typical of soils at least as old as early Wisconsin (Bull Lake) and are differentiated from moderately developed profiles by presence of argillic B horizons (35% clay). Moderately developed soils possess cambic B horizons which commonly have less clay than A horizons. They reflect pedogenesis probably as old as late Wisconsin (Pinedale). Weakly developed soils do not possess B horizons and evidence Holocene soil formation. In all soils A horizons postdate initial mass-wasting of the deposit and are superposed on strongly and intensely developed soils. Data indicate that these A horizons are divisible pedogenically into at least two parts--an upper, younger horizon developed on a lower older horizon. It is suggested that intensely developed soils of the Prairie Divide deposit are type examples of long-term or optimum Pre-Wisconsin (possibly in part late Tertiary) weathering and soil formation in the Rocky Mountain region and may be used as an index with which to compare the intensity of development of other supposed Pre-Wisconsin soils.
10.2307/1551916|The terminus positions of six glaciers located on Mount Baker, Washington, were mapped by photogrammetric techniques at 2- to 7-yr intervals for the period 1940-1990. Although the timing varied slightly, each of the glaciers experienced a similar fluctuation sequence consisting of three phases: (1) rapid retreat, beginning prior to 1940 and lasting through the late 1940s to early 1950s; (2) approximately 30 yr of advance, ending in the late 1970s to early 1980s; (3) retreat though 1990. Terminus positions changed by up to 750 m during phases, with the advance phase increasing the lengths of glaciers by 13 to 24%. These fluctuations are well explained by variations in a smoothed time-series of accumulation-season precipitation and ablation-season mean temperature. The study glaciers appear to respond to interannual scale changes in climate within 20 yr or less. The glaciers on Mount Baker have a maritime location and a large percentage of area at high elevation, which may make their termini undergo greater fluctuations in response to climatic changes, especially precipitation variations, than most other glaciers in the North Cascades region.
10.2307/1551441| Exceptionally thick (4 m) autochthonous peat deposits were investigated on a high arctic fault block in the foothills of the Grant Land Mountains, northern Ellesmere Island (82N). These organic sediments are rich in macrofossils, and contained undecomposed lichen thalli, bryophytes, Dryas integrifolia plants, arctic hare coprolites, and bird bones. A quantitative macrofossil analysis (percent volume) was done on four of the deposits for paleoenvironmental interpretation. Twenty-eight species of mosses from the peat sections represent 25% of the extant moss flora and occur in analogous contemporary assemblages. Four species are new to the North American fossil record. The dominant peat-forming mosses were Philonotis fontana, Tomenthypnum nitens, Aulacomnium spp., Hylocomium splendens, and Tortula ruralis. The chronology indicates a minimum date for peat formation of 6315 BP (S-2449). The youngest sample dated was 760 BP (S-2449), though surface assemblages indicate extant peat-forming assemblages. The subfossil analyses show that a diverse moss flora was present on the fault block prior to the mid-Holocene. The species composition and rates of net organic accumulation are highly variable for concurrent intervals within adjacent peats. This variability demonstrates that changes in local hydrology and slope processes dominate over macroclimatic changes. This precludes a simple model for soligenous fen development in the High Arctic. 
10.2307/1552030|The ground beetle (Carabidae) assemblage in a glacier retreat zone in the Zillertal Alps, Austria, was investigated over the course of three summers. Twenty species belonging to 10 genera were collected using pitfall traps. This study focuses on aspects of the co-existence of six species of the genus Nebria, including the spatial and temporal distribution and activities of larval stages and adults. Additionally, temperature preferences and water loss at low humidity were determined for several species. Each of the Nebria species were most active, both as adults and larval stages, in different areas within the glacier retreat zone characterized by distinct geomorphological and ecological conditions. Microhabitat conditions and habitat stability appear to be factors in habitat choice. Two ecologically distinct groups were observed: (1) N. germari, N. hellwigi, N. castanea, and N. austriaca generally inhabit stable high-altitude habitats and are nocturnal and (2) the two riparian species (N. jockischi, N. rufescens) are also diurnally active. Furthermore, the latter two species preferred significantly higher temperatures and survived low humidity conditions longer than the other investigated species and showed flight ability, in contrast with the other four wingless species.
10.2307/1551857|Glacial erosional features were studied in detail at three locations in the south-central Queen Elizabeth Islands, Canada. Numerous striated bedrock outcrops, indicating ice flowing from the sea onto the coast, were discovered on Baillie-Hamilton Island, off the west coast of northern Devon Island. The consistency of obtained ice-flow directions indicates that thick, wet-based ice overrode the >200-m-high island from northwest, west-northwest, and northeast, without topographic deflection. We conclude that this ice also flowed across the >300 m deep Queens and Wellington channels bordering Baillie-Hamilton Island. A similar conclusion was derived from striated bedrock outcrops on the northeast coast of North Kent Island, positioned between Devon and Ellesmere islands. Ice flowing from the northwest obliquely across Baillie-Hamilton and North Kent Islands, and from the northeast across Baillie-Hamilton Island, could not have emanated from local ice domes. Instead, these results are consistent with a large ice sheet covering the central and southern Queen Elizabeth Islands with an ice spreading center in the Norwegian Bay region. The timing of these events remains uncertain, but the degree of weathering of the striated outcrops indicates that both northwest and northeast ice-flow directions could be of late Wisconsinan age.
10.2307/1550767|The high-mountain areas of the Boreal Zone of the USSR may be subdivided, according to the composition of physiognomic types of the upper forest limit, into three sectors: the western or Atlantic moderately continental sector with oceanic influences, the central or Siberian strongly continental sector, and the eastern or Pacific monsoon sector. On the extreme flanks of this zone, in the western and eastern sectors, the upper forest limit is formed by deciduous summer-green trees (respectively, Betula tortuosa and B. ermani). In the central sector, the summer-green coniferous trees (Larix sibirica, L. sibirica var. sukaczewii, L. dahurica) form the upper forest limit, but in some southern regions of this sector, where the climate is warmer and more humid, some evergreen coniferous trees (Picea obovata, Pinus sibirica, Abies sibirica) reach the upper forest limit. The fluctuations of the upper forest limit as a response to cyclic climatic change are determined through the application of a complex of different methods. These include evaluation of the vitality of trees, of changes in their growth patterns, and of natural regeneration of high-mountain forests. The 60-to-80- and 140-to-160-yr climatic cycles have caused the most important influence on the position of the upper forest limit. A tendency for increase in this upper limit has been observed in most parts of the Boreal Zone during the last few decades.
10.2307/1551810|Standard approaches in dendroclimatology used to determine climate-tree growth relationships at individual alpine treeline sites have primarily focused on empirically based statistical reconstructions. While such statistical relationships produce highly significant results, it is not possible to explore the underlying biophysiology in the links between climate and forest growth. Use of a deterministic forest ecosystem process model (FOREST-BGC) allows an evaluation of the impact of growing season and prior year meteorological conditions on phenological parameters such as net canopy photosynthesis (PSN) and net carbon gain (NETC). These variables were modeled over the course of a year and were statistically related to tree growth at an upper treeline site in the Sierra Nevada Mountains of California. The predicted growth increments over a 40-yr period exhibit trends similar to the measured variation in increment growth and perform better (R
10.2307/1550921|Growth curves spanning the last two and a half centuries have been constructed for Rhizocarpon geographicum s.l. and Aspicilia cinerea, two ubiquitous lichen species that grow on granitic substrates on the south side of the Mont Blanc massif. Ages derived from arithmetic and semilogarithmic plots of control data are nearly accordant over the past 275 yr, but beyond that point derived ages are increasingly discordant. The curves are suitable for dating granitic substrates of unknown age within upper Val d'Aosta between altitudes of approximately 1100 and 2000 m. Outside these geographic and altitudinal ranges the growth curves may not be applicable, as suggested by published growth curves for other parts of the Italian Alps.
10.2307/1550662|Black spruce in forest outliers has a slower growth rate, more high frequency variation, and less persistence than at the forest limit. Climate variation accounts for more variance in ring widths at the forest limit than within outliers, which occupy protective sites that mitigate stress. Growth behavior at the forest limit can be interpreted in terms of Arctic Front positions. A two-century long chronology of tree growth is presented.
10.2307/1550888|The variations of six outlet glaciers of the northern Patagonia icefield were investigated. utilizing aerial photographs taken in 1944/45, 1974/75, and 1983/84, and were compared with the climatic trend. Between 1944 and 1984, a maximum recession of around 2.5 km was observed at two calving glaciers, while no variation occurred at one glacier. Three patterns of variations were recognized: (1) fairly constant recession during the last 40 yr (two glaciers); (2) rapid retreat during the 1974-1984 period (two glaciers); and (3) rapid retreat between 1944 and 1958. The amount of the surface lowering ranges from 40 to 120 m during the last 40 yr. These retreat and surface lowering rates are generally comparable to those reported for glaciers in other regions. The temperature and precipitation data recorded at a nearby station do not show any definite trends which can explain the general glacier variations elucidated in this study, suggesting strong local variation of the snow accumulation and effect of the relative height of the rock threshold on ice spilling.
10.2307/1551837| Insect remains from Early Weichselian interstadial deposits in northernmost Sweden were studied. A total of 93 taxa were identified in samples from 17 sites. Beetle remains dominate the assemblages. The habitat preferences of the insects indicate that an open arctic tundra prevailed during the two different interstadials, Perpohjola and Trend. This environment included aquatic, moist, and xeric habitats. Aquatic/hygrophilous taxa were more abundant in kettle hole sites than in other types of sites, which may suggest that these had more open water and fens were more frequent in their vincinity. Contemporary mean seasonal temperatures were reconstructed using the MCR method. Summer temperatures at least 5C lower than at present were estimated for both the interstadials. The winters of the younger interstadial, Trend, were slightly colder than the older interstadial, with mean January temperatures at least 10C lower than at present. 
10.2307/1550004|Plants collected in 1961 and on the same sites again in 1971 in the Ogotoruk Creek Valley, northwestern coastal Alaska, were radiochemically analyzed. The results indicate little change in cesium-137 content after a decade.
10.2307/1550869| A method was developed to sample vegetation-free eolian lag surfaces on the alpine tundra of Niwot Ridge, Front Range, Colorado, U.S.A. Using commercial duct tape, surficial soil materials from lag surfaces on terracettes were removed by pressing the tape onto the unvegetated surface. The procedure was repeated with a second strip of tape. Adhering materials were removed from the tape with boiling distilled water and then subjected to grain-size analysis. The first layer removed was quite coarse; the average percent of material coarser than -2  (larger than 4.00 mm) was 84% for the 15 samples analyzed. The second layer was less coarse; the average percent of material coarser than -2  (larger than 4.00 mm) was 44% for the 15 samples. The grain-size distributions of both layers complement the distribution of contemporary eolian deposits in the Front Range, i.e., there is very little overlap. These grain-size distributions of the lag surfaces are in marked contrast to those of the underlying material which was sampled at 0- to 1- and 4.5- to 5.5-cm depths. These two sample depths were less coarse than the lag samples and similar to vegetated surfaces on the ridge. The average of the percent of material coarser than -2  (larger than 4.00 mm) was 7.4% for the fifteen 0- to 1-cm samples and 10.2% for the fifteen 4.5- to 5.5-cm samples. Comparisons of the clay/silt ratios from the two sets of underlying samples with those from other tundra environments suggest that the lag surfaces are areas of normal soil development that are suffering recent shallow surface stripping by the wind. 
10.2307/1550997|Fertilizer trials on a disturbed, wet sedge-grass vegetation site in south-central Alaska indicated that N, P, and K were all deficient. Fertilizer and seed (common annual ryegrass, Lolium temulentum) were broadcast in 1-m
10.2307/1550815|A comparative study of the bacteria occurring in soils of montane grasslands, montane forests, subalpine forests, and alpine tundra habitats was conducted to ascertain the types of bacterial metabolic or enzymatic activities in the soils of these ecosystems. Elevation substantially affected taxa isolated. Amylolytic, cellulolytic, and pectinolytic activity was observed in cultured isolates from all areas. Proteolytic activity was not observed in isolates from alpine tundra but was observed in cultures isolated from all other areas. Microbial population sizes remained constant with increased elevation, but organismic diversity decreased. Nitrifying and denitrifying bacteria were isolated from all ecosystems studied. Free-living nitrogen-fixing organisms were isolated in large numbers from all areas except the alpine tundra. Rapid degradation of cellulose seems to be the result of a cooperative effect between bacteria and fungi in alpine tundra soils.
10.2307/1550827| Foraminifera, dinoflagellates, and pollen in a radiocarbon-dated piston core from Lake Melville have been used to reconstruct a postglacial history of the fiord oceanography and regional climate. Present bottom water salinity in Lake Melville is about 5 lower than on the inner Labrador Shelf because of a shallow sill in the Narrows at the fiord entrance. Foraminiferal assemblages suggest that about 5000 yr BP, the fiord salinity was about the same as the inner shelf. The postglacial change in fiord salinity is best explained by a shallowing of the sill, preventing the entry of saline inner shelf bottom water. A model of relative sea-level changes at the Narrows is proposed which shows that at 5000 yr BP, the sill was about 20 m deeper than present; at 7000 yr BP it was 50 m deeper, and it was 90 m deeper until the end of the marine maximum at 7500 yr BP. Pollen assemblages in the piston core indicate a succession of four major vegetation types in the Lake Melville drainage basin: from ca. 8000 to 7500 yr BP, low arctic tundra was replaced by shrub tundra; around 6000 yr BP, shrub tundra gave way to spruce woodland, which was followed by boreal forest around 5000 yr BP. A decline in absolute pollen concentrations during the past 4000 yr may indicate a recent climatic deterioration. Before forestation of the Lake Melville watershed, sedimentation in the fiord basin was three to four times higher than at present, but the maximum sedimentation rate of 0.26 cm yr
10.2307/1550995| Vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi were surveyed in several successional areas of the Beartooth Mountains in Montana. Roots were examined for percentage of mycorrhizal infection, and spores were counted in rhizosphere soils from undisturbed, 25-yr-old seral, and 3- and 7-yr-old revegetated areas in 1983 and 1984. The three most abundant grasses of early seral areas, Deschampsia caespitosa, Agropyron trachycaulum, and Poa alpina, showed similar patterns: spore counts and percent infection of these species were generally higher in undisturbed than seral and revegetated areas in 1983, but in 1984 the spore numbers and infection were similar because the values dropped in undisturbed areas and increased in the other areas. Patterns of mycorrhizal infection varied for the other species, and Geum rossii, a late seral dominant, was heavily colonized by an unidentified nonendogonaceous fungus. Plant colonization is slow in the alpine, but once plants are established, mycorrhizal fungi apparently colonize quickly. Even the 3-yr-old revegetated area had infection equal to some of the undisturbed areas. However, only a single mycorrhizal fungal species was obtained from the revegetated areas, in contrast to more than 11 species from older areas. 
10.2307/1550623|Surficial deposits on Mount Timpanogos in the Wasatch Range of Utah contain calcareous quartzarenite clasts with well-developed weathering rinds. The rinds are up to 13 mm thick and are developed on rocks of the Pennsylvanian-Permian age Oquirrh Formation. The rinds are pale brown in color (10YR 6/3) and appear to develop on the unweathered light gray to gray (2.5Y 7/0 to 5/0) clasts by dissolution of calcite and oxidation of heavy minerals. The thickness of weathering rinds and morphology of deposits suggest three ages of glacial and rock glacier debris in the Timpanogos cirques. End moraines in the lower cirque basins, about 1.5 to 2 km from the uppermost cirque, have weathering rinds averaging 5 mm thick. These moraines are believed to be pre-Altithermal in age. Rock glaciers in the uppermost cirques have weathering rinds averaging 1 mm thick. The morphology of the rock glaciers suggests two ages of debris production or activity which are not resolved by weathering rind thickness. Contrary to previous reports, it appears that Mount Timpanogos cirques were occupied only by rock glaciers, not by glacial ice during the Neoglacial.
10.2307/1550028| Isochrone maps on the late Wisconsin deglaciation of the Laurentide ice sheet enable estimates to be made of changes in the volume and area of the ice sheet. The average marginal recession between 12,000 and 7,000 BP is estimated as 260 m year
10.2307/1550417|Historical records of the fluctuations of glaciers in the Himalayas and Trans-Himalayas date back to the early 19th century. Local and regional syntheses of 112 of these fluctuation records are presented in this study. The local syntheses deal with fluctuations of glaciers in Kanchenjunga-Everest, Garwhal, Lahaul-Spiti, Kolahoi, Nanga Parbat, Karakoram (north and south sides), Rakaposhi-Haramosh, Batura Mustagh, and Khunjerab-Ghujerab. Regional syntheses deal with the composite record and the differentiation of records by glacier type (longitudinal versus transverse) and regional setting (Himalayan versus Trans-Himalayan). In a gross regional sense Himalayan and Trans-Himalayan glaciers have been in a general state of retreat since AD 1850. Filtering of the fluctuation records with respect to glacier type and regional setting reveals that the period AD 1870 to 1940 was characterized by alternations in the dominancy of retreat, advance, and standstill regimes.
10.2307/1550351|In July 1968 the salamander Aneides hardyi was observed in a fellfield tundra habitat at elevations above 3,350 m in the vicinity of Sierra Blanca Peak, Otero County, New Mexico. This new locality record extends the known range of the species upward at least 240 m and is the only known documented occurrence of any North American salamander in tundra. Specimens were found under rocks and in wet vegetation. A description of the tundra habitat is given.
10.2307/1551766|The mechanism of sun crust formation was investigated through field observations for five winters from 1991 to 1995. During the observation periods, the sun crust formed 15 times. The sun crust observed in this study was a thin ice layer, which is 1 to 2 mm thickness and composed of ice particles, with cavities formed under it. In the all cases, the snow type before the sun crust formation was wet rounded grains. The heat balance during the formation of sun crust was calculated revealing the following process. Evaporation made the surface smooth and flat. Longwave radiative flux and latent heat flux cooled the snow surface, while beneath the surface, shortwave radiation was absorbed and internal melting occurred giving rise to cavities. The longwave radiation refroze some meltwater which remained within the layer near the surface, and a thin ice layer was formed.
10.2307/1551498|Growth layer analysis involving 11 treeline white spruce (Picea glauca) and two tamarack (Larix laricina) from Churchill, Manitoba, Canada, produced a data set with some 500,000 tree rings. A summary of these data is made using knowledge of tree growth and weather stresses. The growth trends conform well to Northern Hemisphere and Arctic temperature data sets and poorly to local temperatures. The summer position of the Arctic Front is close to the treeline and some periods of tree growth are dominated by arctic conditions while others are dominated by more temperate conditions. The period 1760 to 1820 shows intermittent dominance of temperate conditions while the period 1921 to 1970 shows a complete dominance of temperate conditions. All other years from 1715 to 1982 show a dominance of arctic conditions. Under the cool Arctic air mass the trends longer than 8 yr are suppressed and poorly defined relative to the trends in hemispheric temperature data. The presence of the Arctic Front to the north of Churchill also influences the region as dominant northerly winds travel over the Hudson Bay ice pack before reaching the coast. During warmer periods the trends are exaggerated and more variable as other air masses have a varying influence.
10.2307/1552083| In the past, ice-core records from mid-latitude glaciers in alpine areas of the continental United States were considered to be poor candidates for paleoclimate records because of the influence of meltwater on isotopic stratigraphy. To evaluate the existence of reliable paleoclimatic records, a 160-m ice core, containing about 250 yr of record was obtained from Upper Fremont Glacier, at an altitude of 4000 m in the Wind River Range of south-central North America. The 18O (SMOW) profile from the core shows a -0.95 shift to lighter values in the interval from 101.8 to 150 m below the surface, corresponding to the latter part of the Little Ice Age (LIA). Numerous high-amplitude oscillations in the section of the core from 101.8 to 150 m cannot be explained by site-specific lateral variability and probably reflect increased seasonality or better preservation of annual signals as a result of prolonged cooler temperatures that existed in this alpine setting. An abrupt decrease in these large amplitude oscillations at the 101.8-m depth suggests a sudden termination of this period of lower temperatures which generally coincides with the termination of the LIA. Three common features in the 18O profiles between Upper Fremont Glacier and the better dated Quelccaya Ice Cap cores indicate a global paleoclimate linkage, further supporting the first documented occurrence of the LIA in an ice-core record from a temperate glacier in south-central North America. 
10.2307/1551067| Seventeen cirque basins containing Younger Dryas moraines were investigated at Stad and Vgsy, western Norway. Lithostratigraphic studies,
10.2307/1552140|Spatial and temporal variation in summertime albedo of a subarctic landscape near the Hudson Bay coast is examined using ground-based measurements and Landsat Thematic Mapper (TM) imagery. Temporal variation in surface albedo was determined using an extensive data set from six tower sites with multiple years of data. Four distinct patterns in evolution of the seasonal trend in daily albedo were discovered for the six sites and appeared to be related to vegetation and surface moisture characteristics. All sites showed an albedo response to solar zenith angles greater than 60 degrees, at smaller zenith angles hourly albedo was a good representation of daily values. TM imagery from a dry year (1984) and a wet year (1991) were used to derive maps of albedo for the study area. Spatial variation of albedo was examined within representative training areas centered on the six tower sites. The magnitude of spatial variation in albedo was typically less than 0.04 for all sites. Spatial variability was slightly greater in the wet year. A one pixel transect of albedo across the study area showed the largest difference between lakes and terrestrial surfaces. However, within the terrestrial zones, alternating patches of open forest and tundra and differences in wetness create a coherent pattern in albedo across the landscape.
10.2307/1551550| Changes in the vegetation for various range types subjected to grazing by an introduced caribou population in 1967 on Southampton Island, Northwest Territories, were assesed using a series of exclosures (N = 13; 5.5 m  5.5 m) in 1990 and in 1991. Changes in the vegetation were related to range use and to prevalent snow conditions. The effect of the exclosures on some factors that are known to influence the production of arctic plant communities (snow condition, timing of snow melt, and soil temperature during the growing season) were also tested. Exclosures had little effect on these physical conditions. Associated with the increase in caribou number there has been a reduction in lichen standing crop; the other plant types were not affected. Under the prevailing snow conditions on the island, winter range appears to be restricted mainly to windswept areas which are nearly free of snow. As a result, some of these areas are showing signs of overgrazing and the past projection of caribou carrying capacity may have been too high. With respect to management, a significant increase in the annual hunting quota is recommended. 
10.2307/1550241|Snowpack characteristics in the St. Elias Mountains were examined as part of the Icefield Ranges Project for 1961 to 1965, emphasizing particularly the 1964-65 glacier balance year, together with reconstructions for 1953 to 1961. Analysis was carried out along a hydrological traverse on the Kaskawulsh, Hubbard, and Seward-Malaspina glaciers, and at a single location through a period of time. The data obtained are summarized in graphs and tables. The relationships between precipitation, elevation, and topography, and effects of continentality and exposure are considered. In neither case are the relationships clearly defined but it is evident that elevation is a critical factor in the maintenance of continental slope glaciers and spring runoff. Fluctuations in net accumulation are determined and evaluated; a stable period is indicated for the late 1950s, followed by an increase of 200 to 300 mm in the early 1960s and a minimum in 1964-65 and 1965-66 of winter nourishment and mass balance. Climatic implications are drawn from the snow accumulation data.
10.2307/1551994| Nitrogen fixation rates were measured throughout the summer of 1994 in samples from seven coastal sites at the north side of Brggerhalvya, Spitsbergen (78.5N, 11.6E) using the acetylene reduction method on intact soil cores. All the sites had a crust containing cyanobacteria, which were considered to be the major nitrogen-fixing organisms. Nostoc commune was the most abundant cyanobacterium. The samples were incubated at 19C and a constant light intensity of 200 E m
10.2307/1551629|Plants of Bistorta vivipara were treated in the field for three consecutive years with artificial acid mists of pH 2.5, 3.5, or 4.5 prepared with sulfuric or nitric acid. Significant increases in leaf number and in the percentage of plants flowering were noted for plants treated with sulfuric acid mists of pH 2.5 and 3.5, but no effects of nitric acid mists were noted over the 3-yr study period. Treatments with citrate buffer solutions (pH 6.2) containing sulfate levels equal to those of the acid mists were used to determine if the plants were responding to sulfate independently of pH. Significant increases in the number of leaves per plant and the number of plants flowering occurred with treatments of 1.58 mM and 0.158 mM sulfate independently of pH. Bulblet production and sprouting were not affected by treatment with any of the buffered or acidic mist applications. The total sulfur and sulfate-sulfur levels found in the leaf tissues of the plants were significantly greater in treated plants than in controls and increased linearly as the sulfate concentration present in the mist increased. The total reduced-sulfur content of the leaves did not change significantly in treated plants. Bistorta vivipara is apparently limited by the availability of sulfur in the study site and is able to respond to additions of the limiting nutrient within the first season of applications.
10.2307/1551172|Coleman Glacier is situated on the ice-clad Mount Baker volcano in the Pacific Northwest of North America. It is fronted by several forested terminal moraines, minimum ages of which have been determined by tree-ring counts. Nine of the 150 conifers studied were trees damaged by glacial advances; others were the oldest trees found on the moraines themselves. The tree-ring patterns of the former set of conifers revealed the years when glacier readvances reached their maxima, whereas the number of tree rings in the latter group only provided minimum ages for moraine stabilization. Together with historical records, the tree-ring counts date moraines to the following years: 1978-79, ca. 1922, ca. 1908-12, 1886-87, ca. 1855-56, ca. 1823, ca. 1740, and the early 1500s. Excluding the last two dates, the ages date the maximal glacier readvances relatively closely. The moraine chronology over the past two centuries developed for Coleman Glacier has great similarity to chronologies on Mount Rainier, Washington, and in Scandinavia. Because of the short response time of Coleman Glacier to climatic changes, the obtained dates of glacial readvances are consistent with the climatic information available.
10.2307/1550115|Bull Lake glaciers advanced 14 to 15 km from the cirque area depositing till now exposed mainly in narrow belts around the margin of the younger Pinedale till. Two stades of Bull Lake Glaciation are recognized, but most till of the late stade is thought to have been overrun by Pinedale glaciers. Bull Lake till generally lacks morainal topography and is much more weathered and eroded than Pinedale till. During Bull Lake-Pinedale interglacial time, a soil, 1 to 2 m thick, formed on the older till at altitudes up to 3,000 m. Till of the Pinedale Glaciation, covering 90% of the glaciated area, is characterized by rugged topography, many prominent moraines, numerous undrained depressions, slight dissection by streams, and is divisible into three stades. Early stade glaciers halted in major valleys at altitudes between 2,400 and 2,640 m. Glaciers of the middle stade halted 0 to 2.5 km within the outer limit of the early stade. Moraines of the late stade are small, poorly developed, and confined within valley walls 3 to 5.5 km below the cirques. Soils developed on till of the Pinedale Glaciation range from 30 to 75 cm in thickness, with those 40 to 60 cm thick being the most common. This variation, which is more a function of altitude, slope, exposure, and vegetation than of age, prevents widespread use of soil development as a means of correlating till at the stadial level.
10.2307/1550289|Direct measurement of the growth of Alectoria minuscula over 4.3 growing seasons enables a further assessment to be made on the value of lichenometry around the Barnes Ice Cap. Detailed lichen sampling in two formerly glacierized valleys allows isophyses to be drawn for specific diameters of A. minuscula. The gradients of the isophyses are similar to those of lateral glacial features. These reconstructions define ice margins from about 1650 A.D. to the present time and enable glacier changes in length, area, and volume to be estimated for the Lewis and Pintail glaciers. Local differences in the trend of area or volume loss are explained by differences in deglacial history. Specific ablation for the expanded Lewis Glacier below the 500 m ice contour averaged about 1.5 m ice equivalent per year, a value not dissimilar to those determined on the present glacier of about 1.3 m ice equivalent. Sampling over extended distances on substrates of similar age around the Barnes Ice Cap indicates comparable maximum lichen diameters are present. The value of lichenometry in arctic areas is reaffirmed.
10.2307/1551816|Animal (horse and sheep) grazing behavior and regrowth of three important forage species subsequent to clipping and grazing were recorded in an alpine meadow of Central Himalaya. Of a total of 28 plant species, only 14 were grazed and contributed 0.9 to 14.8% to the animal diet. Forbs contributed significantly more (P < 0.01) to the animal diet than grasses and sedges. A regrowth experiment performed in an enclosure indicated that the height at which plants were grazed was positively related to initial plant height, but the correlation was significant (P < 0.05) only in the case of sheep. Regrowth after 30 d of single-grazing (P < 0.05) and double-grazing (P < 0.01) was positively correlated with height at which plants were grazed by both animal species. Analysis of variance showed that regrowth was significantly faster (P < 0.05) in horse-grazed plants than in sheep-grazed plants. This difference may be largely related to deeper grazing by sheep than by horse. For forbs, regrowth was better in grazed plants than in clipped plants; for the grass the effect was reverse.
10.2307/1551358| Analysis of pollen and plant and insect macrofossils from 9400-yr-old fluvial terrace deposits along the Ikpikpuk River on the Arctic Slope of Alaska permit reconstruction of the diversity of habitats present at that time, as well as an assessment of surface moisture conditions and summer temperatures relative to those of today. Consideration of the modern ecological requirements for the total fossil flora and fauna shows that the variety of habitats was similar to the total variety seen today. However, the beetle fauna is dominated by species indicative of dry, open grasslands, suggesting that dry, well-drained habitats were more widespread than now. Warmer summer temperatures are indicated by extralimital taxa including Populus balsamifera and seven beetle species that reach their present northern limits in the boreal forest zone of north-central Alaska and adjacent Canada. Consideration of the modern climatic tolerances of the beetle taxa suggests that early Holocene mean July temperatures at the fossil site were probably about 2 to 3C warmer than today, or 14 to 15C. Geological evidence indicates net precipitation was comparable to, or possibly greater than, that of today. Elevated summer temperatures may have contributed to dry surface conditions by lowering the permafrost table and thereby facilitating drainage. 
10.2307/1551093|Beluga whales were observed executing tight circles and half circles in response to avoidance by capelin. Individual beluga were observed capturing capelin in their mouth.
10.2307/1552041|Two moraine sequences in one of the ice-free cirques in Topolovaya valley located above the cirque threshold at altitudes of about 700-800 m are dated by tephrochronology and lichenometry. Prominent advances of the glaciers occurred twice prior to 7600-7700 yr BP; and at approximately 2200-2600, 1900-2300(?), and 800-1100(?) lichenometric (L) years ago. The glacier fluctuations over the Holocene were of small magnitude (length of glaciers did not exceed 1 km, equilibrium-line altitude [ELA] varied between 850 and 1100 m) as compared with those of the Last Glacial Maximum (8 km long glacier, ELA at approximately 600 m). Early Holocene advances were more extensive than Neoglacial advances. Because of the great variability of modern ELAs in Kamchatka (from 2700-2900 to 600-700 m), the reconstructed ELAs in Topolovaya valley should be considered as representative only for southern Kamchatka. A hypothesis for formation of rock glaciers from lateral moraines is considered in the paper. A new Rhizocarpon geographicum (L.) DC growth curve is established, which may be applied to dating other glacial deposits in Kamchatka.
10.2307/1551259|Since the earliest studies of alpine glacial geology, descriptive evaluation of moraine morphology has remained an important relative-age criterion. However, the development of moraine morphology as a quantitative relative-dating tool has lagged considerably behind other techniques. Morphometric and other relative-age data were collected on early- to late-Pleistocene end moraines located in the Kigluaik Mountains of Seward Peninsula, Alaska. Slope-frequency, Fourier, and linear regression analyses of topographic profiles measured along and normal to moraine axial-crests were used to generate nine indices of surface irregularity. Discriminant analysis indicates that average slope, calculated from the slope-frequency distribution, is the best single distinguishing criterion, and that even a few simple field measurements of morphometry provide a viable basis for subdividing and correlating moraines. Morphometric and other relative-age data constrain the timing of glaciations in the Kigluaik Mountains, and suggest that successively older advances are separated by intervals of increasing duration. In addition, morphometric study of moraines can offer insights into processes controlling landscape degradation.
10.2307/1550368|The distributions of vegetation types and discontinuous permafrost in a representative 1.8-km
10.2307/1550382| Arapaho rock glacier, with no obvious supply of rock debris from cliffs above today, conceals a relic glacier in its upvalley two-thirds. Its downvalley third is pushed into transverse ridges and deep furrows. Movement of marked boulders, from 1961 to 1966, reveals erratic surface motion with terminal outward spreading. It has an average annual movement of 5 cm, and discharge of 215 m
10.2307/1550216|Isolated piles of unsorted rock deposited on a gently sloping valley floor and away from the steep side slopes are interpreted as having an origin similar to that of winter talus ridges. They were probably transported along chutes developed in a snow or ice cover and deposited in depressions, holes, or at the margin of the snow or ice.
10.2307/1550903|Living specimens of Picea engelmannii and Pinus albicaulis with ring series of 680 and 713 yr and estimated germination dates of > 700 yr are reported from two sites in the Canadian Rockies. These are the oldest individuals of these species reported in the literature and indicate that isolated subalpine stands of these trees offer good potential for tree-ring records of over 500 yr in the Canadian Rockies.
10.2307/1551461| Minimum altitudes at which specific landforms and deposits of periglacial origin exist in Colorado and New Mexico adjacent to longitude 106 are reported on the basis of field evidence. These data were plotted in relation to altitude and latitude. Specific landforms occur in a constant relationship. Cirques always occur at higher altitude than narrow, elongate hollows and transverse solifluction lobes occur above longitudinal lobes. Periglacial forms extend 500 to 750 m below the active tundra zone, well into the forest zone. Some glacial moraines have also been modified by periglacial action. No latitudinal gradient could be identified. A comparable plot using literature sources confirms the field results. 
10.2307/1551968|The distribution pattern of individual plant species, as well as of plant communities, at the transition between the alpine and the nival environment (= alpine-nival ecotone) is likely to be drastically affected by climate change. Currently, the best way to explore the vegetation structure and to detect possible changes is the application of spatial modeling to predict vegetation patterns over larger areas combined with dynamic modeling techniques. Schrankogel in Tyrol, Austria, was selected as a typical high alpine mountain to establish and test such models. As a first step, the predictive model for the spatial pattern of species and plant communities is presented here. Direct and indirect gradient analyses (CA, CCA) were combined with GIS-techniques based on a fine-grained Digital Elevation Model (DEM; pixel size: 1 m
10.2307/1551609|A high-resolution, "uniboom" seismic reflection survey of the largest lake (Lake McDonald) in Glacier National Park, Montana, has determined the thickness and nature of the sediment fill beneath the lake as well as the form of the underlying bedrock surface. The bedrock surface below the lake is distinctly V-shaped and contains a narrow, axial thalweg eroded as much as 279 m below lake level. Although a significant portion of the sediment fill is acoustically impenetrable (possibly due to gas-saturated sediment), four seismic stratigraphic sequences have been identified. The oldest (I) is restricted to the steeply sloping bedrock walls of the basin and correlates with lateral moraine ridges on the margins of the lake that record retreat of the late Wisconsin valley glacier. Younger sequences (collectively up to 150 m thick) occur along the axial portion of the basin and distinctly onlap sequence I and/or bedrock. Sequences II and III are characterized by alternations of highly reflective and reflection-free seismic facies whereas sequence IV consists exclusively of high-frequency parallel reflections. Sequences II and III are interpreted as fine-grained, proglacial lake sediments deposited from a glacier-fed river during final ice retreat from the basin. Sequence IV likely records a strongly seasonal postglacial sedimentation regime. Lake McDonald differs from other seismically investigated glaciated lake basins by its paucity of chaotic debris and a relatively simple infill stratigraphy. The nature of the bedrock surface and proglacial sediment fill may record the erosional and depositional significance of subglacial and proglacial meltwater activity. The thick stratigraphy beneath Lake McDonald likely contains a detailed record of glacial and environmental change for this portion of the Rocky Mountains.
10.2307/1550047|This paper presents the model around which a geomorphic study of the impact of artificially augmented snowfall on alpine terrain has been designed. It consists of a two-order hierarchy which can be fitted into a single drainage basin to give three stages. On the smaller scale is a "plot model" which indicates the possible links between geomorphic controls, processes, and responses of plots of 10 m
10.2307/1551625|Measurements of the components of the surface energy balance made at an alpine tundra site in the southern Rocky Mountains of Alberta, Canada, during the summer of 1985 are reported. The Bowen ratio--energy balance approach was used to determine sensible and latent heat flux densities. Eddy correlation and Ohm's law analog determinations of sensible heat flux were used to confirm the Bowen ratio measurements. The latent heat flux density data was used in conjunction with the combination model to quantitatively describe the surface's resistance to water efflux. Daylight period net radiation flux density averaged 14.1 MJ m
10.2307/1552105|Temperatures in permafrost were measured annually from 1983 through 1993 in drill holes (nominally 60 m in depth) at three sites in Northern Alaska; West Dock, Deadhorse, and Franklin Bluffs. Active layer and near-surface permafrost temperatures (to 1 m) were measured every 4 h from 1986 through 1993. This paper combines two previously published data sets with numerical simulations to fill the data gap in daily permafrost temperatures from 1 m to the depth of penetration of the annual temperature wave (about 20 m). These daily values were used to calculate mean temperature profiles for the annual period, a 10- to 11-yr cycle and for other periods. Calculated profiles were used to revise estimates of the surface amplitude of the 10- to 11-yr cycle at Franklin Bluffs from 0.6 K to about 1 K. The data show that, for the 10- to 11-yr cycle, cooling of the permafrost began prior to 1983 with the warming part of the cycle beginning in the late 1980s. This is consistent with the U.S. Geological Survey data suggesting that their reported cooling may have been part of a natural cycle and not an effect of the disturbance at the ground surface associated with drilling. The means of the measured temperature profiles below the 20 m depth show curvatures toward warmer temperatures. These curvatures may be associated with climatic fluctuations, a cycle or a longer-term warming trend. While these time series of permafrost temperatures are too short to distinguish between these alternatives, it is important to do so because of their possible relationship with the predicted climatic warming.
10.2307/1551819|Myvatn, Iceland, is the only lake in the world where diatomite is dredged commercially. Although we anticipated an enormous production of planktonic diatoms at the peak of the summer production cycle in mid-July, upon analysis of our samples, we realized that less than 5% of the phytoplankton standing crop was composed of diatoms. Benthic, rather than planktonic diatom species, appeared to be the key primary producers in the lake. The phytoplankton assemblage was dominated by Chlorophyta (green algae), Cyanophyta (blue-green algae), and Chrysophyta (yellow-green algae). The relative absence of planktonic diatoms in this shallow lake (mean depth less than 2.5 m) was associated with the presence of dense stands of macrophytes, which appeared to limit local turbulence. The spatial heterogeneity in phytoplankton abundance and species composition was correlated with the spatial distribution of nutrients in this volcanic spring-fed lake. Phytoplankton abundance was highest where warm spring waters from the north basin flowed into the eastern channel and mixed with the cold spring nutrient-rich waters coming from the southeastern corner of the lake. Intermediate nutrient levels were found in the center of the lake where relatively high phytoplankton standing crops of chrysophytes (Chrysochromulina and Dinobryon), cyanophytes (Anabaena and Gloeocystis), and colonial chlorophytes (Sphaeorocystis, Oocystis, and Pediastrum) developed during the annual phytoplankton production peak. During this mid-summer peak in primary production, nitrogen, rather than phosphorus appeared to be the "limiting" nutrient.
10.2307/1552028|Cores from a transect along the Kangerdlugssuaq Trough, southeast Greenland shelf, were analyzed for sediment properties, foraminifera, diatoms, opal, and palynomorphs. The transect lies in one of the most climatically sensitive areas in the Northern Hemsiphere, in the path of the outlow of Polar Water from the Arctic Ocean, and in direct proximity of the confluence of Arctic and Atlantic water masses. Mass susceptibility, total organic carbon (TOC), and grain size change markedly around 8 ka, indicating major changes in sediment source and/or depositional environment and mechanisms. However, this period also marks a major change in sediment accumulation rate associated with the retreat of the ice sheet margin into the fiords. We found that the biogenic and inorganic content of the surface and bottom waters show dramatic changes over the past ca. 14 ka. Surface water changes are indicated by diatoms and opal variations between ca. 13.5 and 9 ka in the form of coo/warm pulses on the outer shelf, where surface water temperature generally declines after 9 ka. On the inner shelf, surface water warming/cooling pulses occur from ca. 9 to 6 ka with a general cooling after ca. 6 ka to present. Dinoflagellates corroborate this interpretation in that they indicate meltwater pulses between 13 and 12 ka on the outer shelf with a warming of surface water around 11 ka. After 6 ka they also suggest a surface water cooling. The 6 ka cooling is also reflected in Baffin Island shelf flora and fauna and is probably caused by a change in Arctic Ocean outflow through the northeastern Canadian archipelago, where the Atlantic Water component was sharply reduced because of isostatic uplift. This change then increased the Arctic Ocean outflow along the East Greenland coast. Transport paths of exotic pollen show marked changes during three time periods, 12-10 ka, 10-8 ka, and 8 ka-present. The changes may show changing intensities of cyclogenesis along the east coast of North America and a deepening of a trough positioned north of the study sites during 12-10 ka and 8 ka to present, making it possible for cyclones to be brought farther into the Arctic.
10.2307/1552112|Carbon dioxide efflux and soil microenvironment were measured in three upland tundra communities in the foothills of the Brooks Range in arctic Alaska to determine the magnitude of CO
10.2307/1551367|Habitat use of nesting water pipits (Anthus spinoletta) was studied during summer 1983 and 1984 on the Beartooth Plateau, Park County, Wyoming. Alpine terrain was divided into four habitat types: alpine tundra, fellfield, snowfield, and "other." Prey availability scores (prey encounters/m traveled) were greater (P<0.001) for snowfields than for alpine tundra or fellfield habitats. Adult pipits visited alpine tundra sites more often than expected, and snowfields less often than expected, contradicting the expected pattern of habitat use predicted by the snowfield hypothesis. A large proportion (64.8%) of the arthropod biomass delivered to nestlings was organisms (lepidopteran caterpillars, pupae, and adults, millipedes, and large spiders) not found on snowfields and that were larger than arthropods found on snow. Water pipits forage where they have the greatest probability of encountering preferred sizes and types of prey.
10.2307/1551587|Radial growth of mature Xanthoparmelia lineola and X. subdecipiens thalli (n = 10 thalli, 170 lobes) was measured bimonthly for 2 yr at a transplant locality on the East Slope of the Colorado Front Range (altitude 2565 m). Growth occurred during every measurement period, but was most rapid in May, June, July, and August. Ninety-three percent of seasonal growth-rate variation during the first year of the study, and 92% during the second year, are explained by differences in the duration of daytime, snow-free thallus moisture (moisture available for photosynthesis); the strength of the relationship suggests that a positive net carbon assimilation rate is translated almost immediately into lobe elongation. No negative correlation was found between radial growth and thallus moisture recorded at night or beneath snow. In the cool, continental environment of the study area, duration of photosynthetically significant thallus moisture is influenced more strongly by air temperature, day length, and snow cover than by total precipitation. At higher altitudes and latitudes, where lichenometry is used for dating, these factors will have even greater importance.
10.2307/1551776|Lacustrine sediments deposited in three small glacier-fed lakes of the southern Canadian Cordillera are derived primarily from subglacial erosion and delivered via short proglacial streams or by direct melting and calving of cirque glaciers. Sediment transport and deposition during early summer is controlled by runoff-generated bottom currents and in the late summer through winter by settling from suspension. This forms distinct rhythmic laminations of silt and clay in distal lake areas. Cesium-137 content in all three lakes indicates that these are varve sediments. Time series of varve thickness covering the interval 1863 to present show distinct declines in sediment yield from 310 to less than 150 t km
10.2307/1549999|Archaeological research in Waterton Lakes National Park, Alberta, between 1967 and 1971 located 12 archaeological sites dating in the interval between ca. 8000 and 5500 B.C. Ten of these were tested and two excavated. The location of these sites is examined in relation to the late glacial-early Holocene environmental sequence, and various present-day variables--climate, physiography, vegetation, and ungulate behavior, and hydroseres which structured the more recent seasonal prehistoric settlement patterns in the Park. The data suggest that a settlement pattern characterized by seasonal use of the various valley areas and resources was established by ca. 6000 B.C.
10.2307/1550183|Dominant plant communities and exposed earth surfaces of an eastern Canadian subarctic locality are classified and sampled with respect to shortwave radiative albedo. The physiological significance of the albedo variations of the dominant lichen, Cladonia alpestris, with different habitats is discussed. The albedos of the major vegetation types are summarized. Included in the surface classification are sites in various stages of regeneration after disturbance. The results of sampling exposed earth surfaces follow certain predictable patterns in that progression from visual darkness to lightness corresponds to increasing reflectivities. The mean albedo of all natural surfaces near Schefferville, Quebec, is estimated to be 0.166.
10.2307/1552110|The hydrology of the Alaskan Arctic Coastal Plain is investigated by studying a complex of small ponds and wetlands near Prudhoe Bay, Alaska. The two summers (1992-93) during which this study took place were both drier than normal in the early part of the season. Summer water balance after snowmelt is dominated by evapotranspiration (ET), which exceeds precipitation in both ponds and wetlands. Water levels drop through June and July, when ET is greatest, and recover somewhat during August, when precipitation increases and ET decreases. Ponds and wetlands, which experience a net loss of water over the summer, are filled to capacity by snowmelt runoff in spring. Ponds and wetlands serve as storage sites for snowmelt runoff; the net loss of water over the wetland watershed from the previous summer must be replenished by snowmelt waters before runoff can leave the basin. Annual ET from ponds and wetlands exceeds annual precipitation and, as a result, snowmelt runoff from surrounding upland areas is necessary to maintain wetlands and ponds.
10.2307/1550034|Measurements were made along an altitudinal transect at five sites in the Colorado Front Range in order to determine the inter- and intrasite variability of diurnal freeze-thaw and frost heave cycles in an alpine region. Meteorological screen data showed the number of diurnal freeze-thaw cyles to decrease from 238 at 2,600 m to 89 at 3,750 m over a 22-month period. The same trend was established for diurnal freeze-thaw and frost heave cycles at the surface of snowfree sites. However, daily cycles based on air temperature could not be relied upon to accurately predict the number of frost heave events at the soil surface. The number of frost heave cycles also diminished sharply with depth; none was recorded at a depth of 20 cm, suggesting that their geomorphic effectiveness is limited to the upper 10 cm.
10.2307/1551171| Snow surface emissivity is shown to be approximately 0.94 and to differ between snow surfaces. Emissivity of a spruce bough is approximately 0.96. When the surface longwave balance is used to compute surface temperature or radiative characteristics, consideration must be given to the reflected component, or an error proportional to L and (1-) will result. The data show that leaf surfaces are consistently and considerably elevated above ambient air temperature. 
10.2307/1551762| Eolian sediment collected at three locations in the Wind River Range at seven seasonal intervals from December 1988 to October 1990 were used as a baseline from which to estimate the effects of eolian sedimentation in this region. Dust was collected from snow- and rain-catch instruments installed by the U.S. Forest Service at Hobbs Lake, Lester Pass, and Black Joe Lake. These data show that dust influx rates varied from 0.23 to 31.0  10
10.2307/1551022|Frost weathering simulation studies provide a useful means of gaining insights into the nature of frost-weathering phenomena. If such studies are to be of value, however, experimental conditions should approximate those in nature. Experimental moisture regimes tend to promote degrees of saturation which exceed those likely to be attained naturally. The possibility therefore exists that experiments may exaggerate natural weathering effects. Acquisition of data on moisture contents of rocks in cold environments as a basis for freeze-thaw experiments is necessary.
10.2307/1551970|A 5-yr ongoing demographic study of the extremely localized (ca. 0.5 ha), rare, high-alpine endemic Myosotis oreophila and the widespread M. pulvinaris, where their ranges overlap, has revealed widely fluctuating populations in both species. Three representative permanent study plots totaling 290 m
10.2307/1550082|The mutual interactions of Arctic tundra thaw lakes and surrounding dry ground are simulated by one- and three-dimensional models of the planetary boundary layers. The model simulates temperatures, humidity, currents, and winds from below the surface to 1.5 km. Meteorological data including clouds are specified about 1.5 km. Simulated heat fluxes near the surface compare favorably with observed fluxes. Clouds are shown to have important influences on the vertical transfer of heat at the surface. Simulations using September data show larger downward heat fluxes over the thaw lakes compared to the surrounding land areas. It is hypothesized that the larger downward heat flux over the lakes accounts for the greater depth to the permafrost under the lakes.
10.2307/1551496|The 28 outlet glaciers of the Northern Patagonia Icefield, Chile, with a total contiguous surface area of about 4200 km
10.2307/1551978| Extensive studies on invertebrates from Ny-lesund, Spitsbergen, Svalbard and more limited data on aphids from Abisko, Sweden, produced the following main conclusions: (1) The population response to raised summer temperatures differed between the above and the below ground species, both in terms of speed and magnitude. (2) Similar animal communities responded differently to similar temperature manipulations on sites with different vegetation cover and composition. (3) For soil animals the between-year and between-site variations in population densities, were greater than the differences produced by the temperature manipulation experiments at any one site in any year. (4) Infrequent extreme climatic events strongly influence long-term trends in population density and community composition. (5) The population response of invertebrates to climate warming is greatest and most rapid at the coldest sites. (6) The spatial distribution of the above ground insect herbivores on their host plant is temperature limited. (7) The numerical abundance of flying predators/parasitoids of the above-ground herbivores is low. (8) The spatial distribution of some predators may be thermally restricted and less extensive than that of their prey. (9) Habitat temperature is the driving variable determining the flight activity patterns of insects. (10) Increased summer temperatures may alter or disrupt the seasonal patterns of insect emergence, particularly in species where the life cycle is cued into the seasonal rhythm. (11) The common species of arctic soil mites and Collembola are well adapted to survive enhanced summer temperatures, providing that moisture is not limited. (12) Water availability during the summer growing period is probably of greater significance than temperature in determining the survival and success of many arctic soil invertebrate groups. (13) Arctic soil microarthropod species are well adapted to survive and operate at subzero and low positive summer temperatures. (14) Freeze-thaw events represent critical points in the life history of the microarthropods. (15) Supercooling points are sometimes poor indicators of the capacity of arctic soil microarthopods to survive low temperatures. From these findings predictions are made as to how high arctic communities will respond to predicted changes in climate. 
10.2307/1550127| Using growth rates estimated from lichens growing on introduced substrata on Signy Island, South Orkney Islands (lat. 61 S., long. 45 W.), the two most recent moraines of a glacier on this island have been tentatively dated as being deposited around 1880 and 1837. The growth rate of Rhizocarpon geographicum is estimated on Signy Island to be an increase of about 16 mm in diameter per century. 
10.2307/1550477|Water samples have been collected in Scoresby Land, northeast Greenland, from glacier, meltwater, stream, river, and pingo sources in the Delta Dal; from pingo sources in the Schuchert Dal and on Traill Island; and from fiords adjoining these areas. The samples were analyzed chemically for their principal solute ions, and isotopically for their deuterium and oxygen-18 contents. The combined results are examined in an attempt to elucidate the origins of waters from individual sources, with particular reference to the problem of pingo genesis. It is concluded that all the waters discharging from these pingos are of recent meteoric origin, and that waters discharging from a group of related pingos do not necessarily have a common aquifer source.
10.2307/1550462|Samples of soils and plants collected at various locations in the Canadian Arctic for biomass and primary production study were also tested for radioactive contamination arising from nuclear weapons testing. Measurements with a gamma ray spectrometer showed that all the organic samples were contaminated with cesium-137, whereas the soils were relatively free of this isotope. A surprisingly high level of cesium-137 was observed in the fine organic sediments taken from a high-arctic oligotrophic lake. The radial distribution of cesium-137 in an arctic cushion plant, Dryas integrifolia, was determined and used to confirm a dating procedure for this type of plant. Samples collected in 1977 show radioactive contamination due to the Chinese nuclear explosion of September 1976.
10.2307/1550350|The phytoamoeboid dinoflagellate Dinamoebidium hyperboreum is described from living inshore samples taken in the summer of 1956 from Baffin Bay and Davis Strait. This rate flagellate shows close phylogenetic relationship with the holozoic D. varians Pascher and the arctic-alpine rheobiont D. coloradense Bursa. The morphological life cycle of D. hyperboreum includes (1) biflagellate amoeboid individuals characterized by slightly marked dorsiventrality and central rudimentary girdle; (2) aflagellate phytoamoebas, crawling upon the substrate; and (3) spherical cysts attached to the shells of copepods. Cells are covered with a delicate pellicle and may perform slow surface undulation and form short and broad pseudopodia. This was observed also in aflagellate individuals. D. hyperboreum contains numerous brown-green subspherical chromatophores, droplets of lipids, and an antapical large nucleus, typical of Dinophyceae.
10.2307/1550194|In the forest-tundra ecotone region of the Washington and Oregon Cascades, massive invasion into subalpine meadows by a variety of tree species, especially Abies lasiocarpa and Tsuga mertensiana, has been noted. The most intense period of establishment in most areas was during 1928 to 1937. Little invasion has been noted in the Cascade Range since about 1945. We consider fire, grazing, and forest edge effect as possible factors influencing the massive establishment of trees during this time but suggest that climatic change is the most probable causative factor. At Paradise Valley on the slopes of Mount Rainier, trees invaded meadows during the period when the mass budget of the Nisqually Glacier was generally negative; after 1945, this mass budget was positive or balanced. The snow-free period in certain subalpine meadow communities is probably the most critical factor affecting tree establishment. Invasion densities were low on tall-forb-dominated (Valeriana sitchensis) and grass (Festuca viridula) communities and were high on low-forb-dominated (Potentilla flabellifolia) and shrub (Phyllodoce empetriformis-Vaccinium deliciosum) meadow types. However, growth rates of established trees appeared greatest on the tall-forb and grass communities.
10.2307/1551076|The chronological and site information from an existing network of 56 tree-ring chronologies from the Alaska region is analyzed. Nonparametric correlation analysis of the site information indicates that well-related (best-correlated) ring-width chronologies come from sites at similar latitudes, longitudes, and altitudes. Regression analysis of the correlation among chronologies vs. separating distance among sites shows a strong negative relationship in a predominantly east-west direction for the north Alaska and Yukon region. A moderate-strength distance correlation relationship exists in a southwest to northeast direction across all of Alaska. A weak negative relationship exists in a predominantly east-west direction in the southern Alaska region. Assuming that a sampling density of 30 sites per million square kilometers is optimal, a specific network of 47 sites is suggested. These sites would be 175 km apart in a north-south direction. In southern Alaska an east-west separating distance of 100 km is suggested while in northern Alaska a 300-km spacing is probably sufficient.
10.2307/1550126| Direct measurement of thallus area of the subfruticose lichen Alectoria minuscula from eastern Baffin Island allows construction of preliminary lichen growth curves for this area. The tracing method of determining thallus diameters is accurate within 0.5 mm, whereas the photogrammetric method is accurate within 0.1 mm and is capable of even greater precision. The form of the growth curve for A. minuscula is sigmoidal with an average diameter increase ranging from 0.6 to 1.0 mm year
10.2307/1551213|The distribution, shape, and grain-size characteristics of sediments in a Baffin Island tidewater glacier are examined. At the glacier terminus a 0.8- to 2.9-m thick zone of basal debris-rich (14 to 57% by volume) ice underlies clean ice. Marginal ice flow is extending, and high-level debris-rich bands are largely absent. Little supraglacial sediment is present except as isolated rockfalls. Freezing-on near the glacier margin probably accounts for the relatively thick basal zone. Measured sediment characteristics were (1) clast roundness; (2) Fourier shape of quartz sand grains; (3) grain-size distribution. Modal shapes of basal ice and rockfall clasts were subrounded and angular, respectively. Fourier analysis showed quartz sand grains from clean ice and rockfall were more angular and microtextured than those from basal ice. Grain size envelopes for debris in basal ice, meltwater streams, and nearshore environments are described, and are compared with those from fiord glaciomarine sediments. The distribution of sediments within the tidewater glacier controls which mechanisms of debris release are important. This in turn influences the depositional facies found. Sediment is released mainly by (1) direct melting and (2) subglacial streams and associated density overflows. Calving is relatively unimportant. Acoustic sounding revealed three morainal banks offshore of the glacier terminus, probably relating to melt-out of basal debris. A calculated rate of basal sediment supply by melting of 6.1 to 10 m
10.2307/1550842|Surface wind observations were taken during the summers of 1972 and 1973 at two research sites located on the continental interior margin of the Icefield Ranges near Kluane Lake, Yukon Territory, Canada. One site was located in the Slims River valley over the delta environment; the other, 10 km away from the front of the mountain range at Kluane Lake. Surface wind direction and speed patterns for typical summer weather periods show a general pattern expected in large glacierized valleys. Large wind velocity fluctuations and pulsations occur in the main valley, related to the glacier wind of the Kaskawulsh and Vulcan glaciers upslope of the Slims River delta location. Persistent glacier and drainage wind effects are evident at the delta site as indicated by the surface wind speed profiles (0.5 to 12 m layer) over the river delta location. The wind profiles in the shallow 12-m layer display characteristics typical of the lower layers of a classic katabatic wind profile and are a function of the overall strength of the down-valley motion.
10.2307/1551443|A study of the occurrence and distribution of cellular slime molds (CSM) in soils of Alaskan tundra was carried out during the 1989 field season. Samples for CSM isolation were collected from nine different study sites. These included examples of both subarctic alpine tundra and arctic tundra. Only two species (Dictyostelium mucoroides and D. sphaerocephalum) were isolated, but the total number of clones/g wet soil averaged >100 for all samples and was >200 at three of the four arctic tundra study sites. These figures are comparable to those recorded for samples of forest soil collected at two spruce study sites in central (interior) Alaska.
10.2307/1551815|Growth periods of Primula cuneifolia ssp. hakusanensis and Fauria crista-galli, the snowbed plants, were shorter than those of most alpine plants. Primula cuneifolia ssp. hakusanensis showed a larger seasonal change of starch than that of sugar content in both aboveground and belowground organs. On the other hand, in Fauria crista-galli sugar content and its seasonal change were always larger than those of starch. A relatively high content of sugar in Fauria crista-galli during the cold season seems to protect against freezing in winter. Winter buds of both species and new roots of Primula cuneifolia ssp. hakusanensis were formed in the cold season. It is suggested that snowbed plants have a specific amylase which is active in severe low temperature.
10.2307/1551971| Three species of small mammals, Mastacomys fuscus and Rattus fuscipes (both rodents), and Antechinus swainsonii (a small dasyrurid marsupial) live in the subalpine heathlands of southeastern Australia. This study records the climate and microclimate of these heathlands. Temperature was recorded at three sites at Smiggin Holes in Kosciusko National Park--just above the shrub layer, in a runway, and 20 cm below ground. Long-term meteorological data for ambient temperature, rainfall, and thickness and duration of snowpack are also presented. In summer, these small mammals experience temperatures of +5 to +10C while active and foraging at night, and temperatures of about +10C in burrows during the day. In winter, the snowpack provides good insulation resulting in a constant temperature of 0 to -1C in both runways and burrows regardless of the ambient air temperature above the snow. The climate and microclimate in the Australian Alps has many influences on the biology of small mammals; these include a short reproductive season, delay in the time to maturity and initiation of reproduction, reduced activity or torpor in winter, and relatively stable interannual population numbers. 
10.2307/1551176|Snowfall data for a 5-yr period show that there is on average only one storm each year with intensities sufficient to produce significant direct-action avalanching. Air-temperature records suggest temperature-gradient metamorphism, which generally produces weak layers of snow often at depth in the snowpack, is not likely to be important in this environment. However, field evidence indicates that temperature-gradient forms, especially depth hoar, are quite common and this is attributed to the influence of frequently occurring ice layers resulting from melt-freeze metamorphism. Consequently, avalanche forecasting in this area must place equal emphasis on meteorological and snowpack information. Comparison of the temporal variation of bulk snow density in the Craigieburn Range with that from areas in North America suggests that the former falls between the maritime-coastal snowpack type and an interior-continental type.
10.2307/1550068|A steep Glacial-age cirque-altitude contour gradient and a modern winter climatic boundary occupy similar positions in the montane western United States. This suggests that the anchoring effect of mountains upon Glacial-age air masses may have outweighed the effect of any departure from modern air mass characteristics in determining the location of frontal boundaries during the Glacial Epoch.
10.2307/1551155|A spatial grid of 56 tree-ring width chronologies from Alaska and northwestern Canada, for the period 1801 to 1938, are reduced using principal components analysis. The principal component weights are calibrated, via multiple regression, against coefficients representing seasonal spatial anomaly patterns of sea-level pressure over the North Pacific sector of the Northern Hemisphere, for the period 1900 to 1938. The quality of the chosen regression models is determined by statistically testing the models against independent data. The testing data are a temperature reconstruction for Fairbanks and pressure anomaly coefficients derived from western North American tree-ring width chronologies. Climate conditions inferred from the reconstructed pressure-type coefficients are an anomalous strengthening of the summer North Pacific High in the period 1830 to 1850 and associated anomalously low summer temperatures at Fairbanks. Almost normal summer pressures during the first 15 yr of the 19th century would cause average Fairbanks summer temperatures such as occurred in the early 20th century (1920 to 1938).
10.2307/1551681|The Tanana River basin in central Alaska drains both the north slope of the Alaska Range and the south slope of the Yukon-Tanana upland. A sequence of historic and prehistoric flood deposits of the Tanana River is preserved in a small bedrock-sheltered slough near Fairbanks. Examination of these deposits using a suite of radiometric dates, microstratigraphic observations, and granulometric statistics suggests that large changes in flood frequency occurred during the late Holocene. Three major lithostratigraphic units are observed: (1) thick cross-bedded, pedogenically unaltered alluvial silty sands which were deposited between 3000 and 2000 yr BP, recording an interval of large floods; (2) a series of thin silty beds and paleosols formed after 2000 yr BP during an interval when large floods were uncommon; and (3) a sequence of sand units recording large floods during the last several hundred years. Flood frequencies appear to have changed in response to regional climate changes, with more frequent flooding occurring during times of widespread alpine glaciation and increased storminess.
10.2307/1551431|For thousands of years the Inuit have depended heavily upon the productivity of the marine environment. Most of the present day Inuit communities are located along the arctic coast-lines and are still reliant upon the marine ecosystems. The current hunting territories of the communities in the Nunavut region of Canada vary in size from 42,600 to 205,000 km
10.2307/1551316|To analyze trends in the structure of forests dominated by Colorado bristlecone pine (Pinus aristata Bailey) the author sampled size class structures, collected environmental data, and determined the approximate year of origin of these forests at 65 sites scattered throughout the range of P. aristata in Colorado. Cluster analysis and detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) were used to identify major trends in the size class data. The size class data suggest that P. aristata is a long-lived species that primarily regenerates following fires. The DCA results suggest that (1) the major trend in variation in structure was related to time since disturbance, and (2) Populus tremuloides Michx. is present as numerous small stems in some of the P. aristata forests regardless of the age of these forests, a role for P. tremuloides that is at odds with the traditional view of this tree as primarily a seral species in the Rocky Mountains. Many P. aristata stands originated near A.D. 1900 and between A.D. 1625 and 1700. These were warm, dry periods that might have promoted fires, and they were also periods when sunspot numbers were low. The Southern Oscillation Index did not correlate with times of abundant stand origins. Although many P. aristata forests are over 500 yr old, these forests do not appear to be stable or unchanging.
10.2307/1551517| Variations in the length of the snow-cover season affect the albedo which in turn impacts the energy balance; thus, it is important to have a data set concerned with the spatial and the temporal character of snow. Data on the date when the arctic snow cover disappears in the spring is presented and analyzed for 12 stations between 68 and 74N latitude. For a few of the stations, data are available for over 50 yr; however, Soviet data are available only from the late 1930s until the mid 1950s, and Canadian data have only been recorded since the late 1950s. Results show that for much of the North American arctic tundra the date of snow disappearance has been occurring earlier in the spring since the late 1960s. For Barrow, Alaska, there has been a trend towards earlier snowmelt since about 1950. It is not yet apparent as to whether this trend can be attributed to increases in carbon dioxide and soot in the arctic environment or whether a particular circulation regime, such as a shift in the location of the polar vortex, may be responsible. But because the Arctic is where anthropogenic atmospheric pollution is expected to have the largest impact on climate, and in view of anticipated increased future emissions of carbon dioxide and soot, a more complete and lengthy snow-cover data set may provide an early indication of the onset of the predicted warming of the polar climate. 
10.2307/1550242|Profiles representative of the soils of an area in the Canadian Arctic Barren Lands bordering Hudson Bay are described. The soils are classified according to the degree of disturbance by frost action and according to the state of soil drainage. Relatively undisturbed soils include those similar to Half Bog, Meadow Tundra, Upland Tundra, and Arctic Brown found elsewhere in the Arctic. Disruption of soil horizons are associated with a number of periglacial (frost) processes. Evidence of podzolization in the well-drained soil comprises a slightly bleached horizon and, in one profile examined, an iron pan. The degree of podzolization is believed to be representative of the "low arctic" position of the area. No significant difference is apparent between soils which are 4,000 years old and soils which are appreciably younger.
10.2307/1550211|Efforts were made to develop a mathematical model of the thermal regimes in tundra soils. The results of field investigations during the summer and fall of 1970 in the vicinity of Barrow, Alaska, were used for validation of the model. Accuracy in simulating the field observations by the model is found satisfactory. Effects of important factors affecting the thermal regime are also discussed.
10.2307/1551017|Sexual and clonal reproduction is occurring in a stand of Populus balsamifera on the Alaskan North Slope. Both even-aged and gradually expanding clones were observed. Trees attain ages in excess of 230 yr, but are slender due to slow diametrical growth (1.4 to 2.5 mm yr
10.2307/1551265| The microenvironments of the habitats of two species of Draba in Venezuelan paramo were characterized. The rosette species D. chionophila occurs in extensive areas of frost-heaved soil with very low plant cover and species richness; D. arbuscula and other shrub species occur preferentially on rock outcrops, areas with higher plant cover and species richness. The thermal mass of the rock outcrops results in air temperatures near the soil surface and soil temperatures that are 2 to 4C higher than in the frost-heaved soil habitat throughout the day and night. Minimum soil temperatures in the habitat of D. chionophila frequently are low enough after dawn to inhibit the uptake of water (0 to 3C); the rock soils are not. The thin soils on rock outcrops became quite dry during extended periods without precipitation, while the frost-heaved soils of D. chionophila habitat did not. Consequently, the microenvironmental limitations imposed in the habitat of D. chionophila are primarily due to the pronounced diurnal temperature fluctuations and low soil temperatures. The warmer soils of the rock outcrop habitat of D. arbuscula reduce the potential for a dirunal temperature limitation, but are subject to seasonal drought. The occurrence of rock outcrops contributes to the diversity of microenvironments on the paramo landscape, through both diurnal and seasonal effects, and this heterogeneity is reflected in the distribution of plant species on the landscape. 
10.2307/1550534|Three new
10.2307/1552117|Evidence for coupling between vegetation and soils is examined along a successional sequence from forest to bog in southeast Alaska. Soil morphology and taxonomy were determined at 19 sites along an 8-km transect extending from the coast to treeline on Kruzof Island. Patterns in soil development appear to be closely related with successional status of the vegetation at each site. During the succession from forest to bog, soils exhibit increased acidification, podzolization, placic horizon formation, and histosol development. Soil chemistry data from Kruzof Island suggest that bryophytes, especially Sphagnum mosses, play a critical role in acidification and podzolization of soils. Feedback effects of these soil processes should favor the development and spread of bog vegetation. The findings support the hypothesis that, due to the coupling of iron-bearing soils and vegetation, changes in soil morphology and chemistry along vegetation succession in upland northern forests favor the establishment and spread of climax bog communities.
10.2307/1550271|The seasonal changes in dry weight and chlorophyll content of each species were documented in a tundra community at Barrow, Alaska. Aboveground production of 102 g m
10.2307/1551346|The soil solutions from an alpine watershed in the Front Range, Colorado, were studied in order to evaluate the general characteristics of soil solution chemistry and to examine the influence of acid deposition on the terrestrial environment. Soil solutions were sampled using soil solution samplers at two ecological sites (forest-tundra ecotone and alpine zone) during five summers (1983 to 1987). The concentrations and spatial variations of aluminum and iron in the soil solutions were highly dependent on the soil organic matter content. Soils in the forest-tundra ecotone contained considerably higher amounts of dissolved organic carbon, total alkalinity, and aluminum than soils in the alpine zone. The major source of variations in the soil solution chemistry is the climatic variations that control soil moisture and are by far more pronounced than the effects of acid deposition on the soils. Therefore a much longer soil solution chemistry record is needed in order to ascertain the influence of acid deposition on the alpine soil environment of the Front Range, Colorado.
10.2307/1550029|Nearly all of Canada was covered by the Wisconsin glaciation and most of the country was deglaciated during the time from about 12,000 to 7,000 years ago. The biota generally survived the glaciation south of the ice sheets in North America, in addition to survival in probable refugia along the coasts and in Yukon and the Arctic Islands. The ice sheets (Laurentide and Cordilleran) completely disturbed the vegetation in Canada. As deglaciation occurred in response to a significant change in climate at the end of the Pleistocene (about 10,000 years ago), recolonization of Canada by vegetation proceeded from the refugia and a northward migration of biota from the southern peripheral region of glaciation. The late glacial episode differed from any subsequent Holocene time episode in terms of the availability of large areas of "raw" soils, the very large volume of meltwater runoff, and the presence of numerous large glacial lakes that at least locally affected the climate. The main sources of information about late Wisconsin and Holocene vegetation are records of plant macrofossils and fossil pollen and spore assemblages preserved in lake sediments, peat bogs, and alluvial deposits. Genetic mixing occurred during recolonization when the populations from different refugia met after having been isolated for several thousand years. The studies of the fossil record are seriously hindered by the lack of basic palynological data (pollen deposition and dispersal in relation to the modern vegetation) and the ecology, phytogeography, and genetics of Canadian vegetation and flora, as well as the relationships between vegetation and climate in particular. It has been demonstrated clearly that the palynological and paleobotanical studies can provide the necessary information required for construction of paleoclimatological models that can be beneficially used in the study of environmental changes.
10.2307/1551519| In North Greenland Papaver radicatum occurs with white flowers together with the well-known type with yellow flower color. The white type is most frequent at low altitudes near the coast. With increasing height above sea level, the frequency of white-flowered poppy plants decreases all over North Greenland. Heliotropic flowers follow the midnight sun for 24 h and may receive two to three times the radiation of an arrested flower, as measured by energy input per unit area. Under cloudy conditions, this heliotropic mechanism is broken, but it is resumed when the sunshine returns. Concentration of the radiation by reflection from the petals leads to increased temperature in the ovary and on the stigmatic disc. In sunshine, yellow flowers obtain a 1.4 to 1.7C higher temperature than do white ones. The natural distribution of the two color morphs is explained as a response to different weather conditions: at sea level cloudy conditions prevail, and there is no advantage of being yellow. Higher temperature in yellow flowers may increase the vitality of the seeds produced, but production of the coloring agent costs energy, which could otherwise be used for growth. Only when the sunshine is reliable--as is the case at higher elevations inland--the marginal gain on the energy budget may pay for production of the pigment. 
10.2307/1551679|Analyses of a core from the deepest known moss peat bank in Antarctica, on Elephant Island, South Shetlands, show that this Chorisodontium aciphyllum-dominated bank began to grow ca. 5500
10.2307/1550962|Empirical equations that relate glacier mass balance to topoclimatic controls within a portion of the Front Range, Colorado, provide a basis for deciphering late Holocene paleoclimatic conditions from the distribution of glacial and periglacial facies. Winter balance totals depend upon average snowfall plus wind-related accumulation enhancement which varies with the height and orientation of the local summit divide (snowfence effect). Summer balance totals depend upon net radiation which varies in relation to intracting topographic and cloud coverage effects. The climatically sensitive equation parameters and energy terms may be varied in an effort to match net mass balance to observed distributions of Neoglacial lithofacies. Best-match fits for the three locally established Neoglacial advances provide the following paleoclimatic inferences: (1) Summers were cloudier and cooler than present during all three glacial advances but the degree of climatic deterioration may have been less for the most recent advance. (2) Winter snowfall was less than the contemporary norm during the earliest (Triple Lakes) and latest (Arapaho Peaks) phases of Neoglaciation. Although snowfall may have been similar to the present during the intermediate (Audubon) phase of Neoglaciation, wind-drifting was approximately 44 percent less effective than it is now.
10.2307/1550643|Eighteen pools, ponds, and lakes were sampled in the Cumberland Peninsula region, Baffin Island, in 1969 and 1975. One additional lake and four ponds were investigated in the Frobisher Bay region. Primary consideration was given to the crustacean fauna. Lepidurus arcticus was found in Broughton Island pond. Attention was given to morphological variation. In terms of numbers the ranges of certain characters equaled or exceeded the maxima of previous reports, e.g., number of abdominal legs and median telson spines, and the unusually high percentage of specimens with incomplete body rings preceding the telson. Branchinecta paludosa was collected from nine sites, including lakes, permanent ponds, and temporary pools. Egg sacs contained from 1 to 22 eggs. Hyalella azteca, the first record for the barren lands, was found in a lake near Frobisher Bay village. Daphnia pulex, collected at several locations, revealed certain characteristics which overlap those of Daphnia middendorffiana. Other cladocerans included Acroperus harpae, Chydorus sphaericus, Holopedium gibberum, and Alona guttata. The copepod Diaptomus minutus was the most common entomostracan. Certain genera or species of rotifers are discussed briefly. The species diversity of the plankton of ponds and lakes is compared with previously reported information. The only oribatid mite, collected at three sites in shore vegetation, was Platynothrus peltifer.
10.2307/1552113|Tundra plants and soils may constrain ecosystem response to climate change. To understand these constraints requires integrated studies of biogeochemical cycling in tundra ecosystems. This paper summarizes a 4-yr irrigation-fertilization experiment designed to evaluate elemental mobility through small tundra watersheds and examines the "leaky ecosystem-nutrient hypothesis." The irrigation treatment increased elemental mobility of Fe and Mn, possibly due to reducing conditions caused by waterlogging. Ammonium and NO
10.2307/1552149| Components of the radiation balance were measured on a level tundra site for 85 d during summer 1994 on Mount Washington, New Hampshire (1917 m). Average air temperature was 9.1C, average wind speed 12.2 m s
10.2307/1550291|The main aims of the study are to define the causes and measure the rate of soil creep in a small valley in the Southern Alps, New Zealand. Frost action is shown to be the dominant factor causing soil creep. The rate of creep (given by the geometric mean of the movement of 14 thin plastic tubes) was 1.1 cm/yr at the surface or, in terms of volumetric movement, 3.2 cm
10.2307/1550356| The last great event of the Wisconsin Glacial Stage in North America was the disintegration of the Laurentide Ice Sheet. This occurred between 13,000 and about 5,000 years ago and had a profound effect upon the paleogeography of the continent. Analysis of present-day distribution of fauna and flora, the archaeological record, and climatic and sea-level fluctuations are intimately bound up with ice sheet disappearance, yet there has been no systematic attempt to utilize existing radiocarbon and geological data to attempt a plot of the ice sheet perimeter at specific intervals through time. The present paper makes this attempt in the form of two maps (Figures 1 and 2), the first being an objective portrayal of isolines drawn on the radiocarbon data, the only assumption being that the ice sheet perimeter tended to parallel the coastline or, more particularly, the trend of the outer edge of the continental shelves and the southern limit of Wisconsin till on land; the second map is a subjective interpretation of the first based upon geologic field evidence and the climatic and geomorphic intuition of the writers. Some of the immediate implications raised by the maps are discussed and a series of significant conclusions are derived: (1) The northern limit of the Laurentide Ice Sheet proper was close to the arctic mainland coast of Canada. (2) There was a dramatic change from an east-west ice barrier near latitude 60N in late-glacial time, to a broad low corridor from the Arctic Ocean to the Great Plains in Boreal time. (3) The Laurentide Ice Sheet retained its identity as a distinct unit until about 8,400 years BP (Cockburn Stade) and had catastrophically disintegrated during Atlantic time, within a few centuries of 8,000 years BP. (4) The three remaining ice remnants centered over Keewatin, Labrador-Ungava, and Foxe Basin-Baffin Island persisted through the Atlantic climatic episode (altithermal), that on Baffin Island surviving to the present day in the form of the Barnes Ice Cap. 
10.2307/1551960|Lichen growth curves have been compiled from measurements of Xanthoria elegans (Link) Th. Fr. and Aspicilia candida (Anzi.) on tree-ring dated moraines and historically dated structures in the vicinity of Peter Lougheed and Elk Lakes Provincial Parks, Alberta and British Columbia. The newly calibrated growth curve for X. elegans and the previously published growth curve estimate radial growth rates of 0.5 mm yr
10.2307/1550886|The growth of 92 Rhizocarpon geographicum s.l. and 57 Alectoria minuscula Nyl. lichens was measured over 4 to 6 yr in the Atigun Pass region of the central Brooks Range, Alaska. Absolute growth rates of R. geographicum s.l. were inversely related to thallus diameter and ranged from 0.35 to near 0 mm yr
10.2307/1550864|The distribution of conifer seedlings above tree limit on Niwot Ridge was mapped in a general study area and in four permanent plots. Seedling establishment by conifers has been occurring in these areas on more than an occasional basis. The ratio of seedlings to layered trees is high for Picea engelmannii (Engelmann spruce) and very low for Abies lasiocarpa (subalpine fir). In the case of Pinus flexilis (limber pine), which does not layer, the ratio of seedlings to large trees is very high. The P. engelmannii population is evidently maintaining itself or increasing. Sexual recruitment of young A. lasiocarpa is very slow, but layering of mature individuals may be sufficient to maintain the population. In P. flexilis, there is either a high mortality rate among seedlings, or increases in seedling establishment and survival are producing an advance of the tree species limit.
10.2307/1552013|The eruption of Mount St Helens in 1980 eliminated all biota from an area of ca. 80 km
10.2307/1550614| Optimal temperatures for photosynthesis were determined for natural populations of algae inhabiting cold mountain streams in the Beartooth Mountains in Montana and Wyoming. Site temperatures at the time of sampling and the predominant organisms present in the samples were as follows: 1C, Protococcus sp.; 7C, mixture of Phormidium and Oscillatoria spp.; 12C, Zygnema sp. Temperatures from 20 to 30C were optimal for all the samples, regardless of site temperature and the organisms present in the population. Protococcus sp. was obtained in culture, and even after maintenance at low temperature for 2 years, the optimal temperature for photosynthesis was identical to that for the natural population. These microorganisms were, therefore, not optimally adapted to the low temperatures of their habitat. 
10.2307/1551020| The glaciation level (GL) over West Greenland rises inland with the surface highest over high ground and lowest over bays, large fiord systems, and lowlands. Superimposed on this pattern is a general decrease of the GL surface towards the north, although local deviations may override this poleward trend. Regional gradients of the surface usually vary from 5 to 15 m km
10.2307/1550939|Snow-avalanche debris, talus, and other slope deposits derived from a Tertiary pluton and surrounding Cretaceous and Tertiary sedimentary rock supply rock fragments to 23 rock glaciers on Mount Mestas, Colorado. One prominent ice-cemented rock-glacier complex studied since 1910 has a previously unreported extensive slump and flow in shale in part of its source region. Movement of this rock-glacier complex since the 15th century is indicated by the 283 trees sampled. Data derived from tree-rings show periods of movement in two directions, one to the northwest down the "slump and flow," and the other southwest down the ice-cemented rock glacier. Movement was caused both by loading at the head of the rock-glacier complex and steepening of the toe by removal of mass during recent excavation.
10.2307/1550646| On the active rock glacier Gruben near the Grubengletscher Wallis, Swiss Alps, shallow core drilling to a depth of 700 cm and geophysical bore-hole investigation was carried out to collect data about the rock-glacier permafrost and to gain experience for future deep drilling. Despite strong thaw disturbance of the recovered cores, the material below the permafrost table consists of frozen silty sand with some gravels. Ice is present in the pore space, as coatings around rock particles and in the form of ice lenses and layers up to about 60 cm thick. The content of Na and Ca in the rock-glacier ice is much higher than in ice from the nearby Grubengletscher, but the interpretation of this observation is difficult because of possible contamination from the drilling procedure. Former glacier ice has not been found. The interpretation of a set of radioactive bore-hole logs (gamma, neutron-neutron, and gamma-gamma) run in the hole immediately after drilling shows that the ice content of the frozen sediments is about 90% by volume at the permafrost table and probably asymptotically reaches an average value some meters below (50 to 70%). This is in good agreement with observations in arctic regions and also with the observed P-wave velocity values from seismic refraction. Fine material (clay?) seems to be present at the permafrost table. The mean annual temperature near the permafrost table is estimated to be -0.5 to -0.6C. Besides air temperature (altitude) and solar radiation (exposure), snowcover thickness during winter seems to be the main factor influencing the ground temperatures. Based on geothermal calculations and estimations it is suggested that the rock-glacier permafrost is not in equilibrium with the present-day surface temperature but with a surface temperature from the last centuries, the "Little Ice Age," which was some 0.5 to 1.0C colder. Furthermore, it must be assumed from the thermal history since about 1850 that quite a thick layer at the base of the rock-glacier permafrost is very near the pressure melting point. The actual permafrost thickness is estimated to be around 50 m. The results presented here confirm that alpine rock glaciers are creep phenomena in discontinuous permafrost. Future deep drilling could furnish important information about the long-term behavior of perennially frozen Quaternary sediments under low stresses. 
10.2307/1550252|Frost cracks and earth hummocks are described from wet, peaty flats underlain by gravels in the Kosciusko area. Their dimensions in relation to the relatively mild climate and insulating snowcover could support the idea that they are relict features. However, some of them evidently formed rapidly as the result of local freezing of ground waters in gravels and the overlying peaty soil during the open (with respect to snowcover), and therefore effectively cold, winter-spring season of 1959. Measurements of air, soil, and subsoil temperatures supported this hypothesis. Erosion at a later date may widen the cracks and in places remove the peaty topsoil down to the underlying gravels. The Kosciusko features and their development are compared briefly with similar, relict, and active features in some other parts of the world.
10.2307/1550585|Studies of flowering, germination, and seedling survival were conducted in various stable and unstable soil (surface scraped and surface tilled) sites on King Christian Island, N.W.T., Canada. Although most species flowered, few set seed in 1973 or 1974. Germination was slow (3 to 6 wk), occurring only after spring snowmelt or summer rains when there were thin films of standing water. Field germination percentages of nine species varied between 0 and 40% over 2 yr. Controlled environment tests suggested that low temperatures and slow imbibition were responsible for poor field germination. Annual seedling survival varied between 0 and 96% depending upon species, site, and year. Most seedling deaths appeared to result from summer drought. Reproduction by seed is a rare event in these polar semidesert environments, yet vegetative reproduction is also uncommon. Most seedlings become established in moss or lichen mats and desiccation cracks where summer moisture is more constant.
10.2307/1551422|Methods for planting Salix alaxensis Anderss. (Cov.) to restore moose habitat were tested on sites disturbed by construction of the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System on the North Slope of Alaska. Stands of S. alaxensis were successfully established by planting frozen, dormant cuttings or fresh cuttings as soon as the soil thawed. Cuttings with an apical diameter of 0.6 to 1.5 cm and a total length of 33 to 38 cm, planted to a minimum depth of 15 cm, had the highest survival and growth. Fertilization during the first or third growing season and polyethylene mulch during the first growing season had little effect on the production of available twigs for winter moose browse 9 yr after planting. Planted S. alaxensis successfully restored moose habitat at one site, where moose browse production after nine growing seasons was equal to the most productive undisturbed habitat, but browse production was low at the other major planting site. Success was attributed to the similarity of site conditions with sites where vigorous S. alaxensis stands establish naturally, and to the absence of competition from planted revegetation grasses.
10.2307/1551880|Arthropod fallout on summer snow patches of Central Pyrenees (northeastern Spain), was studied. Small winged insects, especially aphids, are the main component of the fallout. Composition differences between native alpine fauna (sampled by emergence and pitfall traps) and snow samples suggest that fallout mainly consists of lowland taxonomic groups. Densities and daily rates of fallout on the crest snow patches are among the highest ever reported (up to about 1500 and 1100 individuals m
10.2307/1551363|The "frost number," a dimensionless ratio defined by manipulation of either freezing and thawing degree-day sums or frost and thaw penetration depths, can be used to define an unambiguous latitudinal zonation of permafrost continuity. The index is computed using several variables influencing the depth of frost and thaw penetration, and can be related mathematically to the existence and continuity of permafrost. Although the frost number is a useful device for portraying the distribution of contemporary permafrost at continental scales, it is not capable of detecting relict permafrost and should not be mapped over small areas unless numerous climate stations are located in the region of interest.
10.2307/1550349|New holophytic Dinophyceae, Dinamoebidium coloradense and Katodinium auratum, are described from Como Creek, Colorado. D. coloradense is characterized by the amoeboidal life phase, resembling that of the Amoeba verrucosa type. Its aflagellate individuals are gymnodinioid cells that were attached to sand grains and moss (Fontinalis sp.). Nutritional requirements of D. coloradense are supplied by photosynthesis and phagocytosis of diatoms and other algal organisms. K. auratum shows typical features of its genus. It contains many yellow-gold chromatophores and droplets of lipids. Its periplast shows its own taxon character, distinctive from other species of Katodinium. After rejection of both its flagella it adheres to sand grains and plants by means of mucoid secretion. Both new species are oligothermic arctic-alpine potamobionts, ecologically specialized in fast-running water habitats.
10.2307/1551359|Distribution of vascular alpine plants along the axis of the Rocky Mountain Cordillera is quantitatively analyzed through a combination of techniques involving the theory of island biogeography and floristic similarity. Thirteen alpine floras were systematically compared to determine historical and regional relationships as explained by spatial and temporal isolation. Results of the study suggest that (1) migrational barriers within the Cordillera (Wyoming Desert and Colorado Plateau) have acted to selectively influence the composition of juxta-positioned floras, (2) alpine island size, distance to contributing gene sources and latitude are moderately correlated to species richness, (3) latitude best explains floristic similarity, and (4) stepwise regression models indicating variables of isolation best explain floristic dissimilarity. A Holarctic-species divergence hypothesis is suggested to explain variability within the regional alpine flora.
10.2307/1551841|The paper focuses on the diversity in the timberline flora in a part of Kumaun (west Himalaya). Of the 465 species recorded, >64% were native Himalayan taxa. Scrophulariaceae (78%), Ranunculaceae (70%), Asteraceae (69%), Rosaceae (68%), and Saxifragaceae (63%) were the dominant families showing high percentage of native taxa. Although flora mainly contained perennial growth forms (86%), the representation of annuals (14%) was more compared to the subalpine/alpine regions of the other mountain systems in the world. All the Himalayan endemic and near endemic taxa (55% of native taxa) in the timberline flora were analyzed for their susceptibility to endangerment. The analysis provided a rapid approach to rank the potentially endangered taxa for conservation action at both local (timberline zone of Kumaun) and regional (Himalaya) spatial scales. Analysis revealed that 34 taxa need top priority at local level while 13 deserve priority attention at Himalayan scale. Three taxa (Cypripedium himalaicum, Aconitum balfourii, and Caragana gerardiana) were, however, identified to be common to both local and Himalayan scale. The frequency of different priority classes in identified habitat types was also analyzed to identify the habitats deserving attention for conservation initiatives.
10.2307/1551780|Variation in spatial and age (temporal) structure of a Larix olgensis population was studied along an altitudinal gradient at the treeline on the southeastern slope of Paektu-san (Mount Paektu) in North Korea. A belt transect of 15 plots (20 by 20 m) was used for the study. The allometry of Larix olgensis changed significantly along the gradient; trees are shorter at the same diameter at breast height (dbh) with increasing altitude. The maximum height of Larix krummholz slightly decreased and its maximum width increased with increasing environmental severity up the gradient. Growth rates also decreased with altitude. Trees were clumped in all plots, however, the intensity of clumping did not change along the gradient. Spatial and temporal variability in annual growth showed no marked trend along the gradient. There was some indirect evidence of competition by neighbors at lower altitudes, but none was found in the most extreme plots, at the highest altitudes of the gradient.
10.2307/1550357|Evidence from the Canadian Arctic Archipelago does not support the widely accepted view that there is an increasing gradient of polyploidy with latitude. Fourteen islands are examined together with the area around Lake Hazen on Ellesmere. Tables are given for the overall frequency of polyploidy and for polyploidy frequency of dicots and of monocots. A lack of correlation between polyploid frequency and size of island, number of species in the flora, number of species per unit area, or degree of latitude is demonstrated. Variation in different islands is considered in the light of climate habitat conditions, historical factors, and migration of plant species, but climate is found to be the major factor influencing the distribution of polyploids.
10.2307/1552114|Dust from gravel roads affects soil physical-chemical characteristics, microclimate, and plant communities of tussock tundra ecosystems in northern Alaska, U.S.A. We found that activities of extracellular enzymes associated with cellulose decay and phosphorus mineralization in soils were inversely proportional to dust loading along the Dalton Highway, Alaska. Overall, endocellulase, exocellulase, and phosphatase activities within 5 m of this gravel road were reduced by 88, 74, and 45%, respectively, of activity levels at 500 m. Detailed examinations of soil components showed that phosphatase enzyme activities were displaced from organic matter complexes by dust inputs and became adsorbed onto mineral materials. This decreased the rate of enzyme-mediated reactions. Mathematical models incorporating these reduced levels of enzyme activities projected substantial reductions in carbon (from cellulose) and phosphorus mineralization. Moreover, reduced carbon utilization by decomposer microbiota, resulting from slower cellulose decay, also decreased microbial immobilization of nitrogen, thus increasing simulated net nitrogen mineralization. Such changes in soil nutrient dynamics would be expected to affect the structure of plant communities, as has been reported for vegetation adjacent to the Dalton Highway. However, concurrent changes in other environmental characteristics of the soil environment near this road (e.g., drainage) limit our ability to establish causal relationships.
10.2307/1551500|Evaporation is an important component of the water balance of lakes in the Mackenzie Delta, but the amount of summer evaporation in this area is not well known. A microclimatologic and water balance study conducted over a 5-yr period demonstrated that lake evaporation ranged from 200 to 387 mm per summer. Evaporation was always greater than summer precipitation and in some cases greater than annual precipitation. Measured evaporation varied significantly from lake to lake and was considerably different from that given in standard maps of evaporation over northern Canada. Since these delta lakes receive little runoff from the surrounding basin, lakes which are not flooded by the Mackenzie River experience gradually decreasing water levels. Given sufficient time between flooding events, these lakes will completely dry up. This has important implications to the effect of flow regulation on the hydrology of lakes in the Mackenzie Delta.
10.2307/1550628|Field studies of Carex aquatilis were conducted in (1) arctic Alaska, (2) adjacent hot spring and permafrost-dominated muskeg in interior Alaska, and (3) alpine and subalpine sites in Colorado. Arctic soils were coldest, most thermally stable, and lowest in available phosphate of all sites. Hot spring and subalpine soils were warmer and more thermally stable seasonally than nearby muskeg and alpine soils, respectively, but differed in phosphate availability. In each geographic area Carex aquatilis was restricted to habitats with cooler soils than those occupied by other sedges. Tiller height and leaf number were positively correlated with both soil temperature and available phosphate and in Alaska were associated with higher rates of vegetative and sexual reproduction. Phosphate absorption rate of excised roots was highest in populations growing in the coldest, most phosphorus-poor soils. Soil phosphate status was more important than soil temperature in determining phosphate absorption capacity.
10.2307/1551133| Glaciogenic silt forms an important component of mineral soils around the coastal lowlands of Iceland, but wind erosion on and around the margin of the central plateau is a serious problem. Previous observations in central Iceland have suggested that more than one process is involved in the lifting of material of various sizes. First, winds blowing from the icecaps can raise material of sand size and transport it fairly near the ground for some distance from the ice edge. Second, clear skies in the lee of icecaps cause marked heating of the ground surface, formation of a "heat low" in the afternoon with superadiabatic lapse rates and convectional lifting of silt-sized material to be carried long distances in the atmosphere. There appear to be intermediate stages between these two types. Most situations seem to be associated with topographic disturbances in the atmospheric circulation. These hypotheses were tested in the summer of 1981 by observations made just to the north of the largest icecap, Vatnajkull (8400 km
10.2307/1550768|The only timberline tree in Tenerife is Pinus canariensis, a three-needled pine endemic to the western Canaries. The average timberline elevation of 2000 to 2100 m on Tenerife is extremely low for this subtropical latitude. In unprotected sites near the timberline there are two critical seasons for reproduction: the summer with intense radiation, over-heating, and dessication of the ground; and the winter with short-term weather variations, frequent nightly freezing, and frost-induced soil movements. Seedlings and young trees are extremely sensitive to the critical ecological factors which include temperature and moisture. Under natural conditions a quasi stability of the actual timberline is likely. The history of vegetation indicates a regression of the tree distribution in the recent past. There is evidence for the extinction of a preexisting Juniperus woodland belt. Human impact on the timberline environment was destructive for a long time through wood and shrub cutting or grazing activities, but has become constructive in recent years with large-scale reforestation. The timberline of Tenerife shows a marked individuality, which raises serious problems for geoecological comparisons with other subtropical mountain areas.
10.2307/1551303|The relationships among woody debris, composition of vegetation, topography, and sediment on ten gravel bars along a Montana river are examined in order to test a hypothesis of positive feedback leading to reduced rates of sediment transport. Plant species diversity is related to the area, sediment, and woody debris of bars. Several variables were significantly correlated and significant regressions of vegetative composition on sediment, topography, and debris resulted. The amount of woody debris, however, is not a statistically significant function of topography, sediment, or vegetation. Large amounts of woody debris are located both on low, barren, apparently new gravel bars, and on higher bars, where fine sediment is deeper and more mature stands of vegetation exist. Analyses of systems of linear equations representing hypothetical pathways of causality regarding vegetation, woody debris, topography, and sediment were not statistically significant. We suggest that time, a variable not amenable to measurement in this system, is an important direct control of processes at every step of the causal chain in such a way that its effects cannot be subsumed by any of the other variables. A disequilibrium condition in which the operations of mesoscale ecological processes are superimposed on sedimentological processes with macroscale components may also explain why the correlations are not maintained when ordered into a system.
10.2307/1551900|Archaeological sites in Frobisher Bay, located far above the treeline, yielded large amounts of wooden remains. Questions were raised about the source of that wood. Forty driftwood samples were collected from the shores and analyzed by dendrochronological and wood-anatomical methods to determine their origins and ages. Four Picea logs are cross-dated via tree-ring chronologies from the Yukon River drainage in Alaska and two Pinus samples are cross-dated with a tree-ring chronology from the Yenisey River in Siberia. The Picea driftwood and some Larix driftwood were eroded naturally from river terraces, while most Pinus and Larix wood escaped logging and floating operations along Russian rivers. We propose that wood on the shores of Frobisher Bay drifted from the Arctic Ocean via Fram Strait, between Greenland and Svalbard, and around the southern tip of Greenland rather than through the Canadian Arctic Archipelago.
10.2307/1550258|An eight-channel signal-conditioning system has been built to interface meteorological sensors to the ERTS Data Collection Platform (DCP). The interface system, which operates from two 12-volt storage batteries, couples four thermistors, a pyranometer, a net radiometer, a precipitation gauge, and a wind-speed transmitter to the DCP. Testing features and provision for driving analog recorders are incorporated in the system which is operating on Niwot Ridge, Colorado Front Range.
10.2307/1550658| Acclimation in net photosynthetic response patterns to changing conditions of temperature and light was found during the growing season in Cladonia alpestris in the subarctic at Schefferville, Quebec. However, adjustment of the photosynthetic response surface to temperature was found to be incomplete. Changes in the temperature optima for photosynthesis observed may be a natural consequence of seasonal changes in photosynthetic rates, and not a direct adaptation. There was no seasonal change in the moisture sensitivity of photosynthesis. However, seasonal trends in the water content at saturation and in the drying rate of the thallus conferred additional drought resistance in midsummer. The photosynthetic rate and drying rate reflected the light and temperature conditions experienced during the month preceding measurement, not the conditions immediately prior to measurement. No seasonal change was found in the magnitude of temperature sensitivity of dark respiration rates during the summer. Dark carbon dioxide flux in the middle and bottom portions of the thallus were lower than those in the top, photosynthetically active portion. Maximum photosynthetic rates of 2.15 mg CO
10.2307/1551632|The effects of winter seismic trails on tundra vegetation were studied on the Coastal Plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. Seismic exploration occurred during the winters of 1984 and 1985. Thirty-four permanent study plots were established the following summers, representing the range of disturbance which occurred in each of seven major vegetation types. Plots were visited two of the first three summers after disturbance. At each plot plant cover was measured using a point frame, disturbance characteristics were recorded, and ground surface elevations were surveyed. Plant cover was lower on most disturbed plots than on their adjacent controls, with decreases as high as 87% the first summer following disturbance. The species most sensitive to disturbance were evergreen shrubs, followed by willows, tussock sedges, and lichens. Willow height in riparian shrubland plots was significantly reduced by 5 to 11 cm (from an average of 16 cm, p < 0.05). Little recovery of plants occurred in the second or third summers after disturbance; only four plots in river floodplain habitats (Dryas terrace and riparian shrubland) showed improvements in cover of a few species. Track depressions ranging from 5 to 15 cm occurred at three plots in moist sedge--shrub tundra and increased significantly (p < 0.05) at one plot between the first and third summers following disturbance. Continuation of this study will provide information on the long-term impacts and recovery rates of winter seismic trails.
10.2307/1550542|Starch gel electrophoresis was used to assay for genetic variation in Engelmann spruce (Picea engelmannii) and subalpine fir (Abies lasiocarpa) near tree line in the Rocky Mountains of Colorado. Substantial differentiation of peroxidase enzymes was detected along an elevational gradient in samples marked by different growth forms. The genetic differentiation observed runs counter to a commonly held view that extensive gene flow among these wind pollinated long-lived plants would maintain genetic homogeneity. The differentiation among peroxidase enzymes may be related to their fungicidal properties and the occurrence of snow molds in spruce and fir near the tree line.
10.2307/1551052|When first-year shoots of Picea engelmannii cultivated in New Zealand were artificially frozen and then thawed, the needles developed damage patterns which seem identical to those seen in natural krummholz of the same species in Colorado. In the same experiment, needles from Pinus contorta plants of krummholz form were more susceptible to freezing damage than needles from vigorous, erect saplings. This raises the possibility that freezing rather than water stress may be the primary cause of winter desiccation in inadequately matured krummholz shoots.
10.2307/1551197|A model of the effects of a dust cover on snowmelt rates, including changes in albedo and surface temperature, is shown to lead to realistic order-of-magnitude estimates of the conditions under which snowmelt will be advanced or retarded. Thick dust covers, low solar radiation and high windspeeds retard snowmelt while thin dust covers, intense solar radiation and low windspeeds increase snowmelt rates. The results agree with an earlier observation at Schefferville, Quebec, that dust covered snow near active mine sites is completely melted some four days before the general snowpack in the area, and with other empirical observations.
10.2307/1551132| The present-day glaciation level and equilibrium-line altitude (ELA) for inner Greely Fiord, north-central Ellesmere Island, are ca. 900 m asl. During the last glaciation, the paleo-ELA was 400 m asl whereas the maximum paleoglaciation level was ca. 475 m asl. Although the glaciation level and ELA dropped by as much as 500 m during the last glaciation, the extent of ice was nonetheless very limited, generally within 5 to 40 km of present margins. Consequently, this area was characterized by severe continentality; i.e., greater summer cold and similar, if not greater, aridity. This greatly constrained glaciers, particularly those that entered the sea and calved. At Eureka, 170 km southwest of inner Greely Fiord, recent changes in the mean height of the July freezing level are strongly correlated with the ELA on the White Glacier, Axel Heiberg Island. There, the ELA has lowered from 900 to 400 m asl in some years. This recent lowering of the ELA to 400 m asl on the White Glacier is similar to the ELA reported for inner Greely Fiord during the last glaciation, yet both are still less severe than present conditions on northernmost Ellesmere Island where the ELA is ca. 200 m asl. 
10.2307/1551401|Life-history traits of individual species, competitive interactions, and facilitation all contribute to the pattern and rate of succession in tundra ecosystems. An understanding of these natural successional processes will permit the development of effective strategies for restoration of disturbed areas in tundra. In mesic disturbed sites, the soil organic mat remains, providing a source of buried seed and vegetative propagules as well as a store of nutrients. Except where surface erosion is severe, natural succession can proceed quite rapidly, and sowing of exotic grasses is likely to inhibit rather than promote the establishment of native plants. By contrast, revegetation of xeric disturbed sites is often restricted by inadequate supplies of seed, nitrogen, and/or water. Sowing or planting may facilitate the invasion of native plants by increasing nutrient availability, especially if species with symbiotic nitrogen fixation are used. Where erosion hazards are severe, planting may be necessary for engineering reasons, regardless of its effect on the establishment of native plants.
10.2307/1550703|A simplified form of McIlroy's combination model was used to compute bihourly evaporation for a High Arctic site. The computed evaporation values reveal diurnal and seasonal patterns which show a close relationship with water levels in the active layer. The excess of evaporation over summer rainfall input to a small basin led to a rapid cessation of streamflow, confirming the importance of evaporation in the water balance of small arctic drainage basins.
10.2307/1550292| A corrected i value for Arctic Canada of 1.521 results in the change of the shoreline relation diagram for 11,000 to 14,000 BP but not for periods  10,000 BP. Redrawn diagrams are illustrated. 
10.2307/1550476|Flutings adjacent to the Spencer Glacier, Alaska, are typically 0.2 m in height and 1 m in width with a regular wavelength of 1 m. In cross section, fluting ridges are relatively symmetrical in shape and massive internally. The internal texture is pebbly silt; surface texture, however, coarsens rapidly to a gravel lag with increasing distance from the terminus. The long axis alignment of pebbles and cobbles approximately parallels the crests of fluting ridges and the direction of glacier flow. Fluting troughs are filled by resedimented melt-out debris and melt-water sediment. The flutings of Spencer Glacier differ from those at other glaciers because they are primary depositional features produced by the ablation of the stratified basal ice of a progressively retreating glacier. The boundary between the debris-laden basal ice and the overlying clean ice is ridged. The ridges correspond to linear thickened zones of the uppermost debris-laden layer of the basal ice. These zones parallel the local direction of ice flow. With ablation of the terminus and melt-out of the debris of the basal ice, the englacial ridged configuration is preserved as fluted melt-out till. The internal texture, fabric, structure, dimensions, and other characteristics of the flutings are inherited directly from the debris of the basal ice. Variations in these characteristics result primarily from ablation of the interstitial ice and from reworking by melt-water.
10.2307/1550442|A moving light source which simulates the sun's orbit around an experimental object, incorporating adjustable orbital speeds and angles of incidence corresponding to latitudinal and seasonal differences, was designed, built, and used in laboratory ecophysiological studies. Applications for studies in landscape architecture, solar energy, distribution, etc., are suggested.
10.2307/1552063| In a Neotropical alpine grassland (pramo) in the Colombian Central Cordillera, the root mass, root distribution, and aboveground:belowground (A:B) ratio were determined at four sites with different grazing and burning management. Compared to grasslands at other latitudes, pramos have a relatively low belowground biomass and, due to the combination with a high aboveground biomass, a high A:B ratio. This is attributed to a low productivity and a lack of seasonality. Effects of grazing disturbance on the root system could be observed at a site without burning history, where the tussock grass vegetation was transformed into ground covering mats. Here, belowground biomass increased from 1.2 to 2.1 kg m
10.2307/1550296| Rates of basal till deposition ranging from 0.5 to 2.5 cm year
10.2307/1550049| Certain groups of insects, myriapods, and arachnids were collected by pitfall trap at 3,600 to 4,270 m elevation in the Colorado alpine tundra. The Cicadellidae (leafhoppers) adults, Acrididae (grasshoppers), Scarabaeidae (scarab beetles), Erythraeidae (erythraeid mites), Lycosidae (wolf spiders), and Thomisidae (crab spiders) appear to be mainly diurnal taxa. Most Carabidae (ground beetles) and Micryphantidae (dwarf spiders), and all Diplopoda (millipedes) appear to be mainly nocturnal taxa. Data for other taxa does not indicate significant day or night concentration in activity. There are indications that the nocturnal arthropod fauna extends to 4,270 m. The nocturnal arthropod fauna of the alpine tundra is shown to be of considerable size, contrary to earlier opinions. The cold night conditions (ca. 1 to 5C) do not halt all arthropod activities. The arctic tundra is shown to lack most of the alpine tundra nocturnal taxa, probably due to lack of night conditions during the summer. 
10.2307/1551091|Breeding Lapland longspurs, Calcarius lapponicus, near Barrow, Alaska, have relatively constant energy demands throughout the summer; the average estimated daily energy budgets (DEBs) were 132 and 118 kJ for the male and female. Thermoregulation accounted consistently for one-quarter to one-third of the total DEB. Flight in the male and incubation in the female were major components of the DEB early in the season, whereas cost of molt was a major component for both sexes near the end of the season. Our estimates of longspur DEB based on a time-activity approach were similar to those based on a cage existence model. Minor differences are explained by increased male territorial activity, by energy savings of the female during incubation, and by contraction of the molt for both sexes within the short summer season. Male and female longspurs were estimated to capture 3000 to 10,000 seeds and insects d
10.2307/1551217|The structure of four herbaceous communities located in lower montane (2200 m), upper montane (2600 m), subalpine (3050 m), and alpine (3750 m) zones in the Front Range, Colorado, in 1981 was compared with that in 1953 when these same areas had been studied previously. Plant communities were compared primarily on the basis of number of species, species composition, species frequency, and community diversity. The herbaceous community at 2200 m had changed significantly since 1953 in frequencies and composition of species. The change is associated with a considerable disturbance of the tree canopy. The herbaceous community at 2600 m had remained relatively stable despite some moderate changes in the tree canopy. The herbaceous community at 3050 m was less diverse in 1981 than in 1953. The differences are associated with (1) successional changes in the overstory at this location and (2) the likelihood that somewhat different areas were studied in the 2 yr. The herbaceous community at 3750 m had shown remarkably little change in composition or relative abundances of species between 1953 and 1981. The diversity of the herbaceous community at 2200 m in 1981 was significantly lower than the diversities of the communities at the other three elevations, possibly because this community is in an earlier successional stage due to recent disturbances. The herbaceous communities at 2200 and 2600 m had many species in common, but there were differences in frequencies of individual species. There was little overlap in species composition among the other communities. At all elevations, the distribution of the species over frequency classes was quite similar for the herbaceous communities in 1953 and 1981, even when there were large differences in species composition between these dates. At the lower three elevations many species were present in low frequencies, and few species were common, while at 3750 m many species were common or abundant. Patterns of species abundance and estimates of species diversity did not coincide with each other across the four habitats.
10.2307/1550061|An autoradiographic technique was used to estimate the level of translocation between shoots and roots immediately after snowmelt and to determine the proportion of the live and dead roots of Dryas integrifolia cushion plants in a high arctic locality in the middle of the growing season.
10.2307/1551433|Hudson Bay remains frozen or is dominated by ice over the summer solstice and throughout much of the high-sun season. This contributes directly to the winterization of summer. The juxtaposition of the mean summer position of the Arctic front and of treeline to the west of Hudson Bay has been clearly documented, and the coincidence of treeline and the southern boundary of continuous permafrost is well known. The strong southward thrust of the Arctic front in summer is, in major degree, a response to cold air masses spawned over Hudson Bay. On a mesoscale, Hudson Bay generates onshore winds across a strong temperature and pressure gradient. This mesoscale regime dominates the temperature and surface energy balance for a large distance inland across the Hudson Bay Lowlands. Superimposed on the mesoscale wind field is a land-sea breeze, which is sometimes well developed in coastal areas and which can be traced up to 65 km inland. It is, however, of low frequency occurrence and is usually overridden by the regional wind. Progressing inland from the coast, in the central Hudson Bay Lowlands, the landscape becomes dominated by deep peat soils and a surface vegetation which is resistant to evapotranspiration. As a result, it is much drier than the wetlands near the coast and evapotranspiration is reduced. The large-scale cold air masses originating over Hudson Bay and the cold mesoscale winds combine to impose cold air temperatures on the adjacent terrestrial environment. Even with abundant solar radiation and saturated surfaces, evaporation is vigorously suppressed by these cold temperatures. Any warming or cooling during climate change will have a double impact on the terrestrial environment through the strong linkages with Hudson Bay.
10.2307/1551972|Estimates of carbon gain were obtained based upon integration of previously published measurements of diel courses of CO
10.2307/1551742| We have implemented a long-term snow-fence experiment at the Niwot Ridge Long-Term Ecological Research (NWT) site in the Colorado Front Range of the Rocky Mountains, U.S.A., to assess the effects of climate change on alpine ecology and biogeochemical cycles. The responses of carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) dynamics in high-elevation mountains to changes in climate are investigated by manipulating the length and duration of snow cover with the 2.6  60 m snow fence, providing a proxy for climate change. Results from the first year of operation in 1994 showed that the period of continuous snow cover was increased by 90 d. The deeper and earlier snowpack behind the fence insulated soils from winter air temperatures, resulting in a 9C increase in annual minimum temperature at the soil surface. The extended period of snow cover resulted in subnivial microbial activity playing a major role in annual C and N cycling. The amount of C mineralized under the snow as measured by CO
10.2307/1550870|Despite rapidly changing surface conditions, supraglacial streams are shown to be capable within limits of adjusting their beds in such a way as to develop and maintain characteristic forms. The most consistent variation of bed topography occurs in a perennial stream with a more stable base-level and meandering planform, a variation which is concentrated in the riffle-pool waveband of alluvial rivers and which persists despite more than 1 m of surface ablation. Analyses of cross-sectional form along the same stream reveal that some but not all parameters vary systematically. Mean depth and width-depth ratio differ significantly between pool and step sections, while those parameters together with an asymmetry index fluctuate at a wavelength commonly associated with meandering. High velocities undoubtedly contribute to the rapidity of adjustment and to the transport of ice crystals (size range of 2 to 32 mm) carried as saltating bed load or in suspension. The characteristics of transport suggest that it is supply- rather than capacity-limited.
10.2307/1552045| A randomized block field experiment was established to compare the effects of "native" soil and mine spoil substrates on the early successional phases and diversity of a high-elevation native species introduction program. Two seeded and two nonseeded treatments were applied. Each replicate of the seeded treatments received a seed mix composed of 42 native species. A total of 54 vascular plants established: 11 grasses, 4 sedges, 38 forbs, and 1 shrub. Year-to-year turnover rates of species ranged from 0 to 88%. In the fifth year, the mean maximum total cover for each treatment was SNS-8%, SS-65%, NSNS-25%, and NSS-82%. "Native" soil treatments yielded the fastest rate of vegetation establishment and the highest maximum cover. Early seral grasses dominated the vegetation cover although, with time, their percentage declined relative to the forbs. Three general successional process models were observed. Random colonization and facilitation were evident in the nonseeded treatments while facilitation and tolerance were most evident in the seeded treatments. Convergence in diversity measurements R, H, and J was observed. 
10.2307/1550515| Monitoring of rock-face temperatures at various points within an arctic nivation site indicate that there is great variation in number, duration, and amplitude of freeze-thaw cycles experienced. The air-temperature record of freeze-thaw cycles provided no indication of temperature conditions at the rock face, because much of the nivation site was under a protective snow cover for a large period of time during which such oscillations were taking place. Available data suggest that the rock faces are subjected to freeze-thaw activity principally in the autumn to early winter period before they become covered by snow. Rock-face temperature records indicate wide fluctuations in subzero temperature conditions and it is suggested that these oscillations, across threshold values, may equate to crossing of the 0C isotherm. 
10.2307/1551624|Measurements of radiation balance components made at an alpine tundra site in the Rocky Mountains of southwestern Alberta, Canada, during the summer of 1985 are reported. Measurements of global solar radiation and reflected solar radiation permitted the evaluation of half-hour and daily net solar radiation, albedo, and atmospheric transmissivity. These were coupled with net radiation and surface temperature measurements to evaluate half-hour and daily incoming, outgoing, and net longwave radiation. Below-average cloud amounts resulted in high daily atmospheric transmissivities. Maximum daily transmissivity reached 80% on near cloudless days. Throughout the study period, daily albedo was nearly constant at 17%. When compared to net solar radiation, the variability in the daily trend of net longwave radiation was conservative. The magnitude of the radiation balance was principally controlled by atmospheric transmissivity. The amount and duration of cloud cover were the chief factors influencing daily atmospheric transmissivity. During cloudless and cloudy-bright conditions, transmissivity was high. During periods of overcast, the decreased transmissivity reduced all solar components. Surface control through albedo was minimal, except for the brief period following a snowfall. No seasonal impact on albedo as a result of surface drying was found. Atmospheric haze resulting from distant forest fires reduced all solar radiation balance components. As a consequence of the dominance of global solar radiation in the radiation balance, both half-hour and daily net radiation values were well correlated with global solar radiation.
10.2307/1551406|Water is a fundamental landscape ecological factor. Its behavior in space and time, governed by initial and independent state factors such as climate and topography, largely controls the spatial patterning of primary plant species and vegetation types. The ecologically relevant quantitative and qualitative characteristics of the water regime at a given locality depend largely on its position relative to its hydrological source-sink system. These characteristics influence plant life conditions within the site directly (e.g., moisture supply) and indirectly (e.g., nutrient supply, pH). This complex of relationships is contained in an ecohydrological approach developed in The Netherlands and adapted to arctic conditions present in central southeast Greenland. It is suggested that this approach may help to increase our understanding of the local to regional patterning in the plant cover and to recognize conditions of special interest and vulnerability. Therefore, it may assist in predicting the impact of both natural changes and human activities and in tracing general processes of succession and possibilities for conservation and regeneration.
10.2307/1550371| Rates of movement of nonsorted stripes on slopes of very low angle (2 to 4) were measured over a 3-year period, 1969 to 1972, at Sachs Harbour in southern Banks Island. Average annual subsurface movements of rectangular tinfoil markers varied between 1.4 and 1.7 cm, while pebbles placed on the surface of the stripes moved an average of 2.5 cm year
10.2307/1551379|In a high-altitude (above 4860 m), semiarid grazing ecosystem in western Tibet, only 28% of summer grazing areas supported aboveground net primary productivity greater than 10 g m
10.2307/1550539|Population densities, distributions, and biomass of predominant soil and surface active arthropods were determined for major alpine tundra plant communities on Niwot Ridge, Colorado. Sampling (soil coring and Berlese-Tullgren extraction for soil arthropods and pitfall mark and recapture for surface active arthropods) was conducted during the summer months of 1971 and 1972. Soils are dominated by mites and podurid collembola. Both groups exhibit mid-summer depressions in abundance and mites are clearly more abundant in the Kobresia meadow than in the Deschampsia habitat. Podurid collembola are significantly more abundant in the cushion fellfield during much of summer than in other habitats. Soil arthropod biomass increases along a decreasing moisture gradient. Ground beetles and spiders are the dominant ground surface arthropods. Amara alpina, a ground beetle, and Pardosa concinna, a wolf spider, were most abundant in the Kobresia meadow; scarab beetles and P. ourayensis (wolf spider) were most abundant in Deschampsia. No surface active taxon was most abundant in the cushion fellfield; this was probably due to the harsh nature of that environment. Ground surface arthropod biomass was highest in the Kobresia meadow and was lower in 1972 than in 1971. Grasshoppers (Aeropedellus clavatus and Melanoplus spp.), leafhoppers, and insect larvae are important foliage herbivores.
10.2307/1551974|This study reports the first direct evidence of nitrogen (N) transformations in alpine talus fields. Mineralization (conversion of organic N to inorganic N) and nitrification (conversion of ammonium [NH
10.2307/1551214| The Dalton Highway extends from Fairbanks, in the interior of Alaska, to Prudhoe Bay on the Arctic Coastal Plain. Over this 600-km transect, July temperatures vary from 17 to 5C. Studies of vegetation along the Dalton Highway identified nine major zones. During the vegetation survey moss polsters were collected within the survey quadrats. Two hundred and nineteen individual moss polsters document regional variations in the modern pollen spectra along this vegetation/climate transect. Treeline is distinguished by a change from dominance by spruce and shrub (especially alder) pollen to the south to herb and shrub (especially willow) pollen dominance to the north; a shift from high modern pollen concentration values to very low values is also noted. Discriminant analysis indicated that the vegetation zones are also defined by different pollen assemblages, suggesting that former changes in vegetation during the Holocene, as recorded in peat deposits, could be interpreted from pollen diagrams. Transfer functions were developed to examine the statistical association between the modern pollen rain and several climatic parameters. The correlation between pollen taxa and mean July temperature was r=0.84. The most important taxa in the equation are Picea, Alnus, Pinus, Sphagnum, and Betula. 
10.2307/1550272|Salvage excavations at an archaeological site (D1Po-20) located in the Front Range of the Rocky Mountains in southwestern Alberta revealed the presence of a series of living floors, radiocarbon dated at ca. 4000, 4700 and 6000 B.C., in association with the Ah horizons of a series of buried soil profiles. While archaeological information is minimal, analysis of the buried soils indicates that they formed under a different vegetation cover from that on the site today. The earliest soil, a Degraded Alpine Eutric Brunisol, inferred to have developed under subalpine to alpine vegetation and a cold wet climate, suggests depression of the timberline on the order of 600 m. These climatic characteristics are considered to reflect those of the last valley glaciation (Pinedale IV). The two later buried soils, Orthic Regosols, developed under grassland vegetation reflective of a drier warmer climate, indicating the lower tree line shifted upwards a minimum of 30 m. A return to "normal" climatic conditions is correlated with the onset of the Neoglacial dated ca. 2800 B.C. in the Southern Alberta Rockies.
10.2307/1551424| The effects of a commercial N-P-K fertilizer were studied on some native Svalbard plants on experimental sites located at Ny-lesund, Spitsbergen (79N). In experiment I, fertilizers were applied each year for a period of 5 yr. Experiment II was started in 1985 and the results from the 1986 investigation are given. The experiments show a variety of responses to N-P-K fertilizers. Fertilizers seem to have an immediate positive effect on flower production and vegetative growth. Preliminary results indicate accelerated seed germination and may also indicate a real increase in germination frequency. On denuded areas, a moss mat is established relatively rapidly when fertilizers are applied. The response to fertilizers seems to be species specific. Of the species tested it was only Luzula confusa that showed no or only a slightly positive effect following the application of fertilizers. 
10.2307/1552147| A lake sediment core from forest-tundra on the Taimyr Peninsula, Siberia, was analyzed for pollen and coniferous stomate content to reconstruct Holocene vegetation history. It had a basal age of 9200 yr BP. Larix stomates indicate L. sibirica trees were present at the site since before 9200 yr BP. Both low total pollen accumulation rates from 9200-6500 yr BP and Juniperus stomates at 9000 yr BP indicate the site was likely forest-tundra. Stomates indicate that Picea obovata trees arrived by 7600 yr BP. Combined pollen and stomate evidence suggest that Picea and Larix were more abundant during the mid-Holocene than today; Picea is now rare at the site. 
10.2307/1552064|An unusually high amount of precipitation, including a world record 24-h snow-fall, was recorded in 1921 at Silver Lake, Colorado, near the Niwot Ridge alpine tundra Long-Term Ecological Research (LTER) site. There was 68.3 in (1735 mm) total annual precipitation which was over five standard deviations above the 1914-1992 mean and the April snowfall produced 76 in (1.93 m) of snow in 24 h. An investigation of these phenomena brings to light the following points. The precipitation at Silver Lake, and presumably the Niwot Ridge LTER site, during 1921 was exceptionally high. The precipitation was highly localized. There are no obvious causes for the high precipitation to be found in the synoptic climatology for the year. However, moisture sources from the west in the winter and spring and from the south in the summer do seem to have been available. Despite well-marked, but temporary, impacts on humans and possibly other higher mammals, there is no evidence of any major or long-lasting impacts to the alpine tundra or subalpine forest ecosystems. Higher temperatures and persistent drought, as might be found with global climatic warming, are proposed as potentially more important disturbance factors to these systems.
10.2307/1550759| Snow avalanches are a major agent of debris transfer above tree line in the Canadian Rockies. At many sites they are a subsidiary rather than the dominant geomorphic process; therefore, landforms produced mainly by avalanche activity have a restricted and often strongly localized distribution. Optimal sites are slopes of 25 to 50 above tree line with plentiful debris cover. Talus slopes may often be strongly modified by avalanches. Debris accumulation by avalanches at experimental sites in Surprise Valley averages 0.6 to 4.8 mm yr
10.2307/1551418|Erosion is one of the most severe ecological problems in Iceland. It has been estimated that more than 50% of the original vegetative cover has been lost since settlement in 874 and active erosion continues to be widespread throughout the country. Since its founding in 1907, the Soil Conservation Service of Iceland (SCS) has emphasized control of wind erosion and reclamation of eroded areas. Methods have primarily involved stabilizing sand dunes with Elymus arenarius and reseeding eroded lands with grasses such as Festuca rubra and Poa pratensis. Approximately 2% of Iceland has been fenced off by the SCS to exclude livestock grazing from areas experiencing severe erosion. The vegetation has recovered considerably within these protected areas and in other areas where grazing intensity has been reduced. The rate of recovery varies greatly depending on elevation, soil type, proximity to natural seed sources, and reclamation practices.
10.2307/1551773|Twelve snow-avalanche ramparts in Jostedalen and Sprongdalen (Breheimen, southern Norway) are investigated to elucidate processes of formation, the history of avalanche activity, and their potential for paleoclimatic reconstruction. Variation in the form of these riverbank boulder ramparts reflects local patterns of avalanche impact. Differences in clast roundness between ramparts, avalanche tracks, and river beds indicate that, on average, 50 to 60% of the clasts in the ramparts originate from river bedload as opposed to avalanche source areas or tracks. Rampart clasts increase in roundness downstream over a distance of 12 km, and the contribution from the river bed varies from 26 to 80% depending on local factors. Conventional lichenometric dating suggests ages for the initiation of rampart formation of 250 to 2000 yr, but they probably have a much longer history. Lichen-size frequency distributions, using the largest lichen from each of n boulders, reflect the age-frequency of surface boulders, providing a record of late Holocene avalanche activity. A simulation model suggests that maximum avalanche activity affected nine of the ramparts during the 19th century, after the peak of the Little Ice Age. The pattern of avalanche activity differs from the pattern of glacier variations but is in close agreement with that of debris-flow activity. The ramparts may yield a valuable proxy record of winter snowfall.
10.2307/1551415|Crude and diesel oils were spilled on five common Mesters Vig plant communities at an intensity of 10 L m
10.2307/1550641|Twenty-six years (1950 through 1975) of daily mean temperature and wind direction records for May through September at Barrow, Alaska, were examined for seasonal patterns in variability. Cumulative deviations from average daily mean temperature were calculated to compare differences among years in temperature regimes. Seven years deviated more than 100 cumulative degrees Celsius by the end of August, while 5 yr remained close to the 26-yr average. Early May and late July through August were more variable among years than June and early July. This related to a decrease in the predictability of wind direction in August and to a concomitant increase in the sensitivity of temperature to wind direction. Within a given year, temperatures during the latter half of the summer were more predictable from one 15-d period to the next than were temperatures in June. These seasonal patterns in temperature variability foreshorten the length of the active period for tundra organisms and have important implications for life-history processes.
10.2307/1551460|Loess on Holocene moraines has accumulated steadily since moraine deposition resulting in soils that generally lack buried horizons and have a degree of development which closely reflects the age of the underlying till. The progressive development of two field indices and five laboratory properties of these soils are best described by logarithmic functions. Indices of pedogenic iron and rubification yield the highest correlation with age of deposit. Rates of soil development are faster than those reported for other parts of the eastern Southern Alps and curves of most soil properties flatten within ca. 10 ka. In contrast, the use of soils to date pre-Holocene moraines is greatly hindered by loess redistribution which commonly results in eroded and/or buried soils. Radiocarbon dates from charcoal within loess on pre-Holocene moraines suggest that loess reworking has been episodic, resulting in soils that are far younger than underlying tills. Holocene reworking of loess on upland sites in response to fires, frost action, and high winds may serve as an analog for large-scale late Pleistocene loess reworking on the Canterbury Plains.
10.2307/1550003| The "Boas" Glacier (6735N; 6516W) exhibited a 2-year alternation of strong mass gains and losses during the first 4 years of the 1969 to 1974 5-year period. During the last budget year (1973-74) the net specific mass balance was strongly negative. The glacier gained approximately .38 m H
10.2307/1551627|Measurements of plant biomass and primary productivity, plant-tissue decomposition, and gas flux were made at sites representing strings, flarks, and pools in a strongly patterned fen near Schefferville, northern Quebec. Biomass and production were strongly related to the position of the water table, with biomass ranging from an average of 190 g m
10.2307/1551644|Surface soil nitrogen changes along a subarctic vegetation chronosequence on a floodplain in central Alaska resulted from interactions between stochastic flooding and the influence of vegetation. River alluvium initially contributed 400 kg ha
10.2307/1551628| Whether Silene acaulis L. grows as a cushion or a loose mat of vegetation appears to be primarily regulated by soil temperature. Under growth chamber conditions, in soils at 13C or less in the root zone, this species assumes a cushion form due to almost total suppression of internodal elongation, while in warmer soils substantial internodal growth leads to a mat form. Roots of this species exhibit relatively high respiration rates and low activation energies similar to those reported for cold-adapted tissues. This and other observations indicate that low soil-temperature stunting is probably not entirely the result of reduced root activity. Abscisic acid applied to the shoots of plants in warmer soils suppressed growth, and it is therefore likely that stunting in this and possibly other species is due to increased ABA levels produced in cold-stressed roots. These results are compatible with the proposition that progressive stunting at higher elevations and perhaps timberline formation result in large part from reduced average rhizosphere temperatures. 
10.2307/1550580|A typical tributary entering the upper Skagit Valley from the east has a broad, gently arcuate, U-shaped headward segment that passes downvalley into a narrow, crooked, V-shaped canyon. Striations and barely weathered glacial drift, however, embellish not only the valley heads but the apparently unglaciated segments and intervening divides as well. Lengthy or repeated episodes of alpine glaciation apparently shaped the upvalley segments, whereas drift and striations throughout the region evince a brief, southward excursion of the Cordilleran Ice Sheet. The Skagit gorge probably lies at or near the downvalley limit of early Fraser and older alpine glaciers in Skagit Valley, rather than at an "ice divide" during ice-sheet glaciation as was formerly supposed.
10.2307/1551646|A 2000-yr chronology of expansion and contraction of the tidewater glacier in Icy Bay, Alaska, is constrained by 30 calibrated radiocarbon ages of wood and peat sampled from stratigraphic sections along the 50-km-long fiord system that has been progressively deglaciated since the end of the last century. The earliest ages indicate ice-free conditions in the upper fiord at the beginning of the Christian era. The outermost moraine complex at the mouth of the bay continues seaward as a submarine shoal and dates from A.D. 400 to 850. Subsequent ice recession led to deglaciation of the fiord system by A.D. 1000. Renewed glacier expansion at the onset of the Little Ice Age (13th century A.D.) led to damming of the lower ice-free reaches of several tributary fiords and to submergence and burial of fiord-margin forests by lake sediments. Continued expansion during the main phase of the Little Ice Age probably culminated in the early 19th century subsequent to Vancouver's initial sighting of the Icy Bay glacier system in 1794. Major episodes of advance in Icy Bay have encompassed about 300 to 500 yr whereas deglaciation of the fiord system takes less than 150 yr. Although the Icy Bay and other Alaskan tidewater glaciers display a lack of synchrony on a decadal time scale, broad similarity in the chronology of first-order advances and retreats suggests they may be triggered by shifts in climate that are responsible for the onset and termination of glaciological events on the scale of the Little Ice Age.
10.2307/1551515|Coastal landforms in Pangnirtung Fiord have developed in response to fluctuating Holocene sea level. A series of raised marine shorelines developed on the shores of the fiord during an early Holocene marine regression. Late Holocene marine transgression facilitated the development and growth of intertidal flats within the fiord. The macrofauna associated with Holocene marine sediments provides a proxy record of Holocene marine climate change in Cumberland Sound. Subarctic waters replaced polar waters along the eastern coast of Baffin Island in the late and middle Holocene. Marine molluscs with subarctic affinities (Astarte striata, Chlamys islandica, Macoma balthica, Mya pseudoarenaria, Mytilus edulis) expanded their range during this period, arriving in Cumberland Sound about 8700 BP. The modern molluscan fauna of Pangnirtung Fiord is composed of subarctic and panarctic-boreal shallow water species, reflecting the continued presence of subarctic waters in Cumberland Sound.
10.2307/1551284| Change in upstream-downstream streamwater chemistry and terrestrial nitrification and nitrogen mineralization were studied on a south-facing, gauged watershed vegetated by spruce-aspen at low elevations, alder at mid- elevations, and dry-mesic tundra at upper elevations. The objectives were (1) to compare vegetation productivity and nutrient cycling rates as indicated by nitrification and nitrogen mineralization, and (2) see if variation in these processes might be reflected in streamwater. Replicated 0.1-ha plots, one facing east, south, and west within each vegetation type, served as study sites. The watershed air temperature gradient was 0.8C 100 m
10.2307/1551038|New field evidence from the White Mountains of New Hampshire supports a proposed late Wisconsinan phase of combined alpine and continental glaciation. A till sheet mantling the lower north slopes of the Presidential Range is of unquestionable southerly provenance and can be traced from its source in three north-opening cirques. No cirque moraines were found, but in the adjacent lowlands, low elevation moraines, ice-contact terrains, proglacial lake sediments, and till provenance suggest that active cirque glaciation was coincident with the nunatak phase of continental ice retreat. Calculations based on theoretical late Wisconsinan ice-sheet profiles and a reasonable rate of ice-front retreat yield a rough estimate of 500 yr for the duration of the proposed nunatak phase of combined glaciation. This model accommodates evidence cited by both proponents and opponents of late Wisconsinan cirque glaciation in the White Mountains, and thus offers a resolution of this long-standing controversy in the Quaternary glacial history of New England.
10.2307/1551417|Iceland is an example of a fragile northern ecosystem where livestock grazing in conjunction with highly erodible volcanic soils and a harsh climate have combined to cause extensive vegetational degradation and soil erosion since settlement in A.D. 874. At the time of settlement about 65% of Iceland is thought to have been vegetated. Birch (Betula pubescens) woodlands at lower elevations are thought to have covered at least 25% of the country. Willows (Salix spp.) and other dwarf shrubs were dominant above 300 to 400 m elevation. This vegetation evolved in the absence of herbivores and was vulnerable to grazing by livestock introduced at the time of settlement. At present less than 25% of Iceland is vegetated. Remnants of former birch woodlands occupy only 1% of the land area. The value of remaining vegetation for grazing, outdoor recreation, and other purposes has been greatly reduced. Extensive, accelerated soil erosion and continued degradation of vegetation by livestock constitute the most serious environmental problems in Iceland today.
10.2307/1551288|Two pollen diagrams from lakes north of treeline in northwestern Quebec indicate that Picea never extended north of its present-day limit during the past 6000 yr BP. Alnus crispa was slightly more abundant around 5000 BP, but there are few major changes in the vegetation of the region during the Holocene. A third site in the tundra along Hudson Bay has a slightly longer sequence (7000 yr BP) which indicates more open conditions in the early and recent part of the record. Picea may have been more abundant locally around 3000 BP. Few major changes in these diagrams can be unequivocally attributed to local changes in plant abundance; changes in tree and shrub pollen abundance parallel those seen south of treeline.
1550164| Some criteria to characterize the nature and the boundaries of high mountains are discussed with special reference to the mountains of the western United States. Geomorphological criteria alone (e.g., local relief, striking tectonic uplift, state of old erosion surfaces, glacial landforms, high altitude degradational processes) are inadequate because the term "high mountains" is primarily a term of landscape geography. Although a combination of diverse criteria, as suggested by C. Troll, can define the lower margin of the high mountain belt of alpine type fairly well, the application of these criteria to arid mountains presents some serious difficulties. Based on the example of the major Great Basin ranges a particular type of (semi-) arid high mountains is distinguished, which by some standards is different from the alpine high mountain type. The concept of "altitudinal belts" (Hhenstufen, tages) is more flexible and comprehensive than Merriam's concept of "life zones" for analysis of altitudinal zonation of landscape elements or ecosystems. A comparative, large-scale research of ecotope patterns is required to facilitate a better understanding of high-altitude ecosystems. 
10.2307/1551192|Four peat profiles of late Holocene age and a single stratum of peat of middle Holocene age were radiocarbon dated, and their pollen spectra analyzed. The samples were from four sites close to Prudhoe Bay on the arctic coast of Alaska and from one site at the edge of the Brooks Range, Alaska, near Galbraith Lake. Nearly all levels in the pollen profiles showed significant amounts of Picea and Pinus tree pollen. At sites near the coast the quantities of Alnus and Betula pollen were also high despite the fact that the floristic limits of these genera occur 120 and 70 km to the south. The pollen profiles were frequently dominated by Cyperaceae pollen. Because the prevailing winds in May and June across the Prudhoe Bay region are from the east and east-north-east, the high percentages of Picea and Pinus in the diagrams may represent pollen transport from the forest-tundra ecotone and boreal forest of northwestern Canada. Many important taxa in the present vegetation were not represented in the pollen profiles, and difficulties of making inferences regarding past vegetation and climate are emphasized.
10.2307/1550943| This paper attempts to explain the origin and maintenance of small, 20-cm-high, vegetated hummocks located on calcareous, alpine knolls at Anou in the western Pyrenees. We analyzed the soil and the vegetation of the hummocks and adjacent control plots and found the former to have significantly higher and more vigorous plant cover than the latter. Control plots had a greater variety of species per plot than the hummocks because the latter were very strongly dominated by Poa and Festuca. The hummocks had a deeper and more acidic soil, with a higher nitrogen content, than control plots. The hummocks were used by certain bird species as lookouts and consequently received two orders of magnitude more bird droppings per day than control plots. We argue that, in the course of time, territory owners perched in those places from where they had the best visibility of the sky and ground. Some sites may have been used more than others, received more nutrients via droppings, and consequently developed a lusher vegetation cover, thus becoming cumulatively more and more attractive. 
10.2307/1550287|Radiocarbon-dated pollen diagrams from two sites in the southern Boreal forest of Canada have reflected aspects of the local and regional environments since 6,700 and 1,000 BP, respectively. Spruce forest near Porcupine Mountain was replaced by grassland ca. 6,700 BP, with a maximum of prairie taxa occurring just before 5,140 BP and a short-lived reduction of grass and herb pollen shortly after that date. The grassland episode ended at 4,200 BP when spruce forest dominated Porcupine Mountain. The site experienced very rapid Sphagnum peat growth and increased sporogenesis after 2,450 BP. A tentative climatic interpretation is supplied which suggests that 6,700 to 4,200 BP experienced generally dry, warm summers, with a maximum of this effect just prior to 5,140 BP and a cooler spell following; after 4,200 BP the summer climate was cooler and moister, especially from 2,450 to 2,000 BP. The possibility of a regional increase in soil erosion and sheet flooding prior to 6,700 BP is examined. Clearwater Bog is underlain by a spruce forest horizon dated 1,200 BP which was established at a time of reduced water level in Clearwater Lake; the Picea timbers were overlain by very humified peat dated 900 BP. Unhumified Sphagnum peat later formed and continued to the modern bog surface. The climatic interpretation is that the summer climate was warm and dry at 1,200 and 900 BP, and that cooler, wetter summers characterized the period since then to the present day. The suggested climatic sequences are synchronous at many points with the scheme previously developed for southern Keewatin and northern Manitoba, and some of the vegetational changes are provisionally interpreted as the movement of the southern limit of the Boreal forest in phase with the shifts of the Keewatin forest-tundra boundary described earlier. This correlation encourages comparison with other sites in the Northern Hemisphere.
10.2307/1551809|In a site in northern Peru, montane rain forest forms an upper timberline on steep slopes and another timberline lower down on valley bottoms. Both timberline forests had 7-m-tall canopies, but other features were very dissimilar. The upper timberline forest had few stems, relatively low basal area, and little regeneration, while the lower timberline forest was markedly different in species composition and had abundant populations of seedlings and saplings, and large basal area. Data from intervening plots along an elevational transect clarified that these contrasts originated in the differential presence and abundance of the tree and shrub species, some of which were limited to edge habitats on either or both of the timberlines, and others that regenerated in interior forest but only within narrow elevational ranges. These patterns may be typical of tropical timberlines in areas of glacially modified topography.
10.2307/1551977| Air, ground surface, and active layer temperatures, and wind and net radiation measurements were obtained at 30-min intervals from 1991 through 1996 at 16 m a.s.l., near Qeqertarsuaq (6915N, 5334W) in Central West Greenland. Snow depth measurements were made on a daily basis. The mean annual air temperature was -5.1C during the observation period. The typical maximum thickness of the active layer (sandy sediments) was about 175 to 180 cm and is typically attained in late September. Freezing of the active layer commences early October or late September. Below-freezing conditions typically prevails in the entire active layer from late-December or early January. Warming of the active layer in spring is rapid and usually occurs in early June or late May. This event is at least partly the result of infiltration of surface meltwater. In general, air temperature represents the major control on active layer temperatures at Qeqertarsuaq. Other important controls are exercised by wind speed and snow-cover thickness. 
10.2307/1550986|Among three populations of wild reindeer in alpine areas of varying climatic characteristics in southern Norway, growth rates were found to be most rapid, ultimate body size greater, and calving 2 to 3 wk earlier in North Ottadalen than in Rondane and Hardangervidda. The differences in growth rates, body size, and calving time are believed to be related to more favorable foraging conditions during the spring and summer periods in North Ottadalen. Less favorable winter foraging conditions in Hardangervidda than in Rondane or North Ottadalen did not result in different body weight development during winter in the three areas. Body weights of pregnant females decreased moderately from maximum in autumn to April. From April to June, North Ottadalen females suffered the highest weight drop owing to earlier calving time and later plant growth. The data support the hypothesis of summer growth and winter dormancy in reindeer.
10.2307/1551839| Roots of 42 plant species, collected in northern Finland from Carex bigelowii and Salix herbacea rich snowbed communities at four altitudes (600-900 m) above treeline in low and middle oroarctic belts, were examined for mycorrhiza and soil microbial activity. Eight plant species were common and characteristic across the gradient, all together 58 plant species were identified. Colonization percentage was 100 in the four ectomycorrhizal species, of which only S. herbacea characterizes snowbed communities. There was a trend in ericoid mycorrhizal species (all rare) of increased colonization with altitude. Twenty-three species had arbuscular mycorrhiza (AM), nine being heavily colonized, including Gnaphalium supinum and Sibbaldia procumbens, which were typical for snowbed communities. Veronica alpina, also a typical species, was moderately colonized. Average AM colonization varied little from 600 to 800 m, but at 900 m root colonization dropped significantly. This was due to weakly mycorrhizal Cardamine bellidifolia and Festuca ovina, which grew only at higher altitudes. If these two species were excluded, there were no differences in average AM colonization among altitudes, e.g. colonization in G. supinum, S. procumbens, and V. alpina did not differ among altitudes. Seven AM fungal species were identified, none of which has been reported before from the Kilen mountains in Scandinavia; Acaulospora scrobiculata was the most common. Seven species were nonmycorrhizal (NM), Carex bigelowii and Oxyria digyna being typical for snowbed communities. In addition, there were nine unexamined species which were most obviously NM, judged by related examined species. Basal respiration rate and microbial biomass as well as the metabolic quotient were highest at 700 m altitude, where also AM spore density was highest, and were only about one third at two highest altitudes compared to those at 700 m. Microbial parameters and mycorrhizal colonization did not show any relation with each other. 
10.2307/1550655|Although a number of snow-cover-soil-moisture plant distribution studies have been carried out in the Front Range of the Rocky Mountains of the United States, the emphasis of such studies has been on vascular plants, and lichens and bryophytes have received little attention. Bryophytes and lichens are seldom a conspicuous element of the plant community above timberline in the Front Range. They rarely form large masses but usually exist as small individual specimens hidden by the canopy of vascular plants or plant litter and are often overlooked or ignored. A study was made of the percentage cover and abundance of 92 lichen taxa and 39 bryophyte taxa in 42 stands in a 1-km
10.2307/1552126|Seasonal patterns of nitrogen (N) uptake were measured to assess the ability of the alpine herb Ranunculus adoneus to utilize the flush of N during snowmelt in an alpine tundra ecosystem. Development of mycorrhizal and dark septate fungi were also monitored within the roots of this snowbed plant in order to determine the role of these fungi in N acquisition. In addition, soil temperature, moisture, and inorganic N levels were measured to determine possible influences of edaphic factors on plant N uptake. In contrast to P uptake, which occurs late in the growing season and corresponds with arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) development, N uptake occurred very early in the growing season before new roots and active AM fungal structures were formed. Soils at this time were cold and wet and NH
10.2307/1552103|This paper introduces a special issue of Arctic and Alpine Research on the topic of arctic soils and permafrost, presented as a memorial to the life-long work of Dr. Kaye Everett. Major themes of the volume, which includes 15 contributions, include spatiotemporal dynamics of permafrost and the active layer, soil genesis and classification, hydrology, soil and vegetation succession, and elemental movement and nutrient cycling. Suggested major future directions are that a regional view of arctic and boreal systems is required and that a circumpolar synthesis and mapping effort for arctic soils is needed for arctic systems research.
10.2307/1550066|Currey's (1974) radiocarbon dates seem to solve the problem of the age of the type Temple Lake till; that is, it predates the Altithermal. Our work in the same cirque, however, suggests that his subdivision of the type Temple Lake till into inner and outer units of "substadial" rank can not be substantiated, and that there exists a heretofore unrecognized till that possibly is equivalent to the Audubon till of the Colorado Front Range. Furthermore, we feel that the relative age dating criteria he presents to characterize the tills are not sufficiently detailed to provide workers with data useful for differentiating tills within the cirque, and for suggesting correlations within the Rocky Mountain region. Data on relative age dating criteria that better serve these goals are lichen sizes and percent lichen cover, boulder weathering (percentage of boulders weathered and pitted, depths of pits, and thickness of weathering rinds), the presence and thickness of a surficial loess mantle, depth of soil oxidation, and soil color.
10.2307/1551269|The desiccated corpse of an arctic wolf (Canis lupus) was recovered from central Ellesmere Island in summer 1986 near the skeleton of a musk-ox (Ovibus moschatus). External examination showed no evidence of the cause of death. Two old injuries, however, became apparent after the skeleton was cleaned. The right zygomatic arch and mandible had been fractured, as well as the right upper carnassial. Four left ribs (T9-12) had also been broken. The pattern and spacing of the skull and rib fractures suggest the impact of a hoof of a large ungulate such as a musk-ox was the cause. The wolf was old, and the bony fracture calluses were smoothed over, indicating old injuries.
10.2307/1550424|The influence of microtopography on the initial stages of colonization by the moss Aongstroemia longipes (Somm.) Br. Eur. in a marginal glacial environment is described. The growth of the moss is limited to shallow depressions made by boot and reindeer hoof prints in the fine-grained surface sediments of a distributary bar in the preceding one to three years. During heavy rain, water ponds only in these depressions. Propagules tend to be concentrated in the depressions by surface wash. The greater availability of water may make the depressions more favorable for plant growth than the adjacent areas.
10.2307/1550316|In the Cameron Valley in Central South Island, New Zealand, a chronology for five sets of moraines of different ages has been developed using available radiocarbon dates and inferred correlation with dated sequences in adjacent areas. The youngest moraines have been dated using lichenometry, shrub growth layers, and one radiocarbon date. The oldest moraines are believed to be of Waimaungan (penultimate glaciation) age. The Lake Heron moraines were formed in Late Otiran (last glaciation) time, possibly 17,000 to 14,000 years ago. The two Wildman moraines are Late Otiran surfaces, believed to be between 12,000 and 10,000 yr old. The Aranuian (Holocene) moraines include the undated Lochaber set, the Marquee 1 and Marquee 2 moraines, probably spanning the period 4,500 to 2,000 yr BP and the Arrowsmith set, ranging from more than 600 years old to 40 years old.
10.2307/1551039|The relative size of contemporaneous rock glaciers is controlled by the intensity of the rockfall processes and the preservation of an ice matrix/core which induces flow. Topoclimatic parameters (altitude, radiation reduction by topographic shading, and position of the cirque or wall with respect to wind-drifting/avalanching of snow) determine the potential for preservation of this ice matrix. Jointing of the bedrock source walls appears to control, at least in part, the production of debris by rockfall. The correlation structure of these variables suggests that topoclimatic and jointing variables interact, rather than exert additive effects to influence the relative development and location of rock glaciers, and that the scale of analysis has a direct effect on the significance of variables. A multiple regression model incorporating the main effect of radiation shading and an interaction term representing the product of altitude, radiation shading and jointing of the source walls explained 72% of the variance in the size of the rock glaciers in the study area of the Sangre de Cristo Mountains, southern Colorado. The analysis further suggests that Evans's law of decreasing asymmetry with increasing coverage can be extended to include periglacial as well as glacial lithofacies deposition.
10.2307/1552093|The vertical distribution of 98 species of lichens was investigated on the mountain, Aucellabjerg, in northeastern Greenland. Five altitudinal zones are defined by their plant communities with particular emphasis on the lichens. Both the number of communities and the number of species decline toward the mountain top. Forty-four epigeic lichens with a wide distribution in Greenland are restricted to the lowest part of Aucellabjerg, while 12 species occur in both the lowest and the highest altitudinal zone. Twelve widely distributed saxicolous lichens occur at almost all elevations on this mountain, whereas 7 species appear to be restricted to the lowland. Among 8 lichens with a mainly northern distribution in Greenland, 3 species show a particular preference for the highest zone on Aucellabjerg. Twenty-five macro- and microlichens have almost the same vertical distribution on Aucellabjerg and three previously investigated mountains in southeastern Greenland. Thirty-one macrolichens have approximately the same vertical distribution on Aucellabjerg and different mountains in southwestern Greenland.
10.2307/1550497|Arctic ground squirrel (Spermophilus parryii) populations near Atkasook appeared to have very similar population dynamics to those reported for this species in other regions. In a favorable habitat, sand dunes, adult females bred every year and July densities reached about 1.5 ha
10.2307/1551343|The genetic structure of Engelmann spruce populations on adjacent wet and dry sites was studied using two enzyme polymorphisms, PGM and UDP. Although allelic frequencies for PGM did not differ between the sites, striking differences in genotypic proportions were found. The population in the wet environment did not differ from Hardy-Weinberg expectations, but in contrast, excesses of heterozygotes were found for both small and large trees on an adjacent dry hillside (F = -0.246 and F = -0.166). For UDP, young trees in both environments were in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium, whereas adult trees at one of the two investigated localities had a deficiency (F = 0.218) under dry conditions and an excess of heterozygotes (F = -0.154) on a marsh. At the second locality, which receives considerably more precipitation, large trees had excesses of heterozygotes in both environments. Proportions of dilocus genotypes on dry and wet sites were compared between the localities. The patterns of differentiation between wet and dry microsites were similar at the two sample localities. These results suggest that natural selection in stands of Engelmann spruce varies with soil moisture.
10.2307/1551408|The island of Surtsey, formed in volcanic eruptions from 1963 to 1967, is a national protected area giving scientists the ability to study the biological succession without interference from man. At present considerable areas of Surtsey are covered with mosses. Blue-green algae (cyanobacteria) in association with genera of the mosses Bryum, Ceratodon, and Rhacomitrium gathered on Surtsey were shown to have the ability to fix dinitrogen (acetylene reduction) in laboratory experiments. The nitrogenase activity recorded was found to be derived from the leaf region of the mosses. Nostoc calcicola was mainly responsible for the acetylene reduction observed. In a Rhacomitrium canescens sample an unidentified dinitrogen-fixing Nostoc species was found growing endophytically.
10.2307/1550761|A short review is presented of the study of permafrost conditions in high-mountain regions which, in comparison to the main lines of permafrost research, is a much neglected topic. The mountain regions discussed include the Rocky Mountains, Alps, Pamirs, Tien Shan, Altai, and the mountain regions of Mongolia and Japan. The vast mountain regions of central Asia, the Andes, and other mountain massifs of low latitudes have received little attention. Permafrost distribution in mountains follows the geographical zoning law. In each case the zone determines the type and category of structure of the geocryological belts. Two types, oceanic and continental, and eight categories of geocryological belts are distinguished. The main types differ in the relationship between their aboveground and underground ice conditions. Thus the oceanic type is characterized by permafrost occurring only at higher altitudes than the snowline, while permafrost occurs below the snowline within the continental type. The classification of geocryological belts permits the use of glaciological data for estimation of the altitudes of the permafrost belts and the spatial characteristics of frozen-ground phenomena in highmountain regions. This is important because it partially overcomes the present serious lack of direct permafrost data from these relatively inaccessible areas.
10.2307/1551568|This study was designed to provide a better understanding of the nutritional significance of wapiti (Cervus elaphus) migrations from low-elevation winter ranges onto high-elevation alpine summer ranges. The study focused on a population along the east slopes of the Rocky Mountains in western Alberta. Food habits analysis of the study population shows that diets consisted largely of grasses on winter (90%), spring (71%), and fall (72%) ranges. On alpine summer ranges, willows were the dominant dietary component (89%). The yearly cycle of forage quality on seasonal ranges showed that wapiti face low forage nitrogen concentration for seven months. In winter (December-April), wapiti foraged on grasses that were more digestible than willows (67% vs. 51%), but did not meet maintenance nitrogen requirements. From May to July, by moving first onto spring ranges and then onto summer alpine ranges, wapiti had access to forage sufficient to provide nutrient requirements for maintenance, pregnancy, and lactation. On alpine ranges, by shifting their diet to willow leaves, wapiti selected for forage with high crude protein content (16.8%) despite the apparent lower digestibility. Total fecal nitrogen content was correlated (r
10.2307/1551127| Dinitrogen fixation rates were investigated, using an acetylene reduction technique, in intact soil cores of sedge meadow communities at two high arctic sites on Ellesmere Island: Alexandra Fiord (7855N) and Sverdrup Pass (7910N). Acetylene reduction activity (ARA) showed increasing rates from snowmelt until late July, followed by a decline in the late growing season. The majority of ARA occurred in the upper 5 cm of the soil. Acetylene reduction activity on the soil surface constituted 35 to 65% of seasonal mean ARA. Blue-green algae (especially Nostoc spp.) were considered the major N
10.2307/1551086|Seven piston cores between 4 and 11 m in length were taken from McBeth, Itirbilung, Tingin, and Cambridge fiords and from Frobisher Bay, Baffin Island. The sediments consist of massive, laminated, and bioturbated muds, alternating silt and sand beds, or discrete sand beds. Ice-rafted sediments occur throughout most cores. Mica, quartz, and feldspar are the dominant clay-sized minerals. Radiocarbon control on core chronology is limited but suggests that all cores date from the last 10,000 yr. Sediment accumulation, uncorrected for density, varies between 5 and 0.25 m ka
10.2307/1550782|The Caucasus region is characterized by a diverse flora and fauna. There are 6350 species of flora, 8000 species of Coleoptera, over 2000 species of Lepidoptera, and 330 species of Orthoptera. Representatives of Tertiary flora and fauna survived in refuges through periods of glaciation. More than 1600 species of plants are endemic. The principal natural landscapes are alpine, low-grass meadows and mixed-grass carpet meadows; subalpine meadows with fragments of birch and rhododendron woods; dark, coniferous forest; beech forests; relict, subtropical, deciduous forests; oak-hornbeam forests; arid open woodlands, steppes; semideserts; and deserts. The composition of the flora and fauna in the Caucasus is compared to that of the Alps. The influence of human activity and consequent extinction of many species is discussed in connection with the 26 nature reserves of the region in which the flora and fauna are now preserved and researched.
10.2307/1551811|The relationship between mean annual incremental growth, habitat heterogeneity and heterozygosity at 14 polymorphic loci was studied in a natural population of trembling aspen (Populus tremuloides) in the premontane-montane region of Waterton Lakes National Park, Alberta, Canada. Multiple correlation of mean annual incremental growth in relation to elevation, aspect, exposure, slope, slope position, and age of the oldest standing ramet explained 56% of the variability in growth. A positive correlation was found between an individual tree's growth rate and its degree of heterozygosity after controlling for environmental influence. There was also a positive correlation between growth and the degree of heterozygosity when clones were grouped into heterozygosity classes. Mean annual incremental growth was most strongly associated with heterozygosity at the G6PD, ADH, ALD, and G2DH loci; growth rates were higher in heterozygotes than homozygotes. The differences in heterozygosity might be attributed to the enzyme loci involved in regulatory functions. The implications of these results for forest structure and succession are discussed.
10.2307/1550791|The effects of substrate quality, temperature, and moisture on nitrogen mineralization from a tussock tundra soil were examined with laboratory soil incubations utilizing both air-dried samples and field-moist intact cores. The potentially mineralizable nitrogen (PMN) was highly correlated to both total soil nitrogen (positively) and the carbon/nitrogen ratio (negatively). All soil horizons exhibited a net nitrogen mineralization even at a high carbon/nitrogen ratio of 92. It was concluded that field-moist intact soil cores provide a more reliable estimate than the air-dried samples of both PMN and the mineralization rate under standard laboratory conditions. There was no significant effect of moisture tension (0.0 to 0.4 bars) on net nitrogen mineralization. The average Q
10.2307/1551854|Biomass removal by grasshoppers was determined nondestructively in two alpine grassland communities in the Central Alps at 2470 m a.s.l. During the 1993 growth period, grasshoppers removed between 19 and 30% of the aboveground phanerogam biomass. Herbivory impact was therefore found to be higher in alpine environments than that given in published estimates of low elevation grasslands. Data on biomass as well as carbon and nitrogen contents of herbage, grasshoppers, and feces were used to model the effects of herbivory on the Carex curvula community. Thirty-six percent of the removed biomass was actually ingested by the grasshoppers of which merely 3% was invested in body tissues. Since herbivores did not emigrate from the site and predation was negligible, nitrogen consumed by grasshoppers remained in communities, while appreciable amounts of carbon were respired. Herbivory tends to accelerate nutrient turnover via concentration of nitrogen in rapidly decomposable body tissues and feces, as well as the production of "green" plant litter originating from dropped plant material.
10.2307/1551215| A population of Viscaria alpina (L.) G. Don (syn. Lychnis alpina L.) occurring in a small area with copper-rich soil at Godhavn, Greenland (6914N) was compared with adjacent populations of the same species in sites with less aberrant soil conditions (n-sites). The population in the Cu-site differed from other populations by having a greater density of (1) plants and rosettes; (2) seed production per rosette; and (3) proportion of unbranched plants. In the Cu-site, new rosettes originated mainly from seeds, while in the n-sites branching was more important in the production of new rosettes. A population dynamics scheme is presented for the Cu-site and the n-sites. The observed differences in life history of V. alpina between the Cu-site and the n-sites are in accordance with differences in topography and exposure to freeze-up. 
10.2307/1551503| Thermoluminescence (TL) analysis of modern glacial-marine sediments from a fiord on Spitsbergen reveal that the natural TL signal varies with sedimentary environment. Till and ice-proximal glacial-marine sediments exhibit the highest natural TL, ice-distal glacial-marine sediment show intermediate TL levels, and sublittoral and littoral sediments yield the lowest TL signal. Sublittoral and littoral sediment are frequently resuspended in the water column by wave agitation and thus are relatively well light bleached. A laboratory bleaching procedure is developed that simulates the attenuation in light intensity and spectrum penetrating turbid water in the High Arctic. Thermoluminescence dating of modern and Holocene sublittoral sediment by the total-bleach method with the residual level defined by the above procedure yields age estimates of 0.9  0.2 ka and 9.9  1.3 ka, similar to their known age. Both the laboratory bleaching experiments and the agreement between TL age-estimates and known ages indicate that this bleaching procedure is appropriate for defining the residual TL level and thus dating sublittoral and beach sediments on Spitsbergen and possibly other High Arctic sites. 
10.2307/1551462|An improved technique is put forward for dating rock surfaces using the sizes of lichens that grow on them. The technique has its theoretical basis in a statistical distribution model for lichen diameters. The technique differs from the conventional one in that the whole set of lichens of particular species is used in the dating. A statistical processing of the data enables one to estimate the uncertainty of age determinations and obtain results of higher accuracy than was previously possible. The use of a model for the distribution of lichen diameters allows one, in contrast to techniques that employ lichen growth curves, to determine age, not only in areas where there are objects of known age, but also over a fairly large area. This is achieved by establishing correlative relationships between the model parameters and altitude. The model parameters are determined from measurements of lichens of species Lecanora muralis (Schreb.) and Aspicilia sp. for 18 objects of known age. Specific results from applications of this version of lichenometry are the southern Tien-Shan and the Pamirs, USSR, areas that exhibit extremely active exogenous and seismic processes and which have been the key areas of lichenometric studies in the paleoseismological aspect. The ages of several earthquake-induced features have been estimated. Conclusions have been drawn about the simultaneous formation of some seismic dislocations and their association with known large earthquakes and about the recurrence of seismic events in the epicentral zones of known catastrophic earthquakes and outside these zones.
10.2307/1551874|Snow avalanches in Cascade Canyon, Grand Teton National Park, have a significant effect on the region's vegetation mosaic, increasing the area's community diversity and creating a fragmented vegetation pattern. The structure and persistence of communities within avalanche tracks is a function of the frequency of avalanche occurrence. In many areas, shrub cover and conifer density increase as avalanche frequency increases. Conifers decrease in size yet increase in age as avalanches occur more often, a consequence of slower growth rates in trees within avalanche tracks. Because the probability of avalanche damage to conifers is related to the size of the tree, slow growth rates result in small trees that can survive many years in avalanche tracks, contributing to the persistence of the avalanche community. The canyon's vegetation patterns appear fairly stable due to the spatial and temporal consistency of avalanche occurrence and the persistence of communities in avalanche tracks. The primary effect avalanches have on this landscape is to increase the fragmentation of the vegetation patterns rather than to drive dynamic changes in the landscape mosaic.
10.2307/1551495| Two new concepts relating to rock glaciers are defined: the rock glacier appearance level (RAL) and the rock glacier initiation line altitude (RILA). The RAL may be regarded as an analogy to the glaciological concept glaciation level (GL) and indicates a critical summit altitude below which no rock glaciers occur. The RILA is a measure of the rock glacier head altitude and is situated below or at the local equilibrium line altitude (ELA) of glaciers. RAL and RILA have been mapped in a 370-km
10.2307/1550470| Arthropod fallout was sampled during the summers of 1971 and 1972 on snowpatches at the IBP Tundra Biome site at Eagle Summit Alaska (6528N, 4523W) at an altitude of about 1100 m. Diptera dominated the fallout numerically (61%), followed by Hymenoptera (28%), Coleoptera (4.4%), and Heteroptera (1.2%). Peak fallout occurred in early June, and diminished to zero in early September. Greatest fallout biomass, which occurred in mid-June and in early July, was composed largely of alate ants. The mean rate of arrival on the snow surface mid-June through mid-July was 1.5 mg dry wt  m
10.2307/1552127| The Rivire George Caribou Herd (RGCH), in northern Qubec, erupted during a few decades to culminate at approximately 800,000 animals by 1990. The RGCH appeared regulated by competition for summer forage. Repeated browsing and trampling reduced summer range productivity to 50% compared to ungrazed areas, lichens and dwarf birch having been mostly responsible for this reduction. A reconnaissance flight in 1991 and intensive field work the following two summers suggested that caribou use of dwarf birch leaves was light following the period of peak numbers. We hypothesized that birch stands would show signs of rapid and vigorous recovery in 1993-1994. We surveyed five heavily browsed birch stands, and two inaccessible, lightly browsed ones. Although utilization of birch leaves by caribou ranged between 0 and 6% during the 1994 growing season, heavily browsed stands exhibited no signs of rapid and strong recovery. Young plants did not abound in heavily browsed stands compared to lightly browsed ones, neither was wood accumulation faster in the former than in the latter. Stem density and height were similar in heavily browsed and lightly browsed stands. However, the leaf/wood ratio and the percent dry weight of leaves and wood were higher in lightly browsed than in heavily browsed stands, which resulted in approximately twice as high leaf biomass in lightly browsed than in heavily browsed stands. We hypothesized that previous intense caribou browsing caused a persistent suppression of dwarf birches, and that stems could not accumulate sufficient reserves during a growing season to deploy more leaves in the next spring in order to return the leaf/wood ratio to a normal value. We discuss the consequences of such a reaction of dwarf birch to herbivory on the demography of the RGCH. 
10.2307/1550945|The growth forms of Nothofagus solandri trees at the alpine timberline in the Craigieburn Range, Canterbury, New Zealand, are described. These forms arise in response to winter conditions, the effect of winter desiccation, frost and snow, being particularly important. The main tree responses recognized are foliage death and shoot dieback, stem deformation, and epicormic branching. Vegetative proliferation is more important at timberline than at lower altitudes. Many timberlines lacking stunted growth forms have developed in response to fire. Those which are not caused by fire are diverse with several distinctive growth forms present. It is considered that the term "krummholz" is inappropriate to the New Zealand situation; subalpine woody plant growth can be broadly described as erect trees, crippled trees, and shrubs. It is concluded that although the timberline ecotone in these New Zealand angiosperm forests is very narrow compared to those of many Northern Hemisphere gymnosperm forests, the climatic conditions experienced in the timberline ecotone modify and deform tree growth in a similar manner.
10.2307/1551662|The effects of NPK fertilization on species composition and diversity in tundra fellfield communities were measured after 1, 3, and 5 growing seasons. The outcome did not agree with the idea that fellfield is a microsuccessional mosaic or with predictions of the intermediate disturbance hypothesis. The outcome did agree with the hypothesis that growth-form dominance is causally related to soil fertility. Growth-form composition changed markedly, with graminoids replacing evergreen dwarf shrubs as dominants; deciduous dwarf shrubs and forbs changed little in relative abundance. Fertilization increased cover markedly, showing that fellfield vegetation (like many other tundra vegetation types) is nutrient limited.
10.2307/1550717|Alluvial, organic-rich sediments associated with the mid-Wisconsin Boutellier nonglacial interval (38,000 to 30,000 BP), St. Elias Mountains, Yukon Territory, yielded fossil pollen and bryophytes. Twenty-five pollen taxa were identified; Cyperaceae, Gramineae, and Artemisia dominated the pollen assemblages. Arboreal pollen was rare, while Salix was the only common shrub. Of the fossil bryophytes Drepanocladus brevifolius was the most common; Calliergon giganteum and Scorpidium scorpioides were less frequent and less well preserved. The pollen record suggests a tundra meadow-tundra steppe mosaic with local willow groves. The bryophytes indicate an unweathered minerotrophic substrate. Comparisons with other dated mid-Wisconsin pollen localities of Alaska and Yukon suggest that the Boutellier pollen samples represent the upper zone of an altitudinal vegetational sequence similar to that of the present, but displaced downslope.
10.2307/1551740|The influence of the dominant tussock grass Festuca varia Haenke on the species growing in its vicinity was investigated. Festuca varia forms round tussocks on gentle slopes and rows on steep slopes. The two forms differed in their effect on community structure and species composition. When tussocks were arranged in rows, different environmental conditions above and below the row were observed. Dense litter and shoot cover below the row change considerably the environment for the plants, so that species number above the row was higher than below the row. The distance between neighboring rows and row width determined also the species number in spaces between the rows. Round tussocks influenced other species mostly through litter production; distance to the neighboring round tussock was another determinant of species number. The number of species recorded within tussocks was lower than between them. However, 25% of the studied tussocks were inhabited and not less than 14 species was found within them. Festuca varia mostly limited species number and cover on a small scale, but did not influence the overall species composition in the grasslands. The pool of diaspores of accompanying species from the patches within the community may support the populations in the vicinity of F. varia tussocks.
10.2307/1550240|A phytosociological study of alpine meadows with tufted hairgrass was conducted in the Rocky Mountain region of Colorado. Nine study areas were selected and a total of 77 stands were sampled. Frequency data were used for association analyses of species employing an association index of Dice. Frequency data for important species were found to be of value in analyzing performance of species associated with hairgrass. All important species responses in hairgrass meadows could be related to hairgrass density and general moisture conditions. Most of the important species occurred to some degree in all of the study areas but were found to be more important in only one or two of the study areas. On the basis of species associations it was evident that the structure of alpine meadow vegetation with hairgrass varies in a subtle fashion, related environmentally to a moisture gradient.
10.2307/1550828|Studies were made of four lakes receiving significant quantities of glacial sediment, and of five lakes receiving no glacial sediment. All waters contain less than 10 mg L
10.2307/1550330|Field studies have been carried out on the movement of sorted stripes at The Cinder Cone area, Garibaldi Park, B. C., since 1958. The investigations were designed to separate, insofar as possible, the processes which, it was thought, might be important in the downslope movement of the sorted stripes, viz.: frost heave, displacement by needle ice, surface wash, and drag from snowcreep. Deep frost heave was found not to occur, surface wash proved unimportant, and the drag from snowcreep caused minimal differential transfer of fines versus coarse material. The principal downslope movement appears to be caused by the growth and ablation of needle ice. The progressive downslope shift results more from toppling of the needle ice columns with sliding and rolling of the superincumbent pebbles, than from vertical gravity settling. For the period 1958 to 1968, the coarser material moved, on the average, about 15 cm yr
10.2307/1550398|This paper studies the structure, composition, and pattern of the vegetation in the subalpine zone of the western North Cascades. This 7,200-km
10.2307/1551287|Arctic fox (Alopex lagopus) dens were examined in the unglaciated portion of the Yukon Coastal Plain and on Herschel Island. Den site selection relative to landform type was evaluated for 65 dens. On the Yukon Coastal Plain foxes established dens on sandy fluvial and wind-modified (dunes) fluvial deposits almost exclusively. On Herschel Island, moderately eroded landscapes were selected over noneroded, slightly eroded, and wetland terrain. The use of terrain maps proved to be useful in defining suitable den habitat. Chemical and physical properties of soil were compared on and immediately adjacent to 25 dens. Mean values for soil temperature, depth to permafrost, soil particle size, pH, N, and exchangable K were significantly different (P < 0.05) between on-den and off-den samples in both study areas. Total carbon, total phosphorous, and C:N were significantly different on Herschel Island but not on the Yukon Coastal Plain. The role of foxes in modifying soil chemical and physical properties is discussed relative to differences inherited through the parent material properties.
10.2307/1550125| Photographs of a lichen-measurement station, established by Beschel at Strmfjordshavn, West Greenland, indicate a Rhizocarpon geographicum growth rate of 17 to 18 mm 100 years
10.2307/1551322|Effects of winter seismic exploration on arctic tundra were evaluated on the coastal plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, four to five growing seasons after disturbance. Plant cover, active layer depths, and track depression were measured at plots representing major tundra plant communities and different levels of initial disturbance. Results are compared with the initial effects reported earlier. Little resilience was seen in any vegetation type, with no clearly decreasing trends in community dissimilarity (differences in species cover values between disturbed and control areas). Active layer depths remained greater on plots in all nonriparian vegetation types, and most plots still had visible trails. Decreases in plant cover persisted on most plots, although a few species showed recovery or increases in cover above predisturbance level. Moist sedge-shrub tundra and dryas terraces had the largest community dissimilarities initially, showing the least resistance to high levels of winter vehicle disturbance. Community dissimilarity continued to increase for five seasons in moist sedge-shrub tundra, with species composition changing to higher sedge cover and lower shrub cover. The resilience amplitude may have been exceeded on four plots which had significant track depression.
10.2307/1549980|This study reports the distribution and rates of accumulation of biomass and nitrogen in 5-, 15-, and 20-year-old alder ecosystems developing on the Tanana River flood plain in central Alaska. Distribution of biomass and nitrogen is shown for foliage, branches, boles, roots, litter, and soil by percentage and on a kilogram per hectare basis. Average annual increment for the 20-year period is 4,734.5 kg ha
10.2307/1551643|Planners, developers, conservationists, and others have tended to view wetland habitats in Alaska as being "unused." In actuality, wetlands provide the foundation for many Alaska Native subsistence-based economies. Social, cultural, economic, and valuative components of Alaska Native societies are integrated within hunting, gathering, fishing, and trapping activities, providing for a dynamic adaptive system focused on the use of local resources in wetlands. This paper provides comparative examples statewide to demonstrate that rural wetlands in Alaska cannot be assumed to be unused. In fact, the uses of wetland habitats and resources by rural Alaskan Natives are subject to serious threat as a result of changing land status over the past few decades.
10.2307/1550475|A paleoecological study of the La Plata Mountains was initiated to develop further a dated and continuous environmental sequence for the San Juan River headwaters to which discontinuous archaeological and alluvial data from the Four Corners region might be compared. Routine pollen analysis of a 4-m core from a subalpine meadow adjacent to Twin Lakes, 3290 m (10,790 ft), including 11 radiocarbon dates and pollen ratios, provides the chronology of climatic change as reflected by postglacial timberline fluctuations. The timberline was lower than that of the present about 9800 BP, then advanced upward at least twice to higher elevations prior to 6000 BP. The timberline retreated to lower elevations shortly after 4000 BP; this retreat was followed by another significant advance upward about 2500 BP. Mining, logging, and grazing, which began in the 1870s, may be represented by a sharp decrease in the relative frequencies of Pinus and Picea pollen, with subsequent secondary succession represented by increased Ranunculaceae and Salix pollen and then a return to conifer pollen dominance. These changes may also result from a significant lowering of the timberline within the last few hundred years.
10.2307/1551567| Statistical comparison of avalanche-path-profile data from four widely separated mountain ranges (coastal Alaska, California Sierra Nevada, Colorado Rocky Mountains, and western Norway) are compared and presented in tabular form. Only unusual (approx. 100-yr return period) avalanches were compared. Inspection of the data leads to the following conclusions: (1) The avalanche paths in Norway and Alaska are larger and steeper than those sampled in Colorado and California; (2) The best regression equation for predicting the  angle developed from Norway data predicts  which is too large in Colorado, the Sierra Nevada, and coastal Alaska; (3) The extreme avalanche runout distances, as defined by the dimensionless "Runout Ratio," a measure of runout distance with respect to path size, are significantly larger in California and Colorado; (4) Larger runout ratios are associated with shorter path lengths in the Colorado and Sierra Nevada data; (5) The observed differences between runout distances suggests that statistical runout equations developed in one mountain area should not be applied to other areas. 
10.2307/1551797|This study evaluated the rate and pattern of natural succession on regraded placer mine spoil in relation to initial substrate characteristics. The study site was the Glen Creek watershed of the Kantishna mining area of Denali National Park and Preserve, Alaska. After regrading, twelve 0.01-ha plots were established and substrate characteristics were measured. Natural plant succession was evaluated after five growing seasons. Three successional patterns were identified on the basis of plant community characteristics using cluster analysis, and were related to substrate characteristics. First, a riparian plant community with vigorous Salix alaxensis and Alnus crispa grew rapidly on topsoil that had been spread over the regraded spoil. Second, a similar plant community with less vigorous S. alaxensis developed more slowly on unprocessed spoil and spoil amended with a small amount of topsoil. Third, processed spoil remained almost bare of vegetation, although S. alaxensis was able to establish and persist in a stunted growth form. In contrast, Alnus crispa had difficulty establishing on processed spoil, but the few established seedlings grew well. Several substrate variables, including the proportion of silt and clay vs. sand, total nitrogen, and water retention capacity, were good predictors of the rate and pattern of succession. Total nitrogen was the best single predictor for the number of vigorous S. alaxensis.
10.2307/1551831| The area variations of 48 outlet glaciers of the Southern Patagonia Icefield, South America, were elucidated for a period between 1944/45 and 1985/86, utilizing various remotely-sensed data. All but two of these glaciers are currently calving into a proglacial lake or a fiord. During the 41-yr period, most glaciers retreated, while a few glaciers remained almost stagnant and two glaciers had a net advance. The largest rate of area loss was 1.21 km
10.2307/1550239|The relationships between permafrost and aboveground and subsurface standing crops of tundra vegetation at Barrow, Alaska, were studied during the 1964 and 1965 growing seasons. Average aboveground accretion rates ranged from 3 to 97 g m
10.2307/1551268|Great Basin bristlecone pine, Pinus longaeva D. K. Bailey, has small, winged seeds typical of wind-dispersed conifers. It is characteristically found on rigorous sites at high elevations. On such sites it regenerates far more frequently from seed caches of Clark's nutcracker, Nucifraga columbiana Wilson, than from wind-dispersed seeds. On mild low-elevation sites where it rarely occurs, however, bristlecone pine establishes predominantly from wind-dispersed seed. Thus, most populations of bristlecone pine are maintained by nutcrackers on sites to which the species is only partially adapted, but which it can tolerate.
10.2307/1551686|Mycorrhizal colonization and distribution of roots of alpine grasses, perennial herbs, and alpine dwarf shrubs in various microhabitats on rendzina soil were examined. Roots of constituent plants had been colonized by ectomycorrhizal (EM) and vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal (VAM) fungi. Commonly, miscellaneous septate (MS) endophytes were recorded. Phialophora radicola, Rhizoctonia sp., and Glomus tenue were the most frequent endophytes simultaneously associated with roots of individual host plants. A strong endomycorrhizal colonization of individual hosts was noted on patches supporting pioneer species like Festuca pumila and Alchemilla alpina. Sedge species with a well-developed root hair system were able to persist in the Seslerio-Semperviretum patches without typical VA mycorrhizae. Among the pioneering perennials in the Caricetum firmae patches ectomycorrhiza-forming woody species such as Dryas octopetala and Helianthemum nummularium ssp. grandiflorum dominated. Most of the perennial herbs on gravelly, partly denuded patches, and all dominant grasses in closed communities were highly colonized by VAM fungi. Results are discussed in terms of stress alleviation, selection of candidate host plants, and significance of native mycorrhizal fungi for revegetation of disturbed sites in high-elevation habitats.
10.2307/1550533| Measurements of diurnal net photosynthetic rates were conducted on fully hydrated samples (ca. 300% water content on a dry weight basis) of Dicranum fuscescens (Turn.) under field light and temperature conditions at Schefferville, Quebec, Canada (latitude 55N). A highland semitundra and lowland lichen woodland site were chosen for study, and measurements were made periodically throughout the summer of 1974. Photosynthetic rates of samples within temperature-controlled assimilation chambers were determined using an open-flow infrared gas analysis system. Water content of field-collected plants was monitored during the days of diurnal measurements in July and August. Maximum rates of net photosynthesis were found to be between 8 and 9 mg CO
10.2307/1551436| Meadow vole mortality, nest construction, nest temperature, and environmental conditions were studied prior to and during the season of permanent snow at Sudbury, Ontario. Prior to snow the animals burrowed into the soil, and mortality was high owing to heavy rains followed by subfreezing temperatures. Grass nests were built beneath the snow with vole mortality being high under conditions of shallow or icy snow and saturation of nests during the thaw period. Nest temperatures prior to the thaw varied on a diel basis between 6 and 19C with ambient subnivean temperature at 0C. Barely detectable penetration of shortwave solar radiation was observed under a 60-cm thickness of winter snow, but increased rapidly during the thaw period owing to freeze-thaw metamorphism. The results support the redefinition of winter into four distinct periods, each with its own characteristic environmental conditions, namely, Pre-Nival, Nival, Thaw, and Post-Nival. 
10.2307/1551804|Large expanses of herbaceous floating mat wetlands (FMW) bordered by slightly higher uplands with forest or scrub occur in the northwest corner of the Tanana Flats between the Alaska Range and the Tanana River. Five major FMW systems, together with other outliers and extensions, are linear in shape and cover over 20 km
